@@491138

FOR twenty years the American intellectual has sabotaged his country and for twenty years his country has smiled at the American intellectual or laughed at him , and has praised him and paid him as if he were a great public benefactor . Today that sabotage takes a new , significant and unpleasant turn . The object is no longer to make America a colony of Europe in the arts and the " soul , " but to compel America to take the political and economic medicine with which Europe is desperately trying to cure her desperate ills . The complaining critic who sneered at America in the 1920 's because we had no culture is now backing at America because we still have a democracy , in spite of Europe 's noble examples in dictatorships . The connection between these two attacks on America is underground , and the best way to dig down to it is by finding out how the intellectuals achieved a position so commanding that they are capable of doing actual harm . Then we can see what it is in America which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they can not help us to work out an American , non-European solution to America 's problems . The first step is implanting the idea that the artist  --  painter , poet , novelist . playwright , critic  --  is the most important of all human beings . Writers a Privileged Class WHEN Leonardo da Vinci was applying for a job V V with the great Sforza family of Milan , he wrote his own letter of recommendation . Nine and a half of the ten parts of this letter were devoted to his skill in scientific and military affairs . At the very end , almost as an afterthought , Leonardo added that " in painting , also , I can do what may be done as well as any other , be he who he may . " For five hundred years people have assumed that this is a great joke on Leonardo , because all his work in hydraulics and anatomy and labor-saving machines and geology and canalization of rivers is forgotten , and Leonardo , who hoped for immortality for his experiments in aviation , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joke is not on Leonardo , but on us . Remembering Leonardo only for his painting is like admiring Darwin only because he wrote clear English or Edison because his trousers were well pressed . Leonardo is a conspicuous case of the false proportions which the intellectuals have put over on the world . They were able to do it because the Morses , Edisons , Roshlings and Ful tons did their work and let others write . Writing was always the privilege of the few and , less than a hundred years ago , when reading became common , the writers , in command of the press , began to build up the idea that Shakespeare is greater than Newton , Moliere did more for France than Richelieu , and Edgar Allan Poe represents America more fully than Benjamin Franklin . The men who worked their way through the Western Reserve and starved on the plains and built the corduroy roads and laid the rails  --  these were important only because they fulfilled the dreams of the poets . The poets were important because they dreamed . Until recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like all monopolists , imagined that it was God-given . Near their throne they made room for the other artists , and for a century denounced America because we were giving our great rewards to the pioneers and inventors who did not set themselves above ordinary mankind . The whole idea that art is important was imposed upon us at a time when , busy creating a continent , we had no energy left to spare for creating a concerto . I am not going to rehearse the details of the bill of complaint against America . In general , we heard from our novelists , poets , philosophers , dramatists , editors and , eventually , from our song writers , that life in America is utterly materialistic , careless of " the finer things of life , " lacking in color and variety and the picturesque , ugly and dull and devoted to money , trivial and corrupt . I would not be unfair to our critics , but I think that that covers the ground . It covers the Sinclair Lewis of Main Street and the H. L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Horseback and the Floyd Dell of Moon-Calf and the Elmer Rice of The Adding Machine and the John Howard Lawson of Processional and the Ira Gershwin of Of Thee I Sing and the Eugene O'Neill of Marco Polo ; it covers the thirty young intellectuals who repudiated America around 1922 ; it covers the dignified reproaches of Van Wyck Brooks and Ludwig Lewisohn 's lamentations and Theodore Dreiser 's rumblings of dissatisfaction ; it covers the liberal weeklies ; it covers a score of belittling biographers ; it covers publishing houses and book reviewers and cartoonists and scenario writers and the countless procession of nonprofessionals who thought it was smart to accept what these leaders had said , and imported to the plains of Kansas the niggling sneers of New York . No Monopoly of Virtue or Vice M ITCH of their complaint is not a true bill ; much 1 of it ceases to be important if you remember that no single country has a monopoly either of vice or virtue , and , therefore , what is said of America is true of Europeans as well ; a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All of it is significant only in this way : that it shows the ignorance of the critic and his grim determination that America must become a spiritual colony of Europe . As for ignorance , I mean chiefly that the critics had not actually seen their country and did not know the prime fact about it  --  which is that America is virtually a continent . They knew more about Europe . They knew that within half a day 's motoring from London you could find men of Somerset who dressed like pictures in Punch and called their shire , ever so attractively , " Zomerzed . " So they demanded that America must have quaintness and folk songs and old ballads . As all these are either relics or results of a thousand years of life which differs in every essential respect from the three hundred years of American life , would n't it be unnatural for us to be what Europe is and have what Europe has ? No matter how the answer is expressed , you will find under it the hankering to be like Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beauty and rightness . What else had the distinguished novelist , Glenway Wescott , in mind when he called the Middle West " a place which has no fixed boundaries , no particular history ; inhabited by no one race " ? Itemize the account : No fixed boundaries  --  such as Spain and France and Italy have after a thousand years of bloody war . No particular history  --  not in the European sense of history , but Mr. Wescott 's own state of Wisconsin has had a history from Nicolet to La Follette . Inhabited by no one race  --  as Provence or Pomerania or Portugal is ? Mr. Wescott is too intelligent to work the unscientific myth of absolute racial purity ; he really means one people more than one race . He is thinking of homogeneous Europe . The advantages of fixed boundaries , violent history , single race are not even mentioned ; the fact that the Middle West . has n't what Europe has was at the time of writing enough for the author of Good-bye , ' Wisconsin . Mr. Wescott. , living now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he said was typical of the time and typical of its writers . The Only Claim to Distinction T HERE , for a moment , I leave the complaint against America , and by way of bridge to a charge of much greater scope , I offer in evideuce the considered words of the distinguished Bertrand Russell : When one views the nineteenth century in perspective , it is clear that Science is its only claim to distinction . Its literary men were mostly second rate , its philosophers sentimental , its artists inferior to those of other times .... Until " culture " has made its peace with Science , it will remain outside the main Current of events , feeble and querulous , sighing for the past . The world which Science has been making may be disgusting , but it is the world in which we have to live ; and it condemns to futility all who are too fastidious to notice it . It was in this same second-rate nineteenth century that the United States as we know it today was shaped and colored , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its experience of civil war , came through it , and entered on its first phase as a world power . In that century were created all those Rogers groups and cast-iron deer and ugly tenements and foul industrial towns , of which our critics , refusing to make peace with America , have complained . And that century was dominated by two powerful influences : the Industrial Revolution , affecting the entire world , and the Victorian Era , affecting the Anglo-Saxon world . nut is the prime fact which the critics forget , condemning America in total ignorance of the forces which created America . About the Victorian Era , everything we remember is comic . But I do not think it necessary to rehearse the catalogue of artistic sins . Let us say , simply , that while the era of bud taste was not quite so had as its painting , it was a period not exactly favorable to the development of great art .. According to Europeans , it fell like a blight on the arts they possessed ; small wonder that we succumbed to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet , perhaps , it is worth recording the fact that the famous Venus de Melos with a clock embedded in the navel , which won first prize in the Exhibition of Bad Taste , was not a- typically Victorian product . In fact , it never existed . It was made to order by the gentlemen handling publicity for the show  --  and from that day-1914 ? to this , everyone who wanted to make fun of Victorian American art has mentioned the clock Venus as Horrible Example No. 1 . It is only another instance of what our critic 's do not know . What they do not know is not so important as what they forget . They forget that in the years between 1820 and 1931 , while America was not creating sonatas and mural decorations and cathedrals , we were absorbing a foreign-born population of nearly 50,000,000 souls , greater than the entire population of all France  --  a unique and well-nigh incredible exploit in world history , having the most searching psychological effects . Neglecting our contributions to world Literature a little , we were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century six times as much territory as France and England and Germany and Italy together had brought under cultivation in a thousand years . And while these two colossal enterprises were proceeding , we were not only carrying forth an experiment in political democracy and creating a comparatively high standard of living , but were withstanding the convulsive shocks of the change from farming and crafts to large-scale agriculture and industry . All these magnificent and terrifying events took place in the one hundred decisive years of our history . It is true that in the confusion we were a little cavalier to Henry James and James A. MeN . Whistler . Our artists fled to Europe ; from Europe fled to us lovers of political liberty and rebels against the rigid systems of aristocracy which condemned them to poverty . We lost William Wetmore Story and F. Marion Crawford ; we gained Carl Schurz and Andrew Carnegie . The critic , again ignorant of the simplest items of history , forgets that nearly everything he admires in Europe is the product of all centuries except the nineteenth . The lovely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survivals . The cathedrals , the palaces , the chfiteaux , the manor halls , the thatched cottages , all are the work of earlier times . The European products of the nineteenth century  --  which covers the critical period of America 's national life  --  are not three-starred in the Baedekers . Further , the beauties of Europe are largely the creation of political and economic systems hateful not only to Americans but to American critics of America . The cathedrals and palaces were built for the few at the expense of the many , in the age of leisure and craftsmanship ; and at the same time the dark and unsanitary cottages which excite raptures in the breasts of tourists are visible evidences of the hard , bitter lives of the oppressed . The magnificent fountains of Versailles played just before the blade of the guillotine fell . The First People With Infinite Hope leN ? r #16 . ? Th ? ( - " V ? y- ov et 4VEN before the Declaration of Independence was 1 conceived , the destiny of America was determined by its separation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardships it imposed , the opportunities it offered . That destiny was to afford a free livelihood for a vast number of people . Forces were present to thwart that purpose ; it was , none the less , a new objective in the long and miserable history of human beings which Winwood R , eade called " the martyrdom of man . " Fascist and Communist alike insist that our effort must fail . That it can succeed is still the half-conscious belief of Americans who have not forgotten that they are the first people on earth to be allowed infinite hope . Mr. Hoover called the Government an umpire in a race for which the citizens have been trained and in which " we strive to give them an equal start . " Mr. Roosevelt obviously is dissatisfied with the metaphor of the umpire ; Government is handicapper as well , and to an extent creates the prizes , paying attention also to consolation and booby prizes . But on the opportunity to run in the race , these two exemplars of opposing philosophies are agreed . It remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Continu  --  d on Page 94 ) , as a guaranty of industrial health that an overwhelming majority of the population must have the kind of prosperity which means money to spend freely . On that candidates depend for their votes , and on that manufacturers depend for their profits . This is also a fairly new thing in the world , and it has been developed to its highest point in America . Crime and corruption and injustice and misery attended this effort , but a fresh conception of the way to wealth did arise in America . Fifty years ago , the yacht of a rich man might represent extortionate rents and subhuman wages ; in 1928 , the yacht of the rich man represented profit , possibly , on 20,000 outboard motors per month , all bought by the moderately prosperous . The old-style piratical malefactor of great wealth still existed , a hang-over from the past , but the characteristic of the new wealth in America was that it came from mass sales , which meant , in turn , that it depended upon mass incomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victims of the economic system , because the victims were the consumers , the foundation of wealth . Europe 's Nostrums for America 's Ills This new idea demands the wellbeing of the great majority of the citizens , and ultimately the abolition of dire poverty ; and of this idea the critics of America were for the most part totally , unconscious . They still wanted America to fulfill another destiny  --  a destiny more agreeable to the more sensitive few . They turned aside from the spectacle of America in the process of being created . They could n't take it . Something too grubby and chaotic , too rude and unsubtle , too vulgar and difficult , too bloodstained and too common to suit the artistic temperament . was happening : the destruction of a virgin wilderness and the construction of a nation . It was disorderly , and the squeamish , the fastidious , the all-too-genteel fled physically or spiritually to other lands and other times . In the nineteenth century the flight was usually an expatriation , to England , to France , to Rome . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying business , conducted at home as easily as abroad . The result is that without any sure intellectual leadership , the moment America finds itself in ? an economic disaster the cry rises that America must not solve its own problems in its own way , but must accept from Europe the solution of European problems and impose them on her own . Europe is a pathological case . As far as we are concerned , there used to be a sick man of Europe ; now there is only a sick Europe . The idea that we must take its medicine , not our own , is not sound . The writers of the 1920 's knew , vaguely , that Europe was sick and wanted us to go promptly into the same sanitarium . Like some of its most notorious writers , Europe was being " disintoxicated " ? unpoisoned of opium or alcohol for the individuals , of its political and economic ills for the nations ; and our writers were embittered because we pretended to keep out of the doctor 's hands . Marcel Proust made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only was hailed as a great European writer but was set up as a standard for Americans , while an accolade from Jean Cocteau was considered more notable than the Pulitzer Prize . ( Was it entirely by accident that the " wholesomeness " and Americanism upon which Joseph Pulitzer had insisted in the original deed of gift were shelved in the later Pulitzer awards ? ) Europe was sick and its convulsions were Communism , general strikes , Putsches , dictatorships ; in literature they were Dada and super-realism . American books were written in imitation of European models , as if to prove that Americans could go to pieces as completely as any other people . The profoundly American epitaphs which Edgar Lee Masters wrote for the old America , and the profoundly American ballads which Vachel Lindsay wrote for contemporary America , were both belittled , after their first reception , precisely because they were too American , too healthy , too sane ; they did not partake of the malady of Europe . The simple masterpieces which Sherwood Anderson wrote about boys and horses were shrugged away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in psychological morasses , because it was European to wander in these swamps . From the moment he wrote Arrowsmith , an American novel without the required dislike for America , Sinclair Lewis ceased to rank , in these critical circles , as an important novelist . He was too healthy . Imported Complexes To make sure that we would not escape the malady of Europe , we imported all the forms of damnation which Europe had invented . There was the misery preached by Freud , that we were damned generations before we were born ; and there was the fatality preached by Marx , that we were inevitably damned by the nature and character of our economic system . Never were two philosophies more hostile to the American aspiration . Wrongly and blindly and childishly , perhaps , Americans stuck to the idea that no one cares what your grandfather was  --  whether he had fifty million dollars or fifty complexes  --  and equally to the idea that nothing , except the customary death and taxes , was inevitable . And as if Freud and Marx were not enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mind of a German professor , Oswald Spengler , was imported as just the right antidote for the excessive energy and optimism which came over America in the time of Calvin Coolidge . II is fairly clear now that these critics intensely disliked the fact that America produced goods . The motor ear is not an American invention ; it is an American exploitation , peculiarly suited to the territory of the American mainland and to the character of the people . We had to have speed to cover long distances ( Continued on Paso 98 ) ( Continued from Page $4 ) and we wanted individual control of our vehicles to satisfy a kind of antisocial , lone-wolf spirit left over from pioneer days . The motor car was the answer to those requirements , and after a brief luxury period , we took it over as a commodity , something to make and use and sell on a large scale . Presently it changed all our superficial habits of life and some deeper ones . But it was a blow to the aristocracy of barouches and matched bays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aesthetes winced at the noise and smell and speed , and the intellectual failed to see the revolution in living which the motor car was bringing . Yet it was not in the use of the motor car but in its production that the most significant changes took place , and it was against the production that the critics raised their loudest cry . From the motor industry came two principles : the manufacture of ears on the assembly belt and the payment of wages above the scale , so that workers would have sufficient money to buy the products of industry . The first of these , the belt system , adapted a principle used by Eli Whitney in 1798 : the division of labor and the making of interchangeable parts . Naturally , as the belt system was old in the American tradition , it was the principal object of attack from the intellectuals . They made the belt a symbol and satisfied one of their own deep desires  --  to imagine an American proletariat . The second innovation , being even more significant , escaped the critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time in industry that the inexorable law of supply and demand was thrown out of the window . Five days after Ford 's announcement of a five-dollar basic wage for work which , in the next city or the next street , brought only n.50 , he had at his command unlimited labor , the supply exceeded the demand , yet the price  --  the wage  --  remained at the high level he had announced . The old economics was standing on its head . No one perceived in this revolutionary act the germ of a new idea which linked wages , not to production but to consumption . It was paying a man not merely because he did a certain amount of work but because he had to be provided with money so that he could buy the goods which industry created . It was an attack , fifteen years ahead of time , on the failure of buying power , that dreaded undertow which pulls nations into depressions . The intellectuals , complaining about the ugliness of the old Fords , saw nothing of all this . The Intellectuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American life in generations , and there you have the typical intellectual attitude toward it : ignorant of its sources in the American habits of industry in the past and unconscious of its effects on American life in the future , attacking the maladjustments common to a new system and the lack of artistic satisfaction in an object of daily use . It is not only the futility of this attitude which is noteworthy but the failure to discern a significant development. , thoroughly in keeping with the whole tone of American life , which , properly appraised and continued . might have done more to prevent economic disaster than any importations from China or Mexico  --  or Russia . Nor will it do to plead ignorance . The intellectuals were quick enough tomaster economies as a means of attacking the American system , and sluggards only in attempting to understand it . The intellectual in his dealings with the motor car was not exceptional . The parallel with the movies is perfect . Here , too , a toy became a form of mass occupation , and was despised because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it could only be important if it followed European examples . The prime example , Caligari , which I overpraised myself , dealt with a somnambulist and a lunatic asylum : postwar Europe walking in its sleep , to or from a madhouse . Here , again , the critics attacked the movies at their most American points : their democracy , their speed , their annihilation of space and time . Here , again , the European maladies were imposed on the sturdy American product and we were told that the movies were " an escape mechanism " by which we fled from the miseries of our daily lives . It never occurred to the critics that Americans liked one of Cecil de Mille 's golden bathtubs because they had porcelain and chromium tubs themselves and that the public which saw quick and sure success in the pictures was not " compensating " itself for failure , but verifying its own moderate experience of success in life . Mr. Mencken sneered at American aspirations because he saw " car conductors on lonely suburban lines trying desperately to save up $500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on French or German or English suburban lines dare not dream of saving $500 and have little chance of starting anything of their own . When the conductor went to the movies , he saw his own possibilities on a large scale , and was satisfied . The Happy Ending Nowhere were the cri tics more oblique to America than in their attack on the happy ending . I am not quite so stupid as to suggest that the happy ending is either an American invention or an American institution . But it does correspond to an aspiration more reasonably held in America than anywhere else . To a vast number of immigrants , . America , the land itself , represented the happy ending to years of suffering and persecution ; it is a parallel to Emerson 's saying that America means opportunity . It expresses the obstinate American belief that no man is fixed in a low place forever ; the belief that inevitably , at some time , every American will have a chance to better himself , to rise in the world , to achieve the happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say to Americans than Theodore Dreiser , who , very properly , was first called great by Europeans . Thwarted and deceived as they have been , as human beings always have been , Americans have clung to this belief more passionately than most people because they never resigned themselves to misery and because the ups and downs of life in America justified them . As an English novelist has said . " People welcome even the most preposterously happy ending not because it is in contrast to the truth as known in their own lives , but because it is true to life . . to their unconscious certainty that life is ultimately good . " That life is ultimately good is a fairly new thought in the world . Nowhere , except in America , has it been universally accepted . ( Cancineavd on Page 981 ( Continued from Pare 96 ) What you do , you do badly ; what you hope , you hope foolishly  --  a brief verdict passed on the American people by a jury of its superiors . And with 1029 the jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is the misfortune of intellectuals that they often achieve the exact opposite of their intentions . The American intellectuals after 1929 were not exactly fighting for freedom ; they were fighting against democracy in favor of the dictatorship of the proletariat , but they made the way easier for an American Faseiam . It ought to have been clear to anyone that if America 's faith in the democratic process were undermined , we would naturally turn to the system which seemed to respect large-scale production . If we had to have a dictator , we would accept the dominance not of the peasant and the proletarian , but of the technical expert and the industrialist . If the American pro-Communists had known or cared anything about America , they could have allowed for at least a superficial place for old American habits and faiths . They could have presented their Communism as the full flowering of industrial democracy , the heaven on earth promised by the orators at Fourth of July celebrations a hundred years ago . I do not suggest that they would have been entirely guileless in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Communism without preparing the ground for Fascism . I sap-pose this would have been named a " right deviation " in Moscow , and what Moscow calls a " right deviation " is to all people abhorrent , in spite of the fact that Moscow has made dozens of right deviations in favor of the prejudices and national ways of living of Russians and Bessarabians and Georgians and Cossacks , of farmers and shopkeepers , and has , in fact , been peculiarly skillful in adapting its theories to the habits and traditions of its people . The Opium of the Intellectuals Let me put it this way : Communism does not exist , as a form of society , anywhere on the face of the earth . What exists is the dictatorship of a small group which intends to create . ultimately , the classless Communist society . Now , there are points in common between the ideals of the ultimate classless society and the ideal of the American democratic system , although the Russians emphasize equality of income more and we hold more to equality of opportunity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting us in the distant objective and then inventing a democratic in-between stage as suitable to us as the dictatorship of the proletariat is to Russia . For Russia not only had had a peasantry and a proletariat but was accustomed to dictatorship , whereas we had not the first and disliked the second . Any of these approaches would have meant a concession to America , which the intellectual would not make . Instead , he would have us to go through a dictatorship of the proletariat even if we had to invent a proletariat . We would have to begin with workers ' and soldiers ' cells , even if we had to make It war to get the soldiers . We would create a peasantry and , if possible , make them look like muzhiks in the Russian movies . In short , Communism would be a complete flight from the actualities of America . In Russia there are signs reading , " Religion is the opium of the people . " We can put up a sign saying that in America " Communism is the opium of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage of Communism is a system or production and distribution with some conspicuous successes to its credit . It is not opium for the worker there and I would not say that it is opium for millions of dispossessed men and women elsewhere ; it is only a good or a bad theory , a workable or unworkable economic system . But for the American intellectual it is opium because it represents the easiest and the happiest way of soaring off from the actual problems of Americainto a millennial dreamland . It answers in advance every question in morals , polities , finance , science and art , as well as the special questions of economics . It requires a surrender to an outside power as complete as the surrender of the Convert to his new religion . It is a release from the hard necessity of meeting the problems of the day with the experience of yesterday , for which it substitutes the hopes of tomorrow . Europe 's False Dawn I make the suggestion that this tomorrow means the reabsorption of America into the European system and that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American system of living and do not want it to improve itself . For three centuries America has been the enemy of Europe , a dislocation of Europe 's center of gravity at the beginning , a menace to its institutions in the past century , a conquering commercial rival in the present . On this side of the Atlantic , a nation in the process of becoming ; on the other , a continent in the process of dying . It is the Communists ' plea that they can snatch Europe from the edge of death , and there are moments when , observing Europe , one thinks that nothing less violent will serve . But the incorporation of America into the same system is n't exactly a proved necessity . Communism , like Fascism , is a violent reaction against the whole history of Europe , and both bear the old face of Europe , masked and modified . They are dictatorial , antiliberal , undemocratic , officially restricting power to a small aristocracy ; even their ultimate promise of a classless society or a corporate state answers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class system . They are Europe 's revolt against Europe 's history and Europe 's cure for Europe 's mortal illness . To accept this for America is to surrender our independence , which the intellectual has always wanted America to do . In order to ram home his argument about " the inevitable , " the Fascist insists that whatever he dislikes is Communism and the Communist swears that the only alternative to his system is Fascism . Particularly the sympathizer with Communism implies , that if you reject Marx , you must defend every error , every cruelty and every stupidity of the capitalism of the past and the present , and the Fascist sees you heading for revolution if you are opposed to child labor . That is the way of fanaticism . The actual alternative to any imported system sidesteps these artificial inevitables . It requires us to rediscover the essential lines of America 's development and to project them into the future with enough flexibility to reject all the abuses of capitalism and to accept whatever is appropriate from any source . We have to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization we really need . Instead of accepting the dictatorship of the proletariat , the American can set about the business of making the wage-slave vanish from America by reducing the hours and arduousness of labor and increasing the powers and liberties of every man . He has to see what . good human results can come from the remorseless concentration of industry . He has to find a method of production which leads to a satisfactory level of consumption . He has to go forward , in short , to the America of the future and not to the Europe of the past . For the divine revelation of Marxism was made some eighty years ago , and it did not include the Miracles of the Power Age . The Machine Age , on which Communism is based , has almost vanished from America , and we are asked to scrap our social framework and erect a new one based on a system of production which no longer exists . The Power Age Specifically , since 1914 , a change has come over America almost as great as , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine , and half the hardships of the present are the inevitable grindings and crushings of a new social mechanism getting under way and destroying an old one which lies in its path . In the words  --  and with the figures  --  of the engineer , Walter N. Polakov , we have emerged from the Machine Age and entered into the Power Age , discarding between 1919 and 1927 more than half of our stationary internal-combustion engines and nearly half of the steam engines used in industry and more than doubling the power of the turbine and electric generator . And Mr. Polakov says what most engineers know to be true  --  that this new power age is " not characterized by bigger and better machines than those of the Machine Age , but by a different kind of machine , conditioning a different kind of production , which results in a different kind of economy and a different kind of social relations . " The Power Age , by Walter N. Polakov , page 18 . In other words , how a man works , how long he works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for producing , and how his product is consumed , are all affected by the change from the Machine Age to the PowerAge . Work loses its monotony and the worker becomes , not a machine hand but an educated man ; scarcity disappears and new ways to distribute plenty are discovered . Individual factories may become smaller instead of larger , and may tend to scatter over the countryside instead of concentrating in large cities ; more education is needed and more leisure gives meaning to education . It is hard to think of any human activity not affected by this fundamental change , which , on the surface , seems only the substitution of one kind of machine for another . If our intellectuals have been aware of what the Power Age was promising , they might have called upon it to rectify the wrongs done to democracy by the machine age of the past century . They might have found in it a promise of solving the problem of poverty and , therefore , felt that America still had something of use to do in the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proletariat . To make people aware , to direct the new power into channels which would ultimately benefit America , was a task which the intellectuals might well have assumed . So far as they knew of the change at all , they considered it as only another of the misfortunes of America . The thumping Technocrats , with their menaces and their muddled dictatorial approach , and the evangelical : . TTtopiens , of California , were closer to America than the intellectuals . The battle against America goes on , but it is interesting to note that the literary intellectuals have given ground ; the political ones went too far for them . The wheelhorse of boob baiting , the American Mercury , announces that it has given up the business entirely and Babbitt is safe from its attacks after many weary years . Sinclair Lewis completes the job he began in Arrowsmith and continued in Dodsworth , writing in Work of Art a reasonable , though not very interesting , defense of the American business man . The leader of the thirty intellectuals , Harold E. Stearns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , entranced with the brightness and liveliness of America . Joseph Wood Krutch , asking whether Europe was a success , suggests that the cathedrals and the art museums may be its only successes , and these were built at such cost in human happiness as to make them inadmissible in evidence , thus giving " the creative life " an unexpected black eye . Even Ludwig Lew isohn has a kind word to say , while Eugene O'Neill writes a lightish American comedy in which you can not discover a trace of a sneer at America nor any suggestion that all Americans are full of nastiness . London Bridge has fallen down . A Job for American Pens If our writers can make peace with America and can create a. past and present and future which have meaning for us , they have still a chance . They have proved that a writer need not he enslaved to the capitalist system and they can still prove that he will not be enslaved to the proletarian system . I should think the effort worth making . The alternative is dry rot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , usually , cosmopolitan . The life of a people is neither . The artist uproots himself , the people dig themselves in . When the artist turns and tries to tear up the roots of others , he becomes dangerous . That is the position now , and the danger lies in this : that a world upheaval has shaken all the roots we have sent down into the soil for a hundred years . But I think that even in our uncertainties we have felt that we have been misled . We have pulled back and resisted . There are a few things America can still accomplish and remain true to itself .                     