@@431012

ANEW class , the multi-millionaire , is a small but growing one into which any of us by the accidents of commerce may be flung to-morrow . While romantic imagination has hovered over the rich man from time immemorial , little attention has been given to the real situation of a person possessed of funds immeasurably beyond his capacity to spend and enjoy . George Bernard Shaw in a Fabian tract entitled " Socialism for Millionaires " is the first of the moderns to discuss this plight . " The unfortunate millionaire , " he points out , " has the responsibilities of prodigious wealth without the possibility of enjoying himself any more than any ordinary rich man . " " Indeed , " he adds , " in many things he can not enjoy himself more than many poor men do , nor even so much ; for a drum-major is better dressed ; a trainer 's stable-lad often rides a better horse ; the first-class carriage is shared by office boys taking their young ladies out for the evening ; and of what use is it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is nothing to be had but ham or beef ? " The condition of the English man of wealth is exaggerated a hundredfold in the case of Americans , who during the past half-century have been heaping up fortunes hitherto undreamed of . And often the American millionaire has even less desire or capacity to use money for his own pleasure . In Europe habits of lavish spending have been built up over generations . Louis XIV poured a nation 's riches into a great playhouse at Versailles . Huge estates , retinues of hundreds of servants and thousands of retainers , gaming at Monte Carlo , decorative and expensive mistresses ? in such simple pastimes Europeans have sunk entire fortunes . American men of great wealth have small tendency to such lavish expenditures . Their wives help a little ; but after a few Paris gowns , a couple of town houses or country estates and the grand tour of the world even a wife gives up the unequal struggle of keeping pace with a husband 's constantly swelling income . As American fortunes have grown by geometrical progression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either supinely to let them grow and so pass on the problem to the next generation or else to give them away . And the giving could not be done personally and piecemeal ; huge sums had to be turned over en bloc . Now the giving away of large amounts of money is no easy matter . The average person who contemplates longingly a large fortune thinks only of the joys of spending and the delights of giving to friends and pet charities . It seems pleasant and simple enough , but it is n't . Appeals pour in ; insistent and ingenious beggars persistently hound any man suspected of charitable inclinations . It is difficult after the first flush of generosity for a rich man to take any joy in giving . Where gratitude is expected there appears only bitterness because the gifts were not larger .  | Secretaries and assistants have to be employed simply to read mail and answer calls , to say nothing of looking into the merits of the thousands and tens of thousands of supplications . One of the commonest criticisms of philanthropy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals . But the-futility of alms is quickly recognized by any who try it . To give to a man to-day is simply to have that same man back to-morrow asking for twice as much . The answer at once is , " Do not give to the shiftless and unworthy ; give only to the deserving . " This is sound reasoning , but it implies some system of selection between the worthy and the unworthy . It is this process of investigating individual appeals that is most frequently objected to by many critics of organized charity . And it is the shiftless man who really needs the money ? and who is most certain to keep on needing it . Beggars are real people . They are not simply industrious persons temporarily out of funds . They are usually life members of a large and very ancient profession which exists by living off others . These people can always make out cases for themselves , and as new sources of supply appear sycophants multiply egregiously . If , on the other hand , a philanthropist tries to help only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take infinite pains to sort them out from the thousands of clever beggars who beset him . Except for education or for some other very special purpose , giving even to worthy persons is dangerous . It is sinful to do for any individual what that individual can do for himself . This deprives a man of one of his greatest privileges , that of making his own place in the world in his own way . Almost every rich man who is charitably inclined starts out with the idea of helping the poor and needy . Without exception he finds that he can not do it directly . He can help to prevent the causes of misfortune such as disease and commercial exploitation . He can offer opportunities for education , for medical treatment , for self-respecting employment . He can better the general conditions of sanitation and social environment . But protection and opportunity having been provided , the individual must be left to take advantage of these for himself . That is the individual 's obligation not only ; it is one of his most precious prerogatives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better general conditions . It is possible to do actual harm by indiscriminate giving . It takes brains as well as money to do any kind of good in the world . For centuries the care of the sick poor was thought to be one of the highest forms of charity . Now we have found that it is possible to prevent a great many diseases as well as to cure them . The significant reduction of sickness and death came not from the centuries of charity but from the statesmanship that has wiped out smallpox and typhoid fever , that has greatly reduced malaria and diphtheria and tuberculosis , that has saved mothers at childbirth and nourished infants into robust health . Even to-day the endowment of free hospitals is a favorite form of charity . Yet modern experience tends to prove that if medical services were organized half as effectively as the merchandising of other necessities the average man could pay for his medical care as well as for his food and shoes . And the average man would prefer to pay as he goes for what he gets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , are now giving attention to pay clinics , hourly nursing service , and health insurance . Examples of generous but unwise giving are all about us . A few years ago a Pennsylvania millionaire made a sensation by leaving forty million dollars to build and support orphan asylums . His was a charitable aim at aiding innocent and unfortunate children , but there is doubt as to its wisdom . Orphan asylums do not offer the best environment . Modern thought and experience  | favor the placement of dependent children in foster homes . There is little difference of opinion on this matter among people who have devoted themselves to child care . Yet the very magnificence of this Pennsylvania gift will probably retard for decades the growth of home placement of children in that section of the country . By an irony which does not respect mere good intentions , this millionaire 's generous impulse will very likely mean that the children of his State will be cared for under worse conditions than those in other parts of America . A temptation to public-spirited men of wealth is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is true that both stimulus and high standards often result from private efforts in such matters as schools , colleges , visitingnurse agencies , and child-welfare clinics . But all these in a well-organized society are proper obligations of the State . If the private institutions are maintained only as a means of demonstrating to public authorities the value of these services or of keeping standards at a high level they are well justified . But too often the managers and patrons of private organizations become vain and desire to prolong their pet societies long after their usefulness is ended . Sometimes private groups actually enter into rivalry with public agencies and obstruct or postpone the proper development of important State services . It requires painstaking thought and study to make sure that money is used not merely to perpetuate outworn forms of service . It takes courage to choose the slow road of prevention rather than the sentimentally pleasant path of present relief . Tact and imagination are necessary if one is to give in such a way as to strengthen rather than weaken the individual or group that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge fortunes in this country , together with the recognition that large-scale giving requires careful planning , which led to the creation of a great new force in society ? the American foundations . At the turn of the century Mr. Carnegie and Mr. Rockefeller almost simultaneously hit upon this instrument for divesting themselves of huge blocks of their fortunes and of putting these funds to work constructively . A few smaller foundations had been set up before the close of the nineteenth century . Mr. George Peabody had established a fund for Southern education and teacher training ; Mr. John F. Slater had set up a trust for the aid of negro schools ; and of course hospital and college endowments had received gifts for many centuries in both America and Europe . But the large general foundations of Rockefeller and Carnegie established new precedents , and started on a magnificent scale the American foundations as we know them to-day . There are now some two hundred general foundations in America ; their capital assets run to well over two billion dollars . And the newspapers report every few weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who either despairs of disposing of his money himself or desires to see it accomplish most for the benefit of society . The distinctive features of these foundations are that large endowments are turned over with practically no restrictions to boards of trustees , and the administration and expenditure of the funds are in the hands of officers who devote their whole time to this work and are paid for their services . These officers often act also as advisers to the donor in his personal giving . Since the giver himself is termed a philanthropist , and the recipient a philanthropee , some wag has suggested that these professional intermediaries between the donor and the recipient be called philanthropoids . The success of the given foundation is often found in the capacity of the philanthropoid -- in  | the wisdom and resourcefulness of the directing head . Foundations have usually chosen some special , limited field of activity and have cultivated that field intensively . A characteristic of the successful funds is that they are not charitable organizations in the regularly accepted sense ; they are constructive forces , initiating or stimulating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the public mind on this point . Many people , knowing of the large resources and broad powers of these trusts , have supposed they were ready and , in fact , morally obligated to give to any worthy cause which was properly presented . Disappointment and even resentment follow when foundations decline to consider projects which are of unquestioned merit in themselves . Yet a moment 's reflection will convince anyone that only by aiming at definite goals can results be attained worthy of the potential power of these funds . To run deep it is necessary to keep the channel narrow ; to exert power there must be concentration . To scatter attention and resources is simply to dissipate the great power for social good which is in the hands of modern foundations . Hundreds of letters and personal calls come to each of the larger foundations every week . There are great numbers of appeals from individuals in distress . These must be referred to local relief agencies . Other calls come for the most bizarre causes . One man wants to establish a negro navy ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , suggests in all seriousness the establishment of a Cross-Eyed Foundation ; another suggests the vast potentialities for social welfare in the manufacture of " gum garages " ? small squares of paper provided in public places for the convenient parking of chewing gum . Endless varieties of quack medicines and sure cures for all diseases abound . One does not realize until he has been with a foundation how many ingenious devices there are for the salvation of the world . Many requests of course are for significant enterprises . But even among these it is impossible to weigh the relative merits of each . Who can say whether the Shady Hill School in Cambridge is more meritorious than a tuberculosis sanitorium in Arizona ; a concert singer more valuable to society than an anthropological explorer ? Should one support educational broadcasting by radio and decline the appeal of the local relief society ? Is chemistry at Harvard or history at Stanford the better subject for subsidy ? Confronted by diverse appeals pouring in by the scores and hundreds , and often sponsored by competent and influential persons , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , his changing whim , or his friendship for the particular applicant . But the president of a foundation , who must make out a case for each proposal he recommends to his trustees , must establish some basis of selection , some close limitation upon the kinds of appeals he will consider . And he must do so promptly if he is not to be submerged by appeals or torn asunder by enthusiastic and fanatical applicants . Most of the foundations , therefore , however general their chartered purposes , have elected to pursue one or at most a very few types of work . Several of the funds already have made notable records in their special fields . Instances in point are the Rockefeller activities in medicine and health , the support of the social sciences by the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial , the researches in natural science by the Carnegie Institution of Washington , and the negro school program of the Julius Rosenwald Fund . III The story of foundation achievements may properly start with the Rockefeller activities in medicine and health . There are a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as those of the British Empire or  | the University of London , and the picture is constantly being confused by new large gifts from members of the Rockefeller family . Mr. George E. Vincent , for many years President of the Rockefeller Foundation , is probably the only man living who understands all these inter-relationships . So we shall do well to consider , not the intricacies of the corporate organization , but rather the general movements and certain of the dominant personalities . The history of the interest of the Rockefeller fortune in medicine starts with the Reverend Frederick T. Gates , the most picturesque figure ever associated with any of the foundations , the greatest of the philanthropoids . For this brilliant clergyman Mr. Rockefeller had formed a warm friendship ; in him he found a congenial associate and adviser in the task of turning his huge fortune to the well-being of mankind . There are a number of stories of Mr. Gates ' first interest in medicine . One of them , often quoted about the lobbies of the Rockefeller offices , is that one evening on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey home , Mr. Gates noticed a fellow-passenger absorbed in a bulky volume . His curiosity was stirred . He ventured a question . The book was The Principles and Practice of Medicine by William Osier , a professor at the new Johns Hopkins Medical School . The unknown man on the ferry fired the Gates imagination by a few sketchy sentences suggestive of the ideas that were at work in Osier 's mind , and Mr. Gates stayed on the ferry for the return trip , bought a copy of the volume , and returned thirtysix hours later drawn and disheveled to the Rockefeller office after continuous study for two nights and a day of this treatise on modern medicine . A less picturesque report is that one of his younger friends introduced Mr. Gates to Osier 's great work , which he read and contemplated during a summer at Lake Liberty . It is certain that Osier 's book was a deciding factor , and it is characteristic of the former Baptist preacher that he should arrive at " conviction " and should throw himself zealously into this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rockefeller was convinced ? that medicine was the thing . Here at last was a field in which millions could be spent for the betterment of mankind . In consultation with Professor Osier and Dr. William H. Welch and others of their kind , Mr. Rockefeller and his aggressive associate formed a plan for a research institution which should be devoted exclusively to advancing the borders of medical knowledge . The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research it was called when it opened its laboratories at the beginning of the century in rented quarters on Lexington Avenue . To-day it has its own hospital and laboratories overlooking the East River , and an endowment of $40,000,000 . When the Institute was established Simon Flexner , a young professor who had worked with Doctor Welch at Baltimore , was chosen as its director , and he has remained in charge of this great house of research from that day to this . The Lexington Avenue Laboratory was the start of the Rockefeller interest in medicine . Another step on the same road was taken when Abraham Flexner , brother of the Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rockefeller General Education Board , for the purpose of improving medical education in the United States . In this effort is illustrated the necessity of adding wisdom to money if constructive results are to follow . When this program was started twenty years ago there were more than one hundred medical schools in the United States , all of them needing money . The easiest thing would have been to give a hundred thousand dollars or so to each of these schools or to the twenty or thirty which were recognized to be the best . This would have aroused the gratitude of all these schools and of thousands of doctors who were attached to the teaching  | hospitals ? and it would have resulted in exactly nothing in improvement of methods and scientific standards . In fact , it would have done great harm , for it would have endowed and perpetuated poor practice . Instead , Mr. Flexner devoted years to a careful study and interpretation of medical education in America and Europe . He published his findings and submitted them to discussion and criticism by educators , physicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders in this country and abroad , he recommended that his Board support with millions a few medical schools that were willing to try out more scientific methods of teaching and research . These studies and the resulting demonstrations at Johns Hopkins and Yale and at St. Louis , Nashville , Rochester , and Chicago are among the forces that have transformed medical education in this country . The first direct attack on sickness by the Rockefeller boards came on the heels of the discovery of the cause of the great anemia which was debilitating whole sections of our Southern states . These were stirring times in medicine . Almost all of the basic work which de Kruif dramatized a few years ago in his Microbe Hunters had been done or was under way . Volunteers from the American army were proving for Walter Reed in Havana that the mosquito carried the yellow fever contagion . Other American army doctors in Porto Rico , led by Bailey K. Ashford , were at work on a strange anemia found to be prevalent in that island when America took it over from Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infested the populace of Porto Rico was an unwelcome denizen of the Southern states and of almost all warm countries around the globe . Scientists began to declare that if the hookworm could be controlled the South would be freed of an enervating disease which had sapped the vitality of large sections of its population for generations . Mr. Rockefeller , who had the courage to pioneer , saw an opportunity here for his fortune to make use of medical knowledge for the well-being of mankind . Here again a choice was presented between easy giving and constructive help . The natural suggestion was to rush a corps of doctors to the South and cure the sufferers . This would have resulted simply in a new crop of hookworminfested patients within a few months . The means of preventing the disease was known . Therefore , emphasis was shifted to prevention ; the cure of the present sick was followed only as one means of controlling the spread of the disease . Even in a preventive program it would have been easy to assemble doctors and sanitarians and carry on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and obstruction on the part of officials and doctors in the Southern states . It was decided , therefore , to work only in co-operation with local health authorities even though this might make the program slower of accomplishment and not immediately so effective . The Rockefeller Sanitary Commission , which was thus created in 1910 to fight hookworm in the South , has grown into the International Health Board of the Rockefeller Foundation , with millions at its disposal and with a field of activity as wide as the earth . Its policies from the beginning have been to work only with government agencies and furnish only what funds were needed to start the campaigns , and to use the convincing results from the control of one disease as a means of persuading state and county authorities to enlarge their general health programs . Public health activities have been carried on in all of our Southern states and in over two score foreign countries . The Board has lately set itself the picturesque task of eradicating yellow fever everywhere . This fight is on to-day in the last strongholds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | A total of more than two hundred million dollars has been spent by the Rockefeller boards in medicine and health . This is magnificent spending and it has produced magnificent results . When one includes the fundamental studies in medical science , the promotion of medical education and the worldwide stimulus to public health , it is safe to say that no influence in world history has been greater in advancing medicine and in reducing preventable sickness than that of the boards set up by Mr. Rockefeller . IV The foundations established by Mr. Carnegie have been more diffused in their activities . No one of them has made so distinctive a contribution as that of the Rockefeller group in medical science or public health . Probably the most significant of the activities of this group is the least generally known , the research in the natural sciences of the Carnegie Institution of Washington . One of the ways of creating social energy that has been recognized by modern philanthropy is to produce new knowledge through research . The scientists who found a way to prevent typhoid and yellow fever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rid itself of these scourges . The researches of Faraday and the inventions of Edison aroused new demands in a thousand directions for the application of electricity to the service of men . Pure research of the most recondite sort must precede any progress in the application of science . Acting upon this principle , the Carnegie Institution for a quarter of a century has been supporting basic studies in many fields . At Cold Spring Harbor on Long Island biologists have watched the fascinating vagaries of growth and evolution in such primitive forms of life as the jimson weed and the fruit fly , and have built up huge files of records of human families with a view to their possible bearing on eugenics ? the purposeful control of human evolution . Stations in Carmel , California , in the Island of Tortugas , and in Baltimore and Boston are investigating plant and ocean life , the development of the human embryo , and the influence , of various types of nutrition . In Guatemala and Yucatan spectacularly beautiful temples of the ancient Mayas have been unearthed . The researches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exerted throughout the country wide influence upon scientific standards and methods . Another fundamental contribution to scientific research in a different group of subjects ? the social sciences ? has been made by the Laura Spelman Rockefeller Memorial under the leadership of Beardsley Ruml , one of the youngest of the philanthropoids and one who compares in his imagination and daring with Frederick T. Gates , the elder statesman . When Doctor Ruml began the direction of this newest of the Rockefeller boards he insisted that the same kind of sincere and realistic study which had brought striking results in medicine and machinery might if applied to economics , psychology , social problems , and political science bring findings of even greater benefit to mankind . This stand required courage , not alone because medicine at that time engaged the loyalty of the influential Rockefeller officers , but also because it was thought impolitic for any of the great foundations to take active part in social and economic questions . Those whose memories go back to 1910 will recall that when the Rockefeller Foundation was attempting to obtain a federal charter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible subversive influence upon the nation of these great agglutinations of wealth . Critics reported themselves as fearful that a private corporation with one hundred millions dollars at its disposal might become even more powerful than the Government itself and might use this great influence to destroy or  | pervert democratic institutions and the free play of liberal forces . In view of the actual work of foundations and of the insignificance of their funds as compared with the expenditures which arose during the war period , these fears ceased to trouble and even began to appear absurd ; nevertheless , there was natural hesitation on the part of responsible officers to see any organization bearing the Rockefeller name undertake activities in economics and politics . Ruml 's reply to this was that his board would follow the usual foundation custom of not carrying on work directly but by supporting studies and demonstrations by other responsible bodies ? universities , research institutes , and social agencies ? and that the aim would be not to propagate any special theories but to bring about objective study of fundamental problems . The program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the social-science departments of a dozen leading American universities and to a number of institutions abroad . A national board of strategy has been set up ? the Social Science Research Council ? largely with support from this Fund . Opportunities have been provided at a number of University centers for realistic study of local problems . Stimulus has been given to efforts to apply the objective findings of research to improvement of government services and other types of social organization . In all , over twenty-five million dollars has been put into the social sciences and their application . The Julius Rosenwald Fund , the largest of the foundations west of New York , has made its distinctive contribution in the building of negro schools . It is now beginning to promote pay clinics and organized medical services for the average man and is giving some consideration to the mental sciences and child development . But it will doubtless always retain a major interest in the negro , and its historic record is in the rural school program . Mr. Rosenwald 's interest in negro schools began fifteen or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuskegee Institute , he saw the great benefits that came to that race from the instruction which was being given under Booker Washington 's direction in elementary subjects and farming and simple trades . He wanted to enlarge the influence of Tuskegee and to multiply these practical training courses throughout the South . He could have done this by building a number of private institutes . But Mr. Rosenwald knew something about the difficulties of making money really useful . He realized that the provision of schools for all groups of the population was a duty of the State . He saw that real progress could be made only as the local communities recognized this responsibility and acted upon it . Therefore , he offered not to build schools himself , but to co-operate with counties and states which wished to build their own public schools for negroes . The result has been five thousand new schools , trade shops , and teachers ' homes in eight hundred and twenty-five counties of fifteen Southern States built with help from Mr. Rosenwald and from the Fund that he created . Of even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South has recognized its obligation for public schools for all groups . Momentum has been given to negro education and good race relations . The method of the giving has been worth many times the amount of money contributed . The cost of the five thousand " Rosenwald Schools " is well above twenty-four million dollars , in addition to millions each year for maintenance and teachers ' salaries . Of these sums the Fund and Mr. Rosenwald personally have given in all less than four million dollars . More than that has been contributed by the negroes themselves in collections of dimes and quarters and dollars from thousands of villages and farms ? a striking evidence of the negro 's eagerness for schooling for his children .  | White citizens have provided by personal gifts more than another million . The great bulk of the money has come from the regular taxes . The task of the Julius Rosenwald Fund has been simply to prime the pump , to start a stream which has continued to flow in an everincreasing volume . Yet the influence and stimulus of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one great group of the population . Other foundations have made distinctive contributions in their chosen fields . The activities that have been discussed are simply illustrative of the general principles and procedures common to many of these new trusts . V The subjects most popular with foundations are education , health , and scientific research . Two fields seem to have received less attention than they deserve : the mental sciences and the fine arts . In mental hygiene , it is true , the Commonwealth Fund has made important contributions , and other foundations have flirted with the subject . But when one realizes that as many patients are in mental hospitals in this country as in hospitals for all other diseases put together , that in so progressive a country as Canada more persons in 1926 entered insane institutions than were graduated from all the colleges of the Dominion ; when the individual suffering and the social havoc that follow mental disease and deficiency are kept in mind , one would suppose that the great forces of the foundations would turn to these problems however difficult and complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more in keeping with the times and the American spirit . We worship just now social betterment as represented in public health , literacy , and prosperity ; we revel in active combat whether in commercial business or in a struggle to search out the secrets of nature . The arts still seem a bit ladylike to the robust American . The Juilliard Foundation in music is the only large fund devoted exclusively to any of the arts . The General Education Board has made one or two studies in industrial art , and the Carnegie Corporation is fingering somewhat gingerly a program in the fine arts ; but no board has actually dirtied its hands with paint or clay or fabrics , or risked its morals with the drama or with the popular embodiment of the fine arts to-day ? the talking movies . This aloofness to art is not the historic attitude of wealth . Of old the monarchs and nobles and rich men of Europe and the East lavished their patronage upon religious temples and creations of art . Pericles is remembered not so much for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and statues and frescoes which flowered in Athens under his nourishing care . The Medicis have been exonerated for much of their cruelty because of their sympathetic support of artistic expression . Elizabeth 's reign is memorable for its writers and dramatists . The pride of former European men of wealth was their patronage of arts and of artists . As America absorbs her frontiers , and as wealth mellows in the possession of the third and fourth generations , doubtless there will be a revival of interest in creative expression . Meanwhile philanthropy probably does well to concentrate upon those things which are in accordance with America 's present peculiar genius : intensive accumulation of knowledge ( as well as of wealth ) and the active application of scientific findings to organized social welfare . If one were making general criticisms he might say that aside from a few notable instances , foundations have not found sufficiently capable men for their directors and that there is still some tendency on the part of founders to dictate or exert pressure as to the ex- penditure of funds which legally they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The potential power of these concentrations of wealth can be realized only if there is freedom of action , coupled with imagination and resourcefulness in their direction . If millionaires in their own giving are often actuated by whim and vanity , it is equally true that foundation officers and trustees may be a prey to timidity and lack of vision . To suppose that any social worker or former college professor will work miracles simply because he is in the presence of wealth is nonsense . Mediocrity , which is the curse of democracies , can not be transformed merely by millions . The fear that foundations will subvert democracy is pretty well answered . They have neither money enough nor brains enough to do it if they wished . The real danger is that they will have no influence of any consequence in any direction ; that they will fritter away their potential power in small and insignificant enterprises . There is danger also that as time goes on the officers and trustees of foundations will become perfunctory and routinized ; that they will grow fat in posts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sink into commonplace bureaucracy . There is already some evidence of this in certain of the foundations . To guard against it several recent founders have stipulated that their funds , both capital and income , must be expended within a generation . There is much to be said for using resources while enthusiasm is fresh and while the group is fired by almost religious fervor for some cause . Succeeding generations may be counted upon to provide new resources , through new foundations or otherwise , for the recurring needs and the fresh opportunities . VI Underlying the various activities of practically all of the foundations is a common philosophy which is the essence of modern philanthropy and the antithesis of traditional almsgiving . The aim is to give as little as possible for as short a time as possible . Should any of their projects become permanently dependent upon their help , foundations would feel that they had failed . To anyone imbued with the ancient ideal this will seem strange philanthropy . But a moment 's reflection will reveal the soundness of the principle . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more than for an individual , that the public will do for itself . Private funds should be used not to satisfy existing " social appetites " but to stimulate new appetites . Thus benefactors can create energy in the only fundamentally possible way ? by creating fresh needs and by getting these new needs recognized by the public . Inertia and human contentment with things as they are often prevent or postpone new movements , though these movements may promise much for the welfare and happiness of men . The chief contributions of foundations are in the creation of new knowledge through scientific research and in getting new enterprises started and proving to society that these proposals are desirable and feasible . The new philanthropy does not want or need endowments in perpetuity . If a cause is good it can count upon current support , once its usefulness is made evident . We may be confident that if a public need is clearly demonstrated and a practicable way of meeting that need is shown society will take care of it in the future . Thus one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     