@@487441

WHEN von Ribbentrop was in Moscow he seems to have won Stalin over to the tactics , if not the tenets , of the anti-Comintern . The Moscow correspondent of the New York Times reported on December 10 that if Russia were attacked for blockading Finland " at the request of the Kuusinen government , " the Soviet government intended to retort with references to " Italy 's blockade of the lawful Spanish government at the request of General Francisco Franco . " Mussolini 's conduct in Spain is-not the most admirable of precedents for a government that purports to be anti-imperialist and a union of socialist republics . If Stalin is to model himself in the future on the Duce , he has much to live down , as Rudolf Holsti 'S address to the Assembly of the League eloquently demonstrated . For a large part of the Finnish delegate 's speech was made up of quotations from the plea made by Litvinov before the Assembly two years ago . Litvinov asked the League 's aid in halting the attack on the Spanish Republic under circumstances strikingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League wisely decided to attempt mediation of the Russo-Finnish war rather than take the more dramatic step of expelling the Soviet Union from the League , for which it is doubtful that unanimous consent could have been obtained . The League 's belated intervention and weak action in past instances of aggression provided too sardonic a background . Perhaps the greatest deterrent to so drastic a first step was the opposition of Russia 's neighbors , fearful of its ill-will . The Finns themselves asked for mediation rather than a move that could only intensify the Soviet attack . In general , the warmth of anti-Soviet de- nunciations on the eve of the Assembly meeting seems to vary with the distance of the denunciator from the Russian border . The South American countries were loudest in their demands for Soviet expulsion , but since none of them are likely to bear the brunt of an anti-Soviet war , their views were at least temporarily overruled . The Russians have been giVen twenty-four hours to reply to the mediation proposal , and by the time this issue of The Nation appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not expected to be favorable , although Russian demands , as revealed in the Finnish White Paper , do not seem to us so extreme as to make a compromise impossible unless the Soviet government is looking for expansion rather than security . If the attack on Finland is part of a larger scheme for a Russian or a joint Russo-German attack on Scandinavia , mediation will of course be rejected , and the rejection will serve as a warning of what is to come . But if the Russians are merely concerned with control of the entrances to the Gulf of Finland and Leningrad , the fighting which has already occurred , should have left them in a mood for mediation . For it should be clear to them by now that Finland is no easy conquest . The puppet government set up at Terijoki has evoked only derision within Finland . The Finns are fighting for their homeland ; the Red Army is an aggressor ; morale is on the Finnish side . The wide lakes and tangled foiests , the Arctic twilight and the deep snow are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers counts for little along a front that is a succession of Thermopylae passes , all of them difficult of access . These are not the dusty Polish plains over which the Nazi juggernaut swept - to an easy victory , nor is there any evidence that the Red Army compares in efficiency or equipment with the German , officered by the ablest military caste in Europe . The Soviets seem to have bitten off more than they will be allowed to chew in security . Should they conquer Finland , the iron ore of both Norway and Sweden would be at their mercy , and the Nazis are dependent on this ore . If they then move into Rumania , their objective will be not merely Bessarabia , which seems already evacuated , but Bukovina to the north and Constanza in the south , controlling the mouth of the Danube . To succeed in both objectives would truly be to encircle Germany , and to drive it into making the best bargain it could with the Allies . The Italians seem determined to fight if the Russians go south of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwilling to be made an Italo-Russian battleground . The Italians would like to keep Russia embroiled in Finland and away from the Balkans . The Germans would like to divert them to Constantinople , and the Mosul oil line : a Russo-Turkish war would be to their liking . But Moscow 's present program of expansion in both Finland and Rumania seems designed to give the Rome-Berlin axis a new common interest , and plays into the hands of those who are already beating thedrums for the anti-Soviet crusade that has been one of Moscow 's phobias . Daladier 's hint that the Germans as well as the French must condemn the invasion of Finland will not go unnoticed in the Kremlin . Realpolitik is carried on with mirrors and sometimes is best understood by reading its messages backward . Thus the sudden appearance in the Russian press of an article attacking Germany for aiding Finland and another presenting-Britain in a friendly light may have been calculated to raise hopes in Britain of a Russian rapprochement and fears of it in-Germany . The British , in contrast to their failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack , have ostentatiously sent twenty planes to Finland , but otherwise seem to be playing a cautious game . But if the Finnish war goes on much longer , Russian freedom to sell out to either side is likely to grow more and more limited . On the horizon is the bogy the Soviets have always feared . They seem to have outsmarted themselves . The Far East W HILE all eyes are on Europe , developments are under way in Asia which may be in the long run of even greater significance for the United States . On the surface there have been few changes of a tangible nature since the signing of the Soviet-German pact . Japan is still bogged down in the vastness of China , and its recent minor victory at Nanning has not offset its defeat at Changsha . Politically , the Japanese suffered a setback in the death of the old war lord Wu Pei-fu , whose cooperation was desperately needed for the establishment of the long-projected puppet government under Wang Chingwei . But beneath the surface there is intense activity . The Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union would solve their difficulties . While presumably they might have to surrender much of China in such an arrangement , they would be freed from the bogy of Russian planes over Tokyo and could take advantage of Britain 's preoccupation to extend their empire in the South Pacific . The Dutch East Indies are particularly tempting because of their rich oil resources . An attack on the Dutch East Indies would upset the existing balance of Tower so violently that the United States might eventually join the British and Australians in their defense . Whether Russia would become involved is problematical . But it is not impossible that a Japanese offensive in the South Seas would be paralleled by a Soviet attack on India . In such an event we might find ourselves embroiled in a world conflict , not , as most people expect , through European entanglements , but through our long-standing interests in the Pacific ; So far the Japanese government has resisted pressure December 16 , 1939 from the military for a Soviet pact . Yet some straws in the wind point to an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Ambassador and the Japanese Foreign Minister , and the Foreign Office 's carefully worded denial that a non-aggression pact was being considered did not exdude the possibility of its consideration in the near future . The Japanese press has hinted more than once that a broader understanding might be achieved . Many of these statements , however , bore the earmarks of inspired revelations designed to put pressure on the United States to renew the trade treaty which expires on January 26 . It has been evident for weeks that the civilian elements in the Tokyo government would greatly prefer an agreement with Great Britain and the United States to a pact with Russia . The Japanese Foreign Minister has been generally conciliatory in the preliminary talks held with Ambassador Grew . Many long-standing claims for damage to American property in China have recently been paid up , but Americans are still suffering many indignities . It is evident that the extremists , despite an undoubted loss of prestige , continue in a position to offset any concessions that the government may offer . Whether they can bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the attitude of the Soviet Union and the policies of the United States even more than on anything that Japan can do . Moscow has hinted that it is not averse to a betterment of its relations with Japan . But it has not offered a non-aggression pact . Nor has there been a let-up in its increasingly substantial aid to China . Presumably it has a large stake in a Chinese victory , and an even larger stake in the defeat and destruction of the Japanese military machine . While it might not be at all unwilling to see Japan turn south and thus become involved in a war with Great Britain and perhaps the United States , it would find it even more profitable to block the expan7 sion of the Japanese Empire . For it must be remembered that the Japanese are detested above all peoples in Moscow for their behavior in Siberia in the intervention carripaign of 1921 . And the Japanese occupation of North Manchuria , long regarded as a Russian sphere of influence , is a serious threat to Vladivostok ? Russia 's one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an embargo against it might drive Japan to seek a pact with Russia , there is no assurance that it could obtain one . And it is fully as logical to argue that a relaxation in our support of China , coupled with Britain 's retreat in that area , might so disturb Russia that it would hasten to make peace with its nearest and most dangerous enemy . Without American supplies , which have greatly increased of late , Japan would be removed as an effective threat to the world . It would be neither attractive as a potential ally nor menacing enough to force its terms on any country . IT DOES N'T matter who the malefactor may be , Morris Ernst takes him out to lunch or gives him a cocktail , and this alchemy is supposed to turn him into a civic benefactor . I do n't say it never works ; on the contrary , it is a technique that deserves every encouragement , especially since Mr. Ernst even tries it on Nation editors now and then . But its successes are , I suspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The other day - Raymond Clapper 's syndicated column in the Scripps-Howard papers disclosed Morris Ernst 's recent efforts to enlighten and reform Martin Dies , the one-man Gestapo from Texas . According to Clapper , Mr. Ernst " has been working on Representative Dies to interest him in using his investigation to bring out the differentiation between home-grown American liberalism andalien communism . The argument is that in this way a real service can be rendered to democracy . . ? . " This is one instance in which the Ernst method will , I think , prove inadequate . SucCess would imply several almost comical presuppositions , such as a desire on the part of Mr. Dies to make the differentiation Mr. Ernst proposes , an absence of political motives in his investigation , and a sincere interest in democracy . More realistic is the Eleanor Roosevelt approach to the Dies menace . As clearly as anyone in the country , Mrs. Roosevelt realizes that a major fight is in progress between the liberal forces in American life and the agents of repression . She knows who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dies is up to and why . She knows what his methods are and is shocked by them . She is not as free an agent as Mr. Ernst , but in her handling of the Dies committee she has , I think , proved a more effective one . Mrs. Roosevelt is interested in young people ; and when officers of the Youth Congress and the American Student Union were asked to appear before the Dies committee she appeared with them , not to testify but to watch . She watched silently through two sessions , invited the witnesses to the White House for lunch ; approved in her daily column the " courtesy " and " helpfulness " of the committee members and its counsel , and commented on the rougher tactics of the committee 's special investigator , J. B. Matthews . " His whole attitude , tone of voice , and phraseology made one feel that a prisoner , considered guilty , was being tried at the bar . I surmise that this impression was made on other people , for in a little while a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .... Immediately the atmosphere changed . His voice was softer , his manners were more courteous . . . . " Mrs. Roosevelt also gave it as her opinion , after listening in on these hearings , that " what is said ? by people 670 - about other individuals is not half as important as discovering what the people themselves , working in these organizations , say and do . " In her presence the Dies committee was both tamed and at the same time most effectively shown up . But if the youth organizations were spared the more unsavory tactics of the committee , the consumer groups have not done as well . Perhaps Mr. Dies decided after Mrs. Roosevelt 's intervention that open hearings may be dangerous . In any case he released as a report of the committee a set of accusations against these groups drawn up by the same Mr. Matthews whose behavior distressed Mrs. Roosevelt . This report was , however , never submitted to the committee itself ; it was placed in the record at a " meeting " at which Chairman Dies was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has openly attacked the report and the way it was prepared and issued . In his relation to the consumers ' movement , Mr. Matthews is an interested insider . He was a director of Consumers ' Research when that organization was torn by a strike after refusing to recognize the union ( A. F. of L. ) set up by its employees . Out of the strike grew a rival organization , Consumers ' Union , created by strikers and sympathizers and headed by Arthur Kallet , formerly associated with Mr. Matthews and Mr. Schlink in the direction of Consumers ' Research . Consumers ' Union and Mr. Kallet are among the chief targets of Mr. Matthews 's present accusations . It is impossible here to sort out and list the lies in Mr. Matthews 's report , but I can vouch personally for the untruth of several of his charges . I marvel , for instance , at the inclusion of the Committee for Boycott Against Japanese Aggression among the organizations under inquiry . Since this committee urged Americans not to buy Japanese goods , only the inverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " consumer " organization . But more important- is the fact that Mr. Matthews 's list of " participants " in the " operations " of this committee contained not one actual member . It was apparently culled from a much longer list of signers of a general manifesto sent out by the committee as part of its boycott propaganda , carrying the names of dozens of persons of all political colors . The names used by Mr. Matthews were taken from the Daily Worker , which for its own reasons ignored the larger majority of " respectables " among the signers . This incident is small but typical . A committee which has no relation to the consumer movement is " smeared " by publication of a list of persons who had no connection with the committee ; and incidentally the committee is no longer in existence . Much more serious , because of their possible effect , are the charges against such organizations as Consumers ' Union , the Milk Consumers ' Protective Committee , and various other genuine consumers ' groups . The NATION Even Mr. Matthews had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted to legitimate consumer interests . " But apparently one drop of red blood is enough to pollute any organism. - The Consumers ' Union has done an outstanding job , limited only by its financial handicaps , in exposing practices injurious to consumers of all sorts of goods . It is not a Communist organization . Communists are admitted to its ranks , as are all persons interested in its objectives . Even Communists , one may suppose , like to buy honest merchandise at fair prices ; this- is a human , not a purely Muscovite , failing . As for the milk committee , it has not only exposed the price-fixing methods of the major distributors but has also founded a cooperative concern which sells clean milk at less than the regular rate in New York City . This latest star-chamber exploit can not but reduce still further the prestige of Martin Dies in the eyes of ordinary men and women . An indiscriminate foray into the ranks of consumer protective groups hits the interests of too many of us . By the time the new session of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political goose . Mrs. Roosevelt may drop in casually on the Dies committee room , but it is a long way from there to the White House just the same .                     