@@469443

IN THE bible of the currently most militant religion it is written : " Our theoretical conclusions are in no way based on ideas or principles that have been invented or discovered by this or that would-be universal reformer . They merely express , in general terms , actual relations springing from a historical movement going on under our very eyes . " In other words , we are not offering you manmade doctrines which might be erroneous , but absolute truth . How it was revealed to the prophets is not stated ? a somewhat illogical omission , since there is no evident reason why Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels should have been less fallible than other would-be universal reformers ; but with that exception the Communist Manifesto , in its interpretation of the present and the future by the logic of the past , is a document of the same type as the Book of Deuteronomy or St. Peter 's sermon on the Day of Pentecost . Every religion in the day of its vigor boasts that its doctrines are also scientific truth , revealing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is peculiarly strong to-day . During the late War ecclesiastics predicted that humanity , chastened by tribulation , would turn back to religion ; and they were right . They were mistaken only in confusing religion with Christianity . The religions to which men turned to find stability in a shattered world were non-theistic ? Communism , Fascism , Nationalism ; consequently their interpretations of history are set forth not as revelation but as scientific inductions . Especially the Marxians claim that their religion is not a religion , but a science , and the only science ; a good talking-point in an age which Iikes to believe that it thinks scientifically ( and is in fact a good deal farther from so thinking than the abused Victorians ) . " The highest task of humanity , " wrote Lenin , " is to comprehend the objective logic of the economic evolution , with the purpose of adapting the social consciousness to it . " This is a precept which any scientist would approve : find out the facts and then behave accordingly . But when Lenin became boss of Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way he comprehended it and adapt their social consciousness to his interpretation , not their own ; otherwise they were shot . It is a curious sort of science which announces , upon reaching a certain point , that its conclusions are final and unalterable ; and enforces their acceptance with machine guns . For those who can swallow it , however , the Marxian interpretation of history ( or any other which is accepted by faith , as beyond revision ) is a powerful stimulant . The actual trend of human progress has been discovered by dispassionate investigation ; and those who perceive it may hasten by their efforts the working out of the predestined Plan . When the Christians , says Gibbon , became convinced that Constantine was God 's choice for the imperial throne , " their warm and active loyalty exhausted in his favor every resource of human industry . " Logically it might be supposed that Omnipotence was in no need of human aid ; but psychologically it does not work out that way . Churches such as the Hardshell Baptists , who held that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so without the feeble assistance of contributors to foreign missions , dwindle and die ; while creeds that hold , in substance if not in explicit theory , that God helps those who help themselves have a better chance of inheriting the future . The Reverend Professor Reinhold Niebuhr , in his recent Reflections on the End of an Era , observes that interpretations of history , if taken seriously , " tend to verify themselves because they direct the course of history to an imagined inevitable goal . . . . The moral imagination finds exactly that meaning in the facts which will make the impossible seem possible . " Even when the impossible must be recognized as impossible by the scientific eye , the moral imagination can find a way out . This teleological interpretation of history was invented by Jewish thinkers of what is known as the Deuteronomic school . They too would have called it objective science , if such a concept had existed in their day ; they thought they knew why Israel had fallen and Judah had been chastened , and what measures had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again . Their formula proved inadequate ; King Josiah got right with God , but Pharaoh Necho of Egypt hired some Greeks to fight for him , and that was the end of Josiah . Did this disturb the prophets ? Not at all . With admirable fidelity to their convictions and indifference to the evidence , they amended theirtheory so that it would somehow cover everything if you did not look too closely , and made it stick with the Chosen Remnant who became orthodox Judaism . The greatest of later Jewish prophets , St. Paul and Karl Marx , broke away from orthodoxy to found religions of their own ; but their followers emulate the Exilic writers in explaining away the facts rather than give up the interpretation . On the eve of the triumph of Christianity , Lactantius ( " much more perspicuous and positive , " Gibbon comments , " than becomes a discreet prophet " ) set forth this attractive picture : " If the Only God were worshipped there would be no dissensions and wars ; no treacheries , frauds , or plunderings ; no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no need of so many and such diverse laws for ruling men , no need of jails , or armed guards , or the fear of punishment ; for to man 's perfect innocence the single law of God would be sufficient . " Unfortunately it did not work out that way ; but the truly faithful were unshaken by the persistence of vice and crime , or even by the unprecedented misfortunes that presently befell the Empire . Augustine , supplemented by Orosius , set himself to explain it all away ; and whatever you think of the City of God as an interpretation of history or as a moral and intellectual influence on subsequent generations , it is certainly one of the most magnificent efforts of the human spirit to transcend an intolerable emotional situation . And it worked , not only for Augustine but for other people ; Augustine 's structure became part of the foundation of the medieval Church , and Orosius 's interpretation of history was still a force in politics when Orosius had been dead twelve hundred years . The heathen were less hardy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " LOGIC " that interpretation of history which found its noblest expression in the sixth book of the fEneid ; the gods had destined Rome to rule the nations . That faith survived till Rome was tottering ; even in the fifth century there were stubborn pagans who insisted that the disasters of the Empire were a punishment of apostasy . But the masses refused to follow them in this not illogical view . Why ? Because they lacked faith in the major classical deities ? faith of the sort that animated the Christians to insist , in the midst of catastrophe , that the judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether . The god whose followers could ignore the evidence was the god who got the converts . So to-day . In modern times there has grown up a tendency to look for a logic in history on purely secular grounds . The building up in the physical sciences of a body of ordered knowledge , however incomplete , the discovery of laws valid for the evidence now available , encouraged the hope that the same thing might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more can be done in this direction with faith than with science . It is now the fashion to abuse the bourgeois ? liberals , optimistic and rationalistic , who believed that the prophet Darwin had discovered a principle which explained history as well as biology . The tendency of evolution was upward ; every day in every way we were growing better and better , even if not so rapidly as could be wished . Anybody can throw mud at those outmoded pagans now , and most of them meekly accept the chastisement . What was their crime ? They rested their faith on the evidence , and the preponderance of evidence at present available is against them . So they beat the breast in abased contrition ; and more and more of them fly for refuge to one or another of the modern OF HISTORY creeds whose devotees are never turbed by anything so trivial as evi- dence which might suggest that they are wrong . II All very good if you call it faith ; but if you call it science it must submit to the test of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? I know of no interpretation of history that can . This is not an attempt to prove that there is no logic in history , whether of the Marxian type or any other . Marx analyzing economic data was a very different person from Marx letting off the apocalyptic hallelujahs of the Communist Manifesto and the finale of the first volume of Capital ; and the creed of economic determinism , as classically stated in the preface to the Critique of Political Economy ( " the mode of production of material life determines the general character of the social , political , and spiritual processes of life " ) is much more modest and plausible than its embellishments by later commentators , some of whom have been as perspicuous , positive , and indiscreet as Gibbon found Lactantius . Even so , I do not think the evidence at present available is sufficient to support the Marxian interpretation , or any other which presents itself , explicitly or implicitly , as science . There may be a logic in history or there may not ; but at present , except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discerned only by the eye of faith . Granted that the analysis of historical motivation is often impos- sibly difficult . Sometimes the evi-dence is lacking , or ( worse ) some vital and unsuspected piece of evidence . There is always a deviation due to the position of the observer ? as a man in a moving airplane , of whose direction and speed he was as uncertain as we are of the direction and speed of our times , would have trouble in judging the direction and speed of another moving airplane . Moreover , historical events are both effects and causes ; and without going so far as some of the physicists who have lately doubted causality or have said that the cause may be subsequent to the effect , it is often impossible to untangle the complex . All of this is no reason for not trying to figure it out as well as we can . I am only an amateur historian and I do not think that even the ablest professional really knows much about the direction and power of what are called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But whatever those forces amount to , the record will show that at certain critical moments they have been interfered with , and with decisive effect , by something to which at present we can give no better name than Chance . Chance and what is perhaps a subdivision of Chance ? Personality . As factors in history these are certainly no new discoveries . Even Marx conceded that " the acceleration and retardation of the general process of development depend to a considerable degree on accidents , among which figure the character of the persons at the head of the movement " This is an admission which some of his followers , even those in the apostolic succession , might well take to heart . The Communist revolution was supposed to occur first in Germany , or England ; why , in fact , did it occur in Russia ? Stalin 's explanation ( Foundations of Leninism , pp. 83-86 ? English translation , naturally ) seems to me very weak . The most logical reason is one which he omits altogether ? that the severe repressive measures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the extreme revolutionary party and compelled that party to submit to a rigorous and salutary self-discipline if it was to hold together at all . Beyond that there was one completely illogical reason , by any present concept of logic : the leaders of that party at the critical moment happened to be a couple of men named Lenin and Trotzky . There was also , while we are in those geographical regions , a man named Genghis Khan . Where does he fit into the logic of history ? Marx might say that such a character and such a career were the logical consequences of the nomadic mode of production But there had been none like it in nomad history before him ; and with all respect to Tamerlane , there has been none quite Iike it since . Where is the logic in the fact that the backwash of men displaced by his conquests , using the military technic learned from his armies , uprooted the apparently fairly stable residuary conquests of the Crusaders ? Where , for that matter , is the logic in the turning aside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thirteenth-century Europe at their mercy ? Possibly they found the wooded and hilly landscape of much of Central Europe uncongenial to the nomadic mode of production ; but it was the usual custom of the Mongols to let their local subjects do the producing , while they lived on the product , like members of the Tarn-many organization . And certainly the effects of the Mongol conquest on the social , political , and spiritual processes of the life of Asia and of Eastern Europe were more considerable for several centuries than those of the mode of production . About the end of the eighteenth century there was beginning in England a decisive change in the mode of production . That influenced the social , political , and spiritual processes of subsequent generations , up to and including our own ; but along with it went the influence of a simultaneous event known as the French Revolution , and of the occurrences that grew out of it . One of these occurrences was a man named Napoleon Bonaparte , whose consequences have by no means passed away . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; if he had been born fifty years earlier he could hardly have risen to be any more than a general of artillery in the " temperate and indecisive conflicts " of the eighteenth century . But from 1799 , certainly from 1804 , the age was largely a product of Napoleon , How did Napoleon get to the top ? The times were ripe for the coup d'etat of the 18th Brumaire ; if you like , it was compelled by the logic of history . But how did it happen that General Bonaparte made it , and no one else ? General Massena might have made it , but he had no political ambition ; General Moreau might have made it , but he was hesitant and politically inept . As for General Bonaparte , the 18th Brumaire was notoriously the weak point of his career ; as Curzio Malapai te puts it , the only difference between the Napoleon of that day and the bungling failure Boulanger was Lucien Bonaparte . Is it logical that Napoleon , at the one moment when he faltered , should have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him through ? a brother who soon became disinclined to help him further ? Subsequent European history would have been very different if a less restless man , a comparative mediocrity , had made that coup d'etat instead of General Bonaparte ? American history too , for without the renewed war with England France might have chosen to fight for Louisiana rather than sell it . Subsequent history , both European and American , would for that matter have been very different if Napoleon had paid serious attention to Robert Fulton and his far from impracticable submarine . Leo Tolstoy defaced the greatest novel ever written with a long-winded argument designed to prove that Napoleon was nothing ? die inconsiderable tool of vast impersonal forces . But if Napoleon , during the critical hours of the battle of Borodino , had not been incapacitated by indigestion ( or petit-mai epilepsy , whichever it was ) , Borodino might have been a victory as decisive as Jena ; and the Russian popular uprising of which Tolstoy was justifiably proud might not have given Napoleon much trouble if there had been no Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which rationalizes the diet of kings would have to be very rigorous indeed . III An implicit teleological interpretation of history was a commonplace of American patriotism in our early decades ; we were God 's chosen people , appointed to exemplify the superior merit of republican democracy to all the nations of the earth . But we might never have got started but for the indolence of Sir William Howe , who could always win a battle but lacked the energy to finish a war ; but for the fact that Lord George Germain , in his hurry to get off to the country for the week-end , would not stop to send the letter that would have ordered Howe to join Burgoyne ; but for Charles Lee , who with the worst of intentions saved his adopted country by persuading Howe to go to the Chesapeake instead ; but for Colonel Skene , who for personal reasons induced Burgoyne to take the long hard route through the woods instead of the easy one by Lake George , and thus gave Schuyler time to organize the defense . Nor for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man who insisted on getting into a fight , even when he had been ordered to stay out of it ; or if Washington had not been Washington . Such a chain of contingencies , every one of them essential , might with some plausibility be called the providence of God ; it can hardly be called the logic of history . Our exemplification of the merits of republican democracy would not have been very effective if this nation had blown up in mid-career ; which it might have done but for a man named Abraham Lincoln ? a man not naturally very ambitious , who qualified as presidential timber largely because his wife was not only ambitious but shrewish , so that he went out and got a reputation in preference to staying at home ; and who got the presidential nomination largely because six years earlier Horace Greeley had quarreled with Thorlow Weed over so trivial a matter as the Lieutenant-Governorship of New York . But for Greeley 's vanity and Mary Todd 's temper this nation might easily have split in two . After Lincoln 's day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of production was changing , and social , political , and spiritual life changed with it . Much of that would doubtless have occurred under any President ; but much of what happened almost certainly would not have happened if Booth had missed Lincoln . Lincoln if he had lived would have pursued the policies that Andrew Johnson pursued in vain . No one can surely say that he would not have failed too if he had tried to oppose the rising tide of passion and interest that turned the South over to carpetbaggers and the North to speculators . But there were di fferences between Lincoln and Johnson -- -immensely important differences . In the first place , there was Lincoln 's tremendous prestige at the end of the war ; Radical Republican newspapers would hardly have dared to lie about him as shamelessly as they lied about Johnson . Also , Lincoln was one of the ablest politicians who ever sat in the White House ; his outstanding distinction in an age of violent passions was that he never lost his temper ( as Johnson did , to his heavy cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interfere with his coolly realistic estimate of what was possible . And one thing more ? the whole emotional background would have been different if Lincoln had lived . No one can read the newspapers of April , 1865 , without being struck with the fact that the universally dominant emotion was simply a feeling of immense relief . There was at first apparent no hatred , no bitterness ; a long agonizing ordeal was over , and men on both sides seemed to feel like survivors of a great natural cataclysm who must now forget their old differences and get together to repair the damage . For a few days it appeared that the whole country was ready to proceed to reconstruction with malice toward none , with charity for all . In some degree , no doubt , that appearance was illusory . Thaddeus Stevens would have been Thaddeus Stevens , and human nature would have been human nature , whether Lincoln lived or died ; after men had got used to peace they might have backslid from their momentary virtue . But no slow and normal retrogression could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vindictiveness and hatred that came with the news that Lincoln had been assassinated . Lincoln living could never have had to face the insuperable difficulties that were created by the mere fact of Lincoln dead . One other instance from domestic history . There is one Marxian doctrine ? emotionally , if not logically , the cardinal doctrine of them all ? which seems to me quite sound : that capitalism is doomed to ultimate destruction by its inherent self-contradictions . What those contradictions are was amply demonstrated between 1928 and 1933 ( and may soon be demonstrated again , if the people who insist that reform must not impede recovery are allowed to get the upper hand ) . Revolution , says Lenin ? meaning thorough revolution , the " proletarian " revolution ? is impossible unless there is a crisis which makes not only the " exploited " but the " exploiters " feel that they can no longer go on in the old way . The United States was dangerously near that situation , in emotion if not in underlying fact , in the early summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of the confusion may have been a logical consequence of American social development . But it is hard to see anything but pure chance in the fact that we touched bottom in a presidential year , when we could change our leadership in the familiar non-revolutionary way ; or that the secondary banking crisis , less profound but more acute , came to a head on the very day when the new President took command . No one can say how much trouble we may have been saved by a mere accident of chronology . Capitalism may ultimately choke to death on its own contradictions ; but there is now going on in this country a desperate effort to iron out some of those contradictions , to repair the machine and make it workable . It is possible , though I think improbable , that this effort may attain a real and durable success ; which , if it happens , will disprove the Marxian reasoning . But what would it prove affirmatively about the logic of history ? If capitalism is saved in America ( however it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be because there was a President at a certain time , who was nominated because he was a Protestant named Roosevelt , and elected because he was not an incumbent named Hoover . Not a hundred people of the twenty-two million who voted for him could have had any clear idea of what he was and what he was going to do . And after he was elected he lived to take office only because a man who wanted to kill him was a bad shot and hit some other people instead . Providence , if you like ; but certainly not logic . Iv All this may sound like the long discredited " great-man theory " of history , which , says Professor Shotwell , explains nothing . But in the record of every science there are observations of fact which explained nothing at the time , but served the useful purpose of discrediting mistaken explanations previously prevalent . I do not cite these familiar instances in support of the great-man theory , or any other ; only to suggest that Chance plays so large a par t that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly fits the facts . In no field of history has the search for logical explanation been so diligent as in the study of the decline and fall of the Roman Empire . This is the only known instance of the decay of a more or less universal civilization , which might serve as something of an object lesson to our own ; accordingly it has been very thoroughly studied , and the attempt to explain it has exercised some of the ablest historians who ever wrote . Almost any preacher or politician can tell you why Rome fell , but the men who know most about it are not so ready with glib explanations . Even they must admit at critical moments the decisive interposition of Chance . The first question is why Rome did not " fall " much earlier . In the first century B.C. the civilized Mediterranean world seemed to be disintegrating ; but the decline was postponed for two hundred years , the fail for two hundred and fifty years more . Why ? The strength of the centripetal and constructive forces in society ? Those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth decade before the birth of Christ they were organized and led to victory by a man named Augustus . And who , in the beginning , was Augustus ? Only the heir of a famous name ; a boy , untried and unknown . The legions of C &sar; turned to him , rather than to the mature and brilliant Antony , because he was Caesar 's heir and nearest legitimate kinsman ; nobody could guess , then , that this young stranger was to become one of the shrewdest politicians and ablest organizers of all time . After two centuries the structure built by Augustus began to decay ; or rather the processes of decay , present in Rome as in every society , became stronger than the processes of construction . There was a slow social and economic deterioration , most thoroughly analyzed by Rostovtzeff ( who would be the last to claim that his analysis is final ) , and a growing intellectual and spiritual lassitude , a loss of nerve , which no one has yet adequately explained . Rostovtzeff thinks that perhaps the chief trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which might seem to support the doctrine that everything is conditioned by the mode of production . There was a costly administration , a costly army , and a costly leisure class ; and much too much of the national income was spent on useless overhead , the embellishment of hundreds of cities . A primitive system of production could not stand the burden and began to crack . But why was Rome economically backwardl There had been a promising beginning of capitalism in the Greek states that succeeded Alexander ; it withered chiefly because of the incessant wars , whose motivation was personal and political , not economic . When Rome had stabilized the Mediterranean world , capitalism of a primitive type took hold again ; its development was halted partly by the tendency above mentioned to put too much money into temples , theaters , and baths ( which sprang from many causes , few of which had any economic aspect ) ; but chiefly by the Roman civil wars , again personal and political in motivation . Ancient capitalism might have got somewhere if it had used machinery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engine ; but they treated them as scientific toys , or at best as weapons in siege warfare . Why ? No one can say , except that such was the tendency of the Greek mind . If capitalism never took hold in antiquity it would seem to be due to a reversal of the Marxian formula ; the mode of production was determined by social , political , and spiritual processes . Marx might call this a mere retardation ; but a retardation of two thousand years is no small item in the short span of history . The obvious and proximate cause of Roman decay , as all historians have recognized , was the disastrous civil wars between ambitious generals ; which were due to a structural weakness that made the Emperor , in theory an elected magistrate , in fact the creature of the army . This might be called part of the logic of Roman development ; Augustus could not have arranged things any other way . Nevertheless , for a century and a quarter after 69 A.D. there were no serious civil wars ; and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and better governed than it was to be again for seventeen hundred years , more peaceful than it has ever been since . Emperor after emperor , in those days , was picked out by his predecessor as the best man to carry on the job ? chosen , and adopted as a son for greater moral effect . The first emperors of the series happened to be childless ; but the fourth of them deliberately passed over his own sons to designate as his successor Marcus Aurelius , who seemed better fitted . The principle of adoption , supported by all the educated classes , seemed established , and with it the internal stability of the Empire . But the wise and virtuous Marcus broke the precedent and passed on his power to his son Commodus , either a lunatic or ( among other things ) a monumental incompetent . In thirteen years Commodus managed to wreck the constructive work of a century , and left a chaos ? political , financial , and moral ? in which the Empire became again , and remained forever after , the prize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor indifferent to the impersonal forces at work , thinks that another pair of strong emperors ( such as the adoptive principle had given ) might have kept Rome peaceful and fairly prosperous for some scores of years more , with incalculable consequences for the future of civilization . There followed a century of disintegration , after which some sort of order was re-established . The new structure built by Diocletian and Constantine was a grotesque caricature of the Empire of Augustus ? barbarous , tawdry , and very uncomfortable except for the small class of rich racketeers . Still it was the most imposing state west of China ; it fought constantly against one civilized enemy and many barbarians and held them at bay . Then , a century after Diocletian , the western half of it began to collapse . Why ? And why not the eastern half too ? Bury , the best authority on this period , points out that decline and fall are two very different matters ; the impersonal forces assigned as causes for the one have little to do with the other . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no logic at all ; it was " the consequence of a series of contingent events . " The irruption of the Huns and the consequent displacement of the barbarian population of Europe might be fitted into a logic of world history , but not of Roman history . Rome gave asylum to the Visigoths , flying from the Huns ; and it may be part of the logic of the later Empire that Roman officials who dealt with the Visigoths were grafters like some of our nineteenth-century Indian agents , and like them provoked an outbreak . The Roman army met the Visigoths at Adrianople ; and if it had won there , as it had often won before , there would never have been any fall of Rome . But the Romans lost at Adrianople ? because the Emperor Valens was too impatient to wait for reinforcements , and because he was misled by his scouts . The Emperor Theodosius got the Visigoths back on the reservation , and so long as he lived they stayed there . But he died in middle age and left his empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were little better than imbeciles . Honorius , the more imbecilic , reigning in Italy , entrusted the government to a German named Stilicho , who for personal reasons neglected opportunities to crush the Visigoths when they took the war path again ; and eventually they sacked Rome . So Bury , whose judgment of Stilicho is perhaps harsher than most , but who certainly can not be accused of not knowing what he is talking about . " It may be said , " he observes , " that a German penetration of Western Europe must ultimately have come about . But even if that were certain , it might have happened in another way , at a later time , more gradually , and with less violence . " And accordingly with far different consequences . Meanwhile the eastern half of the Empire somehow managed to pull through . It is usual to explain this as due to the greater prosperity of the East , its older and more deeply rooted culture . But the Eastern provinces immediately exposed to the barbarians were poorer and less cultured than Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominated Constantinople as other German generals later dominated Rome ; yet he was overthrown and killed . Why ? The record is obscure ; but his fall seems to have been chiefly due to a mere accident which left half his army within and half outside of the walls at a critical moment . The rest of the story is too long to be recited here ; but it looks as if Constantinople survived when Rome fell simply because it " got the breaks . " The conversion of Constantine , and the consequent Christianization of the Empire , was an event of enormous importance . Leaving aside the much debated question of whether it did more good than harm to the Church and to the world , let us look for the logic in it . It is the commonest view that Constantine turned Christian from policy ; he saw that the Church , though weak in numbers , was strong in spirit , the only institution headed upward in a world where everything else was slipping down . But Christianity was weakest in the provinces where Constantine , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him friends but also made him enemies ; as an act of policy its wisdom is seriously debatable . Accordingly , Church historians and some of the bitterest enemies of the Church have agreed in regarding it as a real conversion ? that is , something which happened in the mind of Constantine for reasons not related to logic . Even Gibbon , who goes at length into the political advantages and can not swallow the attendant miracles , will notdeny the sincerity of the conversion . Modern psychologists might not question even Constantine 's vision of the cross in the sky , seen at a moment of great emotional tension by a soldier who lived in a time of ignorance and superstition . V The factor most often overlooked by historical logicians is that of the cumulative consequences ; if one great event had happened otherwise , the major outlines of all that followed would have been different . Otherwise , or at another time ; the consequences are dependent on the date . The war of 1914 had perhaps been made inevitable by the logic of impersonal forces ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wanted a war on that scale ; it was the result of the interaction of the mental processes of many men ? their emotions , their failures of insight . That war almost happened in 1905 , in 1909 , in 1911 , in 1913 ; its consequences had it begun in any of those years would have been incalculably different , as they would have been if it had been deferred to 1917 or later . By the end of 1916 the two European alliances had fought each other to a standstill ; the War was decided by the intervention of America , which might have intervened , but did not , in 1915 . Radicals have a dogmatic explanation of all this ; but I think any one who examines the evidence will conclude that the reason America did not fight in 1915 ( when we might have lost , and the consequences even of victory would have been enormously different ) and did fight in 1917 was simply the state of mind of Woodrow Wilson , a state of mind in which logic played a minor part . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the sixteenth century great forces ? economic , political , psychological ? were at work to break up the medieval world . But the actual results of those forces , the directions in which they were channeled , depended on circumstances whose necessity does not appear . The late Dr. Charles MacLaurin , in his historical essays entitled Post Morten , suggests that England might never have left the Church if the syphilis of Henry VIII had not incapacitated Katharine of Aragon for bearing living children after Mary ; and that the triumph of particularism and semi-triumph of Protestantism in Germany was made possible by the gluttony , and consequent arterio-sclerosis , of Charles V. No philosophy of history has room for sexual attraction . Yet its primary and obvious effects have sometimes been important ; Roman history would have been different if Caesar , and after him Antony , had not fallen in love with Cleopatra . Far more weighty are the secondary effects ? the doings of men and women born from specific unions , who could have been born from no other unions . Letizia Ramolino , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were nonentities , three ( I include Pauline ) who were distinctly superior , and one transcendent genius . What sort of children would she have borne if the traits of her stock had been blended with some other germ plasm than that of Carlo Buonaparte ? Whether she picked him out or had him picked for her I do not know , but the destiny of the nineteenth century hung on the choice . If Philip of Macedon , in his younger days , had married any one but the enigmatic barbarian Olympias , he might have been succeeded by a son like himself , who would have consolidated an indestructible kingdom west of the Tatirus ; instead of a superman who overran the world and then drank himself to death , leaving behind him a Hellenized Orient and the seeds of an Orientalized and Christianized Occident . The marriage of Henry VIII to Anne Boleyn looked at one time like a horrible mistake ; yet from it sprang Elizabeth , and modern England . But no logical interpretation , you protest , could rationalize such factors as these ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the actual course of history depends , however the trend may be directed by impersonal forces . In the present state of human knowledge such matters as the marriage of Letizia Ramolino and the appetite of Charles V can be woven into a logical scheme only on the assumption that everything ? personal and impersonal , internal and external ? is causally related to everything else ; that every psychological impulse , as well as every event , is predestined ; that nothing that ever happened or ever will happen could have happened otherwise . This may be true ; any logician could make out a good argument for it . But as a working hypothesis human nature has never been able , and probably never will be able , to accept it ; even Moslems usually act as if what they did or omitted would make a difference . Pure fatalism is not only not a logic of history ; it makes a logic of history impossible . Everything happens because it happens , and that is all . There is no apparent reason why some day a passably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that day is remote . " We do not know natural necessity in the phenomena of the weather , " wrote Lenin , " and to that extent we are slaves of the weather . Nevertheless , without knowledge of this necessity " ( i.e. without knowledge of its laws , of what it is ) " we know that it exists . " True ; as we are aware of some sort of law , though we can discern it very dimly , in the run of the cards , the sequence of numbers that turn up on the roulette wheel . We know rather more about the laws of the weather than we did when Lenin wrote the foregoing , twenty-five years ago ; we shall learn more about the weather and about human behavior too . Some day we may understand the laws of sexual ant action as a branch of electro-chemistry ; we may know why a man eats himself out of an empire . But till we understand the laws of such matters and the probably more complex laws of their interrelation no philosophy of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collective , is a more perplexing study than the weather ; and its students are more likely to be deflected by emotion , by the impulse to find evidence in support of a faith already held . Mythologies of history , as Niebuhr observes , are pragmatically useful ; they encourage the devout . But once adopted they become dogmas , which no man may safely deny . It would be dangerous to question the Hitlerite interpretation of history in Berlin , the Marxian interpretation in Moscow ; it may soon be physically , as it is now socially , dangerous to question the Catholic interpretation in Dublin or Vienna . However , there is this to be said for the people who explain history in ter ins of the miraculous interpositions of divine Providence ? they do not try to harmonize their scheme with the laws of logic ; they do not think they give it additional authority by calling it a science .                     