@@143540

The exits of most deported foreign correspondents are quiet and quick . Quite a different affair , however , was the expulsion from Yugoslavia 's capital last week of Hubert D. Harrison , chief Balkan correspondent for Reuters , British news agency , and part-time reporter for the New York Times . As Mr. Harrison 's train pulled out of Belgrade , he got a Channel-swimmer 's ovation from a noisy crowd of fellow journalists , students and well-known politicians . Mr. Harrison 's exile was in itself unique . It had to do with Mickey Mouse . <P> Weeks before in the Walt Disney offices in far Hollywood , Ted H. Osborne had conceived a Mickey Mouse comic strip episode in which a Duke Varlott plots to gain the mythical throne of Medioka from his under-age nephew , King Michael . The Mickey Mouse strip is distributed by Hearst King Features Syndicate , one of whose clients is the Belgrade Politika . First Regent of Yugoslavia today is Prince Paul , first cousin once removed of King Peter , a minor , an analogy to the Mickey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fortnight ago Mickey Mouse was suppressed from Politika by the Government for two days . Unfortunately for Reporter Harrison , his story implied permanent suppression . <P> That such a minor journalistic crime would warrant expulsion from Yugoslavia , no one who knew Mr. Harrison 's past performance could believe . More significant was the fact that in July Yugoslavia refused to renew Reuters ' Harrison 's residential permit after he had lived in Yugoslavia 14 years . Powerful because his Slovene Clerical Party was one of the three strong units welded into the present Government Party , Minister of Home Affairs Dr. Anton Koroshets , a Jesuit priest , resented Mr. Harrison 's July accounts which described the Government 's vain attempt to force the unpopular Concordat with the Vatican . Subsequently Premier Milan Stoyadinovitch permitted Mr. Harrison to remain in the country . Last week with Premier Stoyadinovitch in Rome , Acting Premier Koroshets was able to make good his effort to drive Writer Harrison from Belgrade .                     