@@493684

THE State Department is earnestly trying to throw large buckets of cold water on the first reports that it was about to recommend an abandon . ment of America 's rights as a neutral in case of war . Secretary Hull now says that these reports were unjustified , and warns against preliminary guesses about the Department 's policy . The statements of the government 's intention were based , it appears , only on the views of Mr. Charles Warren , who was Assistant Attorney General during the Great War . Mr. Warren , in an article in Foreign Affairs last spring , outlined his policy . He would abandon any and every right of the United States to the unrestricted use of the high seas during any war between maritime powers . If necessary in order to keep us out of the conflict , he would prohibit the use of Americans ships to carry munitions or other contraband , or keep American ships away from the war zone entirely , or forbid Americans to travel ? except at their own risk ? as passengers or crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from aiding either belligerent in any way whatever . Mr. Hull now broadly hints that the restriction on our neutral rights which the State Department will probably favor is along the lines of President Roosevelt 's message to the heads of fifty-four states shortly after he took office . The United States would not insist on maintenance of its neutral rights when such insistence contravened action against " an aggressor " taken by the League , or through some other international instrument such as the Kellogg-Briand Pact ? provided , of course , that we agreed with the verdict . IF THIS is all the administration has in mind , then the excitement of the past few days has been for nothing . Mr. Roosevelt 's promise made eighteen months ago still stands , and all that is now proposed is to implement it with legislation . Such legislation would certainly be better than nothing , but as between the Roosevelt plan and the Warren plan , we believe the advantages of the latter are overwhelming . Realistic students of international affairs no longer have any faith in declarations of aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any . In any probable war the issues would be too confused , the distribution of blame too uneven , to make possible such clear-cut and simple decisions . The chances are that any major war would split the League itself , that each side would call the other the aggressor , and that the United States would again be subject to the danger of being involved that resulted so disastrously in 1917 . The way to stay out of a war is to stay out , by announcing in advance that we will have nothing to do with it . THE notion that we got into the Great War solely because of Germany 's attacks on our shipping is of course far too simple to be true . There were other and tremendously powerful forces at work . The Nye Committee has performed a valuable public service in making public a cablegram from Walter Hines Page , then American Ambassador to the Court of St. James , sent to President Wilson one day after his second term as President had begun . Page reported that the French and British governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in the United States through J. P. Morgan and Company , and argued that suspension of purchases in the United States for the Allies would cause a panic here . " It is not improbable , " Page said , " that the only way of maintaining our present preeminent trade position and averting a panic is by declaring war on Germany . " He then painted a glowing picture of the trade benefits that would accrue to the United States from such a course . It is not necessary to assume that this cable was a decisive factor in causing this country to declare war on Germany one year later : Page had long been violently pro-Ally , and Wilson had a will of his own . It is obvious , however , that the simple question of America 's rights on the high seas was not the sole cause of our entering the War . The Nye Committee is planning to study the whole question of our financial relationships with the Allies ; and it could do no more useful service in the cause of peace . THERE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest the value of the monumental report of the National Resources Board . We hope , in the near future , to deal with it at greater length . Any attempt at national planning for a long period must necessarily be founded upon an inventory of resources and a policy both general and detailed regarding their use . The chief impression we derive from the publication of this report , however , is a sense of the differences between the tepid approval with which such a thing must be regarded in an economy like our own and the jubilation it would create in a socialized system . Under existing circumstances we can hope only that minor parts of its recommendations may slowly and painfully be put into effect through such islands of social administration as exist . We must fear , however , that the greater part of it will be blockaded by aggregations of private interest . Its practical value will he largely educational . This is the sort of thing that sadly needs to be done , but will hardly be done until our economy is geared to social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was wondering whether the Baruch-Johnson mobilization scheme was a project to head off the Committee 's hearings , or at least prevent additional appropriations to continue the hearings , it brought out testimony on the following facts : That the government agreed to build the Old Hickory powder plant of the du Punts at a cost of $85 , - 000,000 , plus a payment of $500,000 outright to the du Punts , plus three percent of the cost of construction , plus 3.5 cents a pound on all the powder made there during the War . That the du Ponts held out so firmly for a favorable contract to operate Old Hickory after the government refused their first contract that Daniel Willard , head of the War Industries Board , urged the government for war seasons to force the du Pants to go ahead and make powder and leave the question of payment to later arbitration or law suits . That a total of $133,000 , o00 was spent by the gov- // ernment in construction work for various du Pont plants , including Old Hickory . That arms exporters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graft to Chinese officers on arms shipments to China . That the War Department encouraged the sales of war supplies to Japan and other countries on the ground that such sales brought back valuable information and kept the arms companies in business for future war needs . That the War Department has already prepared not only a plan of industrial mobilization but a program of laws to be passed , and a tentative one of those to be suspended , which is to be sprung on Congress and rushed through in tote in the confusion following a scar declaration . IN THESE days when the air is filled with suggestions for a new political party , and when the old alignments are visibly breaking up , unusual importance attaches to a recent meeting in St. Paul . The Midwest Legislative Conference of the Farmer-Labor Political Federation at that meeting passed a resolution urging existing third-party and progressive movements to issue an invitation for a representative convention to form a new national party . Among the groups that might logically be supposed to play an active part in such a convention are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Non-Partisan League and the Farmer-Labor Political Federation , both of North Dakota , the Farmer-Labor Progressive Association of South Dakota , the Farmer-Labor Party of Iowa and similar groups in many other states ? including Michigan , Illinois , Montana , Washington and Oregon . Even in the Solid South , the rumblings of unrest are assuming a significant sharpness ; in California there are more than three-quarters of a million voters who supported Upton Sinclair in the late election and are possible timber for a new political structure . The difficulties in the way of forming a new " third " party are admittedly great ; but so are the problems by which the country is confronted . CHARLES A. BEARD 'S article on page 188 of this issue of The New Republic is capable of being interpreted in a number of ways . It is true that we have no generally agreed-upon definition of profit , and that the existing system is a complex of many different economic and political institutions . It is true that government , forced by popular movements , has decided in the past that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that more such decisions in the future may be made without disaster , or even without greatly upsetting the control of the economic class that is now dominant . Exaggerated fears of minor reforms have been needlessly entertained by business men . With all this we heartily agree . We do not believe , however , that the " profit system " is a wholly meaningless abstraction . Nor do we believe that it will vanish completely without a vigorous protest on the part of those who benefit most from it . The fact remains December 26 , 1934 THE NEW that the crucial decisions in the control of our economy are now made by the members of a small but powerful class , on the basis of their hope of profit and fear of loss , that this regime works badly for most of the rest of us , and that a shift to social motives and control would be as great a revolution as that in which the representatives of capitalism themselves supplanted the nobles , the churchmen and the monarchs who governed under feudalism . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jennings case after the rehearing requested by the N.R.A . The issue , which has become a test case of the Newspaper Code , is now joined : Jennings must get his get his job back with The San Francisco Call-Bulletin , or the publishers must come into open court with their arguments that only the Newspaper Industrial Board can decide their labor cases ? in substance , that Section 7a need not be too strenuously observed in their business ? or the compliance machinery of the federal government must refuse to honor a finding of the Labor Board . The last may be the method chosen . Mr. Richberg 's remarks to the Labor Board at the rehearing seemed to indicate some such possibility , for he referred casually to enforcement as something dependent upon " comity , " upon the desire " to support and cooperate " between two branches of the government , not as a step required by law . The Board on its part indulged in some even more pointed inferences in its discussion of the question of jurisdiction . Mr. Richberg had argued that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? by declining jurisdiction . " No question of breaking faith can be involved , " the Board said , " unless , indeed , we are obliged to take account of some extrinsic understanding not embodied in the documents . " We are glad to see one of those occasional private understandings between government and business so summarily squelched . ONCE again the American Legion , this time through its Atlanta Post No. 1 , comes rushing to the defense of imperiled American institutions . The present enemy is Miss Jeannette Rankin , former Congresswoman who voted against the entrance of the United States into the World War , who has been " un-American " enough to occupy the recently created chair of " Peace " at Brenau College , Gainesville , Georgia . The Post has forwarded a set of resolutions to Dr. H. J. Pearce , president of Brenau College , regretting the appointment of Miss Rankin because she " has long been obnoxious to those persons who believe that this country should be prepared to maintain its position as a world power , " and declaring that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus created could only serve the propaganda purposes of those pacifists closely akin to Communists . " All this is cut so completely from the usual American Legion cloth that it would be unworthy of comment were it not for the sane , dignified and courageous stand of Dr. Pearce and the spirited reply of Miss Rankin , who restated her determination to discuss the causes and costs of war . If the Atlanta Legionnaires thought they could turn Miss Rankin from her purpose they were most naive . Having braved the ill will of a whole nation , it is not likely that she will be disturbed by empty flag waving and a few harsh words . A RECENT dispatch from Madrid ( thoughtfully buried on one of the last pages of The New York Times ) reports that the Association of foreign banks in Spain , including the National City Bank of New York , has subscribed 100,000 pesetas to a national fund being raised to " reward " the armed forces that suppressed the recent rebellion . This follows a similar action in California , to " remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Francisco general strike , and causes us to wonder if this procedure is not becoming an integral part of fascist tactics . In one respect , however , the Spanish attitude appears to be far more honest and realistic . In Madrid there is no talk , as in California , of giving the troops " presents " or " remem , brances . " Services rendered are to be paid for in hard cash . It is our suggestion that the California committee entrusted with the " remembering " fund adopt this direct ? as well as old ? Spanish custom . Mercenaries are mercenaries and should be treated as such . ONE of the alleged functions of the League of Nations , the protection of the weak against the strong , is made possible by the rivalry between the Powers of Europe . It is to this rivalry that the King of Ethiopia appeals when he protests against the belligerent actions of Mussolini . The Ethiopians are serenely conscious of the fact that neither France nor Great Britain is likely to approve of Italy 's encroachment on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mussolini 's refusal to recognize the League 's jurisdiction in this question is a tribute to the power of this same rivalry in international affairs . Will the League accept the Duce 's dictum ? Rome has been preparing public opinion for this coup for months past . The govern . ment-controlled Fascist press has cried loud warnings against the menace of Ethiopia 's rapidly growing army ? which , so Rome claims , forced Italy to station 250,000 men in its African colonies of Eritrea and Somaliland . THE attack on Abyssinian soldiers by Italian troops on December 5 was only one of a long series of violations of the rights of the " oldest Christian nation in the world . " In 1896 Colonel Baratieri invaded the Ethiopian city of Adowa but was forced to withdraw with serious losses . The result of this episode was a Franco-Italian-British treaty which pledged these Powers to recognize Ethiopian independence and saved the African kingdom from being swallowed by its Italian neighbor . But recent developments in Africa seem to have whetted Mussolini 's appetite . Last September Libya , Italy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land adjoining it in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan . This cession was the result of an effort on the part of France and Italy , with the approval and support of Great Britain , to adjust their conflicting African claims . Negotiations to this end are still going on . France is willing to relinquish its territory in Tibesti in exchange for concessions in Morocco . Under these circumstances the Abyssinian monarch may find that he has crowed too soon . Mussolini may gain his purpose , the erection of a protectorate over the largest and most important part of Ethiopia , in exchange for recognition of claims that are closer to the heart of France . The great imperialists of Europe are again dividing the African continent . IN HIS annual report , W. G. Campbell , chief of the Food and Drug Administration , reopens the battle for a new Food and Drugs Act . He recounts the disastrous fate of the measure at the last session , the endless rewriting , the deliberate introduction of a mass of vaguely similar bills whose only purpose was to confuse the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . He puts his finger on the reality of the situation : " Trade opposition , with the congested congressional legislative program , was largely responsible for the failure . " In this session , however , he is hopeful of getting a good bill . A LITTLE instance of why such a bill is needed was given recently when Mr. Campbell issued a brief notice about two drugs , cinchophen and amidopyrine . Cinchophen is used widely in the South as a specific against malaria , and both drugs are often present in headache powders , patent painkilling preparations and medicines for neuralgia and rheumatism . Cinchophen , according to Mr. Campbell , has been identified as the source of extensive and often fatal damage to the liver , and amidopyrine destroys the white corpuscles of the blood . Some manufacturers note the presence of these drugs on the labels of their products ; others do not , and under the present Food and Drugs Act there is no way to compel them to do so . Mr. Campbell is , of course , free to warn the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ask whether their particular brand is known to contain either drug . We invite Dr. Copeland to estimate how many will do so . SPEAKING of Dr. Copeland is itself a reminder of the rumors that have been going round in the trade about the fate of his bill . It was withdrawn at the end of the last session and is being rewritten ; the rumors report that it is being rewritten by Dr. Copeland 's friend and business associate , Mr. Ole Salthe , the head of Copeland Service , Inc . Since this organization performs many services in the way of expensive advice ? worth , we dare say , // every penny it costs ? to manufacturers of foods and drugs , the set-up does not make us hysterically enthusiastic about the protection consumers will get in the new version . We suspect the final upshot will find Mr. Campbell still inviting people to ask him whether their bread , meat and medicines are going to rot their livers or load their kidneys with arsenate of lead . 