@@431172

I S THAT essence of wood shavings ready yet ? You know that carpenter may lose his job if he does n't get it right away . " The nurse handed a tiny , red-stoppered vial to the laboratory chief . " Here it is , " she said quietly . " And we 'll have the essence of saddle leather ready by tonight . That girl has to have it before the horse show . " Sounds crazy , does n't it ? Yet that is practically a verbatim report of a conversation at one of the largest modern allergy testing laboratories , at Burbank , Calif. , where they distill the essence of almost anything that may cause irritation to sensitive humans . For an allergy testing laboratory is a place of modern magic where they put a camel's-hair coat into a half-inch bottle , or  | make a sick woman well by distilling hair from her dog . It is a place where they collect dust , and grow weeds . Just what does a doctor mean when he says you are allergic to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your system reacts violently and unpleasantly to that substance . The rash caused by eating strawberries and the hay fever resulting from breathing ragweed pollen are common allergic reactions . When the existence of allergic reaction was first discovered , physicians were usually forced to test a patient by a laborious process of elimination . First one substance and then another was eliminated from the patient 's surroundings and diet until the offender was eventually discovered . But if the essence of any given substance could be distilled and placed in a sterile bottle the ? the job of testing would become simple and accurate . The answer was the modern allergy-extract laboratory . Of course , the essences of many common substances , such as ragweed , strawberries , and eggs , can be prepared and kept in stock . But many people are sensitive to some substance in their own individual environment , such as the dust from their particular house , or something connected with their type of work . Take the case of the carpenter already mentioned . Whenever he tried to work he was afflicted with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Threatened with losing his job , he went to an allergy specialist . But all the routine tests were negative . In desperation , the physician investigated the conditions under which the carpenter worked . He noticed that the hay-fever attacks invariably came when the carpenter was planing or sawing certain kinds of wood . Shavings of these woods were sent to the allergy laboratory . There they went through the usual distillation and purifying processes . First they were freed of moisture in a special drier . Next they were placed in a " defatting " apparatus . As the substance which causes an allergic reaction is always a protein , it is necessary to remove all fat . This is done by placing the substance to be defatted in the upper of two connected flasks . The lower flask contains ether , the f , , , 7 , es from which condense as they travel  | upwards , and pass through the substance being defatted . The ether fumes slowly carry the fat into the lower flask . After being defatted , the wood shavings were again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next the extracting substance was poured over the defatted powder . The resulting liquid now contained the essence of those wood shavings which the physician believed had something to do with the carpenter 's hay fever . However , it still lacked that ab- solute purity necessary for accurate testing . It was therefore sent through porcelain bacteriological filters and placed in a tiny glass vial . A few drops of the essence were removed with a sterile hypodermic needle , and put into a test tube . This was placed in an incubator . For two days it was kept at the temperature most favorable to bacteria . Then it was placed under a microscope and checked . Should any bacteria have developed , the essence of shavings would have been thrown away and the job done over . When the essence of shavings was returned to the carpenter 's physician , he made a test . This was done by slightly scratching the patient 's arm and swabbing a few drops of the testing solution into the scratch . In certain cases it is injected directly into the skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the substance being tested , a swelling resembling hives will appear within ten or fifteen minutes . Our friend the carpenter got a rip-snorting reaction . The pale-amber liquid in the little vial proved he was sensitive to shavings . A few years ago , there would have been nothing for the carpenter to do but go into some other trade . But now the magic liquid in the tiny vial could not only make the diagnosis , but also effect a cure . For the modern method of curing an allergic condition is to give steadily increasing doses of the essence of the substance to which the patient is allergic . In a short time , the carpenter 's resistance to wood shavings was built up so he could return to work . Recently a rush call came to the allergy laboratory for the essence of several items connected with horseback riding . A wellknown horsewoman believed that she was allergic to something associated with her riding equipment . If the offender could not be found , her career would be ruined . Saddle leather was discovered to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the allergy testing laboratory is the preparation of testing sets containing the essence of pollens and plants from a given area . In parts of the world where there are distinct seasons , a separate set must be prepared for each season . More than 10,000 such sets have been sent out , containing several hundred thousand bottles . Although material for preparing many of the standard extracts is easy to obtain , some types are very difficult to collect from natural sources . Certain pollens are so fine and remain on the plants for so short a time that it is almost impossible to obtain sufficient quantities . In these cases the plants must be grown in gardens operated in connection with the allergy laboratory . These are probably the only gardens in the world where weeds are cultivated .  |                     