@@494091

Stalin Spreads the War HERE NEVER HAS BEEN It clearer case of calculated and unprovoked aggression by a large power against a small neighbor than the invasion of Finland ' y the Soviet Union . There never has been one more universally denounced by persons of all classes and of all shades of belief , the world around . So far as we know , the only exceptions are those members of the Communist Party and others ? like the Nazis ? who believe , or pretend to believe , the palpable absurdity that the Finns themselves were the aggressors and intended to provoke the conflict . The only comparable case in recent history is the violent absorption of Czecho-Slovakia by Hitler . But even here , the aggressor had better excuses because there actually were German minorities and a native government could be found that would bow to Hitler 's will . A review of the events immediately preceding the outbreak of the new war will make the denunciation clear . The Soviet Union demanded the cession of certain islands in the Gulf of Finland and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it intended to use as naval bases . It demanded a strip of land near Leningrad , to push the frontier farther from that important city . It demanded part of Finland 's Arctic seacoast . It demanded a demilitarization of the Russo-Finnish frontier . In exchange it offered a strip of landin Karelia which historically had been inhabited by Finns . Finland negotiated about these demands , conceding some of them but refusing others . It is reported that the Finns were willing to surrender the Gulf islands but would not allow a Russian naval base on their mainland ; that they were willing to cede some territory near Leningrad but not enough to include their main and carefully prepared line of defense on the Karelian isthmus . They did not wish to render themselves defenseless or to be drawn willy-nilly into the Russian sphere of influence as the Baltic states had been . Here the controversy rested for awhile , although negotiations were not permanently broken off . The Russian press attacked Finland savagely , and the Finns , thoroughly alarmed , mobilized . Soviet troops were also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four days . On Sunday , November 26 , an editorial in Pravda , the Moscow organ of the Communist Party , complimented Premier Cajander of Finland in the following terms : " He .. . writhes like a snake . . . whines , rubs tears all over his dirty face . . . sheds tears of grief , crocodile tears , they say , which are the vilest , most disgusting tears in the world ... but still more base and false are tears shed by a buffoon imitating a crocodile . Reptiles of this species have no sharp teeth , no strength , but are marked with perfidy and the lasciviousness of a small beast of prey . " Sunday at midnight the official Soviet radio alleged that Finnish artillery had fired on Russian troops . The government in consequence demanded the immediate withdrawal of the Finnish army . On Monday , Finland replied at once to the note , denying the firing and saying that artillery fire had been observed on the Russian tide of the border . It offered , however , to negotiate for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and suggested an investigation of the alleged incident by a joint commission . The reply of Molotov on Tuesday was to reject these proposals , to accuse the Finns of menacing Russia , and , in the same breath , to denounce the non-aggression treaty with Finland which had until 1945 to run . Meanwhile , the Soviet press and radio centered their broadsides on Finland , threatening her with the fate of Poland , while numerous factory meetings passed incendiary resolutions . Finland sent another note . Before its delivery , Molotov spoke over the radio Wednesday at midnight , breaking off diplomatic relations on the ground that Finland was hostile toward the Soviet Union and had rejected friendly overtures . It was on the next day that Soviet planes bombed Helsinki , killing many civilians , while the Soviet army and navy attacked in force . The Russian radio and press did not tell the people of the existence of war for sixteen hours after it had started , and then presented it as a Finnish invasion which was thrust back . The Finns , at a secret meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet resigned and a new one was formed representative of all the elements in the population . This promptly began an attempt to reopen negotiations . Meanwhile , however , Russia announced the establishment of a " Finnish People 's Government " on a small piece of marshland taken from Finland ; its Premier was a Finn who had been in Russia for twenty years and was in charge of Scandinavian relations for the Comintern . Russia promptly made an agreement with this " government " embodying all the concessions she wanted . Ralph Bates , in his article " Disaster in Finland " on page 221 of this issue of The New Republic , deals adequately with the cynicism of this behavior on the part of the Soviet government , as well as with the lack of necessity for it as a protection of Russia 's security against possible attack by any of the great powers . Even though we should make the monstrous admission that the facts are as Soviet government propaganda states them , still its action could not make sense . A Russian government afraid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mutual withdrawal of troops from the frontier and for a joint investigation of the border incident . So would a Russian government which feared that Finland was seeking a chance to foment a war in which Britain could take part . A reasonable settlement of the outstanding dispute ? which Finland certainly gave signs of being willing to make ? would have been the indicated course in this event . And , if the Finnish people had been oppressed and were looking for a way of throwing off the yoke of their masters , air bombings and a Blitzkrieg on land and sea would not have been the way to induce them to accept their liberators . Indeed , it is the very assumption that there is some justification for the Soviet government 's fear of future attack by the great capitalist powers that underlines the criminal folly of what Stalin has done in Finland . There are , all through the world , powerful forces that would like nothing so well as to turn this war into a holy crusade against Bolshevism . They exist in Germany , in Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by no means least , in Great Britain and the United States . The plea of these forces is that the Western nations ? including Germany ? should erase their civil war and unite to oppose the Asiatic menace . Even publicists like Walter Lippmann and Dorothy Thompson have talked like this at times ; it is the secret hope of every Tory in the world . So far , the drift in this direction has been held in check by the comparative self-restraint of Stalin 's action . In Poland , he only took territory that had previously been granted to Russia by the " Curzon line " and that was inhabited by peoples akin to those already in the Soviet Union . The former government of Poland , moreover , had been incompetent and dictatorial ; while the territories in question would probably have been overrun by the Nazis if the Red Army had not moved in . In the Baltic states , the somewhat precarious existing governments had had to yield nothing except military bases . Those whose enmity was directed mainly against Hitlerism kept cherishing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an offset to the Reich and would be satisfied with strengthening its own position . The New Republic in the past has pointed out that Stalin 's action had been immensely successful in terms of power politics but that a final judgment on his shrewdness would have to be reserved , for it was possible that he would overplay his hand . This he has done , in a most blatant and obvious way , in Finland . By a brutal assault on a well governed , intelligent nation that had won the admiration of the world for its sturdy and progressive culture , the Soviet Union has unleashed the dogs of hate that were already straining to tear it to pieces . It has made defense of its action impossible on the part of those who were friendly or were willing to reserve judgment . It has provided a strong moral case for those who wish to destroy communism and all its works . It has diverted against itself much of the hostility that had hitherto been concentrated on its greatest and nearest political enemy . This is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly for world communism and the Soviet state itself . It is well for the United States to consider carefully its action in this crisis . President Roosevelt will be approved by the vast majority of the citizens in offering to mediate , in seeking a promise not to bomb open cities , in expressing his abhorrence of what has happened , and in extending to the Soviet Union the moral embargo against the shipment of war planes to nations that bomb civilians , already in force against Japan . If the Soviet government had seized the opportunity to withdraw , it would not only have aided world peace but would have done itself a service . Beyond this , we should watch our step . Already the more reactionary forces in the United States are not only demanding that we break off diplomatic relations with Moscow , but are attacking the administration for ever having recognized it . From this it is an easy transition to genuine war incitement . American conservatives bear a hatred toward the Soviet Union such as they never entertained toward Hitler or Germany . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the European war . But if Russia could be the enemy , or could be identified as a real partner of Hitler , they would be only too ready to fight . All their force will be thrown on the side of a great ideological crusade such as they rejected when its object was Nazi aggression . If the American people wish to limit the war and to remain out of it , they will be chary about encouraging the idea that they are itching to fight in this cause , as in any other . The emotions of anger toward Russia and sympathy for Finland which Stalin 's action has ? roused are real and can not be denied . But it is just when such emotions are at their height that we are in the greatest danger of committing ourselves to a course which may lead to battle . If we join the war , it will not be because of foreign propagandists but because of ourselves . A world war against Bolshevism has no more value than a world war for any other cause . Let us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 