@@493573

The Week A CAREFUL study of the administration 's gold-purchase plan just issued by the Brookings Institution in Washington , by Dr. Leo Pasvolsky with the cooperation of other members of the staff , compares favorably with the somewhat hasty statements recently issued by other groups of economists . It does not use the conventional tags or wave the red flag of inflation , but demonstrates , to our mind with inescapable logic , that a single nation can not effectively control the internal price level by changing the price of gold or depreciating its foreign exchange . It attacks the basic errors of Dr. ' Warren 's oversimplified theory , saying that " No definite , predictable rise in the commodity price level can be assumed to follow a given depreciation of the currency . " And no evidence exists that a desired price level " can be automatically controlled by altering the price of gold . " This points out the true danger of the President 's price policy ? not that it in inflationary , but that it will not bring about the price rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end , if monetary uncertainty should interfere with government credit and so interfere with the borrowing necessary for public works and other expansive programs . If , as a result , the government began to use the printing press to pay for a great program of public expenditure , we might be in for real inflation . The report might well , in our opinion , have gone on to emphasize that disastrous inflation is possible even if we go back to the gold standard . Neither the conventional gold standard nor a shifting price of gold is sufficient to manage our chaotic price system . To argue either for the one or for the other as a cure for all ills is to write a testimonial for a patent medicine . AN ADDITION has just been made to the ranks of aspirant " third parties " in America . This is the " American Workers ' party " organized at a convention of the Conference for Progressive Political Action at Pittsburgh recently . The new party is " frankly revolutionary . " It dismisses both the Socialists and the Communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its claim to revolutionary leadership in the United States . " It waves aside the Rooseveltian New Deal , declaring that the effort to " save capitalism " is bound to fail . The organization meeting laid emphasis upon the necessity of winning support among the Negroes , to whom complete equality is promised , and of keeping in intimate contact with the technicians who are so rapidly changing the face of our civilization . Among the organizing committee are found several names which are familiar to our readers : A. J. Muste , chairman ; J. B. S. Hardman , vice-chairman ; Louis F. Budenz , secretary ; E .. J. Lever , Gerry Allard , Ludwig Lore , Tom Tippett , and others from ten or more states . A FEW days ago the Pan-American Conference adopted a treaty establishing equal nationality rights for women ? subject , of course , to ratification by the individual governments . It also voted to recommend that all countries grant to women equal civil and political rights as soon as possible . To the astonishment of the Latin American delegates , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despite the fact that the first half of it received our endorsement at the last previous Pan-American Conference in Havana , in 1928 . It is conjectured that the attitude of our government goes back to an old quarrel between two groups of women 's organizations in the United States . One group , headed by the National Woman 's party , has demanded complete equality before the law for women , always and everywhere . The other group believes that women need special protection against night work , unduly long hours , certain types of exhausting labor , and so on , and has sought to preserve existing legal safeguards and to fight the battle for equality in political , legal and financial affairs on another and a narrower front . It is hard to see , however , how the treaty on equal nationality rights could be opposed by any forward-looking organization in the United States or anywhere else . Even the second proposal does not necessarily jeopardize the safeguards which now exist for women in industry , since it could easily be adopted with a safeguarding reservation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sooner we stand up and admit it , the better . 14R . J. B. Matthews has been dropped as one of the executive secretaries of the Fellowship of Re . conciliation , for an interesting reason . The Fellowship is an important organization of religious pacifists , and one of its tenets is that class war shall be opposed , as well as international war . With this position , Mr. Matthews , a Socialist , finds himself unable to agree . While he " deplores " violence , he believes it is inevitable and that a pacifist should not refuse to participaie in a class war as he does in an international struggle . The action in regard to him was taken after a referendum in which 80 percent of those who voted endorsed the completely pacifist position . On the other hand , a number of members of the Fellowship have resigned , to emphasize their support of Mr. Matthews ' attitude ? including a famous wartime pacifist , Roger Baldwin . The Fellowship 's action , of course , emphasizes the growing breach between conventional pacifism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common . The lessons of Italy and Germany , to name only two , show that if radicals wo n't fight , conservatives will ? and will win . Indeed , not to fight is sometimes to take part in the struggle on the other side . To accept absolute pacifism is nowadays at best to retire into an ivory tower ? with a good chance of finding this tower overturned ere long in the hurricane of social change by violence which is sweeping the world . FOR once , a " civil liberties " case has turned out right . Athos Terzani , on trial in New York City for a murder which he obviously had not committed , was acquitted by a jury after only half an hour 's deliberation . Terzani , an anti-Fascist of Italian extraction , went to a meeting addressed by Art J. Smith , then leader of the Fascist " Khaki Shirts of America . " There was a fight in which another anti-Fascist , Anthony Fierro , was killed . Apparently because Terzani was about the only man present with no possible motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was saved from the electric chair by one of Art Smith 's for . mer lieutenants , Samuel Wein , who testified that the murder was the work of still another Khaki Shirter , Frank Moffer of Philadelphia . With great skill , Arthur Garfield Hays , Terzani 's attorney , built up a complete case against Moffer , which the jury decided was good enough to cause them to set Terzani free . Oddly enough , the prosecuting attorney has thus far shown no interest whatever in finding and trying Moffer . Instead , his whole aim seems to be to place a perjury charge against Wein , who in saving Terzani admitted he had lied on a previous occasion , and says he did so because Art Smith had threatened his life . In those districts of New York City where Italian blood predominates , it is apparently safer to be a murderer than an anti-Fascist . Luckily , in this case , the jury cut through to the facts and the facts did the work . LAST week , The New York World-Telegram added a new columnist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a widely known and popular writer who heretofore has devoted most of his attention to the world of sports . Mr. Pegler celebrated his advent by writing a column which discussed the weaknesses of our judicial system , and included a statement universally interpreted as an endorsement of the San Jose lynching . Naturally , this statement produced roars of protest from a great many people , including the Writers ' Committee against Lynching . The executive committee of this group sent a strongly worded telegram of protest to the paper and signed to it the names of eighty-three well known writers , all of whom are members of the organization but most of whom did not know in advance that the protest was going out . The editors of The World-Telegram jumped to the conclusion that the purpose of the protest was to get Mr. Pegler dismissed or muzzled ; and they also discovered ? and printed ? the fact that some of the signatories were unaware that the protest was to be sent . Thereupon the leaders of the committee redoubled their indignation . They now accused The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trail , whereas their sole purpose had been to obtain publication of the fact that they disagreed with Mr. Pegler . After a good deal of recrimination , it was finally explained that the motives of each party to the controversy had been misinterpreted by the other . Every news ? paper reader knows that the Scripps-Howard chain , of which The New York World-Telegram is a member , has been scrupulously liberal in permitting its writers to make over their signatures statements with which the papers are editorially in disagreement . Everyone also knows that the last thing a group of liberal and radical writers would suggest is that a fellow writer should be censored for the expression of an opinion with which they disagree . Score ; World-Telegram , 1 ; Writers , 1 ; Pegler , 0 . AMERICA 'S most recent lynching is even more cold-blooded and shameless than any others of the recent series . Cord Cheek , an eighteen-year-old Negro boy of Columbia , Tennessee , was arrested on a charge of attempted assault upon an eleven ? year-old white girl . Since no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jury failed to indict him and he was set free . Within a few hours he had been seized by a group of white men , shot and hanged . He was dragged some distance in the road , but whether he was alive or dead when this happened is not yet known . Governor Hill McAlister of Tennessee has emphasized that he is not another Ralph by issuing a statement denouncing the lynchers and offering a reward of $1,000 for their capture ? something which ought not to be difficult , since the license numbers of their automobiles are known . The puzzling thing about this and other recent cases is why the officers of the law insist on dealing with a person who is in danger of lynching in such a way as to make his murder easy . Are they so unintelligent that they ca n't look ahead a few hours ? Or do they deliberately , because of secret sympathy with the mob , arrange matters so that the lynchers will be put to a minimum of trouble ? THE first week of The New York Evening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows a tremendous improvement over the timorous policy set by the conservative Cyrus II . K. Curtis of Saturday Evening Post fame , and continued by the managers of his estate after his death . While Mr. Stern will undoubtedly make many more changes than he has yet had time for , already he has shown that he is an aggressive editor with strong liberal leanings . This is what we should have expected in view of his record in Philadelphia and the other cities where he owns , or has owned , papers . Mr. Stern was one of the first editors to go under the Blue Eagle , and the Newspaper Guild , the editorial workers ' union , had its birth in his office and with his warm approval . He spoke out vigorously against those publishers who have raised a false cry that freedom of the press is imperiled , in order to avoid meeting government specifications as to wages and hours and to continue using child labor . The Philadelphia Record was largely responsible for smashing the Vare machine in the November election . Mr. Stern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with him , in order to tell the public that the Pennsylvania milk code was an outrageous injustice to the consumer . He has cleaned up patent medicine and other rackets in Philadelphia . To have The Evening Post go from Curtis to Stern ownership is undoubtedly a piece of good luck for New York . 