@@493860

The Week A WEEK crowded with important international events was that which ended on December 1S . Outstanding , at least in popular attention , was of course the abdication of King Edward VIII and the succession of his brother , the Duke of York , as George VI .... In the Spanish war , the military strength of the rebels seemed to be waning . Great Britain and France put forth a project for a truce to be followed by a plebiscite , a plan so far from any possibility of success that it was interpreted as a device only to postpone a little longer the danger of a general war . The League once again revealed its impotence by hastily and abjectly referring the Spanish question to the Committee on Neutrality . . From China came reports of the kidnaping of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek by one of his own generals , who demanded , so it was said , war against Japan . Chiang was later reported to have been assassinated .... The worldwide repercussions of the German-Japanese - anti- communist " alliance have been so serious that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. Sharp opposition by Latin American countries , headed by Argentina , to the Roosevelt doctrine of aloofness from Europe resulted in whittling down the United States neutrality program to little more than a pious aspiration like the Kellogg Pact .. .. Trouble over border incidents flared up between Turkey and French-controlled Syria . . . . Dr. Schacht added to the international uneasiness by repeating the standard speech , popular in fascist countries , demanding colonies for the relief of overpopulation . Germany 's serious economic plight was again recorded with news that she has a deficit of 2,000,000 tons of grain . THE chief development in the United States during the same period of time was the meeting of the National Association of Manufacturers , which was amazingly and violently pro-Roosevelt in all its general declarations , but Tory in nearly all its detailed recommendations . . . . The reemployment conference in Washington under the chairmanship of George L. Berry recommended what would in effect amount to revival of the NRA , demanding also amendment of the anti-trust laws , loans to small businesses under federal guarantee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with nationwide uproar over the cuts in the WPA . President Roosevelt , through Harry Hopkins , gave assurance that all in genuine need would be retained or reemployed , although it still seemed likely that some of the most valuable white-collar projects would be suspended . . .. The seamen 's strike continued , with renewed assurance from government spokesmen that it was about to end . . . . Another struggle that continued last week was that over the speakership of the House between Representative Rayburn of Texas and Representative O'Connor of New York , Tammanyite and good friend of the power interests . . . . The long continued feud between President Glenn Frank of the University of Wisconsin and the La Follette forces in that state seemed about to come to a head with the enforced resignation of President Frank . . . . Robert Fechner , director of the CCC , urged that it should be made a permanent organization , with its directing personnel under the classified civil service . SINCE the abdication of Edward VIII , rumors concerning what lay behind it have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week , many believe that Edward is pro-German and even pro-Nazi . Sensational details have been added to this speculation ? such as that he opposed the new understanding With France and tried to force the Cabinet toward a German orientation , as did his grandfather Edward VII , and that Mrs. Simpson has Nazi friends and might even be . suspected of disclosing military and naval secrets . If all this is true , it is a pity , we repeat , that the differences between King and Cabinet were not handled in such a way as to bring the real issues to the fore , rather than the question of his marriage to someone of whom conventional moralists disapproved . As it stands , opinion is sharply divided between those who were deeply moved by the King 's eloquent farewell speech and sympathize with him as a man , and those who accept the view of the Archbishop of Canterbury and Bishop Manning that anything is preferable to divorce , and that even a popular King must be denounced if he has anything to do with it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ views are of great consequence to the millions who imaginatively identify themselves with him . In view of these considerations , we can not believe that the Established Church did not play a leading part in the affair . THE United States government has received one serious defeat after another in the Pan American Conference at Buenos Aires , and all the discreet language of diplomacy has failed to conceal that fact . Even before the conference opened , President Roosevelt apparently cut down his program ; and of the modified version , little now remains . The sixteen Latin American countries that are members of the League of Nations have united , under the leadership of Argentina , to resist vigorously any action that would conflict with their obligations under the Covenant , evidently believing that the United States ' carefully - drawn " escape clause " was not enough . Our proposal of a permanent consultative committee of the foreign ministers of the twenty-one American republics has been scrapped . So has the plan for an international neutrality scheme forbidding loans or the export of arms and ammunition in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is left is the vague promise that the American republics will try to settle their quarrels amicably , and will consult one another in the case of war , not only in this hemisphere but anywhere in the world . No doubt it is true that Latin America welcomes the evidence that this country no longer believes in dollar diplomacy and is prepared to scrap the Monroe Doctrine as a unilateral policy ; but neither of these developments comes as news at Buenos Aires . The half-fascist states below the equator do not share Mr. Roosevelt 's alarm about a seizure of land in this hemisphere by Germany or Italy . Their gaze is still toward Europe and not toward the North . Mr. Roosevelt would be well advised to begin thinking about neutrality for the United States alone and not for the entire ' Western Hemisphere . Even the former is a big enough job for anybody . DR . Hjalmar Schacht a few days ago reiterated Germany 's demand for colonies on the old familiar ground that the country is overpopulated and needs room for expansion . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it still seems to us to be complete nonsense . If the country is overpopulated , why does the government do everything it possibly can to increase the birth rate , including active opposition to the preaching and practice of birth control ? Is Dr. Schacht not aware that there was no important emigration from Germany to her colonies in the days before the War and that most of them are almost uninhabitable for North Europeans ? Does he not know that even those countries that have had a large emigration , like Italy , have found no relief to overpopulation through this fact ? Italy , for example , exported something like a million persons a year for a generation , and counted more souls at home at the end of this period than the beginning . Certainly Dr. Schacht , one of the most intelligent men in Europe , knows these things . He makes a fool of himself in public in order not to seem dangerously out of line with the nonsensical policies advocated , partly from ignorance and partly for ulterior motives , by Hitler and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friction between Dr. Glenn Frank , president of the University of Wisconsin , popular lecturer and editorial writer , and the La Follette forces which control the state politically . Now this conflict is apparently coming to a head , with newspaper reports that the Board of Regents may have enforced Dr. Frank 's resignation before this issue of The New Republic is in the hands of its readers . We earnestly hope that nothing will be done in this case so hastily or obscurely that it can be used in the future with effect against Governor La Follette and his group . The political differences between Governor and university president are well known ; but such differences do not constitute any adequate ground for forcing out a man who on the whole has been ranked among the more liberal college executives . President Frank is entitled to his day in court ; if he has not done his work well , the country has the right to know the exact list of particulars . THE New Masses as a weekly is only three years old , but it was preceded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Liberator , which in turn was preceded by The Masses of 1911-17 , making in all twenty-five years of generally distinguished American revolutionary journalism . To celebrate this anniversary , The New Masses last week held an old-home celebration , in the shape of a double-sized issue which welcomed back the former contributors ? Edna Millay , Sherwood Anderson , Rex Stout , Maurice Becker , Boardman Robinson , Art Young and many others ( including Upton Sinclair ) . It is a good issue and it will be surprising to many readers ; last year one would not have found Sinclair and Earl Browder in the same magazine . Reading it we remembered the days when we bought the old Masses at holein-the-wall newsstands and carried it home guiltily and defiantly . Those were exciting days in American journalism . In a sadder era , The New Masses is trying with some success to recapture their feel ing of intellectual stimulation . IN CASE anyone has been in doubt about the sort of aid Mussolini has been giving General Franco , we have now an official Italian statement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascist university students , stated December 4 : It must be said once and for all that we are fighting materially and concretely in Spain . The comedy of non-intervention is ended . For us it never began . .. . We can and we are determined now to denounce it as a catastrophe . Even here , however , the Fascists are not being logical : comedy is never catastrophe , or vice versa . RECENT labor news : With the six-weeks-old maritime strike 100-percent effective on the est Coast and about SO-percent effective on the East Coast , according to his own estimate , Harry Bridges , president of the San Francisco division of the International Longshoremen 's Association and outstanding maritime leader of the country , came east to speak at Boston , Philadelphia and New York , and to urge Joseph P. Ryan , national president of the ILA , to stop ordering East Coast longshoremen to work struck ships . . . . The Industrial Union of Marine and Shipbuilding Workers of . America called a strike against the Sun Shipbuilding and Drvdock Company at Chester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the shipyard was attacked by strikebreakers , police and finally fire-engines . More than 100 were injured , and one striker died . . . . At the Berkshire Knitting Mills of Reading , Pennsylvania , where 5,000 workers have been on strike since October 1 , the picket line was again attacked with tear-gas bombs and clubs . More than 140 strikers have been jailed . . . . William L. Pieplow , a minority stockholder of the strike-bound Lindemann and Hoverson Company stove plant in Milwaukee , has instituted suit demanding that a receiver be appointed and officials of the firm be required to bargain with the strikers , charging that the management has destroyed the assets of the company by its refusal to negotiate for more than a year .... Operators of Flint , Michigan , trolley buses voted 103 to 3 to reject the proposal that they return to work pending arbitration , though the vice-president of their union informed them they would be dropped from the rolls . The City Commission moved to revoke the charter of the bus company unless service were immediately started @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories at Detroit when the employers broke off negotiations after strikers had returned to work . IN The New Republic of December 9 , in our department , " The Bandwagon , " we quoted President J. Edgar Park of Wheaton College , Norton , Massachusetts , as having said in a public address that " Fascism is not enough , even though it is a start in the right direction . " While we correctly reprinted the newspaper item from which the quotation was taken , that item contained a typographical error . What President Park said was : " Pacifism is not enough , even though it is a start in the right direction . " We hasten to make this correction , and to extend our deepest apologies to President Park . FROM Washington comes the news that important persons close to Mr. Roosevelt , disturbed by the hostility of most of the country 's leading newspapers , are planning to found a new liberal week ! y , 100-percent devoted to " New Deal principles . " We applaud this enterprise , and helpfully suggest a name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Today " ?                     