@@487418

But if the youth organizations were spared the more unsavory tactics of the committee , the consumer groups have not done as well . Perhaps Mr. Dies decided after Mrs. Roosevelt 's intervention that open hearings may be dangerous . In any case he released as a report of the committee a set of accusations against these groups drawn up by the same Mr. Matthews whose behavior distressed Mrs. Roosevelt . This report was , however , never submitted to the committee itself ; it was placed in the record at a " meeting " at which Chairman Dies was the only member present . Another member , Mr. Voorhis , has openly attacked the report and the way it was prepared and issued . In his relation to the consumers ' movement , Mr. Matthews is an interested insider . He was a director of Consumers ' Research when that organization was torn by a strike after refusing to recognize the union ( A. F. of L. ) set up by its employees . Out of the strike grew a rival organization , Consumers ' Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , formerly associated with Mr. Matthews and Mr. Schlink in the direction of Consumers ' Research . Consumers ' Union and Mr. Kallet are among the chief targets of Mr. Matthews 's present accusations . It is impossible here to sort out and list the lies in Mr. Matthews 's report , but I can vouch personally for the untruth of several of his charges . I marvel , for instance , at the inclusion of the Committee for Boycott Against Japanese Aggression among the organizations under inquiry . Since this committee urged Americans not to buy Japanese goods , only the inverse logic of a Dies investigator could have made it a " consumer " organization . But more important- is the fact that Mr. Matthews 's list of " participants " in the " operations " of this committee contained not one actual member . It was apparently culled from a much longer list of signers of a general manifesto sent out by the committee as part of its boycott propaganda , carrying the names of dozens of persons of all political colors . The names used by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own reasons ignored the larger majority of " respectables " among the signers . This incident is small but typical . A committee which has no relation to the consumer movement is " smeared " by publication of a list of persons who had no connection with the committee ; and incidentally the committee is no longer in existence . Much more serious , because of their possible effect , are the charges against such organizations as Consumers ' Union , the Milk Consumers ' Protective Committee , and various other genuine consumers ' groups . The NATION Even Mr. Matthews had the grace to admit that some of these were " devoted to legitimate consumer interests . " But apparently one drop of red blood is enough to pollute any organism. - The Consumers ' Union has done an outstanding job , limited only by its financial handicaps , in exposing practices injurious to consumers of all sorts of goods . It is not a Communist organization . Communists are admitted to its ranks , as are all persons interested in its objectives . Even Communists , one may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; this- is a human , not a purely Muscovite , failing . As for the milk committee , it has not only exposed the price-fixing methods of the major distributors but has also founded a cooperative concern which sells clean milk at less than the regular rate in New York City . This latest star-chamber exploit can not but reduce still further the prestige of Martin Dies in the eyes of ordinary men and women . An indiscriminate foray into the ranks of consumer protective groups hits the interests of too many of us . By the time the new session of Congress meets , Mr. Dies may well have cooked his political goose . Mrs. Roosevelt may drop in casually on the Dies committee room , but it is a long way from there to the White House just the same . 