@@470100

IN THIS second article I propose to give I some account of the more puzzling psychological phenomena that have come under my notice , and to offer some tentative suggestions by way of explanation both of them and of the physical phenomena described in the previous article . That no one explanation covers the whole ground is , I am afraid , only too clear . Many would go farther and maintain that , in so far as we are prepared to accept the abnormal phenomena studied by psychical research as genuine , there is no completely adequate explanation of any of them . I am inclined to agree , and to add that , if there were , I for one should lose much of my interest . That events should still occur of whose causation we are ignorant seems to me to be all to the good . The mystery of the universe adds to its majesty . It also induces modesty in its observer . Mystery in the observed and modesty in the observer are valuable qualities in the modern world . I will define @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abnormal activity of some mind or minds , whether the mind or minds in question are those of living persons or of those who would normally be called dead . To the first class belong telepathy , clairvoyance , abnormal knowledge of the past , and experience of the future . To the second , the phenomena which are usually attributed to the communication of spirits and other manifestations which are supposed to originate in the world beyond the grave . To take the second class first , I have sat with a number of mediums who have professed to be the vehicles of communication from those who have " passed over . " I have not been impressed . There are two questions which it seemed relevant to ask about the messages which they purported to deliver . First , did the message convey information which could not conceivably have been accessible to any person other than the person who had " passed over " ? It may be admitted at once that proof that such information had in fact been conveyed would be very difficult to establish ; it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be quite sure in every case , and in regard to each one of the persons concerned , that he did not possess and could not have possessed either consciously or in the recesses of his unconscious the information which purported to come from the " spirit . " Generally speaking , it is only when definite arrangements have been made by a living person to transmit such information , preferably by cipher , after his or her death in demonstration of his or her survival , that some of the conditions necessary for proof could be said to have been established . In a number of cases convinced spiritualists , such as the late F. W. H. Myers , Dr. A. W. Verrall , and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , are said to have made such arrangements while still alive , and in each instance surviving friends and relatives confidently reported having entered into communication with the person in question after his death . But , so far as I am aware , the messages which have purported to come from the person who has " passed over " have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information which could have been known only to the person who before death made the arrangement . In those cases in which proof of this nature has been asserted ? and in many cases it has ? it has not been found satisfactory by impartial persons who have investigated the evidence upon which it was based . This is certainly true of those messages which I personally have investigated . This brings me to the second question which may , I think , appropriately be raised when estimating the likelihood of the " spirit " hypothesis , which is the question of the general nature of the communications received from " spirits . " These in my experience ? and I have heard , at different times , a good many of them ? have two general characteristics : they are platitudinous and trivial , and almost invariably they reproduce the general culture , outlook , and ideas of the medium and of those sitting with the medium . The conditions they describe are , in other words , such as persons possessing the economic , social , and cultural background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set their imaginations to work , he supposed to have imagined , and they embody no material other than what might have been supplied by the imaginations of the living persons concerned . The accounts of the " Summerland , " as it is called , where the spirits who have " passed over " spend their time , are banal to a degree , and if persons whom we admire , or to whom we are attached , are responsible for their form and substance , we can only regretfully conclude that the next world is a place in which the human spirit lamentably deteriorates in respect , at least , of its intellectual quality . One is driven in fact to the melancholy conclusion that , even if ghosts have souls , they certainly have no brains . I do not wish to suggest that my own experiences are in any way conclusive nor do I definitely repudiate the spiritualist hypothesis . I content myself with the remark that I personally have never witnessed any phenomena of a kind to lend it support . Indeed , I should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which people obtain at seances , from the use of " planchette , " by automatic writing and by other similar methods , and cheerfully to consign it to the dustbin of the unconscious , either of the medium or the sitters , were it not for some curious experiences which I have had with the " tumbler . " II I drew attention in my first article to the impish , mischievous mentality which one seems to detect as the causative agency of so-called poltergeist phenomena . It is as if some elflike creature were engaged in making sport of human beings , not so much for their hurt as for its amusement ; it does n't want to frighten them but it does want to make them look silly . Something of the same spirit has seemed to me to have inspired some of the messages which one obtains from the " tumbler . " It is not so much the fact that they are nineteen-twentieths nonsense and usually wrong when they are not nonsense , as that they should ever be right , or even partially right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I should perhaps explain the method of working the " tumbler . " The letters of the alphabet are placed in a wide circle on a polished table . In the center of the circle there is an upturned wine glass or tumbler . Two or more persons place their fingers upon the tumbler ; presently ( even if the owners of the fingers do not push ) it will begin to move . Sometimes the movements are rapid , even convulsive . In due course , if you are lucky , the tumbler will start to touch the letters , and , supposing that your luck still holds , the letters touched will presently spell words which you can , if you like , construe as messages or as answers to the questions which you address to the hypothetical agency which is supposed to be moving the tumbler . As an Oxford undergraduate I spent one long summer vacation with four other men on a remote island off the coast of Brittany , and every evening we used to experiment with the tumbler . Our object was to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of us . And if unknown information , why not lucrative information ? Why not , in short , make the tumbler spot the winner of a race ? Now , we had none of us the remotest connection with the racing world , but somebody did happen to know that there was a race known as the Cesare-witch , although we could not have said where or when it was run . Accordingly we asked the tumbler for the name of the horse which would win the Cesare-witch , and immediately it spelled out the word " Romola . " Several months elapsed and I had forgotten all about the tumbler and its message , when one morning I received a letter from one of the men who had been on the reading party , asking if I had seen the names of the horses running in the Cesarcwitch . I looked up the list in the paper , and was thrilled to find that one of the horses was called Romola . Considerably excited , all the tumbler users laid bets on the horse , in one case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days before the race . . . . The message is typical of the exasperating nature of some of the " information " one gets from " the spirits . " It is equally difficult to dismiss it as mere coincidence or to ascribe it to a rational , benevolent , surviving intelligence . I turn now to the second class of case falling under the head of abnormal psychological phenomena , in which human beings obtain or appear to obtain knowledge not accessible by ordinary methods . A knows , let us say , what is going on in the mind of B when B is silent or absent ( Telepathy ) ; A knows the suit and number of a card which B has selected at random but not looked at ; A finds an object which B has hidden in a room ; A from examination of an object which belonged to a murdered man discovers the corpse , or ? Iess sensationally ? A by feeling and looking at an object which you have taken out of your pocket tells you how and when you obtained it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describes its past history , and an impressive slice of yours . . . . The variadons in the deliverances of this abnormal faculty whereby certain persons apparently obtain knowledge otherwise than through the five senses are innumerable , and I propose to class them together under the general heading of Clairvoyance . Now I do not wish to deny the existence of these abnormal faculties . In fact , I am inclined to regard them as established . Yet I can not honestly say that I have ever witnessed an example of their exercise which was quite certainly not amenable to explanation by other and more normal methods . Let me take as an illustration of this generalization the Rhine experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance , which I will assume to be familiar to readers of Harper 's Magazine . When the news of these experiments first reached England , psychologists were impressed and excited . Here it seemed at least was experimental proof both of telepathy and of clairvoyance . For here were people returning an average of 11 correct guesses per 25 cards over as many as 3,400 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the minds attached to two bodies separated by a distance of two hundred and fifty miles managed to communicate with each other to the tune of an average of 10.1 correct guesses per 25 cards , and so on . . . There were , it seemed obvious , only three possible explanations : chance , fraud , and telepathy . Chance was ruled out by mathematics . As to fraud , elaborate safeguards are described in Dr. Rhine 's books , but the greatest objection to the fraud hypothesis was and is to my mind psychological . Was it really credible that halt a dozen members of a university staff , working with a constantly changing group of students , would have been content to conduct a series of what must have been exceedingly monotonous experiments , lasting for more than three years , with no other object than that of making fools of one another ? Is it further credible that , if this were indeed the case , nobody would have given the game away ? Dr. Rhine 's books have been widely read , yet , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in carrying out the experiments has been found to cast serious doubts on the bona fides of their author . Accordingly , the only reasonable explanation seemed to lie in some form of telepathy and clairvoyance and , as I say , we in England were appropriately excited . Could we not reproduce Rhine 's results ? Arrangements were accordingly made by the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation , described in my previous article , to see if we could do in England what Professor Rhine had done in America . Following his methods fairly closely , we have so far conducted nearly 100,000 experiments , with nearly 100 different sitters , and in no single case has the number of correct guesses varied appreciably from the " chance " figures . A similarly negative result has , I understand , attended a series of similar experiments which have been conducted by Professor Thouless at Glasgow . Are we to assume that there is something about the English temperament which makes it either unable to mind-read or unwilling to have its mind read ? Professor Rhine has , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even so , it is , to say the least of it , significant that what Rhine 's students did so easily we can not do at all . Anyway , the flush of enthusiasm has now disappeared from my first unsuspecting acceptance of telepathy . Experiments with the medium , Marion , have tended to deepen my doubts . For here was a man giving performanceswhich prima facie one felt bound to ascribe to supernormal mental faculties such as telepathy and clairvoyance , but which turned out , after careful investigation , to be nothing more nor less than the results of hyperaesthesia ; events which , in other words , there was every inducement to believe to be witnesses to the powers of Marion 's mind , were in point of fact only testimonies to the keenness of his senses . Marion , whom we had the privilege of investigating at the laboratory of the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation for a period of six months during the first half of 1934 , came to us with a great reputation as a telepathist and a clairvoyant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) He would find objects hidden in a room . ( 2 ) He would recognize playing cards which he had touched but not seen . Considerations of space prevent me from describing Marion 's procedure at length , but I will take a couple of examples , one from each class . A small object , let us say a marked coin , is given to Marion which he handles in order , as he puts it , to " get the sense of it . " Marion then leaves the room . The object is hidden , let us suppose , in my left-hand waistcoat pocket . There are six persons in the room ; of these five , including myself , are sitting behind a curtain . The sixth goes out and brings Marion into the room , the sixth knowing where the object is hidden . Marion proceeds to explore the room , making little darting movements and passes with his hands . At no point does the sixth person make any actual physical contact with Marion , but he follows him as he walks up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may vary from half a minute to three or four , Marion locates the object in my pocket . Here is a typical performance of the second class . A red card is taken and placed face upward on five black cards . The lights are turned out . Marion enters and is handed the red card whose denomination , in the darkness , he can not distinguish . He holds it for a second or two and then returns it to the experimenter . The lights are put on ; the cards are carefully shuffled under the table ; the pack is bent once or twice , and the cards are then slid face downward in front of Marion . Marion does not touch the cards but makes sweeping passes over them with his hands ; he rejects five of them and selects the sixth , which is the red one . Sometimes the six cards were placed in six sealed envelopes . In each of these two cases it certainly looked as if Marion , who time and again was successful in producing results of this type , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This at least was the assumption which we at first felt inclined to make ; but careful experiment showed that the assumption was unnecessary . Take , for example , the first class of experiment . If the sitters were visible Marion apparently divined from the observation of small muscular movements visible in their faces , when he was " getting warm . " If there were no visible sitters he had no success , except in the case when one of those who knew where the object was placed followed him as he walked about the room . In such circumstances it appeared that Marion deduced the whereabouts of the object from small variations in the footsteps of the person following him . If the person wheeled himself about in a specially constructed chair or cabinet , so that there were no footsteps , Marion again had no success . Marion 's perceptual powers were quite astonishingly acute . Let us suppose that one person , and one only , who knows the whereabouts of the hidden object sits in the room with his body concealed and his head and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whereabouts of the object by observing the , to us , imperceptible movements under the hood of the head and shoulders of the person who knew its whereabouts , as Marion , in the course of his exploration of the room , approached or moved away from it . Now as to the card experiment . The conclusion to which we came was that Marion in handling the red card in the experiment described imparted to it a slight flex or bend . Imperceptible to us , this flex or bend survived the shuffling and further bending by the shuffler . In some cases Marion relied for his divination upon a study of the contact which a chosen and previously handled card made with the surface of the table , this appearing to be to his acute senses different from the contact made by the non-handled cards . Similarly , Marion could identify a stiff millboard card , which he had been allowed to hold in the dark , by means of his sensitive touch . These statements are dogmatic. * This conclusion has , I suggest , considerable bearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hyperaesthesia , and not telepathy or clairvoyance may have played a considerable part in the production of Dr. Rhine 's results . Second , there is a recent experience of my own of the almost incredible cleverness of a conjuror . Let me say here in case the apparent connection of ideas should mislead the reader , that Marion was in no sense a conjuror . He himself offered no explanation as to the method by which his results were produced . If , as I am suggesting , his results were due to hyperaesthesia , I doubt whether he himself knew that they were . Long years of practice have made the reading of small indications perceptible to Marion 's senses , but not to ours , a subconscious mental process of which Marion is probably unaware , and which he is certainly unable to analyze . The difference between a subconscious mental recalling of small sensory signs and what may be called straightforward telepathy raises difficult psychological questions , which I can not pursue here . * I can not give detailed reasons in support of each one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are two . There is. first . the fact that when tactual and visual clues were ruled out the number of correct guesses which Marion made in regard to cards and other objects . was no greater than such as would be obtained by chance . They embody the conclusion of the observer in charge of the Marion experiment , S. G. Soal . B.Se. , whose work Pre-limitiary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepa1Iiiet , University of London Council for Psychical Investigation , Bulletin 3 , is largely responsible for the formation of my own views on this subject . However , to return to my conjuror . A friend of mine , who although not a professional conjuror , nevertheless possesses remarkable powers , has on several occasions given to small parties of friends displays which , had one not known their author , one would quite certainly have ascribed to supernormal mental faculties . For example , my friend , whom I will call K , takes a pack of cards and gives them to some one member of a group of persons whom we will call A. A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A , in fact , on one occasion was myself . K goes out of the room . A selects somebody else , B , at random , and asks B to take a card . B selects a card and shows it to the others , but not to A. B puts the card back in the pack , shuffles the pack , and returns it to A. K enters the room , takes the pack in his hand , feels it , and then returns it to A. A then takes the cards one by one and lays them face downward on the table . When the card which has been selected is reached , K , who , it will be remembered , has never seen or touched the card , asks A to stop and announces that this is the selected card . He then asks A what the card is , and A , who presumably possesses no abnormal powers of thought-reading or divination ? as I certainly have not ? answers correctly . Now it certainly looks as if these were examples both of clairvoyance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that is involved is a display of high-class conjuring , and has actually given me an inkling of how the tricks are done . I mention these matters not because I wish to throw doubt upon the existence of telepathy and clairvoyance ? indeed , as I said above , I am prepared to regard their appearance as occasionally , though infrequently , manifested human faculties , as established ? but in support of the statement made earlier in the article that , so far as I am concerned , no indubitable examples either of telepathy or of clairvoyance have come my way . My belief in them is , therefore , founded on general considerations touching ' the nature of the human mind . III So far as physical phenomena are concerned , the explanation which seems to me to cover the largest part of the field is that which is known as the psychic factor theory . According to this theory a mind is not a natural or primitive thing , is not , that is to say , one of the basic constituents of the universe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in other words , something which only comes into existence as a result of the combination of two factors , neither of which is itself mental . The factors in question are of course the body and what I will call noncommittally " the psychic factor . " The psychic factor is not a mind , but an immaterial element conceived more or less after the likeness of the vital force or activity postulated by writers like Shaw , which combines with the body to form a mind . At death the combination is dissolved , but it does not therefore follow that the psychic factor ceases to exist . It may survive the dissolution of the body for at any rate a limited period , and during this period it may retain and again exercise its capacity for combining with a body to form a mind . Let us now consider the condition of the medium at a s ? ance . The medium is in a trance . The precise meaning which should be attached to this expression is doubtful . Modern psychology has devoted considerable attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be given of them , or whether the same account should be given of all of them , is far from clear . Let us , however , assume the dualistic hypothesis , according to which the human personality is a combination of two distinct elements , a body and a spirit which animates the body , and suppose further that the trance state really does involve what it appears to involve , namely , that the medium 's spirit has temporarily vacated his body , or is at least for the time being not in control of it . There is nothing inconceivable in this hypothesis ; cases of dual personality , which suggest that the same body may be the seat of two different spirits which animate it successively , also suggest that an animating spirit may be temporarily withdrawn . We will assume then , without examining all that is implied by the assumption , that the medium 's body is left temporarily uninhabited by his spirit , or that the normal connection between his spirit and his body has at least been temporarily suspended . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium that , according to theory , the surviving psychic factor of the dead person temporarily combines ; and upon the combination there emerges as before a mind . This mind is a new mind , since the factors upon which it emerges have not been previously associated . It is not the mind of the medium , since the psychic factor is that of the dead person ; it is not the mind of the dead person , since the body is that of the medium . Moreover , it is a temporary mind , continuing to exist only for the duration of the seance , or until such time as the medium wakes from his trance and his own spirit returns to control its body or ? if we assume that it has gone temporarily out of existence ? resumes its interrupted existence . The attractiveness of this theory consists in its ability to explain the peculiarly puzzling quality of many spirit communications , which is not so much that they are unintelligible and inaccurate as that they are not completely unintelligible and completely inaccurate ; or , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as accurate and intelligible as they are , they are not more so . Messages do sometimes convey information , which , so far as can be conjectured , could not possibly have been within the medium 's own knowledge . The messages seem , moreover , at times to emanate from a particular source which , both in regard to the nature of its communications and the information it appears to possess , certainly suggests the mind of a person known to have died . On the other hand , as I have pointed out , the messages are rarely detailed ordefinite ; in fact , they are so little detailed and so little definite that it is always possible to doubt their origin and the personality of their sender . " If , " the sitter can not help thinking , " it is really my friend who has passed over who is communicating , why does he not speak more exactly and in detail of his condition and experiences , refer to those private matters that were known only to me and to him , and send words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a special message for me ? " Moreover , as I have already noted , many of the messages seem to bear upon them traces of the medium 's personality and to convey the sort of knowledge and ideas which the medium might be expected to possess . This double characteristic of appearing vaguely to relate , yet relating neither clearly nor satisfactorily , to the dead person , and of appearing to relate to , without in fact expressing , the personality of the medium , is accounted for by the psychic factor theory . The reference to the dead person is explained by the circumstance that the psychic factor concerned is that of the dead person ; the absence of definiteness and " personality " in the messages by the fact that it is not with the mind of the dead person that contact is established , since this mind ceased to exist when the combination of psychic factor and body was dissolved . The indications which point to the medium 's personality are due to the fact that the medium 's body is one of the elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indications are rarely conclusive for the reason that , once again , it is not the medium 's mind with which contact is established and which is responsible for the messages . How long and in what form the psychic factor survives , it is impossible to say . The existence of a psychic factor is of course mere guesswork , and the theory is put forward only as a hypothesis . Whether the reader will be prepared to accept it or not depends upon the general background of psychological presuppositions with which he starts . To a Behaviorist , for example , it would be unacceptable . A further and more fanciful extension of the same theory would suggest that poltergeist phenomena , and even apparitions , may be due to the fact that it is not with a body , that is to say , with the body of the medium , that the surviving psychic factor of a dead person combines but with matter other than that of a human body , for example , with sheets of mist in the case of ghosts which haunt the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bells or doors or crockery in the case of poltergeist phenomena . Having made this suggestion , I am appalled by its extravagance , and am to be understood by the reader to be more than half disposed to withdraw it . Yet what is one to do ? The facts are totally fantastic . If one does not reject them as due to fraud or unsupported hearsay , one has no alternative but to postulate some totally fantastic explanation . As to telepathy and clairvoyance , I see no reason why we should not regard these as native powers of the human mind whose use is normally withheld from consciousness , as being , in other words , normal vital powers which are , however , normally inaccessible . Why inaccessible ? Because , if we could read the hidden thoughts of our friends and foresee the future the need for struggle and endeavor , the need to sharpen our faculties and to use to the full our conscious powers in order that we may live and maintain ourselves , would not exist . So-called supernormal powers are , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disability . Life develops in and through us , its individual expressions ; moreover , life develops through struggle and endeavor . Life withholds , therefore , from us , its individual expressions , the full use of all the vital factors with which our unconscious is endowed , since their conscious possession would remove the incentive to struggle . Nevertheless , on occasion the barrier which separates the conscious from the unconscious is leveled , the veil is lifted , and we enterinto the full inheritance of our vital powers . Now these cases are more particularly associated with those occasions upon which the individual 's career as an individual expression of life is closing , or is threatening to close . These are , on my theory , occasions when the purpose for which life has created the instrument , which is a particular human being , has been served , the use which life had for this particular instrument terminated . The reasons which have led to the withholding of the full powers of life from the individual instrument no longer , therefore , obtain . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases of telepathic communication occur in times of great mental stress . The typical case is that in which an individual in imminent danger of death communicates telepathically with a loved person who is known to be anxious for his safety . The mother sitting at home receives a telepathic communication from her son in the trenches warning her of his danger , or sees what subsequently turns out to have been a true vision of him lying wounded or dead about the time at which the wound was received . Another common class of case is that of persons who in danger of death have at the last moment been rescued . There is a well-supported tradition in the case , for example , of persons who have been nearly drowned , that , as hope begins to be abandoned and the individual feels himself sinking , a moment of clairvoyance occurs in which the whole of his life passes before him in a flash . Remote and long-forgotten incidents are recalled with the greatest vividness and detail , and years of experiences are lived through in what is subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to both these types of cases is the danger of imminent death to the persons concerned . In other words , to translate into the language of the theory I have outlined , the separated current of life which constitutes the individuality of the wounded soldier and the drowning man is about to revert to the main stream . Is it too fanciful to suggest that , since the function for which these individual organisms were constituted has now apparently been performed , the limitations which , it is suggested , have been imposed , in order that there may be incentive to its performance , are withdrawn ? The individual whose lease of life as an individual is about to be terminated enters , therefore , into the enjoyment of some of those larger and more extended powers of life stored up in his unconscious , which are normally withheld from him . He sees his past in a flash and has the power of direct communication with persons not present to him . 