@@486438

THROUGH nine months of what has been undoubtedly the severest depression the country has ever known Congress was compelled to remain idle . This enforced idleness , which the President could have ended at any time , carried with it the implication that Congress was not equipped to deal with the stupendous problems arising from the depression , and by the same token that the President was thus equipped . Thereby Mr. Hoover assumed the grave responsibility of formulating and proposing a program of his own with , which to meet the economic crisis . Congress has now reassembled , and it has the President 's message before it . That message is a confession of the almost complete failure of Mr. Hoover to live up to the large responsibility he took upon himself . The message contains nothing even resembling a comprehensive and well-balanced legislative program . True , it does put forth several specific recommendations , and a few of these are excellent to the very limited extent that they go , - but even these suggestions and requests are unrelated and have no clearly defined purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important questions that have come out of the depression . In brief , Mr. Hoover has thrown upon Congress the task of producing a program of relief  --  a task which he himself had inferentially assumed by his refusal to call Congress into special session . And thus nine precious months have been wasted . War debts and the tariff are two fields in which the government could act to relieve the country in its present desperate plight . Adjustment in either or both of these fields would also prove a boon to Europe , upon whose recovery Mr. Hoover lays such heavy stress in his message . Even a minor downward revision of the tariff , let us say a return to the Fordney-McCumber rates , might give that fillip to world trade which would start us on the road to recovery . And it can hardly be denied that a readjustment of the war debts would have immensely beneficial results . But as to the tariff Mr. Hoover said : " I am opposed to any general Congressional revision . . . . Such action would disturb industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression . " On the question of the future policy of the government with regard to war debts he was wholly silent . Is it possible that Mr. Hoover is still blind , after all the developments of the last several months , to the overwhelming importance of these two questions to the general economic situation ? Mr. Hoover specifically recommended an increase in taxation , but did not even hint the form this increase should take . He urged the erection of " an emergency reconstruction corporation of the nature of the former War Finance Corporation , " but he neglected to go into details as to the organization and purposes of the " reconstruction corporation . " He did say that it should help with government funds needy corporate enterprises that " can not otherwise secure credit . " Does this mean that the corporations which are so near to bankruptcy as to be considered poor risks by ordinary commercial banks are to be subsidized by the government ? If so , would that not be a government dole pure and simple ? Perhaps a reconstruction corporation would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be able to help needy enterprises from which the banks are unnecessarily withholding credit . But before we could indorse or even comment upon this proposal we should want to learn something more about it than Mr. Hoover has put into his message . This vagueness and lack of detail extend to virtually all his other recommendations . The railways , though he recognizes their predicament as presenting " one of our immediate and pressing problems , " are dismissed with a brief paragraph , a renewal of the suggestion that a consolidation scheme be worked out and a fresh proposal , again without details , that rates charged by competing services be regulated " by some authority . " He urged that the eligibility provisions of the Federal Reserve Act be extended , saying , " I understand such an extension has been approved by a majority of the governors of the Federal Reserve banks . " This will surely be news to the Washington correspondents who only a week ago reported that the Federal Reserve governors were in general opposed to such an extension . Mr. Hoover further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but apart from suggesting " an enlargement of branch banking under proper restrictions , " he again offered no specifications . Another suggestion looks toward the establishment of a " Public Works Administration , " under which " all building and construction activities of the government now carried on by many departments " would be " consolidated into an independent establishment . " But in the matter of unemployment and unemployment relief Mr. Hoover is at his most shining empty best . There must be no government aid for the jobless . " I am opposed to any direct or indirect government dole , " he said . Large business and financial corporations may be assisted by federal loans or other means , but the man out of work must not look to Washington for help . That , we are told again , would " jeopardize those principles which we have found to be the basis of the growth of the nation . The federal government must not encroach upon or permit local communities to abandon that precious possession of local initiative and responsibility . " Of course , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to depend entirely upon haphazard private charity . The federal government , for instance , is providing a few jobs through its building program . Moreover , " through the President 's organization for unemployment relief , public and private agencies were successfully mobilized last winter to provide employment and other measures against distress . " Still , distress and unemployment managed to spread at a disquieting rate . Mr. Hoover promised equally " effective " relief for the present winter . We sincerely trust , now that Mr. Hoover has demonstrated beyond dispute his own paucity of constructive ideas and his pitiful lack of courage , that Congress will work out a sound and practical program , and thereby not only show Mr. Hoover that he was very poorly advised in not calling a special session , but also contribute that measure of government assistance which seems so imperative to turn us toward economic recovery . Spain Charts a Course C ONFOUNDING their critics , plowing straight ahead to accomplish what many a skeptic deemed impossible , the revolutionary leaders of Spain have now crystallized their objectives in an amazing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departing radically from the conventional system of checks and balances which so frequently checks nothing but the people 's will . The sexes are given equal status , and women are granted the vote  --  a step which was hotly debated at the time of the king 's overthrow . Divorces may be obtained by mutual consent ; and so , while irresponsibility is not encouraged , the harshness , hypocrisy , and collusion due to rigid divorce laws are swept away at a stroke . No children are to be " legally illegitimate , this clause removing from growing boys and girls a stigma for which they have in no wise been responsible . The Catholic church is disestablished and means are provided for the dissolution of religious orders and the seizure of church property should the church 's intransigence make this drastic step a necessity ; the age-old political corruption within the church is separated both from itself and the state , a change which ought to promote , rather than hinder , the exercise of religion . Provision is made for the distribution by voluntary collectives of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land- lords ; therefore Fernando de los Rios , the Socialist Minister of Justice and expert on agrarian problems , may proceed with his famous plan , described , so he says , " as audacious " by " a powerful man from Russia who just visited me , " and calculated , as he frankly tells the Andalusian farm workers , to cause two years of increased suffering as a prelude to eventual prosperity . In respect to war , this country which has disarmed its troops more than 50 per cent in six months and closed down most of the military schools now states in its basic law that the president can declare war only when such a conflict is in accord with the Covenant of the League of Nations , when it is defensive beyond all doubt , and , far more significantly , when the dispute has first been submitted to arbitration by Spain without reciprocation by the other disputant . Spain today , according to this document , is " a republic of the workers of all classes " ? uniting for the future as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And if radicals of other countries are inclined to scoff at this phraseology and class the Spanish revolution as nothing more than a political revolt , the rest of the constitution should be reassuring . From the beginning of the revolutionary movement , it was clear that the great bulk of the revolutionists were not going to be content merely to chase out King Alfonso and then establish a laissez faire regime modeled after the United States . One of the first symbolic acts of the provisional government was the ratification of the Washington Eight-Hours ' Day Convention ; despite the conflicts between the impatient Anarcho-Syndicalists and the Socialist-Republican temporary Cabinet in recent months , the way has been smoothed for labor organization and the economic condition of many workers has been improved . The influence of the Socialist Party , which is so far the only well-disciplined political organization in the country , has been tremendous ; and if at times the moderates have been restive under Socialist pressure , they have , as Zamora frankly pointed out , been willing to give the Socialist program a chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and economic ideas , the anti-monarchists from the very beginning drew on the experience of France , Russia , England , Germany , and Latin America , rather than on the United States . It is not only that our numerous interventions to the southward have invariably made the front page of the Spanish dailies ; it is not only that before the Spanish revolution some of our envoys and financial interests had in a sense intervened to bolster up the dictatorship and monarchy . For even though thousands of youthful Spaniards every week thumb through the gay little periodical which retails the exploits of Los Bait-dittos de Chicago , the proud nature of the intellectual Spaniard has long recoiled in disgust from our municipal corruption , our federal malfeasance , our big-business domination of politics , our cynical disregard of workers in periods of prosperity and our charity in hard times , our lack of spontaneous zest for poetry , art , and song . For our part , we should like to see the Spanish constitution read in every institution of higher learning ; it might well become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a revelation to some of our moribund labor leaders . Acknowledging its occasional lapses in cohesion ; conceding that always a national charter promises more as a document than it performs in the everyday life of the people , we still acclaim this constitution as a triumphant achievement . It is a challenge to fascism on the one hand and to communism on the other , let alone the pseudo-democracy of which we have long been the chief collective expression . To the Spanish people our admiring congratulations . And for the trying days of the future , with their multitudinous , exacting problems , our warmest hope for a steadfast development of the program so ably started on its way . Mooney Still in Jail M AYOR WALKER has been to California to make his plea for Mooney 's pardon ; Governor Rolph has received the Mayor as a friend and listened to him as an advocate ; the California press has provided more stings than Mr. Walker is accustomed to , even in his home town ; the first public hearing on the Mooney case has been held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor of New York but Frank P. Walsh , who for years has pleaded Mooney 's cause , Aaron Sapiro , likewise a pleader of long standing , the foreman of the jury that convicted Mooney , the judge that tried him have again strongly urged his release . Mr. Walker even produced a dramatic surprise in the shape of a letter from former Prosecuting Attorney Charles M. Fickert declaring that " in my opinion you Walker are probably right in maintaining that it would be to the best interests of the State that executive clemency be granted to Mooney . " And now , what have we ? Mooney is still in San Quentin prison . Governor Rolph has announced that it will probably be three months before he can issue his decision on the pardon plea . And Mr. Fickert , after a wandering and inconsistent " explanation " of the circumstances under which his letter was written , takes it all back and says he meant nothing of the kind . He does not think Mooney should be granted clemency ; he only meant it might be granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Oxman 's testimony , which convicted Mooney , was false . Fickert adds : " Oxman always stuck to his story . I believed it during the trial and after that . To the day of his death Oxman maintained that it was true . I still think so and I am not changing my position against clemency for Mooney . " This should be almost enough to make Mooney 's advocates throw up their hands in despair and go home . Fortunately , they are not the hand-up-throwing sort , and we can be sure that they will continue to work and plead , and above all to hope . Mooney himself seems to have given up any very strong ' hope of his release . When Mayor Walker , probably inadvisedly , assured him that he would soon be free , he replied : " I seriously doubt it . " The difficulty in the Mooney case , of course , as has been stated many times before , is that the matter is not one of simple truth or simple falsehood , but of politics . Mooney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throwing a bomb , but because he was the sort of man , in the opinion of influential persons in California , who might have thrown one . Various Governors of California who might have exercised executive clemency were intimidated by these influential persons , who assured them that they would lose more votes by freeing Mooney than by keeping him in prison , and since their main concern was votes and not Mooney , either in or out of jail , they kept him in . Mayor - Walker , undoubtedly strongly moved by a belief in Mooney 's innocence and by the touch of sentiment offered by the spectacle of his mother who wants to ' ave her son with her again before she dies , found that he could make excellent political capital out of his trip to California . Finally Governor Rolph , with on the whole less to lose politically than any of his predecessors and with a more assured position in general , nevertheless is human enough probably to wish to derive a certain amount of credit for the gesture of freeing Mooney . So far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were pardoned today , the applause would be for the Mayor and not for the Governor . When the Mayor 's appeal is three months cold , and he has become thereby no better than any other advocate , it may be that the chances for a pardon will improve . . Charles M. Fickert remains the villain in the piece , as he has been from the beginning . He is no longer in public office . He has nothing in the world to lose , presumably , by Mooney 's release . Yet some hidden source of malice , some innate obstinacy of judgment , keeps him faithful to a record of testimony that responsible persons have solemnly sworn to be false and that other equally responsible persons solemnly believe to be false . This is the testimony of the cattleman , Oxman , which brought about Mooney 's conviction , and which has been conclusively shown to have been perjured . But Mr. Fickert is not convinced . And Captain Charles Goff of the San Francisco police department , one of Mooney 's bitterest adversaries , is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these protestants against a pardon will be heard . More delays , therefore , more protests , more argument ; and more months at least for Mooney to stay in jail . An Evangelist in Rhyme V ACHEL LINDSAY is the first to die of those men whom Americans have been in the habit for at least a decade of considering as the standard poets of their century . Robinson , Frost , Sandburg , Masters , and Lindsay  --  here were five men who had made and kept a national reputation the justice of which on one ground or another could not be disputed . Different as the five were from one another , they were nevertheless comparable in- that each of them had produced work of a measurable quantity and that each of them had made a contribution to the discussion of human nature , which presumably is the ultimate concern of any kind of literary art . Subtler and more ingenious poets had supplanted the last three in the minds of connoisseurs ; yet the five remained immovable  --  bound to be thought of in any survey of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lindsay had suffered in reputation most of these five  --  one of wham , if not two , can be said never to have suffered at all . For several years before his death Lindsay must have been aware that the world endured his eccentricity only because it had once been exciting and admirable . If it was so no longer , there was at least " The Congo " to remember ; and " General William Booth Enters into Heaven " ; and " Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight " ; and " The Chinese Nightingale " ; and " The Santa- Fe Trail " ; and " The Eagle That Is Forgotten . " The latter years produced nothing like any of these ; they produced , indeed , a great deal of pathetic nonsense , and the " Collected Poems " have as much bad poetry in them as ever was produced perhaps by a famous man . How much value we shall continue to place on the better poems is of course a question to which there can be no answer at a moment when the generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another one whose representatives are so clearly different from him . Robinson Jeffers , Archibald MacLeish , Hart Crane , Allen Tate , Phelps Putnam  --  these and a dozen others seem to be separated by centuries from a poet like Lindsay . This is not to say , however , that Lindsay will not continue to speak with a very interesting voice . If he does so it will be because the poems through which he speaks are still impressive either because of their message or because of their art . For of message they are full . It is not without significance that Lindsay lectured for years at a Y. M. C. A. in New York and for the Anti-Saloon League in Illinois ; or that he tramped the United States preaching a gospel which he called Beauty . The question how long these simple enthusiasms of Lindsay for peace and purity will be capable of stirring American readers must be left , of course , to time . The answer will be determined in part also by the degree of respect which Lindsay 's art succeeds in keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild platform appearances , when no one remembers any more having heard " The Congo " read " as it should be read " ? what then ? Doubtless " The Congo " will survive even that catastrophe . It is surely a fine poem . In it , along with a naive and powerful message , is a music which needs no voice to make it heard . " The Congo " will survive . So will half a dozen other poems . The rest are already dead .                     