@@494063

The Catholic Church in Politics IV : The Church and Social Legislation AN ELABORATE PROGRAM of Catholic social justice , enshrined in encyclicals from Rome and ex- pressing grave concern for the pitiful condition of the poor , has recently been promulgated officially for Catholics all over the world . Nor do bishops and priests fail to preach high principles of charity and good will . In practice , however , the behavior of Catholic Church authorities in America contradicts its pontifical sympathy and the well meaning platitudes of its spokesmen . No one need look further for confirmation of this fact than at Catholicism 's campaign of opposition to the Child Labor Amendment . In this one instance are to be found practical examples of the Church 's unconcern for the common welfare , its extraordinary power of control over our political life and its tie-up with the nation 's reactionary interests . Catholic opposition to the Child Labor Amendment is based upon the following reasoning : the word " labor , " according to the dictionary definition , includes mental as well as physical toil ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if enacted , might be interpreted to apply to classroom work . From this it is concluded that Congress would be given the power to educate , care for and even to " nationalize " all persons under the age of eighteen years , thereby endangering the existence of parochial schools . The highest legal authorities , even in the Catholic fold , have declared such an interpretation by the courts is utterly unlikely , but the Church will not take the slightest risk of jeopardizing its position , no matter at what cost to the children of the nation . ... i The results of a poll conducted by the American Institute of Public Opinion in 1937 showed 76 percent in favor of the Federal Child Labor Amendment . Twenty-eight states already have ratified it ; only eight more are needed . Failure to obtain ratification by these eight states in the 1937-38 legislatures is concededly due to Catholic Church opposition . The story of its campaign in the New York Legislature , where the poll showed 83 percent of the people in favor , is still fresh in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much needed reform . Defeated in the 1935 session of the legislature despite tremendous public support and smothered in the 1936 Judiciary Committee largely as the result of Catholic influence , the resolution for ratification of the amendment passed the Senate of the 5937 legislature by s large majority . In no other state was the interest in ratification of the amendment so intense . New York might have been the standatd-bearer for the seven other states . President Roosevelt , Governor Lehman , Mayor LaGuardia , Senator Wagner , Attorney General Cummings , George F. Meany , president of the New York State Federation of Labor , representatives of churches ( except the Catholic Church ) all over the state , lawyers , civic workers , leaders in practically every walk of public life , all pleaded for adoption of the ratification resolution by the House . It is said that never before had a legislative hearing in New York attracted such a large attendance . Over 60o proponents were present . The Right Reverend Edmund F. Gibbons , Catholic Bishop of the Albany Diocese , spoke at the hearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urging defeat of the amendment , which he characterized as " unwarranted invasion of parental rights and a menace to the welfare of millions of children . " The late Cardinal Hayes issued a letter which was read in St. Patrick 's Cathedral and hundreds of other Roman Catholic churches in the state calling for the resolution 's defeat . Thousands of printed postcards were distributed at religious services in the Catholic churches , to be mailed to the assemblyman whose name was printed on the reverse side . In some churches pencils were supplied by ushers who collected the cards for mailing . Legislators reported that they had never before received so many communications on a single subject . The Democratic leader of the assembly admitted that he was unable to " stem the tide . " The resolution was defeated . Said an editorial in The New York World-Telegram ( March to , 1937 ) : The Child Labor Amendment has been defeated in New York and the predominating reason , frankly and undenied , was fear of going against the Catholic clergy .... No other power in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent ratification . So the Church vetoed it . Credit for the Church 's success is handed to Charles J. Tobin , secretary of the New York State Catholic Council , representative at Albany of the Roman Catholic Church , lobbyist for the estate of Nicholas F. Brady and for the New York Edison and Niagara Hudson . Many prominent Catholics are in favor of the Child Labor Amendment and at variance with the hierarchy on its stand . The late Senator Thomas J. Walsh helped draft the amendment . Frank P. Walsh , prominent Catholic attorney , headed a committee of Catholics for ratification , and Monsignor John A. Ryan supported the amendment . But their influence and strength , in view of the hierarchy 's opposition , was properly estimated by Father Jones I. Corrigan , representative of Cardinal O'Connell at the hearings on the amendment in the Massachusetts Legislature : DECEMBER 7 , 1938 You heard a lot here this morning about this committee from New York which is headed by Frank P. Walsh and Dr. Ryan . Let us get this straight once and for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is speaking for the Catholic Church then it is certainly trying to mislead the people of this country . . . . They are not official . In canon law the only ones who are able officially to represent Catholic truth and the Catholic Church are the Bishops of the Church . It is n't any individual layman that can speak for the Church . It is n't any individual priest that can speak for the Church . . . . The committee is a minority committee , very minority , that represents nothing but their own personal opinion . MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE Under the canon law as explained by Professor H. A. Ayrinhac , leading Catholic canonist , marriage is a contract by which men and women become irrevocably united for the procreation of children . It had its origin in the natural law ; God gave it in the beginning a sacred and religious character ; Christ raised it to the dignity of a sacrament . The Church claims full and exclusive authority over marriage of all Christians . The right of the state to any jurisdiction is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrament is , by the will of Christ , so much a part of the power and duty of the Church that it is plainly absurd to maintain that even the smallest particle of such power has been transferred to the civil ruler " ( Leo XIII , Encyclical Arcanum ) . Nearly three million of the youth of the nation are taught in Catholic schools that " The State has no right either to declare valid a marriage that is null in the eyes of the Catholic Church , or to pronounce null a marriage that is really valid " ( " Manual of Christian Doctrine , " p. 494 ) . Before the year 1908 , when new marriage laws were promulgated by the Catholic Church , no marriage of Christians was held to be valid unless celebrated according to Catholic law . Pope Pius IX declared such marriages to be " shameful and abominable concubinage , utterly condemned by the Catholic Church " ( " Allocution , " 1852 ) . This has since been modified somewhat by the N e T etnere decree , and today marriages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispensation . Reporting the present Pope 's protest against Mussolini 's recent racial marriage restrictions affecting Jews and non-Aryans , the Osservatore Romano ( November 14 ) na ? vely points out that the Catholic Church imposes only two restrictions on marriage : " The first prohibits marriages between Catholics and non-baptized persons ? Jews and Pagans . The second prohibits marriages between Catholics and persons who are baptized but not Catholics ? such as heretics and schismatics . " The Church has had to recognize , however , that the state has power over the " civil effects " of marriage . What constitutes " civil effects " is not dearly defined in anon law , but dowry and succession rights , registration , 123 licenses and the like are ordinarily conceded to be within the State 's jurisdiction . Even in this field the Church holds that civil law must have a " reasonable cause " and should conform to the divine law . " The civil law can assist the Church , " said Pope Pius XI in his Encyclical " Casti Connubii , " " if , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is prescribed by divine and ecclesiastical law and if penalties are fixed for offenders . " He admonished the states to " establish and maintain firmly harmony and friendship with this Church of Christ in order that through the united activity and energy of both powers the tremendous evils modern marriage and divorce may be checked which menace civil society as well as the Church . " What the Pope had to say on marriage and divorce was not new , for Church doctrines on moral questions are unchanging , but the Encyclical caused wide discussion because of its plea for union of Church and State in the enforcement of the Church 's decrees on marriage and divorce . The Church 's position on divorce is too well known to need much explanation . Under the canon law the bond of marriage is indissoluble . Exceptions may be made but only by God directly or through His reprosentative , the Church . It is not within human power to dissolve a marriage . " If God had so willed , it could have been made dissoluble , " Professor Ayrinhac points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always maintained that there is no evidence of any such divine disposition and consequently the principle holds good : What God has joined together let no man put asunder . ' " The Catholic Church aims to abolish divorce entirely . It has been the most powerful influence in molding public opinion and in shaping legislation on this subject . Bills to liberalize divorce procedure have been blocked at every turn by Catholic agents . In New York State , where the power of the hierarchy is very great , many bills have been introduced in the legislature during the last decade to add new grounds for divorce to the existing ones , but all have failed . These measures were not mandatory . No Catholic was obliged to make use of them , but the Church , guided by Rome , refused to sanction , even to acquiesce in , any easing of the rigid divorce procedure . The faithful are warned by Pope Pius to guard against all propaganda toward this end : For now , alas ! not secretly nor under cover , but openly , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , again by writings , by theatrical productions of every kind , by romantic fiction , by amorous and frivolous novels , by cinenaatographs portraying in vivid scene , addresses broadcast by radio telephony , in short by all the inventions of modern science , the sanctity of marriage is trampled upon and derided ; divorce , adultery , all the basest vices are extolled or at least depicted in such colors as to appear to be free of all reproach and infamy . That President Roosevelt and his family countenance divorce is a matter of great concern to Catholic leaders . 124 Recently Mrs. Roosevelt was assailed by the president of the Catholic Women 's J cague in Boston for stating publicly that divorce is now a recognized factor in American life . It was charged that Mrs. Roosevelt had " given offense to a large part of our citizens " for whom " divorce is not now , nor ever will be , an accepted fact of American life . " In calling upon our national government " to do something to stop the avalanche of divorce , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present leader to do so , for in his own family there have been two divorces , much to the disedification of the people . If , for shame , he can not take the lead in a movement to obliterate the scandal and menace of divorce in this country , someone else must do it . Otherwise , the end of our existence as a nation is in sight " ( The Catholic World , January , 1935 , p. 387 ) . BIRTH CONTROL The Catholic position on birth control is as well known as its position on divorce . The Church has been the chief and strongest opponent of the movement , carrying on a noisy , bitter , sometimes violent but losing fight . In his Encyclical " Casti Connubii " in 1930 , Pope Pius clearly stated the Catholic position on birth control , addressing himself particularly to America , where the movement had gained considerable headway : The Catholic Church , to whom God has entrusted the defense of the integrity and purity of morals , standing erect in the midst of the moral ruin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chastity of the nuptial union from being defiled by this foul stain , raises her voice in token of her divine ambassadorship and through Our Mouth proclaims anew : any use whatsoever of matrimony exercised in such a way that the act is deliberately frustrated in its natural power to generate life is an offense against the law of God and of nature , and those who indulge in such are branded with the guilt of grave sin . Bishop , priest and laity have expounded the Pope 's doctrine with great vigor . " Race suicide , " " pig philosophy , " " degeneracy , " " stark brutishness " are some of the epithets hurled at advocates of birth control from pulpit and platform . " The Church , " said Father James M. Gillis of the Paulist Fathers , " refuses to consider birth control as a problem . It is a plain violation of nature . It is a vice and a crime . " The Catholic Daughters of America termed the birth-control movement " immoral , " " inhuman , " " unsocial " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth control adopted by the General Federation of Women 's Clubs and the American Aseoriation of University Women as a " direct insult to the rank and file of decent and virtuous women of America . " An article which appeared in The Fort Worth , Texas , Press , by the editor of the woman 's department , in June , praising the work of the birth-control clinic in that city and citing some of the deplorable cases under THE NEW REPUBLIC care there , was the occasion for another outburst from the Catholic Daughters . Mrs. Stephen E. Brady , on behalf of her organization , wrote : What concerns us more than anything else in the article is the fact that while she overemphasizes the social , economic and eugenic aspects of the problem of the large family she has nothing to say about the moral side of it .... Considering the morality of contraception as taught by the Fort Worth Birth Prevention Clinic , we feel obliged to conclude that such practices are first of all decidedly unChristian and irreligious . The consistent Christian as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since such practice is specifically condemned in Holy Writ as a " detestable thing . " Archbishop John G. Murray of the St. Paul Archdiocese in a pastoral letter read to the congregation warned his flock of 283,000 members that they must sever connections with any organization advocating birth control . He compared these organizations to the Dillinger gang . Both , he said , were organized to commit murder . In December of 1935 the late Cardinal Hayes took the pulpit in SL Patrick 's Cathedral , robed in silk and ermine , and thundered condemnation of the birth-control advocates ( social workers , ministers , men and women in civic life as well as persons on relief ) who met in Carnegie Hall to discuss the need of birth control for families on relief : " Who are these people who sit in soft garments and offer affront to the poor ? " He characterized them as " prophets of decadence . " Cardinal Hayes summed up the Church 's position on birth control as " one of everlasting loyalty to the law of God as expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the realm of dispute . For Catholics the case is closed . " The Catholic attitude as expressed in this way by the clergy and lay organizations has helped rather than hindered the movement . Non-Catholics have resented the Church 's seeking to inflict its moral code upon them . They have resented the Catholic priesthood , itself celibate , setting up standards of sex relations in marriage for non-Catholics . They have doubted the Church 's sincerity in this matter , believing the Church is concerned chiefly with efforts to " outbreed . " An instance is reported of a leading Protestant dergyman in a Midwestern town who withheld his support of a proposed birth-control clinic until the Catholic Bishop threatened those who were sponsoring it . In another city , the opposition of a Catholic Bishop , given wide publicity , resulted in almost doubled attendance at the clinic and an increase of Catholic clients from 9 percent in the first year to 17 percent in the second . It is said that Catholic attendance at New York City clinics increased noticeably after Cardinal Hayes 's blast . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communicants , in vast numbers , were practising birth control and abortion . We DECEMBER 7 , 1938 have the frank statement of Reverend John A. O'Brien , author of " Legitimate Birth Control According to Nature 's Law , " that " even within the Catholic fold the use of contraceptives is much more widespread than most of us are willing to admit . . . . A large proportion , if not the great majority of Catholics are probably practising birth control already , salving their conscience with the plea that the Catholic law as understood by them is morally impossible of observance . " Father Joseph Reiner remarked that " no other heresy was more generally , more cleverly , more effectively propagated by men and women in authority than contraception ; none affects the Church more directly and more intimately . . . . The advances it has made within a decade are terrifying . " Reports from 135 birth-control clinical centers received by the American Birth Control League in 1937 showed an attendance of 7,737 Catholics . Of the 5 , cno patients of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 26 percent were Catholics . A nationwide survey of The Ladies ' Home Journal in 1938 showed a majority of the Catholic women reached believed in some form of birth control , without specifying whether it should be natural or artificial . More than 42 percent of the Catholics covered in the Fortune magazine survey declared themselves in favor of birth control . Catholic leaders began to realize a few years ago that they could not prevent Catholics from adopting contraception . They therefore renewed their sanction of the so-called " safe period " or " Rhythm " theory , and sponsored its popularization . While openly condemning the use of contraceptives , the Pope gave his approval to birth control by " natural means " : Nor are those considered as acting against nature who in the married state use the right in the proper manner although on account of natural reasons either of time or of certain defects new life can not be brought forth Encyclical " Casti Connubii " 1 . This remarkable shift of the Church 's position was due to a number of factors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own moral precepts in this matter regardless of the Church 's dogma . But the force of economic pressure had much to do with the hierarchy 's acceptance of the birth-control principle . Relief agencies , private and public , were faced with the problem of taking care of a 50 percent higher birth rate in relief families than in comparable families not on relief . While in the eyes of the Church the new Rhythm theory does not involve moral turpitude , some of the high officials still oppose the general dissemination of this information for fear of a decline in the Catholic birth rate . Father O'Brien attempts to quiet their fears by pointing out , as any good birth-control advocate might do , that the desire for children among Catholic couples " will not be lessened when it is discovered that125 children are not , as heretofore imagined , merely the result of blind chance , but that their coming into the world is absolutely determined by their parents . " The most convincing arguments for family limitation and child spacing are to be found in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States advocating this theory bears the imprimatur of a Cardinal , another the imprimatur of a Bishop , and a third is published with " Frclesiastical Approbation . " These books are widely distributed through the United States mails with Postmaster General Farley 's approval , though birth-control literature is still unmailable.                     