@@469243

DURING this first third of the Twentieth Century our country has lived much of its life on borrowed time and gold . Drunk with the expectation of bigger and better things , we staggered through the most bountiful years ever bestowed upon any portion of the human race , wholly blinded to the possibilities of sane and contented living by our vision of a dazzling future . During that period of high prosperity we were the fulfilment of two centuries of human hope , and we are all now aware that in not realizing on those fulfilments we have missed our greatest material opportunity . For our world is tottering under a new burden of borrowed and unpaid-for destiny . It is crushed by the debt of our personal , national , and industrial dreams . Blithely and in a rapt confidence in to-morrow , we traded our own maturity for our hopes , and now , having become our own future , find that for millions of our friends and neighbors life is a mere emptiness , an unsheltered hunger , instead of a feast in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by dreaming about it and by trading it off for the prospect of dreams coming true , this so evident fact has not in the least awakened us to our own present reality . Nor has it , in any perceptible way , diminished our faith that salvation lies not in to-day , but somewhere just around the corner . Our ability merely to retrieve portion of our losses , to builda going world , however plain , encounters mysterious resistances , battles against a powerful and hindering delusion which cheats us of life and of the ability to adapt ourselves to life 's changing scene . Even this shock of general economic collapse has not been powerful enough to recall our gaze from the future and concentrate it upon to-day . This is not to say that one ought not hope , but that hope is only a fillip to the dish of days . Hope relishes the hour but does not feed it . One can not nourish a life on antipasto . The focus of American future-worship is the New York Stock Exchange , in whose shadows sit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broods the very spirit of prophecy . Mr. Shaw has prophesied , Mr. Huxley has prophesied , Edward Bellamy prophesied , and a host of others ; but not even so inveterate a forecaster as H. G. Wells foresees the doom or triumph of man every week-day afternoon . In the purlieus of Broad and Wall Streets , however , predicting is a full-time job , and the rise and fall of United States Steel is foretold , not merely every day , but every hour . The fluctuations of the stock market and of commerce are not , perhaps , affairs of conscious concern to everybody , and yet such vast material issues , such immense sums of money are involved in the course of prices and of trade that in this field , if anywhere , and in the light of these highly informed prophetic labors , man 's proper attitude toward the future ought to come clear . For , surely , if interests able to command millions of dollars can not anticipate changes in business or changes in prices sufficiently well to insure themselves against tremendous loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of high value in regard to looser matters . And if considering the future has proved disastrous to the human pocket book , or to the tranquillity of nations , perhaps we may come at last to realize that it is equally disastrous to the single spirit and to the government of an individual life . Nobler ends than those of gain concern themselves with the future , but nobility of purpose exempts no man or cause from the operation of inexorable laws . It is often very hard to show concretely that prepossession with the future is harmful to art , or to personal conduct , or to the policies of government , though I believe that true ; but in the marketplace where man 's passion for the future concentrates on a struggle for gold it should be feasible to discover whether a belief about to-morrow is a source of profit or loss . And that is what I am now undertaking , merely as a key to what seem to me deeper matters than profit or power . That the human future is essentially unknowable is , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every feeling developed by scientific progress during the past two hundred years . I must not hog down into a discussion of determinism , for I am not so much interested in whether our present depression was inevitably fixed in the grain of nature a billion years ago , as in whether , by the finite wisdom of men , it could have been foreshadowed far enough ahead to have been prevented , and by that prevention have proved its prophets false . It is obvious enough that determinism , of itself , makes the determinability of most future events a problem of excessive difficulty . If every event in nature is a resultant of all preceding events , it is hard to perceive how , without infinite knowledge , the occurrence of any succeeding event can be foretold . As to certain future events , the probability is high , but those are very rarely events which involve a human consciousness . I am perhaps justified in guessing that the sun will rise to-morrow . The chance that I shall be here to see it rise can be computed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel that it is comparatively high ; but my seeing the sun rise tomorrow is a horse of another color . For that implies that 1 awake in time for the observation , and that waking depends in turn upon the functioning of a brass mechanism , whose useful life , I trust , is shorter than my own . It also implies that if I do awake I shall still possess my sight , which is no longer something any man can count on , that I awake in the possession of treasures of will , and that the sky be clear . It will be observed from this homely illustration how excessively complicating are the man-generated factors , and bow simple the astronomical factor . Most of the self-deception of prophets and their followers stems from the high probability of astronomical futures , and from the assumption that determinism in sociology , in economics , and in psychology is of the same usable sort as the determinism and logic of events that led to the discovery of Neptune and to the possibility of mechanically predicting the height of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Maine . And that is simply not true . The evidence is voluminous . II Recent history is perhaps more instructive , if more painful , than remote history . If one wonders at his own exalted state of mind in the summer of 1929 , perhaps that wonder may diminish a little if he recalls a few of that season 's authoritative economic utterances . I have space for only a few , not from the brochures of wildcat promoters , but from the pages of reputable financial journals whose opinions are backed by expert investigation . Said one journal on August 21 , 1929 : " Practically all the current indexes of trade are indicative of high sustained general business activity . All in all business prospects continue quite favorably defined for the coming months . . . . As long as we have the combination of a demand for the common stocks of prosperous companies , the money with which to satisfy that demand , confidence in the future and no near prospect for a general trade recession , past history , i.e. rising prices for stocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeat . " Said another on August 5 , 1929 : " When one considers such simple calculations as these , the prices paid ( for common stocks ) may for the moment seem exorbitant , but will they not find their best vindication in the testimony of future years as they have in past years ? " The same journal , August 19 , 1929 : " The sort of inflation which exists today is the sort that does not blow up . With wants insatiable , energy abundant , and guidance as informed as it is to-day , there is no weakness in the economic situation serious enough to plunge industry into a major depression . " Apparently the very fact which the pessimist can not see for his gloom is that our very leisure is contributing to our support . It is curious , after our own experience has been clearly seen , how the threat of deflation could have frightened anybody . With ample trade statistics , light inventories , hand to mouth buying , accurate and adequate records of goods consumed , in short , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hazard , but a boon . The entire world of business has learned something in the science of self-protection . " But perhaps I am asking too much of economic prediction . Let us give it a square break and move on to an hour when the storm signals had been displayed for three months and more , when we were in fact sliding down the first glissade of our economic snow slope . By December 29 , 1929 , American industry had suffered a serious setback . The Dow Jones industrial stock averages had fallen one hundred and fifty points to 230. it was concealed in the seeds of time that one year later they should have fallen to 157 , and two years later to 73 , and three years later to 60 . The indices of business were to parallel this unprecedented descent . The sky was dark . The barometer was falling . " The business vista disclosed as the curtain rises on the new year beckons to a forward sweep of industry toward prosperous horizons all around the circle , " wrote Samuel P. Arnot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January 1 , 1930 . " Signs all point to the fact that this nation which has entered an era of vast industrial expansion will continue its forward sweep for many years to come . " On the same day William Beatty , President of the New York Produce Exchange , predicted " a complete recovery by early spring from the effects of the collapse of stock values in October and November . " " The question as to how long slow business will last seems easier to answer , " wrote Col. Leonard P. Ayres , the most distinguished business prophet in the American banking world , on that same January 1 , 1930 . " Apparently the duration must be comparatively brief because there are on hand in this country relatively small excess stocks of goods , and so any considerable curtailment in manufacturing will result in shortages . It seems not unlikely that signs of improvement will appear in the spring months . We may confidently expect that sometime early in 1930 financial news will tell that the number of blast furnaces in operation has begun to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost sure sign that the curve of general business activity has passed its lowest point and recovery is under way . " This prediction was particularly awkward in view of the fact that in the spring of 1930 the number of blast furnaces in operation did actually increase , but no sooner had that increase been made evident than the real storm of the depression broke over us . Business avalanched down hill and stock prices fell fifty per cent from the figure to which they had risen , on the bids of those who had faith in the validity of economic prophecy . " I see nothing however in the present situation that is either menacing or warrants pessimism . I have every confidence that there will be a revival of activity in the spring and that during the coming year the country will make steady progress . " Andrew W. Mellon , January 1 , 1930 . " It is probably not too much to say that the outlook for large construction work was never better . " The Economic Bulletin of the National City Bank , January 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that same week Dr. Karl Scholz contributed a paper in which he computed the speculative investment values of a number of common stocks . The figures included United States Steel , 159 ; American Telephone and Telegraph , 212.50 ; Packard Motors , 161 ; International Telephone and Telegraph , 226 . Our unhappy future , figured as a world of promise , was a factor in Doctor Scholz 's equations . To these , among hundreds of similar utterances of the highly informed on that single day , I must add one item of subsequent date . One year later , in January , 1931 , a prominent financial magazine carried articles with the following headings : Improving Rail Prospects in 1931 . Utilities Show Strength and Promise . Motor Industries in Slow Recovery . Merchandising Faces Improving Trend . Bonds Pointed for Higher Levels . III There is no point in wearying the reader with instances of similar errors , nor have I selected from the vast stores of material a few egregious blunders to prove a point . Ten magazines more bulky than this issue could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If I were searching for egregious examples I might quote you this one , from a form letter issued by a well known financial forecasting agency in March , 1932 : " Wednesday , March 2 , on greatly increasing volume , the industrial averages emerged on the upside from the trading range they have occupied for the past three months . Here is a definite market indication that a sharp advance in selected stocks is rapidly approaching . Within the next month , possibly next week , the market will begin to discount this year 's spring rise in industrial activity . Now is the time to start buying on recessions . This may be your last opportunity to buy sound securities at such low levels . " The date was March 7 . The following day , stocks measured by the Standard Statistics Average rose about one point to 68.9 . And that was all there ever was to the predicted spring rise . One month later , after a steady fall , the averages had reached 50 ; two mouths later , 45 ; three months later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These are not mere instances to be balanced by a recital of the few wise or lucky guesses . Financial journals and services have an important use to investors which I am not in the least deprecating . Their assumption of an ability to forecast the future , however , is on a par with the similar claims of astrology . In the latest month , at this writing , the security advice of three important agencies , each with a staff of trained economists and predictors , might be briefly summarized as follows : Agency A. Buy now . Agency B. Sell now . Agency C. Do not buy now . The financial forecasts issued in the weeks preceding the great banking crisis of March , 1933 , could be also summarized almost as briefly : Agency 1 . The gold standard is safe and is growing safer . Agency 2 . Bank reserves are increasing . Funds available are ample . Agency 3 . Financial tension is growing . Agency 4 . No nation-wide banking troubles are in sight . Before the great stock market break of October , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at hand . Unfortunately , however , subscribers to such services did not generally take advantage of the forecasts , for in the preceding year , just before the dramatic rise that was to push the average of prices from 250 to nearly 400 , the same predictions had been offered in terms less tempered by the recollection of having , a year before , turned in a false alarm . At the recent bottom in July , 1932 , many forecasting agencies advised their clients that a great opportunity was at hand to buy common stocks . Unfortunately , however , these advices were often unheeded through discouragement or necessity . For Agency X had issued the same advice in September , 1930 , when the Dow Jones average of prices was 220 . And again in October , 1931 , it had said , " This is the chance of a lifetime . " And Agency Y had announced in September , 1931 that there had seldom been a time when borrowing for the purchase of stocks was more clearly indicated ? after which , unhappily , prices fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stocks up to 75 per cent of the client 's capital in February , 1931 , when the average price was 183 ( the highest figure of that year , and a figure that would now stagger the imagination ) . It had further advised them in March , 1931 , that business was turning the corner , and in the following August had recommended further purchases when the Dow Jones average price was 140 . Thus clients could have had small interest in its discovery in July , 1932 , that cautious purchases were justified when the Dow Jones average was 36 . Mr. Alfred Cowles recently reported to the American Statistical Association the results of an impartial analysis of 11,500 financial forecasts , from reputable agencies and journals . From a comparison of the predictions with the changes predicted , he concluded that the results of following the prophetic suggestions would have been approximately four per cent a year below those attainable by a reliance on chance . The financial policies of many of our leading banks in 1929 and 1932 reveal no benefit derived by them from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most searching test to which economic and financial previsioning was ever subjected is afforded by the behavior of the management investment trusts since the summer of 1929 . These companies were organized to attempt , through the exercise of superior providence , to give to the investor a safety and profit in the security market which he could not attain for himself . At their command was the most costly and expert advice attainable . Their managers and directors were men of financial skill and long experience . If reliable prophecy were on the market at any price , these companies had the motive to purchase it and the money to pay . Whatever knowledge of the future is at human command it is reasonable to assume they have commanded . The results of their operations are a matter of record . If their foresight had been one hundred per cent efficient , securities held on January first , 1930 , would have been converted into cash or government bonds sometime during the rising market of the ensuing three months . After that , assuming no short selling , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repurchase of stocks and bonds at the bottom in May or June or July , 1932 . By January , 1933 , such investments would have somewhat appreciated in value . But if no funds had been reinvested and the foresight evidenced had been of the very limited sort which kept the capital sum untouched , we might assume that a certain prevision had been employed . Of the eight large management investment trusts listed in Barron 's Weekly on February 27 , 1933 , the loss in capital value of the assets during the three years to January 1 , 1933 , ranges from 42.3 per cent to 74 per cent . The average loss is 57.7 per cent . If , on the other hand , no discrimination whatever had been employed by these companies , if each of them had bought at the close of 1929 an equal number of the shares of every company listed on the New York Exchange and had held those shares straight through the long decline , the market value of their holdings by January 1 , 1933 , would have fallen 61.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , compared with the result of standing pat , with the use of no information as to the suspension of certain industries and the relative stability of others , foresight and selection combinedyielded those trusts an annual loss of about 1.1 per cent less than the loss of the whole market . Assuming that the intelligent selection of the stronger companies in each industry accounts for but half of that slight advantage , it is only fair to conclude that foresight had a maximum value of one half of one per cent a year . More probably it had only a negative value , as indicated by the researches of Mr. Cowles ? that it was a factor of loss . IV There is consequently evidence that a ten-cent pair of dice knows somewhat more about the future than the most expensive human prophet . I do not speak about the value of investments . Only about the future . Human dice are always lopsided with hope or loaded with despair . Prediction betrays the prophet by transporting him into a world of dreams in which the living moment loses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its truth and meaning . When in the midst of a recent prolonged down-trend of prices a leading financial writer called what was going on under his nose a " fifty-fifty bull market " he was a victim of his own far-gazing eye . He was future-struck by hope . Prophets develop a psychological disorder , an emotional lag . One wrong forecast begins a vicious circle . A functional disease develops which one might well designate as the prophetic jitters . An apparent perversity appears in the sequence of events that confounds prediction . Every man who has lost money in speculation is aware of the reality of this disease in himself and in his counselors . In the history of almost any forecasting agency there appear , quite often , extended periods when one might safely reverse each week 's advice and then act on it to his profit . Prophetic judgment , in short , can never be cold and on the facts at hand . If it were so it might be as good as chance . Imagination is the essence of prophecy , and imagination is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , is deeply concealed from the prophets themselves by their own impressive , and in its own place , highly valuable economic and financial machinery . There are two bases for the attempted prediction of the course of business and of security prices , a technical basis and an economic basis . The technical prediction assumes that stock prices forecast their own future and that of business . The economic prediction assumes that trade and credit conditions reveal the future of business and that of the stock market . It is somewhat difficult to reconcile these two theories , which are both warmly held . Logical difficulties suggest themselves , and it is certain that the professors of either one or the other of these two fundamental systems of foretelling must be frequently deceived . A careful examination of the records reveals the fact that the two sets of economic data that may be plotted as a business index and as an average of stock prices move on loosely parallel lines , with rather erratic lags and variations , or as Frederick D. Bond has remarked in Success in Security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of business of a country and the course of the stock market , there are without doubt interrelations , but these interrelations are those of two environments which mutually affect each other , rather than of linear cause and effect . " The practical and theoretical difficulties in the way of business forecasting even its own developments are somewhat staggering . Economists have lately felt their science challenged by its failure to shed any clear and undebatable light on the problems of economic depression or to provide any safe guidance at these lately critical hours . Led by such pioneers as Dean Donham of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration , they have at last accepted what seemed a reasonable challenge : that if economics be a science , and not a mere body of data and material for debate , it might readily demonstrate that fact by revealing a few of the economic consequences of present world or national conditions . I do not regard that as a reasonable challenge ; nevertheless , it has been accepted . In two admirable studies Doctor Donham has approached the problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with here . Unfortunately , however , economics has not yet had its Newton , nor even its Freud or Pavlov . If indeed that Newton should appear to-day it is difficult to see how he could help very much in the prediction of future events . One might easily illustrate how that must be so from Newton 's own labors in the field of gravitational physics . Having arrived at his now classical laws of motion , the great mathematician proceeded to describe exactly the behavior of two bodies moving under the influence of their mutual attraction . That feat was accomplished , but when the discoverer of the law of gravitation attempted to apply his law to three bodies mutually attracting , he found the problem to be beyond his powers . No general equation could be devised by him , nor has any been since devised that expresses exactly what would happen to three billiard balls left to themselves in space . But conceive if , instead of three billiard balls , we assume three social forces mutually interacting . There are no three billiard balls anywhere alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interacting toward some event . The universe is not so simple . Instead we have at once hundreds of factors of unequal intensity and rate of change determining every outcome . In place of the simple formula of Newton 's law , Dean Donham is compelled to establish , as fixed trends of events over a period of forecasting , such highly debatable guesses as that the forces which tend to transfer men from the country to the city will continue to operate for a considerable period of time . Such an assumption is true only with a high possibility of error . Its truth depends , in a measure , upon the as yet unknown reactions of technology on labor and on city and country life . It is not an axiom , but an argument . But suppose all the critical economic factors bearing on any future outcome were detected and weighted , as to period and power , by some divine calculus lent for the purpose to men ; suppose a machine that from all these values would draw , as a tide predictor draws , a graph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more factor , the uneasy rat called human nature , scuttling among the cogs of the machine and spinning the wheels at its whim . Is it any wonder that even Dean Donham admits that the hopeful approach to social and economic problems lies rather in creating methods of adjustment than through a reliance on foresight ? Or is it any wonder that such an organization as the Harvard Economic Society could state in August , 19t9 , that " the business situation in most respects appears unusually sound " ? though within a month after the appearance of that dictum the walls of Jericho were to be visibly falling ? Like therapeutics and psychology , economics is not a predictive science . Its function is never to foretell , but to unravel and to adjust disharmonies in the going machine . The analogy of the beautiful reasonableness of nineteenth-century physics has deceived most of those sciences which admit human nature into their equations into a false simplicity , or a false sense of power ; but the analogy of the profound complexity of twentieth-century physics may in time assist them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently wrote , in a review contributed to the Journal of the American Statistical Association , " It is no use to establish the general forms of relations between variables which are not statistically measurable , and which in the mathematical sense are not unique or determinate elements at all . " That is a fair , if a somewhat technical summary of the flaws in the analogy which has led sociology and finance into the morass of prophecy and , it might be added , into the rainbow-chasing of economic planning , which is the inevitable consequence of taking seriously prophecies based on imperfect laws . Financial prophecy has proved devastating to the public exchequer . Economic and social prophecy may well prove even more devastating , in their turn , to the public morale . The method of trial and error is proper for to-day , when we can pay the piper ; but not when it makes our children pay the piper , or even our old age pay . We should do very well right now , while some of their results are fresh in our memories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the fine schemes built up upon the assumption that it has no such limitations . Dean Donham wisely admits that economic forecasting should not now concern itself with predictions of events closer than three years away , because we can know so little about this near future . And that fact I believe has been amply demonstrated . That a knowledge of a more distant future is attainable , however , I question . If it were , I question its human use . Nor would I envy the possessors of any such undemonstrable truth . To bend the energies of a society to the prevention of a calamity five years hence , that may never happen , would seem to me a strange perversion of polities and of life . To be constantly allured by the vista of a future in the middle distance of time would rob man of more going life than he has ever yet willingly stolen from himself . I do not believe that success in economic prophecy is a near peril to mankind and I am very happy to think that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt that something can be known seems to me merely a mirage that retreats as we walk toward it . If the immediate future is something about which we can know nothing surely , despite our opportunity of digesting the forces which must bring it into being , it is very hard to see what superiority of position or knowledge we have as to a future five years away , which will seem just as elusive as we approach it . The focal and peculiar forces of every year are more effective than those long-term influences which lie hidden under them . It is the immediate future that man most hungers to foresee , that period within which prediction can be fulfilled before it is forgotten . And it is the obvious remark about that near future , that in the stock market , at least , some men can foresee it sufficiently well to amass huge fortunes through their prevision . Some famous speculators have even , to their loss , fallen victim to that illusion about themselves . There is no space here to discuss all that is known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money by stock operations . A few things are certainly known , however : that all of them have at one time or another been disastrously wrong in their guesses ; that most of them have been hugely benefited by the possession of advance information as to conditions unknown to the public ; that they frequently pool their resources to perform major operations whose outcome they control by influencing the public 's passionate belief in the future ; and finally that the very essence of their success lies in an immediate and unprejudiced appraisal of the present moment , untrammeled by any theory as to what is coming next . Few mediums believe in their own ghosts . Such men rapidly and unregretfully change their minds when they discover that they have guessed wrong . They follow , or if they can , direct a stream of events springing from hopes and fears engendered in the hearts of a future-sold public which is always too lost in its to-morrows to accept as real the moment that denies its hopes . Lambs graze on the pastures of futurity . Wolves smell the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the technical methods used in an attempt to forecast stock prices by the behavior of the market reveals the fact that such methods , when they have a positive value , are not methods of forecasting but of appraisal . They value the present condition of financial markets as a physician values his patient 's health . They have a worth for those who arc interested , and particularly for the nimble who do not trust them , but they do not foretell . To demonstrate that fact I have room to consider only a single method of technical forecasting , and I must select that one most familiar to the general reader . The Dow theory , in some ways quite different from all other technical studies of the stock market , is applied common sense ; and if any financial or economic device had the right to have claimed for it the power of foretelling the future , this would have to be that one . Examined retrospectively , the Dow theory is almost always right . That is , it is right every time but one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top or bottom . And there it is invariably wrong , and indeed has to be . But before I discuss the meaning of that fact , perhaps I had better outline very briefly what this supposed predicting device really is . Its important premises are simple : first , that there are three simultaneous movements in the stock market : a primary or long-term movement , forming a bull or bear market over a period often of several years ; a series of secondary reactions lasting sometimes for several months ; and a day-to-day movement whose minor fluctuations form the other two . The second assumption is also simple and reasonable . It holds that if the high points reached by successive secondary movements of the stock averages ascend , and the succeeding low points also ascend in a rising zigzag when charted , and if this is true for both railroad and industrial stocks , it is evidence that we are in a bull market , and that if the reverse condition obtains we are in a bear market . In its broadest outline that is the Dow theory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stripped it , it becomes perfectly clear what this theory of prediction amounts to . It is a definition of what is meant by a bear or bull market and no more and no less . A usable and accurate definition . Usable to the speculator and to the investor because of the fact that in a bull market , so long as that bull market continues , most sound common stocks are cheap no matter how much they cost , and in a bear market most stocks are dear nomatter how little they cost . Unfortunately , however , when a bull market changes into a bear market that which was cheap yesterday becomes dear today , and still more unfortunately , the Dow theory gives no warning of this change . What it predicts is absolutely nothing . It says that the wind is blowing up or down the financial hill , not how long it will blow , not even that it will blow another hour . On that you must take your own chances . Emphatically it does not guarantee the wind any more than a weather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 stock market showed the wind still blowing up hill , and the Dow theory had no remark to make as to whether that wind would continue . But some weeks after the wind had changed there was a visible record of that fact having occurred . Neither did this predicting device commit itself in July , 1932 , nor has it at any time since , to the moment of this writing , committed itself as to whether the market zephyrs have veered and now begin to blow up hill again . Some time after that change has definitely occurred the Dow theory will record the fact unmistakably and perhaps usefully , but it will not guarantee to any one that , even as it is revealing the meaning of the recent past , a change in an opposite direction may not be in the making . So far is it , in fact , from predicting the future that it does not at once value even the present . It is a good weather vane which is slow on its hinges . Its value lies in that very fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But heavy winds also change . Before it can register an alteration in the market 's tendency from up to down as having taken place , the down movement must have completed its first zigzag and have then fallen to a point under its most recent low . Then a definition of what has occurred becomes possible . In 1929 , for instance , the Dow theory defined what was happening as being a bear market , late in October . That was highly useful information to those stock traders and investors who believed in it , but it was not prediction , until viewed in the light of subsequent events . Other technical devices of prediction have the same characteristic : they evaluate the past and present . They do not and can not penetrate into the future . Some of them may even at times detect human intentions , but none predicts human performances . If one chooses to bet on to-morrow he must always understand ? allowing no confidence in any prediction to disturb his understanding ? the distinction between a certainty and an adventure . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even taxes . It may be thought that between the achievement of detecting a trend in business or securities and predicting their future course I am drawing a thin and theoretical line . On the contrary , I believe it a highly useful line to be drawn . When a man confuses his thinking by supposing that from a study of trends and tendencies he is foreseeing the future he immediately dims his vision of to-day . He commits himself to that future he has foreseen , and begins to reject any present reality that contradicts his hopes . The recent sad history of the prohibition movement illustrates very clearly the futility of living in the dream accomplished . Prohibitionists grew so confident of the future that they forgot completely that the present was their arena of battle . They were so certain of having the whole world dry by 1940 that they permitted conditions to develop that forced the United States to go wet in 1932 . So in 1928 many men were so certain of being able to retire from business by 1930 that by 1933 their businesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its votaries . Once in a while a lottery prize falls in a lucky hat , but dividends are always of even date . They adhere to the fingers of those whose eyes refuse to be tangled in the tea leaves of to-morrow , or who , if they dream , are aware of the odds against them and behave accordingly . If the words " outlook , forecast , and prospect " were eliminated from business and social literature it would be a highly useful achievement of common sense , as important to the mental health as the elimination of the word " cure " from the labels of patent medicine bottles has been to man 's physical health . The cases are just parallel . The future , I have written elsewhere , is essentially unknowable . I should like to add the word to that , that the future , because of the human reactions to a belief in it , is essentially treacherous . It is a false god . Perhaps we shall some day come to accept that fact , so important to our inner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of finding its acceptance profitable .                     