@@487357

IN the past four articles of this series the Herald Tribune Books , the Saturday Review of Literature , the New York Times Book Review , and the literary section of the New Masses have been examined in respect to their usefulness as critical guides to literature during the past ten years . It would be pleasant to drop the matter here and to ignore the book columnist of the New York daily newspaper , since he is , after all , such an easy mark . Unfortunately , he is influential ; his column is scanned ( at least ) by millions of readers a day . It is therefore vital that we take a brief look at him . It must be acknowledged at the outset that it would be absurd to expect profound literary criticism from any writer whose job demands that he read and review one or more books in a single day . John Chamberlain may assert airily : " As a daily reviewer I am not momentously conscious of believing very differently than I did as a weekly reviewer or free-lance writer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Chamberlain 's general views of life and literature have undergone no striking change during his two years ' tenancy of his column on the Times . His practice , however , has altered . It is extremely doubtful that Mr. Chamberlain , given a few days to think it over , would have said , for instance , that Robert Briffault 's " Europa " " may lack one or two of the elements of great fiction but it . . . will probably stand up as the most useful novel that has come to light " ; and the first sentence of his review of November 19 is the rather desperate remark of the typical newspaper reviewer : " One finishes Frederic Prokosch 's ' The Asiatics ' with a helpless tongue-tied feeling born of the fact that no critical cliches seem to fit this astonishing novel . " Lewis Gannett , who is disarmingly frank , put his finger on the difficulties of the trade he and Mr. Chamberlain now follow in his comment on Sholom Asch 's " Three Cities " : " It may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I never got well started . There were good books and shorter out that day . " Each of the newspaper critics , with the exception of Mr. Chamberlain , has , on some occasion , inveighed against the exigencies of time and mass circulation which hamper him in the exercise of his craft . A certain amount of this fretfulness is justified ; but the book columnists overdo it when they offer the daily pressure to which they are subjected as a kind of blanket alibi for errors in judgment . Harry Hansen , for instance , simply does not make gense when he presents the following excuse for his erratic critical behavior : Now and then I hear that we are too enthusiastic .. . I do n't share this view . The enthusiasm in newspaper reviewing comes , I believe , because we write after the first impact ; if we had weeks and months to devote to a book we might cool off . If this statement means anything at all , it means that Mr. Hansen fears that his first reactions to literature are usually wrong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his first reactions he has no business running a daily book column . In a different way Lewis Gannett apologizes for his work in the Herald Tribune : My own column must reveal my lamentable ignorance of the eternal principles of criticism ; a review of my own reviews would , I suspect , disclose little but an autobiography . Well , why not ? Why pretend more ? Anatole France called criticism the adventures of a soul among masterpieces ; our daily columns are the adventures of our modern minds in the modern world as reflected in its books . It is not necessary or even possible for the newspaper reviewer to write brilliant or subtle criticism . Still , it seems odd that a " lamentable ignorance of the eternal principles of criticism " should qualify a man for the position of book columnist , especially since he does not by any means restrict himself to reporting the evidence but is continually handing down critical decisions . Mr. Gannett sums up his own case adequately . He has had no special training in literature or criticism . He came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a first-rate writer on foreign affairs . William Soskin of the American has an equally nonliterary background . He was a law student at Columbia University , a reporter on Wisconsin and Chicago newspapers , managing and news editor of several New York newspapers , before he was appointed book columnist on the Evening Post . Harry Hansen was a war and peace-conference correspondent for the Chicago Daily News shortly before he became the literary editor of that paper and thence graduated to the New York World . Only John Chamberlain , who worked for some years on the literary section of the Sunday Times , and for a short period on the Saturday Review of Literature , seems to have served an apprenticeship in criticism . It is significant that Mr. Chamberlain today so far outshines his fellow book columnists that we tend to overestimate his talents . If we wish to know why it is that a man so patently ill at ease in the critical chair as Mr. Gannett , say , or Mr. Soskin , is allowed to conduct a book column in an important New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book columnist 's real function to discover the answer . The book columnist 's job is not to evaluate literature , for at that he is woefully inefficient ; his job is , to put it bluntly , to sell books . Since the Herald Tribune , for instance , does not print newspapers for art or typography 's sake , Mr. Gannett 's column must , at the very worst , pay for itself ; and across the page from Mr. Gannett 's column we find the publishers ' advertising which supports it . Literature is art ; but it is , at the same time , merchandise . Publishers can not print only good books , even if they want to , for there are not in one season enough to go even once around . Publishers ' lists , then , are substantially composed of mediocre books , heavily advertised as " good " or " great . " Many or most of these books a newspaper columnist helps to sell . The average mediocre novel will draw from him a favorable review , warm enough in tone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bookstores . He writes favorable reviews , not because he is crooked , not because he is the conscious tool of the publishers whose advertising eventually pays his salary , but because he is a pleasant , generous man with no literary training , very little discrimination , and a vague " love of books . " As one might expect , he professes contempt for " highbrows " ; it is indeed his favorite rationalization when he is confronted with his own critical shortcomings . " The simple way of avoiding superlatives , " says Mr. Brickell , neatly avoiding the issue , " and one that is often followed by the reviewers of the highbrow weeklies , is not to like anything , and particularly not to like anything that anybody else likes . " It is not to be imagined that Gannett , Brickell , Soskin , et al . are the only literary salesmen disguised as critics who function in the book world of today . The reviewers on the Herald Tribune Books , the Saturday Review of Literature , and the New York Times Book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses . Among the literary weeklies Books is most conscious of its role as a book-selling medium . There was a time , in the middle and late twenties , when Books was a moderately respectable literary journal . Its back pages were filled with reviews of trivial pieces of fiction and non-fiction , but its cover and front section were often devoted to articles by important men and women of letters . Virginia Woolf , Rebecca West , Paul Valery , and Lytton Strachey were making in Books stimulating contributions to critical thought . Today any Sunday 's Books looks like a trade journal . No distinguished critical name adorns its cover ; an entire page in the hack section is devoted to a tabulated account of the best-sellers as reported by bookstores all over the country ; a downright unfavorable review , particularly of a work of fiction , is a rare and disturbing phenomenon , though some harassed reviewers have learned how to insert a hint of their real feelings between the favorable or equivocal lines . The causes of this change in policy are readily perceived . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publishers were among the first to feel the pinch of the depression . Lowered sales meant a lowered budget for newspaper advertising . What was more natural than that Books , recognizing the publishers ' plight , should do what it could to get a larger slice of the reduced advertising budget . Before the realities of depression literary pretensions faded . The effort to make the date of its review coincide with the date of publication of the book reviewed was intensified until at present Books frequently appears , with its consistently favorable review , several days before the book is actually on sale . It began to feature lists solicited from well-known persons of " Books I Have Liked , " " Good Reading , " " Books I Have Read Recently , " " Books I Expect to Like This Season , " " Books I Wish I 'd Read . " Later it introduced a Popular Fiction Number and a Mystery Story Number . Its latest and most successful stroke in its campaign to endear itself to the publishers resulted in the publication of its tabulated list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the booksellers . The Herald Tribune today distributes about thirty thousand copies of Books , at a nominal cost , to bookstores in all the key cities of America . The booksellers mail these on , free of charge , to thirty thousand customers ; and , in return , Books every Sunday prints its lists of the booksellers ' weekly accomplishments in the sale and propagation of culture . Useful as all these sales stunts must have been to the financial welfare of Books , by themselves they would have availed virtually nothing . To cement the friendly relations between criticism and advertising , Books needed and got favorable reviews of new books . This it has achieved in various ways . Reviewers who were obviously second-string in the old days ( and for some reason the majority of these are tender-hearted ladies ) were moved up to take the place of more stringent commentators . Again , Books may hand out a doubtful book to the author 's best friend , as when it invited Malcolm Cowley to review the work of his familiar , Matthew Josephson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glasgow . It encourages a specialist in one field to review a bad book in another , where his ignorance will make him timid . Stuart Chase , for example , was called upon to consider " The Glories of Venus , " a novel about Mexico by Susan Smith . Mr. Chase , naturally , could only report : " Whether it is a good novel I can not say , for I am an economist .. . Susan Smith can write . " Sometimes it finds hidden virtues in hitherto neglected authors . In 1930 , for instance , a whole page in Books was devoted to proving that Harold Bell Wright 's works  --  which the reviewer admitted had had scant notice from Books in the past  --  are folk literature . No wonder the publishers found it worth while to insert , two pages later , a half-page advertisement of Mr. Wright 's latest opus . Reviewers on Books are handpicked , but if Books makes a mistake , there are ways of rectifying it . Sometimes the review is pulled out at the last minute and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's review of Ida Tarbell 's " Owen D. Young , " which was subsequently published in The Nation , while Gannett 's review of the same book took its place in Books . Sometimes , Books reviewers complain , the offensive ( that is , critical ) lines are cut ; and whatever unfavorable reviews appear are usually printed some time after the book 's publication . To insure perfect results , the selling power of the reviewing staff of Books has recently , we hear , been gone over by an efficiency expert . The expert , we understand , frowns on " negative " reviewers and smiles on Sinclair Lewis , who leads the list , though Lewis 's most enthusiastic admirer , H. L. Mencken , once pronounced him " a dreadful ham as a critic . " The Herald Tribune is occasionally hypocritical about its activities , now and then candid . The editor of Books , instructing one young reviewer in the practice of her art , assured her that " there is something good in every book that must be brought to the attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quotations from booksellers which the Herald Tribune occasionally prints to the effect that Lewis Gannett is their favorite ( best book-selling ) critic , and the advertisement in Books which announced : " Every day Lewis Gannett writes on books . . . . Every day , too , timely advertisements and news stories keep you abreast of developments in the realm of books " The Herald Tribune 's book policy has had its effect on its competitors , the Times Book Review and the Saturday Review of Literature . Neither of these publications has gone to such extremes as Books has in its quest of advertising . The Times , as we pointed out in an earlier article , usually merely ( ( covers " books as it would news events ; while the editors of the Saturday Review are of so benign and uncritical a habit of mind that their opinions would scarcely disturb a publisher . Both of these periodicals have throughout the depression grown a little more kindly , but unlike Books they are not psychopathically antipathetic to unfavorable reviews . They have , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Saturday Review now gives out to booksellers a small rack with a place in the middle for the current Saturday Review and a place on each side for the display of two books reviewed in its pages . The Times has but lately introduced its own tabulated report from American booksellers . It also furnishes to publishers small cards to be inserted in new books , asking the book buyer what review inspired him to purchase the book . The Times tabulates the information received and issues it in pamphlet form to publishers . Naturally , the Times ' book reviews lead all the rest in sales appeal . The pressure which such sales devices must inevitably bring to bear upon reviewing is apparent . Booksellers are not interested in distributing among their customers or displaying in their windows a weekly literary supplement in which unfavorable reviews predominate . " Whether or not the attempts on the part of the Times and the Saturday Review to compete with Books presage an era in which reviewing in the literary weeklies will have become merely a branch of advertising it is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware of the growing benevolence of the critical brotherhood . An amusing advertisement by CowardMcCann for " Brassbound , " by Mary Bickel , makes this quite clear . Book reviewers are optimists , turning on the adjectives at the slightest provocation . But book sellers are hard-boiled . . . . To rate a kindly adjective from a book seller a book must be way up in the stratosphere . An examination of criticism in America today indicates that criticism is healthiest where it is farthest removed from publishers ' advertising . The Nation and the New Republic , if they are in some cases a little stodgy , make a genuine attempt to maintain critical standards . The New Masses , for all its errors , is vigorous . These periodicals carry some advertising  --  not much . In the quarterlies  --  the Yale Review , the Virginia Quarterly , the defunct Symposium and Hound and Horn  --  none of which carries or carried advertising , some of the most independent criticism has been written . Unfortunately , these publications , removed as they have been from advertising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , though good , has been stylistically academic . During the last ten years in America criticism has been only sporadically interesting . Edmund Wilson , Joseph Wood Krutch , Rebecca West , Frances Newman , Louis Kronenberger , Clifton Fadiman , and Robert Morss Lovett have seemed , in varying degrees , perspicacious , but their faint catcalls have been drowned out by the bravos of the publishers ' claque . Moreover , none of these critics , with the exception of Mr. Wilson , has made any extended effort to relate what is valuable in modern literature to the body of literature of the past . Really vital criticism will probably not come until genuinely critical and independent minds can somehow communicate unhampered with the vast body of the reading public . This is the last of a series of articles which have appeared every other week in The Nation.                     