@@493752

The Week SPONTANEOUS and worldwide denunciation of the Laval-Hoare peace plan , since the terms leaked out ten days ago , indicates that the League of Nations Council , meeting at Geneva on Wednesday , undoubtedly will reject this particular proposal for ending the Italo-Ethiopian conflict . Emperor Haile Selassie rightly protested to the League against a plan that instead of punishing a declared aggressor actually partitions a member nation in order to reward the aggressor with vast territories far beyond any indicated power of even his military Operations to conquer them . Mussolini rather cagily has given no official acceptance of the plan as a basis for negotiations , and his formal reply , to be framed at a meeting of the Fascist Grand Council on Wednesday , may even go to the length of rejecting the plan as inadequate , in order to put himself In a better bargaining position . THE full fury of denunciation broke in Great Britain , where the government was accused by friend and foe alike of betraying both the League and its own campaign promises . A stormy session was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Commons on Thursday to be questioned on his government 's course of action , probably taking the line of defense that the situation was desperate , that the plan was the best that could be obtained in view of the pro-Italian sentiments of Premier Laval , and that it was in any event a mere proposal , to be accepted or rejected by the League . There was indeed good basis for believing that Mussolini had indicated his deiinite intention of bombing British warships in the Mediterranean if oil sanctions were applied , and that Laval , while promising that France would live up to its agreement to come to Britain 's aid in such an event , had said that the lack of adequate naval bases and the number of French ships now out of commission might make that aid both tardy and ineffectual . A curious overtone of the entire affair was the reassertion of royal prerogative . A persistent story had it that the British Cabinet was finally persuaded to accept the plan at the personal intervention of King George of England , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the King of Belgium . In any event the pro-Fascist forces have achieved the minor goal of postponing the threatened oil embargo . JAPANESE delegates at the London Naval Conference moved this week to break the deadlock precipitated by their own demand that the question of parity , as embodied in their phrase " a common upper limit , " be considered before any other questions . They announced on Sunday that while not yielding on the primacy of parity , they would be willing to discuss other questions at the same time . Japanese military advances in North China , still conducted in the guise of " friendly support " for an " autonomy " move by the provinces of Chahar and Hopei , this week included the occupation of Kalgan , ancient capital of Chahar and starting point for caravan routes to Outer Mongolia , and seizure of Tangku , seaport of Tientsin , by troops of the autonomous regime . Japanese army units marched into Kalgan on the very day that a delegation of leaders from Outer Mongolia was being received with great ceremony in Moscow by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative changes took place in various countries this week . President Mendieta of Cuba resigned over difficulties in planning the general elections now scheduled for January 10 . Secretary of State Jose Barnet automatically succeeded him , but the really significant factor is that Colonel Fulgencio Batista remains as head of the army and virtual dictator of Cuba . Thomas G. Nlasaryk , founder and first President of Czechoslovakia , resigned at the age of eighty-five , after having held the presidency for seventeen years . Under pressure of repeated nationalist riots in Cairo and other cities , Great Britain announced the restoration of the 1923 Constitution to Egypt , and plans were made for general elections next year . Former President Calles returned to Mexico City , and there were rumors that he might attempt a military coup to overthrow President Cardenas and regain the office for himself . TIIREF , crucial New Deal measures passed into the hands of the Supreme Court as hearings were completed on cases involving the constitutionality of the A.A.A. and Bankhead cotton-control acts , and the Court prepared to begin hearings on the T.V.A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world market for silver was caused when the United States , virtually the only large buyer in the world market , suddenly stopped its silver-purchase operations . The market recovered somewhat when the United States resumed buying on a limited scale . Political activities came to the front as the Republican National Committee met in Washington , selected Cleveland for the 1936 convention , and surveyed possible candidates and issues . Former President Hoover , in an address before the Republican Club of St. Louis that was broadcast over a national network , delivered another assault on the New Deal . Governor Talmadge of Georgia called a meeting of his Southern Committee to Uphold the Constitution to he held in Atlanta during the last week in January , and continued his opposition to the renomination of President Roosevelt by the Democrats . Ile said he would be willing to accept the nomination himself , if tendered to him . Dr. F. E. Townsend began a poll of all members of Congress as to their stand on the Townsend Plan , announcing that he and his supporters would enter a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republican form of government and the fascist Leagues know it . The Croix de Feu and similar organizations have never been able to gain the broad popular support that the Brown Shirt and Black Shirt movements gained in Germany and Italy . It was largely the menace of armed leagues that drove the normally centrist and mildly liberal Radical Socialist Party into an alliance with the leftist parties in the People 's Front . Last week in the Chamber of Deputies the fascist Leagues suddenly made an offer of voluntary disarmament . The purpose of this dramatic maneuver by the rightists was twofold : to enable their friend , Premier Laval , to remain in office by solving what was in many ways his most vexing internal problem ; and to split off the Radical Socialists ? or at least the right wing of the party ? by removing the chief factor that brought about their adherence to the People 's Front . The trick did n't quite work . When the disarmament proposal was brought before the Deputies in the form of legislation , the People 's Front used its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhetorical , disarmament ? so much so that the rightists went back on their original proposal and voted against the bills . The bills were passed , however , and now go to the Senate for consideration . Premier Laval remains precariously power , but this fresh demonstration of the insincerity of the republican pretensions of the fascist Leagues has given the People 's Front greater solidarity than ever . AN IMPORTANT political development took place recently in Wisconsin when a statewide gathering of nine organizations formed the Farmer Labor Progressive Federation . These included Socialists , Progressives of the La Follette group , farmers and representatives of the State Federation of Labor . Communists did not participate formally , but are invited to do so as individuals . The Federation broke definitely with the mild reformism of the late Senator Robert La Follette Sr. , and came out flatfootedly for " production for use " and the abolition of the profit system . In Wisconsin , the new group will support the Progressives , and this will in all probability ensure the reidection of Governor Phil La Follette and Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smash the coalition of conservative Republicans and Democrats that now rules time state Senate . While the Socialist Party will support the F. L. P. F. in the state , it will retain its identity as regards the presidential election . The power of the new movement can be gauged by the terror it has created in the ranks of the conservatives , who arc indulging in the usual vilification in the press and are forming " S.O.S. " clubs to " Save Our State . " MORE than 25,000 workers on W. P. A. projects in Iowa have voted to strike on January 2 . They are asking an increase in the wages paid , which now , range from $40 to $80 a month for 120 hours work . It is understood that the strikers would accept a general ten-percent increase , with a minimum of $55 , and The New Republic hopes that the strike may he settled on that basis . We have often protested the " starvation wage " set under the original W. P. A. program , and we have welcomed the increases made from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in individual states . Even $55 a month is not enough money to maintain a family decently in Iowa or in any other state with a comparable cost of living . The difference between a strike against the W. P. A. and one against a private employer is that in the latter case , closing down a factory costs the owner money while a strike against the W. P. A. simply saves the government expense . For this reason , we hope that if a strike does come , it will be made a demonstration stoppage for a definite period of time , whose length will be announced in advance . At present , the W. P. A. workers ' best hope is to arouse public opinion in their favor ; and the best chance of doing so would be through such a demonstration as we suggest . THE toastmaster at a dinner in New York City raised his glass and said , " To the President of the United States . " What do you suppose happened then ? We quote from The New York Times : The diners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the toast . Only a few rose at first , grinning as they did so . Then came a ripple of laughter from various parts of the hall which caught on quickly and became general as more of the audience rose lifting their glasses . The laughter continued for some time after they resumed their seats . Later in the evening another speaker remarked , " Never have I admired the Overlord of New Jersey apparently a nickname of the toastmaster as much as I did tonight . That toast I " He finished the sentence , according to The Times , with a wide gesture of the hand , and the audience took this as a signal for more laughter . This strange episode , You think , took place among a gathering of Communists or German agents ? Not at all ? it was during a dinner of public-utility executives . The toastmaster and overlord of New Jersey was Mr. Thomas N. McCarter , president of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company of New Jersey , and of the Edison Electric Institute . The other speaker was Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gentlemen like this can afford to laugh because they are above the law , but most of us still cherish a faint respect for the President of the United States , even though the incumbent of that office may be wrong a thousand ways . SHOULD a college run a sweatshop ? That is the question by which Teachers ' College , Columbia University , is confronted today . Some months ago , a labor dispute broke out among the badly paid workers in the college-operated cafeteria . Dean William Russell appointed a committee drawn from the faculty and students to investigate the situation and report , and this report has now been published . In brief summary , it shows : That the college cafeteria has discriminated against union members on the ground of their union affiliation . That despite the usual charges of " radicalism , " the union is a genuine one , devoted to the interests of its members . That during the depression , the poorest-paid employees have been cut 4o percent , though the average cut has been only 20 percent , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union members have been dismissed , and others have received maximum wage cuts . In acknowledging the report of his committee , Dean Russell wrote : " I shall propose to the Trustees that we reexamine our policies of pay , charges and employment in the Teachers ' College Dining Halls , and we shall appoint the committee to consider the labor policies , to which you refer . We have always thought that we had a fair and efficient labor policy . It it appears to need modification in the light of the most careful study , we shall change it , and as quickly as possible . " It is to be hoped that the trustees will live up to the spirit of Dean Russell 's letter . Teachers ' College has great prestige among American colleges ; it can and should set an example to the whole country , especially in view of the liberal philosophy that underlies much of its classroom instruction . THE automobile industry has not shared its present burst of prosperity with its workers . The United States Department of Labor reports that average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $25 a week , with much time lost for reasons beyond the worker 's control , even when business is good . In 1934 , the plants were closed more than one-third of the time , and in that year 45 percent of all workers received less than $1,000 ; in one factory , three-fifths of the workers got less than $800 , one-third less than $400 . In the Chevrolet transmission plant in Toledo weekly earnings for many of the employees are less than $16 . THESE facts lend particular interest to the strike recently called against the Motor Products Corporation in Detroit , protesting wage reductions , a strike which some observers believe may have great significance . It was called by several independent unions working together : the Automotive Industrial Workers ' Association , the Mechanics ' Education Society and the Associated Automobile Workers of America . These three unions are now engaged in a referendum among their members to say whether they shall amalgamate , and it is expected that the result , to be announced about the time this issue of The New Republic appears , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two unions both of which have some slight representation in the Motor Products Corporation plant ; their attitude thus far toward the strike has been very far from cooperative . Indeed , members of the striking unions charge the leader of the A.F. of L. group with open hostility . There is great interest , in Detroit , in the possible entrance of John L. Lewis into the picture since his recent break with William Green and his espousal of industrial unionism . I f Lewis is sincere in his present attitude , the automobile industry offers him a great opportunity and one that , for the sake of his own prestige , he can hardly afford to reject . T HE Greyhound Bus Lines are likely to figure - prominently in newspaper headlines during the next few weeks . The Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines , Inc. , are involved in a case which may be taken to the Supreme Court to test the validity of the new Industrial Disputes Act . The National Labor Relations Board the other day petitioned the Federal Circuit Court in Philadelphia to enforce an order against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engage in genuine collective bargaining with its employees and reinstate with full back pay live of their number who , the Board says , were i ! s-missed for union activities . THIS company , part of a national bus-transportation system , is controlled by a subsidiary of the Pennsylvania Railroad . It had no labor organization of any kind before the N.R.A . but in July , 1933 , like many another company , it decided to set up a plan of employee representation . Robert J. Davison was chosen as chairman but early in 1935 he came to the conclusion that he could do nothing for the men under this scheme , and helped to organize Local 1063 of the Amalgamated Association of Street , Electric Railroad and Motor Coach l'nployees of America . The company , which had liked its own union so well , did n't like this one at all . It spied on meetings , issued warnings and threats , and finally dismissed five union leaders , among them Mr. Davison , who had just received special recognition because he had worked for four years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show beyond doubt that the law was violated , and no one can question that a nationwide bus system should be regulated as interstate commerce . A GOOD deal has been printed about repression in the colleges , but not much is heard about repression in the high schools , though for various reasons it is much the more drastic and complete of the two . An incident in New York City a few days ago showed the ridiculous length to which the witch hunters are going nowadays . A group of students at Stuyvesant IIigh School held a meeting to consider the plans for a new national organization of students . Having been unable to obtain a room in the high school for this purpose , they met in a private house . As the meeting was beginning , two policemen forced their way in ( without invitation or search warrants ) , announced that " this is a communist meeting " and ordered the participants to leave . One of those present was James Wechsler , former editor of the Columbia University Spectator , and an organizer of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose home had been invaded were taken by police to the offices of the high school , where they were interrogated in the endeavor to obtain the names of " ringleaders . " It was made evident that the authorities had a blacklist of student participants in the nationwide peak demonstrations of last April . It was also revealed that the authorities are using student informers to carry tales about their fellows whom they suspect of radicalism . We hardly know whether to call this episode ridiculous or disgraceful . In any case , its implications are plain : they are those of Hitlerism in its crudest form . THE oppressive working conditions in Wall Street ? no , let us begin it another way , for this is a sort of Christmas story and ought to have a livelier start . The hero of our little Yuletide tale is a Wall Street worker who must remain anonymous here . lis salary during the past year has been so meager that he found he could ill afford the pleasant custom of giving Christmas presents . He refused to be daunted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling Real . Silk Hosiery ? with razor blades as a side line ? he could eke out enough nickels to buy a few gifts . What gives the story special drama is the fact that our hero is the security analyst of bank stocks and insurance-company issues for a leading statistical organization , which sells a high-priced investment-counseling service . What We should like to know is whether thebanks , financial houses and investors who buy and no doubt place confidence in our hero 's analytical reports would be equally impressed if they knew that he carried razor blades and silk stockings on the side . That , it seems to us , is a grand Christmas conundrum for the kiddies ? indeed , for Uncle Marx himself .                     