@@469460

movement could have reached such proportions in democratic England . On October 1 , 1932 , Sir Oswald Mosley , sixth Baronet of a title created over two hundred years ago , organized the British Union of Fascists , and with his talented wife and a handful of earnest young men began a national campaign which was an Anglicized version of Italian corporatism and Nazi chauvinism . It was Mosley 's fifth political adventure : from 1918 to 1931 he had been successively Conservative , Independent , and Laborite ; in 1931 he left the Labor Party , and with a following that included John Strachey and Oliver Baldwin , organized the New Party on what seemed to be militant Socialist lines . The New Party ran fifteen candidates , got less than one-eighth of the electoral count in the constituencies it contested , and collapsed . Mosley , disappointed and impatient , took only a short time to emerge with a new creed , better fitted for his ambitions ; Strachey , Baldwin , and the most talented of Mosley 's followers promptly resigned , leaving a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Union of Fascists was received with ironic sneers and confident mockery . Street meetings attracted meager audiences which either booed or threw bottles . In the working-class sections Mosley and his wife , Lady Cynthia , were often perilously close to physical mauling . The press unanimously ignored them . The Conservatives were cold and contemptuous ; the Labor Party scoffed at " Tom " Mosley 's comic-opera antics and excoriated him for his political apostasy . Minor street fights became a nightly occurrence . When the English mood threatened to become fatally hostile , Mosley organized a band of strong-arm men , dressed themin black fencing-shirts , piled them into a motor lorry , and continued to spread the gospel of Fascism and an English corporate state But England remained unmoved . For over a year the Blackshirts made negligible headway . Fascism in England was regarded as the absurd and impossible dream of a political adventurer with preposterous dictatorial delusions . On January 15 , 1934 , however , Viscount Rothermere astonished his own editors by printing an announcement of his conversion to Fascism . He hailed Mosley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impending dictatorship of " hooligans and riff-raff . " The address of the B.U.F. was featured in bold-face type and young men were earnestly urged to join and save England from the " hidden hand of Bolshevism . " The word " Fascist " was never used ; " Blackshirts " was reiterated with discreet and compelling regularity . For three months the whole Rothermere press , with a daily circulation of more than two and a half million , publicized Oswald Mosley and his movement . They carefully emphasized its " purely British " character and took extraordinary pains to point out that the Blackshirts were " neither Nazis nor Fascists , " that they had no anti-Semitic tendencies , that they were not antagonistic to trade unions , that they were " entirely constitutional in methods . " Every journalistic trick and every sensational cliche was exploited . Special writers dramatized Sir Oswald 's personal vigor and attractions ; his handsome face adorned innumerable issues ; he was British and democratic to the core ? indeed he even " dressed exactly like the humblest of his followers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I Like the Black-shirts . " Pictures of blackshirted females fencing or taking jujitsu lessons were given the front page in a special beauty contest . During the shocking Vienna tragedy Dolfuss was lauded for " the same indomitable courage and leadership that Hitler had used against the menace of German Socialism . " Long articles on England 's air needs , alternating with attacks on the government policy in regard to India and disarmament , only emphasized more boldly Mosley 's stern demand for more planes , more action , and a resolute administration of the British empire . The Blackshirts began to attract at-tendon . Mosley 's oratorical ability helped him to capitalize on economic discontent , on the proved impotence of the Labor Party , on the disillusionment with the National Government , on the skepticism toward Parliament which is so marked in England to-day ; and , above all , on the plight of a huge middle-class being driven into acute distress by its economically vulnerable position . Blackshirt headquarters began to spring up all over Great Britain and converts to the creed of activism spread the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be said to have a following of over a hundred thousand . A large three-storey building in Chelsea serves as headquarters for over two hundred official Blackshirt centers throughout Great Britain , including a women 's section which has had a surprising growth . Instruction is given to members in boxing , jujitsu , and fencing . Six airplanes already form the nucleus of a private air-training school . There is a special summer camp for training periods during vacation time . Seven hundred Blackshirt meetings take place weekly in England , Scotland , and Wales . Mosley is on constant tour of the industrial sections , and five vans of speakers and guards have begun an intensive campaign in the agricultural areas . A monster demonstration will take place in the fall at the White Cityarena in London ; over one hundred and twenty-five thousand Blackshirts , friends , families , and spectators will come from all over England for a whole day of exhibitions and maneuvers and a speech by the leader himself . And at Fascist headquarters I was told that the Blackshirts will run from three to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mosley himself is a personality ' of definite political importance . He has energy , intelligence , and courage . He was long ago recognized to be one of the most effective platform performers in England . If his Olympia meeting ended in a fiasco because the persistent interruptions prevented him from speaking for five consecutive minutes or building to a single effective emotional climax , his Albert Hall speech to ten thousand , a month earlier , was a tour de force of demagoguery . He spoke for an hour and a half without a flaw , a hesitation , or the use of a single note . He was sincere and persuasive and seemed determined to convince his audience that he was neither an alien adventurer nor an irresponsible upstart . He did not indulge in extravagance of gesture or violence of style . He was aggressive , earnest , and gentlemanly , with neither the blustering paranoia of Mussolini nor the crude vehemence of Hitler . His presentation of the Fascist creed was obviously intended to woo the sympathies of a gathering of middle-aged , respectable Englishmen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to constitutional stomachs . The Blackshirts , he said , would never resort to force ; Fascism was not a tyranny ; it was not a dictatorship ; it substitutes the reality of liberty for the humbug of liberty . Fascism was not Italian or German ; it was British and sprang from the very soul of England . Fascism would set a " new standard for civilization . " Parliament would be converted from a talk-shop to a workshop . Economic nationalism , stronger armaments , a firm hand in the empire ; above an , the Corporate State ? these and these alone were the solutions to English problems . England was being betrayed in the air and treacherous politicians were surrendering " legitimate " interests in India and Ireland , both of which really needed the beneficent hand of English protection . In the international sphere Fascism meant peace and not war as was maliciously charged ; for it was obvious that a war between Fascist states would be insane fratricide which would prepare the way for Communism , the false philosophy of a German Jew . Fascism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the modern age . " In a passionate crescendo the elegant young man with the black mustache concluded in a slightly Noel Coward vein : " Lit by the glare of high inspiration this movement rises from the very soul of England to give all , to dare all , that England may live in greatness and in glory . " Mosley has every qualification for political leadership except judgment and patience . Had he been content to play a waiting game he would to-day be the most important young man in England . When he was in the Conservative Party he was singled out as of cabinet caliber . As an Independent he impressed the country with his ability to win an election solely on the basis of his energy and platform ability . In the Labor Party he became the protege of Ramsay MacDonald and occupied a minor ministerial post . As late as 1931 he was told by several people high in the party machine that he was certain to be the next Labor Prime Minister if he would merely work and wait . But patience and perspective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to play for the highest personal stakes and risked his career on a single and dangerous hand . His espousal of Fascism cost him an assured future in any of the other English parties . At the beginning of his new adventure he seemed doomed . His dickerings for help from Mussolini and Hitler were of no avail , though he was photographed with Il Duce in Rome and giving the Nazi salute to the Fiihrer in Nuremberg . At first his bait to the English Conservatives brought no prominent catches . Not one important person in the country came to his standard . The Conservatives on the whole regarded him with contempt and suspicion because of his political past . Baldwin publicly chastised his foolhardiness ; Churchill remained indifferent . Everywhere Mosley was sneered at as a careerist who could not be trusted . Yet some persons of wealth and power must have supported him secretly . Where the money came from for uniforms , headquarters , publications , auditorium rentals , armored cars , special buses , etc. , remains a mystery ? though there is no dearth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begun to emerge from the general obscurity to associate themselves with the Blackshirts . The " January Club " was organized by wealthy and respectable citizens to provide a " platform for leaders of Fascism and corporate state thought . " Lord Lloyd , former Governor of Bombay and High Commissioner for Egypt , an iron-willed reactionary and anti-liberal , addressed them on May 1st at a meeting from which the press was carefully excluded . There were some three hundred people of consequence in the audience , including the Earl of Glasgow , Lord Middleton , General Hubert Gough , and Wing-Commander Sir Louis Greig ; the chairman was Sir John Squire , the well-known parodist . The English Review , famous Conservative weekly , is notoriously sympathetic to Mosleyism and invited Sir Oswald to address them at a private staff luncheon . The eccentric but fabulously wealthy Lady Houston uses her renovated Saturday Review to publish lurid stories of the impending collapse of the empire , denounces the treachery of the National Government in refusing her private offers for a special air defense for London , and praises Mosley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abominable verse . Viscount Rothermere continues to give thousands of pounds ' worth of free publicity to the Blackshirts each week and he has built Mosley 's words and activities into public events . Lord Lloyd , speaking for the die-hard Tory faction of the Conservative party , has attacked the pseudo-liberal concessions of the Indian White Paper and warned the government that unless it drops its policy of surrender , " more and more people in this country are likely to prefer a black shirt to a White Paper . " And after Mosley 's irritated anti-Semitic lines at Olympia about " weapons which had not been seen in England until the ghettos of Europe were clumped on our shores " and the dangers of the red philosophy of a " German Jew , " Nazi misgivings about his rather vague attitude in regard to the Jewish question have been assuaged : the official 1/6lkischer Benbachter has acclaimed the " energetic defense of the Blackshirts " under a headline of " Red Terror in London . " III But the real danger of Fascism in England does not lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " big names " he may win to his cause , or the numerical size of his following . For it must be patent to any sophisticated observer of politics thatwithout the support of the industrial and financial barons , and the tacit approval of the military authorities , no Fascist demagogue has the slightest possibility of coming into power . So-called Fascist revolutions are , more properly , business arrangements whereby vested interests meet the threat of social upheaval by calling upon extra-military organizations , dedicated to common principles such as the protection of property and the preservation of the capitalist economy , either to meet the danger of Socialism or to strengthen by force an economic order which democracy seems unable to perpetuate within its own laissez-faire and democratic structure . Fascism is less the name for a political movement than for a strategic combination . The maneuvers which brought an Italian atheist and an Austrian house-painter into leadership in Italy and Germany certainly reveal the unmistakable alliance between would-be dictators and desperate industrial-patriots . The case of Oswald Mosley presents no different historical problem . Indeed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half offers an illuminating substantiation of this thesis of realpolitik . For it was not until several months ago that the Conservatives in England deigned to flatter Mosley with either their disapproval or their comment ; they had merely ignored him . The reason is simply that until a few months ago the National Government was characterized by a sublime self-confidence and a High Tory legislative policy which makes its " national " label a hollow camouflage . It went off gold two weeks after its Prime Minister warned the country of the catastrophic necessity for remaining on it . It lowered relief services and unemployment payments . It cut wages . It yielded to pressure from the iron and steel interest by extending a tariff which had expressly been stated to be temporary . It reduced heavy income taxes and threw the burden for paying the unemployed fund onto the workers for the next forty years . It refused to apply its fat paper-surplus to relief or welfare debts . It refused to lighten the tax burden on the poor by reducing tea or cinema-scat duties . It instituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacDonald on four different occasions has eulogized as the great foundation of social and economic reform . It refused to budge on the infamous Means Test . For two years the National Government had a free hand in what was substantially a one-party chamber ; its power and hegemony were undisputed , and its arrogance kept pace with its sense of security . During all this time Sir Oswald Mosley and the Blackshirts were insignificant and negligible . But in the past five months an unmistakable change has taken place . For the first time in the history of the London County Council a Labor majority won control , on a policy protesting the governmental economies , the Means Test , and housing and education facilities . Six by-elections went Labor . Public opinion was definitely turning against the Coalition Government and came to Labor less because of faith in their leadership than because of disappointment with the group in power . The Labor Party took on a new lease of life . In 1931 the National Party , with MacDonald and Thomas as decoys to a conservative platform , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crisis and ruin which would follow a Labor victory . The great patriots had not hesitated to threaten a deliberately precipitated catastrophe by withdrawing money and credits from a Labor government if it should be elected . The voters hysterically votedin a huge National majority ; the defeat of Labor was complete . But the crushing defeat of Labor had its positive and antiseptic consequences . The Labor Party awakened to the realization that its own policy of compromise and quarter-measures had sent it to a second disaster for which it had itself paved the way . It drove home the bitter lesson that in 1931 , as in 1924 , the Labor Government had been less the victim of murder than of somnambulism . It revealed with striking clarity that the forces of conservatism could use tremendous power and outrageous methods , even to the extent of forcing the whole country into a crisis . For the first time Labor was compelled to admit that its leaders had been a timid and confused group of political opportunists with too much faith in pretty socialistic phrases and with too much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had forgotten that their purpose was to effect fundamental economic reconstructions and not to embellish an ancient structure with feeble and ornamental reforms . The Labor Party learned that it had withdrawn from any basic problem which might have endangered its term of office ? and remaining in office had become its goal and purpose . The battered remnant of Labor was galvanized into a reconsideration of its tradition and its policy . The realizadon spread that Socialists were faced with the inescapable necessity of defining both their immediate and their ultimate goals ; and , more important , of determining the precise mechanisms by which those goals were to be reached . A resolution demanding nationalization of the Bank of England was incorporated into the party platform . Proposals for the control of money , credit , and exchanges , the socialization of mines , transport , and public-utilities , the public administration of large basic industries permeated the " gradualness " of the older program . Sir Stafford Cripps , speaking for the left Socialist League , shot into the national consciousness by announcing that the next Labor government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House of Lords ; he even dared to utter unheard of criticism about " Buckingham Palace . " The Tory press , alarmed at this boldness of mere vocabulary , began a campaign discrediting every socialistic proposal , using Cripps as a target . Gloomy pictures were painted of the imminent dangers to the empire . The Times quaked in patriotic horror at the thought of tampering with the House of Lords . A Conservative leaflet entitled " Socialist Dictatorship Menace " warned the country that irresponsible fanatics would destroy parliamentary government , confiscate all property , and send England to ruin . The victories of Labor at the by-election polls only accentuated the sudden fears of Conservative leaders . At this juncture Lord Rothermere , worried in his continental vacationing about the menace of Sir Stafford Cripps ? and the declining circulation of the Daily Mail ? struck the keynote of frightened Toryism by embracing Fascism . Mosley became more polite in his speeches and made fewer sarcastic references to the Press Lords . Soon he was writing signed articles for the Rothermere papers . He also became quite constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which he had said he would use force to win power and abolish Parliament . Other details in the political scene are symptomatic of the new trend in Conservative circles . In April the government introduced the Incitement to Disaffection Bill , the most flagrant invasion of the right of free opinion which England has seen in twocenturies . Under its original provisions it would have become an offense for any person ( 1 ) merely to have possession of any document which , if disseminated among the armed forces of the Crown , would be considered seditious ; ( 2 ) to engage in any act which might be considered preparatory to the commission of an offense of this category . " Reasonable grounds " of suspicion would be enough to permit the issuance of a general search warrant , of the kind abolished in 1763 . The bill is a weapon of incalculable repressive force ; it would make even the possession of the Fabian League pamphlets or the early speeches of Ramsay MacDonald seditious . A storm of protest from over forty organizations , ranging from liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Friends , won minor concessions in the details . The govern-ment was forced to greater apology and more radical revisions . At this writing the protest has not yet abated and in the House , Sir Thomas Inskip , the Attorney-General , has indicated his reluctance to go on and suggested that the bill might he dropped because of widespread public opposition . Another item is of exceptional interest . Lord Salisbury introduced a bill to " reform " the House of Lords ? in such a way that Labor would become a totally impotent minority in the chamber . Worse , the House of Commons would lose its right , according to the Par liament Act of 1911 , to pass legislation over the heads of the Lords without going to the country and being returned on the specific issue . The purpose of the bill , as the Marquess of Salisbury engagingly confessed , was to prevent a government which represented the will of the people from operating " too hastily . " Though the bill was promptly killed when the government announced it would not support it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aristocrats ; and the outspoken attacks on the Labor policy only emphasized the genuine fears which the Tories to-day entertain . Lord Hastings warned the Labor Party that " force begets force " and that force would resist any effort to reform the House of Lords . The most astonishing words came from Lord Monkswell : The organized wastrels are overawing the House of Commons , partly by the voting power of the masses and even more by the threat of revolutionary violence . I am convinced of the futility of trying to achieve anything so long as this country is controlled by a process of counting heads . Things are rapidly getting beyond the control of Parliament . If salvation is to be found it will be when the thrifty and intelligent members of the community organize to resist the plunder to which they are now subjected . When organized revolutionary force , dependent either on voting or on rioting , can be met by greater force supported by the intelligence and patriotism of the best elements in the country , then will peace and prosperity be at hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My italics . ) Stanley Baldwin struck the note of a new " scare " when , on April 28th , he warned the Liberals : " We are threatened with a dictatorship of the Left and an autocracy of the Right , " and said that there was a real danger that a Socialist Party , controlled by extremists and strongly tainted with Communism , might be returned . And on May 4th , the journal of the National Union of Manufacturers contained these unprecedented words : " We can not help wondering , rather wistfully , whether a British Mussolini would not play the excellent cards we hold in our hands a great deal better than our popular government does . . . whether a democratic form of government is really capable of directing the destinies of the Empire in these difficult times . " Iv All this points inexorably to the fact that conservatism is badly frightened ; it explains , to some extent , the current prominence of Oswald Mosley . The swing away from the National government assures Labor that it will win a large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clear majority . The strategy of the present leadership is to refuse an alliance with the Liberals in forming a government and to allow the Conservatives to rule under a National label ; then to force a dissolution in 1937 or 1938 and , by winning over many Liberal and Independent Labor Party votes because of its independence and determination , to come to power with a majority of its own . With a Labor government the ground will be clear for a definite fight on fundamental issues ; and a major crisis in English politics may well be at hand . For Labor can not afford to be timid and confused once again ; if it does it will not only end in a &Ude; worse than that of 1931 , but will commit political suicide for at least a generation . The Labor party will be compelled into a challenging legislative program because of the pressure from its growing left wing and because of the exigencies of its position . It is at that moment that the Blackshirts may rise to great importance . There is nothing Mosley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would put him where he is not really now : in the opposition . That is the strategic point from which Fascism could capitalize on depression , economic instability , fear , bewilderment , or disgust on the part of the general population . The Blackshirts would make great headway among the middle-class , who would fear socialization : among some of the working element who could be persuaded that the Labor party was again bringing England to the brink of disaster ; and certainly among the large industrialists and landowners , who would realize full well that their basic resources were in danger . It is inconceivable that the British vested interests will submit meekly to death-blows ? however constitutional the procedure might seem . In the face of Tory tactics in 1931 it is clear that if the situation becomes acute enough there is no extreme to which the right wing may not go . The British ruling class has often , and rightly , been eulogized for its intelligence and its respect for traditions and a democratic heritage ; but the crucial question to-day is whether it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its own existence and prosperity . It is true that English democracy is no patchwork of expediency , as was the German , the Italian , and the Austrian ; and that England 's democratic institutions are deeply rooted in her history , have grown into a structure of vast social significance , and have been consistently respected by the groups which have ruled the empire . Above all , England has no class comparable to Junker reactionaries or a blind ancien regime . The English ruling groups have shown admirable foresight in making essential compromises . They absorbed the rising middle-class of industrialism into their aristocracy and Society ; and in doing so both retained and strengthened their power . Liberalism reached its greatest height in England ; it has been perhaps the most striking feature of the English political system . But it is very significant that Liberalism in England is suffering a swift and inevitable demise . The rise of industrial labor , the demands of a working class , have introduced into English political life the element of class difference and class strife . Before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same general political philosophy , divided only as to degree and details . The Labor Party has grown at the expense of the Liberals ; and the coming struggle for power is not merely one between Protectionism and Free Trade , or Reformism versus non-Reform ; but between Capital and Land versus Labor . The optimist who points to the progressive nature of the English ruling class and scoffs at the possibility of Fascism forgets that the earlier compromises of the landowners with the bourgeoisie of industrialism are not at all comparable to the present problem , which is far more sharp : can there be a compromise with the lower classes in the present critical stage of capitalist development ? It is when Labor will be compelled either to admit its ultimate ineffectuality , under leadership of the 1931 variety , or to play its crucial Parliamentary hand ( " emergency powers , " nationalization , abolition of the House of Lords , etc. ) that Oswald Mosley will become an important factor in the political process . It is precisely the situation toward which his whole strategy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government will lose a great following which he can incorporate into the Black-shirts ; and a militant and resolute Labor government will arouse middledass and capitalist opposition which may have to come to him for his private army , his propaganda , and his whole machine . Certainly any gesture of unconstitutionalism will come from the Right , and not the Left . The Labor Party , in its history and present personnel , indicates that it will use every conceivable technic and illusion to preserve peace . It will stand to the last as a protesting target for that vet y onslaught from the Right , however disguised , which it will itself precipitate . Despite the current left-wing activism , the trade unions , the co-operatives , the Labor Party leadership and hierarchy are still as conservative as the most polite liberals can wish for . They have not recovered from the unforgettable scar of the General Strike of 1926 . As for the Communist Party : its membership is negligible and its strength comparatively small ; it has made little impress on the surface of English politics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : their allegiance is to the King , and not to either Parliament or the constitution . Under the guise of " law and order " to " save the country from Bolshevism " in an " extraordinary emergency " they can be mobilized into playing hand in hand with a coup from the Right , whatever form it may take . V The final judgment of Oswald Mosley 's possibilities comes down to an analysis of economics and not of personalities . If the structure of English democracy can survive world crisis and instability , Fascism becomes a deferred , because unnecessary , political expedient . If that structure is in serious danger then some Mosley will lead England irresistibly along that road that Germany and Austria have taken . English Fascism may not be as spectacular or barbarous as its continental counterparts ; but in its effects it will serve the same historical function . The enormous middle-class of England is fertile soil for Fascism . Mass-production has weakened the trade unions by increasing the demand for unskilled as against skilled labor , which is the backbone of trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ranks of the bourgeois and rentier groups . In England they are not yet Fascist ; but they have learned that the Labor Party is defeatist , and the Conservatives relatively impotent . Mosleytakes advantage of their discontent , their disillusionment , their disgust with the interminable palavering of parliamentary procedure ? and , above all , of their desperate confusion in an economic position in which they are trapped . He offers them a simple and attractively activistic solution to problems which are complex in nature and vast in scope . His propaganda appeals to simple , embittered minds which can understand neither the intricacy of orthodox recovery measures nor the slowness of their effect . But in the wider historical perspective Oswald Mosley , as a political entity , becomes of secondary importance . If Fascism must strip capitalist democracy of its democratic encumbrances it will not particularly matter to the millions under its discipline whether it is Fascism by Blackshir ts or Tories , or whether Mosley is its apostle and figurehead . Mosley 's personal autocraticism and arrogance may cause the Right to seek for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his egotism and ambition ; many Englishmen can not forget his erratic past . It is inconceivable that Stanley Baldwin , for example , would ever violate his principles and faith to ally with a man who contradicts him on every score ; but the Baldwins are not the rulers of England , though they may have the nominal authority . Besides , Mosley 's dangerous phlebitis may remove him from the political scene at any unpredictable time . . . . But just as England has already produced its potential von Papens it will find its Hitler when the necessity arises . Oswald Mosley has the ability and the desire to play that role ; but at the moment he is merely the most prominent and romantic symbol of a deeper historical expedient which the Right may be forced into attempting in a desperate effort to solve its historical problems .                     