@@141428

To that portion of the U. S. public which feels aggrieved unless the holder of the world 's heavyweight prizefighting championship is an A-1specimen , the years since 1928 have been even sadder than for the rest of the world . Since Gene Tunney retired , the incumbents of this choice eminence have been uniformly unsatisfactory . Last week was the summer 's busiest in heavyweight circles . In it , the promise of a happier era : 1 ) flickered darkly on the heavyweight horizon and 2 ) went out . <P> Flicker , Prime requisite of a heavyweight champion is that he be a superfighter . To prove that he is still the superfighter that boxing experts considered him until Max Schmeling gave him a workman- like beating last June , was the task that confronted Detroit 's coffee-colored , 22-year-old Joe Louis . More specifically , Louis ' job last week was to knock out Boston 's 33-year-old Jack Sharkey , now back in the ring , after two years ' retirement , to secure additional working capital for his none too prosperous Boston barroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence from the ring , Fisticuffer Sharkey came cautiously out of his corner in New York 's Yankee Stadium , dabbed tentatively at his opponent until Louis ' right fist exploded on his jaw . Thereafter his efforts , devoted exclusively to self-defense , were even less successful . Louis scored two knockdowns in the second round , two more in the third . After the fourth knockdown Fisticuffer Sharkey shook his head , removed his rubber mouth-guard , lay down while the referee counted him out . Next day . sports writers told what they thought had happened : Fisticuffer Louis had resumed functioning as a " superfighter . " <P> Out . Two years after Tunney 's retirement , Sharkey and Schmeling , final survivors of a prolonged elimination tournament , fought for the title . Schmeling won on a foul . In 1932 Schmeling lost the title to Sharkey on points . In 1933 Sharkey lost it to Camera . In 1934 Camera lost it to Baer . In 1935 Baer lost it to James J. Braddock who , of his preceding 25 fights , had contrived to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were increased by the unanimous if somewhat unreasonable sports-page definition of his character as " colorless , " to gain a living from the title he had so unexpectedly acquired , was the job of the Irish champion 's Jewish manager , wily little Joe Gould . An unemployed dockworker a few months before he won the title , Braddock has since totally refrained from fighting while making $150.000 out of exhibition bouts , refereeing , sales of a parlor game called Knockout . <P> When Schmeling unexpectedly knocked out Joe Louis last June , the next major fight in prospect was Schmeling v. Braddock . Either because wily little Joe Gould considers Schmeling more likely than Louis to beat his fighter or because , supposing that the feat can be accomplished by either , he would prefer to have it done by Louis who is sure to draw a bigger crowd , Manager Gould has never shown much eagerness to have the Schmeling v. Braddock fight take place .                     