@@221164

In Cambridge University 's Cavendish Laboratory works a young Briton of Swiss extraction who is indisputably one of the few great mathematical logicians in the world . His Principles oj Quantum Mechanics is a monument of human cerebration . That book is utterly incomprehensible to ordinary men who had never heard of its author until Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac won a Nobel Prize last year . Only a few of the ablest scholar-scientists can follow the chain of symbolic reasoning in Principles of Quantum Mechanics , and among them none is more articulate , more authoritative , more sensible than Sir James Hopwood Jeans , president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science . Like a modern St. Paul , Sir James has taken it upon himself to preach the Gospel abroad , to explain the groundwork of theory which makes the work of Dirac and his peers possible . Last week appeared the newest Jeans book , Through Space and Time , * into which the 57-year-old astronomer and mathematician has packed the fundamental things 1934 Science knows about the Universe . Sir James has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without difficulty , so authoritative that no scientist will quarrel with his premises . <P> The substance of Through Space and Time was delivered last winter as a course of lectures before the Royal Institution , which invites its annual speakers to discourse " in a style adapted to a juvenile auditory . " Sir James took for granted almost no qualifications of his audience beyond ability to understand plain English . Highlights of the indisputable universe as presented by Evangel Jeans : <P> The Earth is so old that if its story were imagined as a 500-page book , recorded history would fit easily into the last word , the Christian era into the last letter . How is this known ? The rate at which radioactive substances decay can be experimentally determined , and hence the age of radioactive rock can be told by the amount of decay observed . In Canada there are rocks that reveal an age of 1,230,000,000 years . Yet Earth could not be more than two or three times that old , because otherwise all the radium would have decayed to lead . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrown off the sun , probably by the gravitational yank of a passing star , is commonly estimated at 2,000,000,000 years ago . Much of this time was spent cooling , shrinking , solidifying : more than half of it passed before evidence of the first microscopic life was left in the rocks . Five hundred million years ago sponges , jellyfish and worms appeared ; fishes 400,000,000 years ago ; giant reptiles 150,000,000 years ago . Well within the last 100,000,000 years birds and mammals appeared , and within the last million , man . The dates . Sir James admits , are conjectural but the sequence is not .                     