@@491026

T HE question which heads this article is a nat- ural one at the present time . For ten years no subject in this civilized world has received more continuous or persistent attention than disarmament , especially the reduction of naval armaments . Yet most of us in this country are really very unfamiliar with the whole business . Being neither diplomats nor members of the military profession , we are frankly bewildered by the prulixities of discussion , the employment of technical and forbidding terminology and the lengthy succession of international conferences . The average American believes in peace and has a horror of war . But he is easily confused both by the acrimonious and too-specialized naval controversies which break out from time to time , and by the prolonged and intricate negotiations which our delegates carry on abroad with those from other countries . The average intelligent citizen merely knows that we have a very small Army , and his general impression is that we have , or ought to have , a fairly strong Navy . But he might be rather put to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand one way or the other , if told that the Navy should he greatly reduced or even abelished , either as an example to the rest of the world or as a measure of economy . Reinforcing a Natural Barrier SC ) I RAISE the direct question of whether this country should have a strong Navy , for in that way a great deal of important ground can be covered briefly and most . realistically . The answer need not be in technical terms ; indeed , to be satisfactory it should be anything but that . By a strong Navy , or , as sometimes said , an " adequate " Navy , I mean , of course , one in some sort of keeping with the size , wealth and far-flung interests of this country . Whether we ought to have this kind of Navy depends not on technicalities at all but upon great , fundamental , national policies and issues . Naturally , the first thought which comes to mind is that a Navy is a means of defense or protection , in ease this count ry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should be attacked , For all practical purposes . this land of ours is a great mid-oceanic isla lid with a vastly extended coast line , the distance by water from Boston to Puget Sound being as great as from England to India . Our total sea-borne commerce in recent years has been around twelve or thirteen billion dollars , being estimated at nine billions even in the depression year of 1931 . This approaches the figures for the eat ire British Empire . True , if includes coastwise commerce , but much of this goes on the high seas , even from ocean to ocean via the Panama Canal , and , of course , Great Lakes and other inland-waterways traffic is not included . Clearly , then , the Navy is for the defense of a vastly important commerce in times of peace , when other nations are at war , and in war itself . Even in times of peace there are parts of the world , not all so far away as China either , where valuable trade could r ( lly exist without our gunboat. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be vitally affected , because the world has never settled the respective rights of belligerents and neutrals or the freedom of the seas . Indeed , we joined the World War precisely because of such a dispute , although invasion of our shores was not threatened at all . i he twinkling of an eye , early in the World War , Germany 's colonies were seized , her external trade stopped and her mainland commercially isolated by superior naval power . The oceans provide us with a oat oral harrier , but itsadvantages would be destroyed if our Navy were not strong enough to maintain the economic security thus afforded . But the Navy has a protective function in addition to the immediate flow of commerce , as any view of our national history will show , For example , we have expanded Asia-ward fairly steadily , by purchase or seizure or agreemiu  --  i . I mile ago we purchased the vast territory of Alaska , although it lies beyond Caeada and immediately adjoins the Asiatic mainland of 11 kit , is now Soviet Rus , in . Later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rich , fertile and populous Philippines , a large nation in themselves , and distinctly within the Asiatic or Japanese sphere of influence . A part of Samoa , far out in the Pacific , also was added to our possessions . For a long time we have supported the Open-Door Policy in China , not only as an old , established cog in the world 's peace machinery but for the direct purpose of giving us a share in the vast Far Eastern trade . Recently Secretary Stimson enunciated a new policy with distinct Asiatic implications  --  namely , that this country would not recognize changes in sovereignty due to military operations . Problems of the Pacific NTOW , it may be argued that we have no business .01 mixing up in Japan 's sphere of influence , or in keeping the Philippines , or in being willing to defend them in case any great military power closer to them than we are ehooses to absorb them . With such a discussion this article is in no way concerned . The Philippines are with us , and , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to come . But , in any case , we face on the Pacific even more than on the Atlantic ; we have valuable possessions , like the Hawaiian Islands , far out in that ocean , and for a whole decade we have absolutely refused to recognize or have any diplomatic relations whatsoever with the extremely aggressive and militaristic government of the most powerful of all Asiatic and Eastern European nat it ins , Soviet Russia . Turning southward , we acquired the Canal Zone in Panama , although it . lies beyond both Mexico and Central America , in order to enhance our own commercial and military strength , and we have a special interest and influence among the weak countries of the Caribbean and Central America . Besides , we assume as a matter of course that any new canal across the isthmus of Central America should below to and be operated by us . For changing economic and social reasons , which seem satisfactory to us , we have shut down CM I nlinigratiOn , admitting no Japanese or Chinese at all , while at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no matter how poor ( Continued on Page 58 ) THE SATURDAY or overcrowded , from gaining a new foothold or expanding one already occupied in this na t urally rich but sparsely settled continent , whether in Mexico , Central America or South America . This policy , which we call the ' Monroe Doctrine , is so old that its significance is easily overlooked . It has made for peace and for the security of many small , weak nations . But we have main tained it for a century , not for those reasons , which have been incidental , but for our own national interests . Bismarck described it as a " piece of international impertinence , " and Theodore Roosevelt said that it was only as strong as our Navy . Certainly , force , none the less real because not flaunted , has lain behind the Monroe Doctrine . It Is so easy to forget that . at the close of the Civil War , in 1866 , when we had the strongest Navy afloat and several hundred thousand of the most-seasoned troops in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctantly withdrew , at our urgent request , its support from Maximilian , the ill-fated archduke whom it had set upon the throne of Mexico . Naturally , under the circumstances , we did not have to send any troops or even ships to enforce the request . Coming down to more recent times , is it not significant that we never allow the Monroe Doctrine even to be discussed at peace , disarmament and other similar international con-ferences ? Backing Up National Policies Plainly , then , a Navy is for more than the defense of overseas possessions , foreign trade or even coastwise commerce . Its further purpose is to support or implement the whole complex of numerous national policies which have grown up , rightly or wrongly , fairly or unfairly , through the development of political , economic and social forces . A Navy does not advocate or question these policies ; as a servant or instrument of civil authority , it aims to have them peacefully respected , if possible ; if not , it fights for them . If we do not want a Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parcel of a century and a half of national growth . EVENING POST case before . They probably are . Then the question : How and where will they spend themselves ? To know the answer would be to know the further destiny of the human race here , But you do not need the answer . In a world only one-third developed , where , in the present state of productive knowledge , three times as many people might he contained in the web of life , where even yet one-half of the existing population is not within reach of what we call the industrial standard of living , the sudden release of these creative forces , when they are released , is bound to prepare much more work than leisure . Trying , one hundred years ago , to project the consequences of machine industry , the political economist arrived at the celebrated image of one man producing everything by simply turning a winch . Then what ? There would be employment for only one man in a whole kingdom . What would everybody else do ? A human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants were satisfied , would probably destroy itself ; hut that is not . what they were thinking of . WET 1 NZVY ? ICorttfnued front Page 21 ) All this throws light on the argument that a Navy is too costly to maintain , that it is an economic burden or waste . Naturally , one must look at both sides of the account . The mere size of the figures involved is not the essential item , provided every reasonable economy is exercised ; what matters is the extent of the interests to be supported , together with the ability and necessity of supporting them . No type of public construction contains a greater element of wages to labor than that of naval vessels . Throughout our history , the Army or Navy , or both , has done a vast amount of incidental work in the way of scientific research , sanitation , disaster relief , colonial administration , canal and harbor construction , flood and river control , pioneering in the Far West , ed ucat ion , discipline and training . But . these are incidental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of their defense requirements . At present the cost of each branch is substantially the same , the total being approximately 8700,000,000 . Tobacco consumed each year accounts for about three times this sum , and the taxes paid on tobacco would more than pay for either Army or Navy . Candy consumption would just about pay for either , and golf would more than pay for the other . Army and Navy together take 17.41 per cent of Fedoral appropriations , or , to present the picture more fairly , 5.5 per cent of all expenditures for government , including state and local . But this does not include veterans ' relief , interest on public debt and retirement of public debt , all of which are lumped together with Army and Navy operation and maintenance by those who wish to show the enormous cost of wars , " past , present and future . " For 1932 , this makes 65.58 per cent of Federal appropriations , and if we take an average for the whole period of 191331 , which , of course , includes the World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first sight , this certainly makes a terrible showing for the burden of wars and armaments , but the average for this whole period is only 20 per cent. , if state and municipal expenditures be included , and somewhat less jAanugry /COI You see what was wrong with their image . They were projeeting the logical consequence of machine industry in the world as it was then . They did not see that machine industry would give man the power to transform his environment and extend it . prodigiously . They supposed that the quantity of work to he performed was limited by the range of human wants as it existed at that dine , so that labor-saving machinery could mean only heavenly leisure to be divided or , if it were not divided , then the misery of unemployment . It meant neither one nor the other . Each new machine to save time and labor did , of course , release labor from old employment , but at the same time it was like a blast in a quarry of unknown and invisible possibilities , bringing down an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there is less excuse now than there was then to suppose that the economic . world is finished . We have seen what . happens . We know better . Editor 's Note  --  This is the first of three articles by Mr. Garrett .. The next will appear in an early i , than 20 per cent if that portion of the public debt not properly chargeable to the war be excluded . Even a. small one-fifth seems like a large slice of all governmental expenses to go for military purposes . But the figures require still further analysis . Of total Federal appropriations for 1032 , the Veterans ' Administration ac-Counts for 23.72 per cent . This is not the place to discuss the bonus . hospitalization for nonservice disabilities and other veterans ' questions which are at present the subject of such bitter controversy , except to say.that many people feel that much of this cost should be charged to polities rather than to national defense . The Cost of Unpreparedness But what really matters in this article and what goes to the heart of the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1032 ? consists of veterans ' items , interest on public debt and retirement of public debt. , a large part of which is not so much chargeable to national defense as to its lack or very opposite . In other words , these vast items are largely the cost we must pay for having entered the World War unprepared . in fact , defensive preparations might have forestalled these expenses altogether . Colonel House wrote President Wilson on July 14 , 1915 : " If war comes with Germany , it will be because of our unpreparedness and her belief that we are more or less impotent to do her harm . " After the war lie wrote , in a prefatory note to one of his books : " I was sure , given a large and efficient Army and Navy , the United States would have become the arbiter of peace , and probably without the toss of a single life . " If we had begun to build up naval strength promptly in 1914 , and had thoroughly advertised the fact , we might , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoken with sufficient authority not only to have kept ourselves out of war but to have shortened it for the belligerents and saved the world untold billions . As it was , we waited until war was inevitable and then spent , in a flash of hysterical extravagance , not only all we had saved in years of unpreparedness but incredible sums besides . But , comes the objection , was not the World War itself caused by armaments ? Indeed , there is a strongly vocal school of thought which holds that armaments are the one great provocative or inciter to war . It is perfectly true that where there is extreme competition in the nature of a race , as between England and Germany before 1914 , the condition is unhealthy . Yet we already have more than 2,000,000 library titles on the question of World War guilt and , eighteen years after it began , historians are still engaged in an ever-increasing argument as to who was the aggressor and what were the causes . In other words , armies and navies are the results or instruments or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human mind falters before the colossal effort of trying to understand them , and seeks to simplify the whole problem by laying the guilt at the door of armaments . History is full of instances wherein preparedness has prevented wars , and equally so where war has supervened in spite of painstaking defenses being set up . Armaments have been a guaranty of peace as well as a menace to it . They have preserved liberties and been an instrument of tyranny . They have been deterrent as well as provocative . We know that our military strength in 1S66 prevented France from supporting Maximilian in Mexico . It may be that Russia 's military strength since its revolution has prevented that count ry from being the battlefield of Europe . England 's great . Navy did not keep it out . of the World War , but probably averted earlier embro:ilments . Ignoring History 's Teachings This much is certain ? that many of the most terrible wars were not caused by armaments in any sense . Certainly this was true of our own Revolution and of the Civil War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had any military organization to speak of at the start . Indeed , it is possible to go much farther and say that many wars were caused by what looks like the opposite of armaments  --  by idealism . In earlier times , religious wars were the rule , and those who favored the abolition of slavery had much to do with causing the Civil War . Whatever were the causes of the Mexican and Spanish-American wars , armaments were not among them . Even the World War was hailed far and wide as a " war to end all wars , " " to insure world peace , " and " to make the world safe for democracy . " But while wars have been fought for great causes  --  to end slavery and attain liberty  --  there have been many selfish and unjust wars of aggression and domination . This , however , is no reason to say that they were caused by armaments . Whatever progress human beings have made , they are still , unfortunately , animated in part by ignorance , prejudice , suspicion , intolerance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , aggressiveness and lawlessness . Nations , made up of these same human beings , are proverbially more unscrupulous and irrational than the individuals themselves . Remove all these things and armaments will give very little trouble . Thus it is plain that the course of nations is far too devious and complex to ascribe war merely to its immediate instrument . The ultimate peace solution is a far longer road than that . But in any case , there are those who say that navies are no longer needed , because war has become too terrible . It is terrible , and for that very reason the temptation exists to ignore the teachings of history and to erect in to a moral dogma the hope that men will immediately live in peace . After each war  --  perhaps because of the very exhaustion which it causes  --  the theory grows up that no future war can occur . We know , however , that only fourteen years ago we were emerging from the greatest war in history , although only a year or two before we entered it distinguished advocates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground that war for us was utterly impossible . The Nauy as a Force for Peace But , it is said , future wars will be unbelievably futile and costly as well as destructive . Grant . the assertion , and the possibility is not removed by mere denial or wishing . Neither is cancer eliminated by mere negation or even by bewailing its terrors . Presumably , however , with both war and cancer , a long , painstaking process of getting at the root causes will ultimately greatly reduce their extent , if it does not actually remove them . To many minds , however , it is easier and more satisfactory to act as if neither of these scourges will occur again . Another fact which can not be wished away is that obvious and enormous differences exist among races and nations in standards of living , wealth , pressure of population and aggressiveness . This country , for example , combines extreme weal th with an excessive love of peace and ease , and a military system whose necessary delay in training and mobilization makes it anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stable governments , and there are those which do not ; there are nations whose habit is to resort to revolution on any pretext , and there are those which have no such habit ; and there are nations which believe in war , revolution , or any means , fair or foul , to spread their own conceptions of government and social order , and there are those which do not . All this brings us back to our subject of " Why a strong Navy for the United States ? " and leads to the conclusion that such a Navy is more likely to make for peace than for war . It is true that naval power has been instrumental in winning many wars , such as those of the Greeks against the Persians , Rome against Carthago , England against Napoleon , the North against the South , Japan against Russia and the Allies against the Central Powers . But navies merely exert pressure or restraining influence , enabling the more directly and immediately aggressive military weapon , the army , to win an ultimate decision . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restraining influence , but who can deny , in the cases of Great 13ri lain and the United States , that the whole effect has been in the direction of prolonging or preserving the peace , shielding the free movement of commerce and making for stability and settlement rather thaw for instability and unsettlement ? If we had built a strong Navy in 1914 we might have avoided the present bonus problem and all the other troublesome veteran complications , because in all probability it would not have been necessary to create an army 60 THE SRTURDAY or a size so vast that one can never hear rho end of it . But this is by no means all . In the past , some sort of balance between military and naval for has been neeesstiry to maintain world pewee , and the limb:1,1 ) 04 is that swept an equilibrium is still required . But just what does this statement mean ? It means if one nation maintains a superior military force and another maintains a superior naval force , depending upon their respective needs , peace is likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in or a strong navy , army and air force , all at olive , lima look quit for aggression . Or if the nations with navies give them up while the nations with h armies keep these weapons , then lank out .. Let its generously assume that in nation now existing is built ling or planning to build a strong army , navy and air force . Still it would be a calamity if Great Britain and the I liked Stales ceased to be shame naval leavers . Why not frankly face the realities ? If these navies become weak . then there is danger of the great professional or eau-script armies of other ambitious jeerers. either in Asia or Europe , upset ting the world . Now , it can be staled as a very definite fact that the United Stales already has gone much farther in reducing or limiting naval armament than most people realize . : Shortly before we entered Ihe World War we beget , a naval program the like of which was never seen , and this continued for a time after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength . But certain of our Allies in the war became either fearful or jealous of this strength . and se we voluntarily gave up our premier world position , the technical details of which were aeeotnplished through a series of conferences on limitation , chiefly at Washington in 11122 and in London in 1030 . Difficulties of Limitation This was done by us , seen the enormous ( lest Or scrapping new bat de-ships , to promote good understanding , rennlVe fear , prevent any possible competitive rave between ourselves and England , and also to avoid friction and conflict between ourselves and Japan in the Pacific area . It was agreed that England and the United States should have equality , or parity , in fleet strength or tonnage , which was described as r , -5 . This was lased 1 ? 11 t he theory that with parity each could defend itself against the other , but ( amid not successfully attack . This Colin Lry having valuable possessions , foreign trade and extensive obligations , such as the I 'll ' spines , all within easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anywhere near us , it was agreed that the United States should have a stronger fleet than Japan , but not enough stronger to give its aggressive power . Therefore the ratio of 5-3 was agreed upon . Now . there was no inherent virtue in these ratios , but they served as a basis for a sort of stabilizing relativity in armaments , and as all parties agreed to them , there was , naturally , nothing provocative in building within or up to them . In addition , several years after the Washington Conference , many of the nations signed the Kellogg Pact , which was a simple declaration against warlike intent or aggressive warfare . Shortly after he left the White House , Mr. Coolidge wrote an article in which he made it plain that he regarded preparedness , limitation and the Kellogg EVENING POST Pact as necessary supplementary measures , no one being a substitute for the others . But when it comes to applying limitation , the difficulties , technical and otherwise , are simply legion . At the Waushington Conference all the powers present ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , France and Italy  --  agreed upon limitation of airplane carriers and of capital ships  --  that is , of battleships and battle cruisers . It was not until eight years later that England , Japan and the United States reached an agreement regarding su Minn-Mee , cruisers and destroyers . Meanwhile Prance and Italy have made no agreement whatever regarding these three vital categories and have carried on an intensive bathes ; program in at least two of them . As yet there have been no actual treaty agreements to Inn it either armies or aircraft , although detailed proposals in this direction have been made very recently . It must be remembered also that neither Russia nor Germany has been a party to any of these agreements . Offense Weapons on the Defensive To a considerable extent in these conferences each nation or typo of tion seeks to better its own position neat Mil to others , even if an eh:salute reduction is agreed to . For that matter , it is most dilliculI. to say what is fair , because each nation 's situation is unique and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inns which have battleships and can afford them say they are defensive , but other nations insist . they are offensive . France . having many stupendous submarines , insists they are defensive , but England regards them as aggressive commerce raiders . Japan and Italy also have quite a number of submarines and are not so inclined to want them given up as is England . England and the United States wish to limit by classes , or categories , but entail nations wish to limit by total tonnage , so that they can build great numbers of the smaller craft which they can more readily afford . England , having coaling stations and naval bases all over the world , wants many light cruisers , but this country , being very short on bases and coaling stations , wants large , fast cruisers which can go great distances without refueling . For various reasons , Japan and the United States have taken different views of the offensiveness of airplane carriers . But this is only the beginning of difficulty . Naval strength depends not only on fleets and tonnage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval bases . England , of course , is greatly our superior in the second and third respects . Naturally , no effort has been made to agree upon limitation of these factors , and none can be made to reach ratios in respect to raw materiels , chemical and other manufacturing plants , man power and the whole industrial , financial , scientific and inventive resources , actual and potential , which are brought into play in wartime . For example , conferences might agree to limit or even abolish the building of airplane bombers in times of peace . But what on earth can prevent the nation with the best industrial capacity and technical skill from turning commercial planes into military planes in Lime of war ? At one of the Geneva conferences just after Soviet Russia had submitted its naive proposal for " total , general J y 21 , 1 Aircraft in Modern Warfare Now this failure on our part to build up to the agreed ratio is more than welcome to those who do not believe in a Navy at all , including those who insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war come into use so rapidly . Many people insist that the battleship is obsolete , but the extremely violent insistence on the part of nations which can not afford battleships or have failed to build them in the past , that these engines of war are offensive and should , therefore , be abolished , leads the disinterested observer to believe that they represent valuable concentrations of power for economic blockades and other purposes . Just how we can keep our ratios of naval strength , in view of our marked lack of naval bases , without having self-sustained lighting units of large radius is difficult . to see . In the past , many people expected that torpedo boats , destroyers , mines and submarines would wipe out not only battleships but the naval fleets of the world , but this has nut conic about , and nations which do not have battleships still fear them . The military man may be wrong about any one weapons , but then the doctor and lawyer sometimes lose their cases , and even the engineer 's darn or bridge collapses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task is to arrange , use and combine weapons or forces , because history leaches us that while weapons change , their combination and use , or strategy , remains all important . Naturally , every sensible person recognizes the vital importance of aircraft in modern warfare and the necessity of this country 's having powerful aircraft defenses . Navies no longer consist of vessels alone , any more than armies consist only of troops . The navy is now a combination of vessels and aircraft , just a.s .. the army is a combination of troops and aircraft . But airplanes do not start from the air ; they start from the ground or from the decks of ships . Thus they have to be considered in connection with other mechanisms and factors , including the geographical . Our aircraft problem , in case of war with an Asiatic or European power , would quite differ from England 's , in case of a war with France . Single military factors do not operate alone , but are combined with other factors , including the geographical problem and the size @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and submarines are all power-rut weapons . But instead of rendering other weapons obsolete , they have become parts of large strategical problems . It is true that weapons change and new weapons should be studied and adopted . But to leap from this fact , as some people do , to the conclusion that a navy is obsolete and , therefore , useless seems to me strangely faulty reasoning . The whole subject . of the relative strength of the American Navy has been clothed in such technicality and controversy in recent years that the truth appears highly obscured to the average person . Yet the essential points are simple enough . Let it be recalled that the Washington and London treaties , or agreements , both expire at the end of 1936 , and that battleship construction was practically frozen to that date for all five great naval powers . Therefore , the real controversy concerns other classes , or categories , of ships . Let it be recalled also that France and Italy made no agreements regarding cruisers , submarines and destroyers , and that France appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of submarines and destroyers , especially of the former . Building Up to Ratios We have built , are building or have appropriated money for not more than half as many ships as England or one-third as many as Japan . But the treaty ratios are in tonnages , and within the fixed total tonnage allowed , each nation can vary somewhat the number of vessels . By this test we have built , are building or have appropriated money for 71.5 per cent of the tonnage allowed by treaty , whereas Great Britain has built 87.5 per cent and Japan practically 100 per cent . It is true we had a very large Navy in 1022. but in the ten years since then many of these vessels have become overage , and still more will be old by 1036 . In fact , the whole of our enormous and boasted wartime destroyer fleet becomes overage by the end of 1934 . In other words , because of the lack of new building , our Navy is becoming old and out of date . At the and of the treaties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about one-third of those allowed us under the treaty will be modern and underage , whereas from one-half to two-thirds of England 's will be modern , and Japan will have all but seven of the 163 allowed her of the up-to-date class . Any layman can easily verify the ages of all British , Japanese and American naval vessels , and the result is sure to astonish . It is not Great Britain but Japan which has made enormous strides in naval armament . Evidently Japan believes in new ships , and she is likely to be in a position in 1936 to demand parity with England and America , 5-5-5 instead of .5-5-3 . Indeed , in receut weeks she has made proposals looking to an increase in her relative strength . No nation can spring to arms as regards naval vessels , except to a , limited extent . Of the 171 destroyers laid down by us during the war , only thirty-eight were completed before the Armistice and only twenty-seven were in actual service . An even , orderly program of building , based on the idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less provocative of fear in other nations than are spasmodic bursts of overbuilding but is much more economical from every standpoint . The five-year naval-aircraft program approved by Congress in 1926 was estimated to cost $85,078,750 , but , when completed , had cost only $58,771,000 . A moderate but even program of naval building would represent a very small additional percentage of the Federal budget when divided over a term of years . Weakening Our Voice for Peace Now , I can not quite follow the reasoning of some naval officers who argue that we are obliged by treaty to build up to the agreed-upon ratios , or quotas . These quotas were permitted and not required maxima . But they were agreed upon as reasonable and proper in several of the most important international conferences in history , after months of study , discussion and negotiation on the part of the world 's leading statesmen , diplomats and naval experts . They were intended , obviously , to remove fear and to promote stability and the feeling of security . Thus , naval officers are certainly right when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaken our voice for peace at the conference which must be held when the present treaties expire . At the 1922 conference . when Japan 's navy was distinctly inferior to ours , she signed the Nine Power Treaty for the integrity of China , and later the Kellogg Pact .. But by the winter and spring of 1932 , when Japan conducted military operations in Manchuria and around Shanghai , her navy had become almost or substantially the equal of ours , due to our failure to build up to quota strength . Nothing in this article is intended to decry efforts to bring about arbitration of disputes , conciliation , good will and understanding among nations . Many kinds of devices and organizations are needed for this purpose . Every sort or talent and agreement after agreement will be required over long periods of time to remove the causes of war . Even though several treaties were violated  --  at least in the opinion of a great many people  --  by one powerful nation within the past year , it does not follow that treaties and agreements to renounce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand , the commonsense conclusion is that an American Navy second to none , in accordance with treaty agreement , is likely both to keep us out of war and to aid in preventing war elsewhere . By letting our Navy run down , there is danger of a new lack of balance , of new disparities developing . Such does not seem a sensible sort of procedure , but no one can decide this but the people themselves , acting through their authorized representatives . The responsibility is and remains theirs , whether in peace or in war .                     