@@487819

THE struggle over the volunteers in Spain appears to have resulted in another victory for the fascist powers . Talk of opening the French frontier and occupying the island of Minorca has ceased abruptly . Nor does there seem to be the smallest possibility that any Italian and German troops will be withdrawn before the end of the fighting season , if at all . Nominally , Mussolini made an important concession when he agreed to permit a neutral commission to go to Spain to undertake a census of the " volunteers " and make arrangements for their withdrawal . But having gained a breathing-spell by these tactics , he rendered the concession meaningless by refusing to bind himself to accept the commission 's findings . Thus negotiations are back where they were a week or even a month ago , and the fascists have succeeded in gaining a vital delay in which to prepare for a t cw attack on Madrid with fresh Italian troops . Already the delay has borne fruit in the fall of Gijon . If the French frontier had been opened in September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Asturias would still be in government hands . As it is , the fall of Gijon has undoubtedly strengthened Franco 's bargaining power , stiffened the diplomatic resistance of Italy and Germany , and induced further caution on the part of the democratic powers . Perhaps the most brilliant aspect of Mussolini 's strategy is the way in which he has succeeded in placing responsibility for the failure of the withdrawal program on the Soviet Union Because the Soviets are unwilling to accept a plan which is obviously unfair to the Spanish government and contrary to the spirit of the League resolution , they are being denounced as obstructionists and threatened with isolation , leaving the two countries which have consistently sabotaged non-intervention apparently free of blame . Hitler has played his role as skilfully as Mussolini . Without the bluster and threats which usually characterize Nazi diplomacy Germany has managed to support Italy on every point before the Non-Intervention Committee . The Nazis were also quick to take advantage of the powers ' preoccupation in Spain to launch a vicious campaign of propaganda against Czecho-Slovakia and to take the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstances either event would have resulted in a protest from the League powers . But the most that has been forthcoming has been a semi-official reminder by France of the existence of the Franco-Czech mutual-assistance pact . No logical explanation exists for England 's and France 's newest capitulation at London . The democratic countries had the upper hand as far as bargaining power was concerned . Opening of the French frontier coupled with active economic support for the Spanish government would have so strengthened the Loyalists that Italy and Germany would have had no choice but to withdraw as gracefully as possible . And the continuing threat to Britain and France in the Mediterranean , to say nothing of the threat to Europe as a whole , would have been largely liquidated . Yet when it came to a showdown , the democracies again allowed themselves to be taken off their guard by imaginary fascist concessions . There is nothing in the dispatches which adequately explains the surrender . Speculations are numerous and contradictory . Was there a deal whereby France and Britain were assured that their interests in Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some inherent defect in democracy which prevents its statesmen from holding their own against the apparent recklessness of fascist diplomacy ? Even if there were a behind-the-scenes agreement with Mussolini about the Mediterranean and the Balearic Islands , it is difficult to see what assurance Britain could have had that the promises would be kept . Italian soldiers are still in control of Majorca , and contingents have recently been landed in Spanish Morocco . Louis Fischer on another page of this issue reports that Italian troops continue to arrive in Spain . No man can be counted on to be more zealous than Mussolini in obtaining the full measure of advantage from his victory , or to be less scrupulous in observing his word . Throughout the dismal history of non-intervention no pledge has been The NATION honored by the fascist powers when it has been to their advantage to repudiate it . Thus , deal or no deal , it is evident that democratic statesmanship has been far from astute . While it might seem unfair to attribute this weakness to democracy itself , it can not be denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracies makes it difficult for statesmen to call the fascists ' bluff even though the hope of peace rests in such actions . When we consider also the powerful groups within the democracies which because of economic or class interests are sympathetic with the fascist aspirations , the limitations of democratic statesmanship are the more understandable . But although weakness can be explained it can not be justified . The very existence of democracy depends on bridging these conflicting interests with a system of law and a concept of justice which will be respected . The City or the Tiger ? AF TER weeks of campaigning , the issue in the New York City elections remains fundamentally the same : the voters will have to choose between an able and efficient municipal administration and the corruption of Tammany ; between the city and the Tiger . LaGuardia has been helped rather than hindered by the curious crossing of party lines , in which he finds himself running on both a Republican and a Labor Party platform , with team-mates and support representing the extremes of economic viewpoint . He has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue of good government . He has insisted on making the issue Tammany , while Mahoney , his Democratic opponent , has sought to make it communism . Mahoney 's managers have sedulously refrained from using as speakers the more malodorous Tammany people , much to their pain , and have labored at the thankless task of convicting the LaGuardia-Seabury-Dewey triumvirate of bolshevism and godlessness . Mahoney 's military objective has been to drive the anti-Communist , religious wedge into the LaGuardia support , and split off the Irish-Catholic labor vote which traditionally has been Tammany 's but has now shifted . It is almost certain that he will not be successful . The LaGuardia ticket has gained much strength by the addition of the racket-buster Thomas E. Dewey . In addition , it has the united support of the newspapers  --  with the exception of the Hearst press and the Tory Sun  --  and of such mass-circulation mediums as the Saturday Evening Post and the March of Time . The straw votes and the heavy betting odds indicate one of the biggest sweeps in New York 's history . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discuss some of the more important stakes and consequences of the election . Within the good-government issue there are wheels within wheels of state and national politics and policy . The Republicans ' support of LaGuardia is not wholly disinterested . By hitching their October 30 , 1937 wagon to his star they will for the first time get their candidates into the minor offices ; above all , they are aiming to capture a majority in the crucial state constitutional convention . Neither is Jim Farley 's support of Mahoney disinterested . Farley wants to build a state machine for himself , and he can do it only through a Farleyized Tammany , the spearpoint of which was the defeat of Copeland by Mahoney in the primaries . But the person whose future is really interesting is LaGuardia himself . He has already been boomed for President in significant quarters  --  by William Allen White and by General Hugh Johnson . Jay Franklin , in his astute biography of the Mayor , sees him primarily in national terms . His American Western background combined with roots in the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the skill he has thus far shown in riding the tides of political life is nothing short of uncanny . It is when we consider LaGuardia 's record as a New Dealer even before Roosevelt became one that we approach the real meaning of the election . It has been an unhappy fact that the national New Deal , under Democratic leadership , has never extended to the big city governments . This is partly because the reform energy has exhausted itself nationally , but principally because the Democrats have needed the city machines in order to win ? the Tammany , Nash-Kelley , Pendergast , Curley machines . It is on this basis that Farley has sought to sell Mahoney to the President . New York is now the biggest test of the possibility of a New Deal in municipal goverment It is not as is generally said a question of whether a reform city administration can succeed itself . It is a question of whether a reformed and socialized capitalism will succeed throughout American life or be isolated and finally starved out in Washington . That is the real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason one of the most important features of the campaign is the fight over the City Council . Valid city government is not only a matter of dramatic personal careers like those of LaGuardia and Dewey : it must be built painfully , brick by brick , from the ground up . Because the revolt against Tammany has hitherto succeeded only around the dramatic figures , the new system of proportional representation adopted in New York for the election of members of the Council may prove of major importance . P. R. not only will enable the people to elect more Republican and Democratic anti-Tammanyites to the Council , but will also mean that Socialists , Communists , and Labor Party candidates , by the cumulative counting of the successive choices , will finally find their place in the city government . It is of the utmost importance for the voters to mark on their ballots an adequate number of candidates for the Council . The Labor Party has wisely allied itself with LaGuardia and Dewey . It is not only supporting them but running its own candidates for the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bronx . When we say " wisely " we do not mean that LaGuardia is the ideal representative of labor . As between Mahoney and LaGuardia , labor can have no choice but the latter ; but even LaGuardia 's labor record is by no means flawless . His465 support of George Harvey was , to our mind , such " slick " politics as to amount to a major political blunder . His support of Bruce Barton , Republican candidate for Congress against George Backer , the Labor Party candidate , was equally a blunder in view of Barton 's enthusiasm for Mussolini 's corporate state . But labor , taking its fledgling steps in politics , can not afford perfectionism . What LaGuardia will do in the future is a matter of guesswork . Labor 's support of him now must be viewed as an incident in its long-run bid for political effectiveness . The Windsor Build-up THE Duke of Windsor 's new role of self-appointed ambassador and investigator to the Third Reich and the Unted States has aspects that are at once fantastic and sinister . If he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neglected and wanted attention , we should be the last to grudge him the satisfaction of these entirely human desires . Perhaps the Duchess wants to be among her friends in Germany and America rather than clatter about in drafty Austrian castles or be stared at by Balkan peasants ; or maybe she wants the Duke to settle down to the serious business of life  --  and what could be more serious than housing and the condition of the working classes ? But if all this is true it still does not explain the fact that they have made the German trip as the personal guests of Hitler ; it does not explain the official manner in which the German government has been allowed to manage and interpret the trip ; it does not explain the deliberate and unnecessary Nazi salute by the Duke . It does not explain the significant fact that he was received not by his friend Ribbentrop or by Foreign Office officials or by the top men in the government , but by Robert Ley , the Fiihrer of German labor . The Duke is undoubtedly fuzzy-minded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can be turned to the uses of the fascist gospel . Here is a king whose heart bled publicly at the condition of the British workers ; here is a king who lost his throne not only for love but presumably also for saying that " something must be done " about the labor problem . What could be cleverer than to connect a royal exile of such views with the Nazi method of " solving " the labor problem ? This might have several effects . It might impress the Duke with German proletarian happiness as contrasted with the misery of the British workers in the derelict areas . It might show the German workers that British royalty has given the Nazi system its stamp of approval . And it might , above all , be intended to impress the British workers with Windsor 's tender concern for them , thus far frustrated by an unfeeling ruling class . That this is not wholly far-fetched will be clear to any. ; one who knows that the Duke and Duchess have had more than a fleeting charitable impulse toward Nazism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dorothy Dunbar Bromley in the New York World-Telegram , According to Miss Bromley , the German visit was first planned while the Windsors were visiting Charles Bedaux in his Hungarian castle . Bedaux is an intimate not only of the Duke but also of Hitler ; he is the originator of the infamous Bedaux speed-up system and an open supporter of fascism . Miss Bromley knows Bedaux and has talked with him about Windsor . When she says therefore that there is a plan afoot in the Duke 's coterie of friends to build him up through publicity until the English people receive him back as a sort of " super-king , " the information can only have come from Mr. Bedaux himself . This fabulous story is borne out by a report in the New York Daily News that the French and British diplomatic intelligence services have investigated the Duke 's " social-appeasement " movement and disclosed it as an " ingeniously conceived scheme " devised by Mr. Bedaux " for the international development of fascism , " to be furthered by the royal junket to Germany and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is being executed with unbelievable stupidity . Not only is the German visit further embittering British court circles against Windsor . Far more important , it has already turned British working-class opinion against the Duke , for the British workers are intensely anti-Nazi . And it is not hard to predict that most Americans , who have thus far been the Duke 's warmest sympathizers , will as a result of his Nazi visit subject everything he does here to a cold and skeptical scrutiny . Out of the Everglades GOVERNOR FREDERICK P. CONE of Florida , comfortably seated in his cheerful suite on the twenty-third floor of the Waldorf-Astoria in New York , was all affability when some half-dozen persons representing the press , labor , the church , and the Committee for Civil Rights in Tampa called to question him about the next move in bringing to justice the men responsible for the murder of Joseph Shoemaker , dead almost two years . The state had done everything it could , the Governor insisted , and one might be sure that it would continue to do everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation by outside agencies , though he expressed strong doubts that they could " do anything . " He himself , of course , could do nothing ; it was up to the courts , and he has no control over the courts . He was for labor , he drawled , for everybody in fact , and so long as people did n't break the law they 'd be safe in Florida . After all , he said , there have been many unsolved murders . Now in California .. . But the picture of Joseph Shoemaker , tarred and feathered and beaten to death not because he broke the law but because he tried to exercise his simple right of political protest , could not be erased so easily . Sharp questions rose from every corner of the room and pierced the smooth political surfaces like a shower of brass tacks . " The C. I. 0 . is a legal organization , " said a representative of that committee , " but it is being openly The NATION said in Florida that the Klan will not permit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as governor , guarantee us protection in our legitimate activities in organizing the workers of Florida ? " " As long as you do n't break any laws , " said the Governor ( his voice was politic , and he was rising to dismiss the group suavely ) , " you 'll be protected . " Then suddenly the heavy , insensitive face became agitated above the wing collar , and the eyes blazed . " But if you try to overthrow the government , " he shouted , lifting a long arm , " you 'll be rode out on a rail . " An antediluvian shadow seemed to fill the room , and the delegation was suddenly looking into dark alleys of ignorance and brutality . " Any man that tried to overthrow the government ought to be hung to a tree , " continued the governor of the sovereign state of Florida . His arm still in the air , his eyes still blazing , he said , " If you tried to take anybody 's property . . . " He grew more excited . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A calm twentieth-century voice interrupted . " If someone broke the law , would you invoke the law against him , or do you believe people should take the law into their own hands ? " " If you came into my house . . . " " Would you go to the law first ? " the voice persisted . " No ! I 'd go to you first ! " In the background now soothing voices were pulling him away and the delegation was being ushered out . But the voice of civil liberties , this time a woman 's voice , persisted firmly : " Governor Cone , do you consider the Klan a legal organization ? " The Governor knew now that he had said too much . He became almost affable again . " I do n't know anything about the Klan , " he said , in his politic voice , " except what I read in the newspapers . " As the group filed out , his voice trailed after them , almost pleading . " I 'm for labor . I 'm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Shoemaker , leader of the Modern Democrats , a party organized to fight corruption in Tampa , was kidnapped on the night of November 30 , 1935 , with two companions . All were flogged . Shoemaker died of his injuries . After long delays five Tampa policemen were convicted of having taken part in the kidnapping . The Supreme Court of the state reversed the convictions . After further delay , the same defendants and one other were brought to trial for second-degree murder on October 6 . But the judge , after ruling out all testimony presented in the kidnapping trial , directed a verdict of acquittal for lack of evidence . Governor Cone made it clear that the Shoemaker case is ended as far as Florida is concerned . Shoemaker 's murderers are known ; they must be brought to justice ; and they can be , despite the legal devices that have so far protected them , if the groups and individuals to whom civil liberty is the very condition of their continued existence will unite to force a federal investigation . It can best be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by letter and telegram will help bring about such an investigation ; in particular we hope the C. I 0 . will use its best efforts to force exposure of the political and social underworld in which Shoemaker met his death . It could do no greater single service to the cause of labor organization in the South .                     