@@470260

MODE RN science provides us with two first-rate generalizations about the landscape . The first of these arises from the science of geology and its modern offshoot , physiography . From them we know that the landscape is not inert or changeless ; it is intensely dynamic and genetic . Time , no less than space , is an essential part of its character . For the second great generalization we are indebted to ecology and anthropology . These sciences have taught that man himself is not a watcher , but like other living things , is a part of the landscape in which he abides . This landscape , including its living constituents , is an integrated whole . To use the analogy of health and disease , what happens to one part must affect the rest . There have been many attempts to analyze and classify the landscape . These efforts arise from the most varied sources . Any concern which is doing a national business ? and this includes bureaus of the Federal Government ? finds itself obliged to divide the map of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get its work done . Recently in a courtroom I saw a calendar setting forth the regions used by a law-book publishing company in reporting judicial decisions . Students of folklore and literature find themselves toying with the problem of regionalism and attempting to sense the course of cultural history in terms of endemic folk creation . Yet if one considers all of these attempts and compares them carefully he will discover that there is no practical , working agreement . Even the more acute students of climate , despite the remarkable progress they have made , are forced to agree with Albert Giles that there is no finality in dividing up the continent into climatic units . The process may be continued indefinitely , depending upon the refinement and the nature of the criteria employed . A few years ago I was tramping along a tributary of the great Kaw River in Kansas with an elderly friend who had crowded more of adventure into his lifetime than ordinarily falls to the lot of three generations of men . As we sat on a rock to catch our breath he glanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from one rim to the other . Meanwhile I had made some remark about the condition of the native vegetation . " Strange , " he said , " what this one valley would mean to different men . You see it as a scientist and measure it in terms of the work of water in building it , the plants and animals which have occupied it , and the changes wrought by human occupation . An engineer coming into it would immediately see that site for a great and stable clam . With this dam he would impound the waters and use them to produce an industrial community . A farmer would select a site for house , barn , and well ; he would locate his pastures , fences , and fields for feed crops . An army officer would instantly select the spot from which his forces could dominate the valley . He would locate his outposts , emplacements , and lines of communication . " Being myself an old actor and stage manager , " continued my friend , " I see here a great and majestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And I realize that the play of human tragedy and comedy which this valley has witnessed could be made to adorn any stage in the world . " What my fricnd was saying has been said in more technical fashion by such great geographers as Sauer and Isaiah Bowman . It is in brief this : that the only way a landscape can be classified or its regional character designated is in terms of the human culture which occupies it . And when the culture is as complex as ours the meaning of the landscape becomes accordingly complex . A number of years ago , having completed a rough but useful map of the native vegetation of Ohio , we were much interested to discover if possible how this pattern might be related to the pattern of Indian cultural sites . Miss Anna 0 . Shepard , now of the Laboratory of Anthropology at Sante Fe , made a careful study of the maps of Indian village sites , mounds , and trails which had been prepared by Mills and Shetrone . To our great disappointment , we found that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , namely , vegetation and human culture . To the Indian , lacking , as he did , steel tools and domestic work animals , the location of streams and their rich , flat , easily tilled terraces was paramount . The differences in texture between oak and maple wood and the differences in quality of various kinds of forested upland soils did not concern him as they did the later industrialized European . Neither was he concerned with the great buried beds of iron and coal which have created the manufacturing area of the upper Ohio valley . He was concerned with these no more than we are with the location and quality of flint ridges , salt licks , and pipestone quarries . It is well to recall that the Indians were at first amused when the Spaniards and British exhibited their greedy preoccupation with yellowgold . Later of course this greed ceased to be laughable for anybody concerned . And to-day , with over half of the world 's supply of gold in the United States and much of that buried in the hills of Kentucky , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our rival nations can get along as neatly without it as did our Indian friends . One can not over-emphasize the importance of human culture as a key to the meaning of the landscape . One of the most evil blots upon the American scene has been the pauperization of the inhabitants of the Dust Bowl and their change to a hungry and distressed class of wandering workers . The landscape on which they lived was unable to support them . Yet I have the word of a banker from this region that distress was unknown so long as his trade area practiced a cattle economy . In that time he had even effected some improvement by refusing to lend money to the cattle growers for buying eggs , condensed milk , and vegetables which they could produce themselves . Later , however , the landscape was utilized almost exclusively for the growing of wheat as a cash crop . Under this regime both the landscape and the human culture went to pieces . Within the past few years the area has undergone a profound reconstruction , but of that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasize the fact that a landscape must be read in cultural terms . It is necessary for scientists to realize more clearly than they do that science itself is a manifestation of human culture . They have been too much accustomed to think of it as something aloof from , and independent of , the culture which gave it birth . Our histories of science portray the great discoverers as geniuses living in ivory towers , working quite outside the common life of man . Certainly science has encountered and occasioned tremendous conflict with entrenched phases of the culture pattern ? quite as though it were something alien and incommensurable with what had preceded it . Yet the scientist , for all of his boasted independence , is , in a sense , as great a slave to convention as any individual within the social pattern . If you disbelieve this , try publishing the reports of a genuine discovery in words or symbols which have not had the social approval of your fellow scientists . This whole question of the cultural origin and conditioning of science has been so well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessary to go farther with it . It is more to the point at this juncture to examine those phases of the cultural pattern to which science has been particularly applied , and in which it has produced the most remarkable changes . II If we try to examine the world of western Europe and its extensions into other continents we find , first , that the applications of science have been chiefly on the basis of unrestricted individual profit . Through a faulty analysis this is sometimes confused with the profit motive in general , of which it is merely a special case . In the second place , as a result of the motive of unrestricted individual profit , scientific technology has been preoccupied with the elaboration of raw materials into consumers ' goods . This involves great technological advance in transportation ; but just as it is important not to confuse the various possibilities of the profit motive , so it is essential not to confuse physical transportation with the much more fundamental matter of distribution . The problem of distribution has been essentially ignored in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objected that the pure scientist is not in any sense concerned with financial profit or even the cultural significance of his work . This may be approximately true so far as the individual is concerned , but fails to carry conviction in view of the immense returns which have accrued from the application of pure science . It is neither accident , philanthropy , nor unworldliness that explains the heavy endowment of pure research in numerous great industrial laboratories . A study of the origin and growth of the concept of pure science among Americans would be a very fruitful and , I guess , very revealing piece of work . One has only to consider the history of various experiment stations and university departments of science to learn that the battle for pure research was essentially a fight to do scientific work that was worth the paper it was written on ; in other words , it was a struggle for the right to do scientific work that was good enough to serve some useful end . Often unreasonable pressure from so-called " practical " sources for speedy or showy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by publication of superficial work , practical needs were ultimately ill-served . It is necessary to remember too that science arose as commerce was breaking the pattern of feudalism . In quick succession a mercantile society shot through with vestiges of feudalism became a highly industrialized society and then one manipulated in terms of concentrated and fabulous financial power . Feudalism , mercantilism , industrialism , financialism ? the landscape of to-day bears the scars of these four successive and deep-seated phases of human cultural activity . Feudalism , for example , has persisted in religious , educational , and social relationships . It was transported to the new world in the form of great estates contemptuous of physical labor , it sunk to its nadir in slavery . This slavery , under various names , still persists ? north and south , east and west . And the prestige of the feudal lord transformed into reasonably modern idiom still represents the goal of most human striving . Feudal forms still persist in schools ; if there is any civil institution much less democratic in certain respects than the average State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning , feudal estates were subsistence enterprises with mutual obligations running through the whole pattern . But in every great culture that has ever existed , the concentration of wealth has resulted in a degradation of the man who worked the land and the eventual ruin of the land itself . From this fate the mercantile development of the late Middle Ages seemed to offer an escape . Men in towns and cities , through the accumulation of gold , could carry farms and owners about in their pockets . No wonder we developed so much respect for money in spite of the fact that it was and is nothing but a symbol for wealth . The chain does not end . Goods were the key to wealth . Markets were expanding . Labor was scarce . Rich prizes lay at hand for those who could multiply goods and dispose of them for gold . This became possible through the development of machinery and power . There was no counterbalance offering rewards to those who would have us pause and ask to what end this feverish activity was leading . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to centrali7r financial control of the processes of production , the sources of supply , and the labor of men . Some idea of the power of this change may be secured when we recall that one may now go from Cleveland to New York in less time than it used to take an Ohio farmer to drive to the county seat and visit his banker . Yet the distance a farmer could drive in a half day has determined the number and size of counties in Ohio with all of the attendant organization of institutions , human effort , and values . It would be more logical to-day to have Ohio divided into not more than a score of counties , but imagine the practical difficulties that would be encountered if an attempt were made to do this . Cotton growing affords an even more pungent example of the effect of change in technology combined with the encrustation of the successive phases of culture-forms of the past four hundred years . Cotton grown in the Southern States under a feudal social system onland heavily mortgaged is shipped abroad for manufacture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of western Europe . Computing our entire export of the past century to Europe , for each bale of cotton that has been shipped , one hundred and thirty tons of soil have been washed into the Gulf of Mexico . ( I am indebted to Robert Montgomery of the University of Texas for this figure . ) In exchange , we receive one ounce of European gold as a token for each bale with its investiture of soil . " And then , " adds Mr. Montgomery , " we bury the gold in northern Kentucky . " The effect of such confused and irresponsible procedures as this upon the landscape ought to be well known by this time . Certainly it has been presented to the public in a rich diversity of books and magazine articles . Nevertheless , it is characteristic of our confusion that many otherwise intelligent citizens regard this information as calamity howling , special pleading , or a sinister sort of political propaganda for the present Administration at Washington . One of the most curious contradictions in the American character is our utter failure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservation . Undoubtedly this is due to our persistent habit of reckoning wealth in numerical terms , using the medium of exchange as the reality instead of that vastly more complex thing , the actual wealth of which it is the symbol . Beyond this lies the fact that great masses of our population can , at present , be appealed to only on an intensely personal basis by arousing their emotions concerning very immediate matters . These things being true , it might be well to gauge the present status of the American landscape . Roughly , the land surface of the earth consists of almost a quarter desert , one-third forest , and nearly a half grassland . For the United States , the proportion of forest originally ran much higher than this . To-day , with great areas cleared for agriculture and other purposes , more than one-fourth of the United States is still classified as woodland . Eighty per cent of this is in private hands , subject to no check in its exploitation . It is commonly stated that we are cutting timber four times faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are facing , in spite of the extensive use of substitute materials , an increased dependence upon forest products . The new discoveries in the realm of cellulose chemistry look increasingly to the cheap and continuous production of wood as a source of supply . The gracious fig tree which afforded clothing to our legendary first parents was , after all , a symbol of what was coming . The step from lingerie , stockings , and raincoats to breeches and aprons is not insurmountable . The past generation has seen an increase in the price of certain types of lumber amounting to almost five hundred per cent , a revolution in structural design , and a scarcity of adequate housing which is not pleasant to contemplate . This of course is in part due to the diversion of capital and energy into the field of pleasure transportation . Even so the fact remains that home-building has become a costly luxury because of the scarcity of once-abundant structural materials . In a recent drive of two hundred and fifty miles through eastern Ohio I saw only two farm woodlots in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was concerned , most of the standing trees were culls ? good only for firewood . A great deal of the cleared land which I saw was really suited for but one crop : namely , trees . The woodland floors had been trampled , pastured , or burned . The leaf mold was gone and with it most of the constructive and beneficial influences which a healthy forest contributes to the landscape . Essentially , then , what I have described represents a destructive , rather than a wholesome , relationship . The entire aggregate of planted and protected forest in the United States represents in economic terms but a drop in the bucket . The value which it has is symbolic and monitory , an example merely of the way in which we could recruit our capital wealth . Substantially the same situation holds true for our grassland . It has been ruthlessly sacrificed , in the interests of a cash economy , to grow crops which could be exchanged for money . A few years ago Weaver and Fitzpatrick were obliged to travel thirty thousand miles in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The economic importance of a huge reserve of natural grassland is not so easy to establish as that of the forest because the grass can not ? like wood , wheat , or cotton ? always be directly harvested ; and there are times when the market appears to be oversupplied with livestock produced by grazing . This latter situation , be it said , by no means indicates that every American has all the beefsteak he needs to eat . A major importance of the grassland lies in its capacity to yield organic material under any variations of its severe and fluctuating climate . Unlike the crops which replace it , it is never caught napping by heat , cold , flood , or drought . As in the case of the forest , its persistent destruction represents an unwholesome condition of the landscape . Both forests and grassland arc a necessary means in establishing the intricate relation of material and energy which is designated as soil . For soil is a great deal more than the chemical mixture we so often think it to be . It is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inanimate nature ? a phenomenon in delicate balance , and precious stuff to boot . Thanks to the devoted studies of Hugh Bennett and his associates there are ample figures to indicate the degree to which the soil has been destroyed by the white man in the United States . A general average of about one-third of the top soil gone is usually quoted . This figure is , if anything , too low . The only thing which saves the country from complete agricultural , disaster is the presence of great areas of glacial till and broad alluvial valleys with the accumulation of centuries . Elsewhere we have cleared , farmed , abandoned to pasture , and then ? as the last desperate step ? abandoned the worthless pasture to whatever native growth might take it over . Decreased yields we have for a long time attributed to chemical exhaustion ? a theory which we reluctantly altered only in the presence of the unanswerable gully . With half our area in farms , less than a quarter is in cropland to-day , ? and much of that fraction is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested the process of soil construction and sent the bulk of our residual upland soils into the ocean . Here , as in the case of the forest and grassland cover , we are underwriting a relationship which is destructive and unwholesome . In similar fashion , we might assay those other resources of the landscape , namely the water and wild life of all descriptions . The water table is unquestionably dropping beneath our feet , while the frequency and destructiveness of floods increases . Wild life and fish have come so near the vanishing point that the American sportsman spends much more of his time agitating for better hunting and fishing than he does carrying a gun or rod . He is , in fact , no longer the symbol of destruction , but one of the most effective and intelligent forces at work to-day in a battle for the restoration of the landscape . I recently heard Mr. Montgomery , already referred to , give a most dramatic emphasis to our present situation by reading Andrew Jackson 's Thanksgiving proclamation for 1837 ? one hundred and two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , Jackson predicted an endless period of abundant good living for every citizen . He specifically mentioned unemployment as an ancient specter of the human race which would be forever banished . Yet in the year that Jackson died , 1845 , Sir Charles Lye11 , the great British geologist , was expressing his hor ror at the gullies of Georgia and the inequitable , irresponsible social pattern of the agricultural United States . He was horrified too at the opinions expressed by some of Jackson 's own followers . In Kentucky , Lye/1 was told by the Jacksonians that no man should hold a chair in a State university for more than three years because such a good job ought to be passed round . This indicates a fundamental contempt toward the kind of knowledge which might have averted some of our present disaster . The capitalistic greed which Jackson opposed was not the only force working toward the ruin of the American landscape . Let us keep the record straight on this point . It was the American pattern ? and not any group or individual ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences , the conditions which we have described are all too apparent . Population shifts , bank failures , decreased land ownership , and a standard of rural living below that of the average European peasant all speak for themselves . " Tobacco Road " has had the second longest run in the history of the American Theater , largely , it may be suspected , because of its vulgarity . It will hardly do as an accurate picture of the Southern sharecropper ; yet it fairly symbolizes a standard of living far too prevalent in the United States and , at the same time , absolutely needless . I can not forget that in the winter of 1932 , three hundred miles west of the breadlines in Oklahoma City , I saw vast heaps of wheat left to rot in the open air beside the railroad tracks . III If we turn from the landscape to the political scene , we see increasing numbers of organizations devoted to special phases of what is called Conservation . Conservation , I have observed , is a word which the politician loves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mother Hubbard dress described by Mr. Joe Cannon , it can be made to cover a great deal of territory without touching any very vital spot . The result has been that vast sums of money have been expended to the great satisfaction of the politician and to the temporary appeasement of these diversified conservation groups . Perhaps one of the most interesting expenditures , because one of the oldest , is the breeding of fish to be turned loose in waters which would not support them . Slowly , however , these organizations are beginning to learn that all of them are concerned with different facets of the one great central problem , ? that is , the restoration of the American landscape to a condition of health and constructive activity . And so the scientist awakens to find really potent delegations at his doorstep , asking guidance and promising effective support . This challenge can be embarrassing . The layman realizes , for example , that education is essential to the conservation movement . One group has appointed a committee on education , of which I am a member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support for its recommendations . There is every inducement to prepare a manifesto and have it widely adopted . Unfortunately , the sober truth is that Conservation is not a subject which can be taught . It is a way of life into which we must grow as a people . The scientist is on the spot . Accustomed to getting results from him in chemistry , medicine , and industry , the American public now turns to him with an almost pathetic confidence for relief in its present plight . What may it expect ? Certainly science faces a far more profound and serious task than the kind of ingenious trouble-shooting to which it has been accustomed . It is one thing to streamline an automobile , improve radio reception , invent a new dye formula , or devise a new structural design . It is a very different thing to aid in reshaping the attitude and way of life of a nation , especially one which has been accustomed from the first , with a few notable excep tions , to despise the earth upon which it depends . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis is to be found in the field of public health . We know enough of the painful and fumbling progress in sanitation , hygiene , and prophylaxis to have some notion of what lies ahead in attempting to reshape the landscape . Fortunately for my optimism , I have just had a chance to revisit the Dust Bowl , after an interval of three years . The Southern Dust Bowl is an area of fifty million acres and it is by no means healed ? we still have dust storms . But in Deaf Smith County in the Texas Panhandle an extensive area is being put under conservation measures by cooperation between the government and the owners organized into conservation districts . This is in a short-grass , semiarid climate , best adapted to the grazing economy but capable of rich yields of wheat in favorable years . The climatic pattern is such , however , that long periods of drought alternate with periods of ample moisture . When the drought comes the wheat blows out and the soil goes with it . In this co-operative area I saw land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grama grasses were beginning to reappear . This was accomplished mainly by the extraordinary and unusual means of leaving it alone . The process was of course visibly hastened by scattering a cover of native hay with its many seeds and by the use of nurse crops , even weeds . Willingly and effectively , the co-operating farmers were shifting their economy back toward a greater dependence upon natural grassland . The overgrazed and discouraged pastures which had not been plowed up were being rejuvenated by voluntarily decreasing the load of cattle and by a system of contour furrowing which conserved every drop of moisture . Wheat farming has not been abandoned but is being carried on with the thoroughgoing precautions which are demanded under such critical conditions . Wheat fields are carefully terraced and the terraces planted to grain sorghum which resists washing , acts as a windbreak , and furnishes necessary cattle food . Special types of terrace have been devised which hold and absorb practically every drop of water that falls . Of particular interest were the great syrup-pan terraces where water must flow from one side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on its way down . On one such hillside , water from the hilltop would travel a distance of seven miles to reach the depression a quarter of a mile below . Thus far no water has completed the journey ; it has all soaked in . This spring the wheat fields are green . The cattle in the pastures are sleek and fat . The occasional non-co-operating farm with its blown-out wheat , dirty gray pasture , and thin cattle merely serves to point the lesson . One gets an impression of a landscape under control ? which is the only kind of a landscape , aside from one in its untouched natural beauty , that is fit to look upon . This has been accomplished at an average expense of about a dollar an acre . I asked Mr. Williams , the director in charge , what he could do with the price of a battleship . He said , " I could heal the Dust Bowl : every one of its fifty million acres . " I am describing merely one limited area . This area is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stupidity . Yet the striking fact remains that successful , mutual action is under way on a large scale among those traditional and genuine individualists , the Texans . It may be objected that a considerable force of public servants has been employed in this enterprise . I watched these public servants carefully . They are keen young men ; many of them are native to the region . In what some are pleased to call a happier day , their energy and zeal would be devoting itself to real estate promotion , the sale of unnecessary farm implements , fly-by-night banking , and various brands of fast stuff which is the prerogative of a certain lean and hungry fringe of the legal profession . I leave the reader to choose which is the better use of human ability . IV What are some of the things which the scientist must face if he accepts the invitation to lend his aid in redesigning the landscape ? In the first place , he must supply a perspective in terms of time and change . It is perfectly feasible to-day for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to support life is increasing or decreasing . He can tell whether the plant and animal life is in reasonable equilibrium with soil , topography , and climate . He can tell whether the process of soil construction is proceeding or whether there is a net loss . He can tell whether erosion is going on at its natural rate or being accelerated . He can tell whether there is the most efficient use of water during that period of its cycle when it is available for the support of life ; one drop on the land is worth two in the sky , and three in the sea . We are crippled in this task of analyzing the landscape at present for the same reason that the astronomer before the days of Newton and Leibnitz was handicapped : there is as yet no adequate system of notation for dealing with the great complex of facts and shifting relationships that are known . Like the astronomer , the ecologist is dealing with relationships in flux . Yet despite this handicap , for practical purposes , substantial help can be given . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and interpreting the many communities over the country which are going concerns . In almost every type of region in the United States there are to be found communities of people whose soil and economy are healthy . The words boom and depression are unknown to them . Largely these people practice diversified subsistence farming and skillful land-use . The one-crop , cash-crop system is avoided . Yet curiously enough , these communities have cash reserves . Many of them have ways of living that may not appeal to a jazzed-up and jaded American , or even to one who is soberly reflective and educated . Yet it is essential that we somehow bridge the gap between the twentieth-century American who is destroying the landscape and these medieval communities in our midst which are conserving it . Science must be prepared to take an increasing responsibility in American education . I am not talking about more money for laboratories and research , and not necessarily for more time on the schedule . I am talking about better teaching , with more concern for the individual who may be taking his only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of thing which we may reasonably expect to stay with him and be useful to him as long as he lives . Consider for a moment how little in common exists to-day among the four following groups of our population : engineer , biologist , lawyer , and artist . Yet it is essential that these and other groups be mutually articulate in the great task of redesigning the landscape . Interest in education is of course an aspect of a broader responsibility which the scientist must cultivate . I refer to an interest in and sympathy for the social problems of his fellow-men . As a biologist , I blush to record that the net product of most biological thought upon social problems has been a statement of despair . The biologist has been so impressed with the rigor of the laws of heredity that he is often positively illiterate on the matter of cultural influences and processes . Once an understanding of the nature of the cultural process is attained the natural scientist will lose a certain rigidity and naivet ? when he comes to prescribe measures for social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however well-meaning , are dangerous . Practically , this means that he will understand each human community as a problem in itself , to be so approached and studied . Complexity , with its resulting variability and individuality , which the scientist already knows as attributesof the living human being , will be reckoned with as characteristics of the group as well . Certain simple postulates of the working politician will be seen to be as rudimentary and essential as the lore of the farmer is to the geneticist or the plant physiologist who must work with living plants and animals . This technic of working with the variable , the complex , and growing is by no means the common possession of scientists , not even of this generation of biologists , preoccupied as they have been with analysis . In the eighteenth century the neat dynamics of Newtonian science certainly affected religion , architecture , biology , social theory , and political action . It is inevitable that the relative , rather than the mechanical approach , is long overdue in the application of science to human affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientist who must counsel us on the landscape of the future must scrutinize the basic assumptions of economic theory . I believe this scrutiny will have to deal with something far more fundamental than the conventions of modern exchange , or even the threadbare set-up of supply and demand . The balmy group which gathered about technocracy should not blind us to the fact that the landscape can be viewed as a great manifestation of the principles of thermodynamics , an endless cycle of material and energy interchange . Under a condition of nature undisturbed , or even in the presence of a primitive culture such as that of the American Indian , the effect of this cycle registers upon the landscape as a net gain in energy and elaborated chemical compounds . These constitute the resources of a virgin continent . Our civilization , and to a large extent that of western Europe , is the expression of these great reserves , converted to human use . But the distribution has been most unequable , and the use has been at the expense of the process of building further reserves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stopped the process of its replacement . This is not an economic process , and can not be justified . If a new approach to economics will help in the solution of our difficulty let us not hesitate to make it . Not only must the scientist of the future work in awareness of social and economic processes , but he must clear a further hurdle . No doubt this may sound preposterous , but assuredly it is not . The scientist must be aware of the relation of his task to the field of wsthetics . What is right and economical and in balance is in general satisfying . Not the least important symptom of the present decay of the American landscape is its appalling ugliness . The almost obscene character of American domestic architecture during the past seventy-five years corresponded sharply with a period of contempt for craftsmanship and material . Incidentally it coincided precisely with the period of plunder of the great American forests . It is the expression of a thoroughly rotten situation , and looks it . The highways of Texas are to-day a model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objects of beauty . Not long before they had been like the highways of Oklahoma which we have studied , one of the worst sources of land and water waste . We had found , for example , that the average road in central Oklahoma had sunk three feet in forty years and was responsible for an average of ten gullies to the mile , running back into adjacent farm lands . The situation in Texas was not very different . But in Texas the highway chief hired a Dutch-trained landscape architect and backed him with a club against the resistance of local engineers . Out went the ugly V-shaped ditches with their bare walls , to be replaced by broad , grass-covered spillways and reservoirs back from the road . Native herbs , shrubs , and trees were used as far as possible . To-day the roads arc sound , right , and beautiful , and the engineers are converted . There is an inescapable relation between balance and beauty ? ask any physiologist who has ever plotted a curve . And finally , the scientist who must help us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new dignity . I can express the situation best by telling of an old engineer friend whose son was in college . When I asked him about the boy he said , " Yes , I want him to be an engineer and he has been trained as one . But he is in law school now , and I 'm not going to turn him loose until I can be sure the world wo n't impose on him as it does on most engineers . " Social and industrial institutions have preferred to use the scientist too often as a tinkerer rather than a counsellor . This is a situation which he should no longer accept meekly . The society about him lives by virtue of a technology which he has developed . It is high time he have something to say about the ends toward which his work is directed . Naturally this means more than insistence on his part ? it means a strenuous self-discipline as well . Those who sit in the seats of power are a cagey lot who give nothing for effort in their system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its two billions of acres for a potential population of one hundred and fifty million , or even two hundred million , can be made a place of plenty , permanence , and beauty . But this most assuredly can not be done without the aid of science . Nor can such aid be rendered by men of science unaware of the task which confronts them . He is adviser on northern operations for Pan-American Airways . WHEN the reader has finished Wilhelm ROpke 's " Totalitarian ' Prosperity ' " and has rim over in his mind the internal condition of Russia , Italy , Germany , and Great Britain , and when he has glanced at the gold hoard pouring into Fort Knox , Kentucky , and then glanced again at the huge reservoirs of " cash " in the great New York banks he will be inclined to wonder which wall of this blind alley will break first . This article came to us through the offices of Howard S. Ellis , Professor of Economics at the University of California , who wrote to us about Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and English-speaking countries as well for his work in business cycles . . . He left the University of Bonn with the advent of Hitler , for the University at Istanbul . " For the last two years Professor ROpke has been on the faculty of the Institut Universitaire de Hautes Etudes Internarionales in Geneva . Recently he has been carrying on a research program on International Economic Disintegration under the auspices of the Rockefeller Foundation . He is the author of What 's Wrong with the World , German Commercial Policy , and Crises and Cycles . HERE is the last installment of Sir Ed- ward Marsh 's " A Number of People . " Other portions appeared in the May and June numbers . All of this material and a great deal more will appear soon after this issue is published in a volume with the same title used for the series . This month the author is concerned with three famous Englishmen ? Rupert Brooke , T. E. Lawrence , and D. H. Lawrence ? as dissimilar characters as ever walked this earth . eAsea ASSEMBLY LINE BLACKSTONE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Law Factories . " Last December his series began with " The Legal Profession . " In April he dealt with " The                     