@@487358

ITHIN the past fortnight the situation in the Far East has threatened to overshadow the Italo-Ethiopian conflict as an immediate menace to world peace . - Backed by the British , Nanking has taken a surprisingly firm stand against Japan 's scheme for transforming the entire northern portion of China , including its ancient capital at Peking , into a Japanese colony . Reflecting the unification of the country in opposition to Tokyo , the local Chinese militarists in the north , upon whom Japan had counted for aid in its scheme for " autonomy , " have failed to join in the movement . Sung Cheh-yuan , commander of the Peking-Tientsin area , has wavered , but Shang Chen , governor of Hopei , and Han Fu-chu , governor of Shantung , appear to have definitely rebuffed all attempts to persuade them to join the " autonomy " movement . Thus instead of being able to present the world with a spontaneous demand for independence from Nanking , Japan has been forced to call upon its troops to bring direct pressure on the recalcitrant war lords . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League in the Italo-Ethiopian dispute and force Japan into open war , or whether it will follow its customary course of compromise and delay , is of course impossible to predict . The resignation of Wang Ching-wei , well-known for his pro-Japanese attitude , as president of the Executive Yuan has given rise to the belief that Nanking is prepared to fight before yielding the whole of North China . But even if it does offer military resistance , the result is bound to be much the same . Nothing short of joint intervention by the United States and the League powers is likely to stop the Japanese militarists in their latest adventure . Behind the threatened invasion of North China lies-the fact that Manchuria has failed to yield the economic advantages that were anticipated in 1931 . This failure is exposed in a recent article in Economisto , a Japanese journal devoted to economic and financial problems . The purpose of the seizure of Manchuria , according to this journal , was threefold : " to supply the industry of Japan proper with raw materials , to conquer a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population of Japan . " In each instance the results have been disappointing . Many of the raw materials especially desired by Japan are not produced in Manchuria . A considerable portion of the capital invested in Manchoukuo has merely served to create new competitors for Japan 's domestic industry , and much of the remainder has gone into railways , roads , and other developments which are of strategic but not commercial value . Although Japanese exports to Manchuria have risen substantially , these exports have consisted largely of the means of production and have been financed by Japanese capital . No increase has occurred in Manchuria 's purchase of textiles and cheap manufactured articles , the type of goods which Japan is best fitted to produce . And despite , a severe agricultural crisis in Japan , there has been practically no emigration to Manchoukuo . The economic possibilities of North China are obviously much greater . Recent experiments in cotton-growing have Japan 's rapidly expanding textile industry . Important deposits of coal and iron ore also exist , which could readily be exploited through the construction of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economist ? points out , the climate of North China is much less severe than that of Manchuria , and there is reason to believe that some immigration of Japanese might be obtained . The primary danger in the present situation , however , does not lie in North China . Although the Japanese military leaders are anxious to gain control over the resources of this area , their main interest is clearly in Inner Mongolia , where preparations appear to be under way for a flanking attack against Soviet Siberia . The recent collapse of negotiations between the Mongolian People 's Republic and Manchoukuo as a result of the tatter 's demand for recognition has intensified the danger that border incidents in this area may prove the spark that would set off a world conflagration . During the past three years Japan has been making steady encroachments on Inner Mongolia . The province of Jehol , which is an integral part of Mongolia , was annexed to Manchoukuo in the spring of 1933 . In January , 1935 , a portion of Chahar was added to the puppet state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southern terminus of the caravan route to Urga and central Siberia , and Japanese advisers have been recently appointed to the Chahar government . The chief threat to Japanese aspirations in Mongolia comes not from Nanking , which has never exercised direct control over this region , but from the Chinese Communists , who have advanced to the neighboring provinces of Shansi and Shensi . Squeezed between strong red areas in China proper and the Communist-dominated Mongolian People 's Republic , a large section of Inner Mongolia might fall under Soviet influence if it were not for the Japanese . This eventuality Tokyo is determined to prevent , particularly since control of this area with its potential air bases would prove of great strategic value in a Soviet-Japanese conflict . The danger is that in its effort to check communism Japan will become involved in a war with Outer Mongolia , in which case Soviet Russia could scarcely be neutral . Most observers agree that the time has passed when Tokyo would dare to challenge the Soviet Union 's position in the Far East without the support of some European power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing for such a conflict , one can only conclude that at least an informal agreement already exists between Japan and the Third Reich . Success in checkmating such a combination depends , in the last analysis , on the vigilance of the League , while the League 's policy , in turn , is largely dependent on Great Britain . Heretofore Britain has been definitely pro-Japanese in its Eastern policy , but its recent reminder to Japan regarding the existence of the Nine-Power Pact , together with the reported loan to Russia , indicates a reversal in attitude . These facts suggest that the Foreign Office has concluded that no time is more auspicious than the present for stopping Japanese aggression . A strong stand by China , supported by League sanctions , might yet check Japan . Lewis and Labor j OHN L. LEWIS 'S resignation from the executive council of the American Federation of Labor , though it was spectacular after the Lewis fashion , was not unexpected except in the moment chosen . It was the opening shot in the battle of American labor to beat down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it from realizing its enormous potential strength and seizing the power it should rightfully exercise in our democracy . It- is ironic and unfortunate but not illogical , given our peculiar development as a nation , that the first line of the enemy forces stands within the labor movement itself in the form of a small but strongly intrenched army of craft unions headed by a little band of blind and reactionary bureaucrats who have played into the hands of the real enemies of labor , the great industrial corporations , which are not weak and have their eyes wide open . From a short perspective the job that John L. Lewis and his fellow-members of the Committee for Industrial Organization have set for themselves  --  to bring the main body of American labor into the federation against the majority will of the executive council itself  --  seems difficult . Even the technical device by which they will find it possible to organize the mass-production industries without benefit of mandates and yet within the framework of the A. F. of L. remains to be invented . It may be , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the craft-union majority on the executive council will win , and that industrial unionism will be compelled to form its own federation . But it is only necessary to consider the forces involved to realize that such a victory by the craft unions would be an empty one , that Mr. Green and his cohorts would merely have won the privilege of dying slowly instead of being killed outright  --  a privilege which , to be sure , they will fight for to the last ditch . Mr. Lewis has chosen to lead the forces which Mr. Green can not possibly control and which he has therefore tried to keep out of the federation . In other words , Lewis is going in the direction which American labor under the impulsion of mass production must take ; and fortunately he is proceeding with a consciousness which has been lacking so far in American labor leaders of his power and influence , a consciousness which even John L. Lewis did not possess three years ago . Since then the NRA , whose workings he studied at first hand , has served to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between capital and labor and to demonstrate the weakness of labor , even with Section 7-a behind it , that is not organized and ready to fight in the same way that employers are organized and ready to fight . Since then , also , fascism has triumphed in Germany , and the fate of labor unions in Hitler 's domain is a strong irritant in the minds of Lewis , Hillman , Dubinsky , and the others . Mr. Lewis underlined this threat in his radio speech when he pointed out that there were forces at work in this country which would wipe out , if they could , the labor movement in America just as the labor movements of Germany and Italy were wiped out . Moreover , Mr. Lewis is under no illusion as to the identity of those forces . While Ryan , Green , Woll , et al . go on feverish red hunts with the aid of Hugh Johnson , Mr. Lewis , who loves reds no better than they do , proposes to organize the steel industry . In all the basic industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in economic strength to management . " Otherwise there can be no prosperity even in a country whose " industry can produce enough for an abundant life for all classes of people , " and our democratic institutions can not be preserved . This is plain horse sense , and there is no doubt that the greater part of labor is with Lewis and the industrial committee . They already have a million organized workers at their backs ; and there are other millions of the unorganized in steel , automobiles , and every mass-production industry , clamoring to be led . What is more , the wide interest in Mr. Lewis 's dramatic resignation  --  some fifty newspaper re-porters attended the conference which followed  --  indicates that a large section of public opinion is watching him in his new role with profound interest ; and the fact that his whole career and personality  --  his fighting tactics , his eloquence , even his appearance  --  are as indigenous as William Jennings Bryan or Billy the Kid will help him to win the support both of labor and the public . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he is undertaking a political ven-ture as - well as a unionizing campaign , or that he will hesi-tate to face the issue of a labor party when the time comes . From this longer point of view the possibility that Lewis has set out upon a course which may lead to dual federa-tionism loses much of its significance . The present develop-ment is much more likely to resemble the sequence of events by which the A. F. of L. grew out of the Knights of Labor . History will probably record that in 1935 the giant of American mass-production labor woke up , ripped off the tight but puny bindings of craft unionism , and started going places . Shun the Nazi Olympics T HE Amateur Athletic Union is holding , on December 6 to 8 , - the convention at which the final vote will be taken on participation by American teams in the Olympic games at Berlin . Two years ago the union voted-to withdraw from the ' games unless assurance could be given by German officials that the contest would be held according to international rules of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Germany . The protest against American participation has arisen and gathered impressive momentum because it is widely believed that these promises are contrary to the facts . The movement for withdrawal from Hitler 's Olympics rests on two assumptions . The first is that in Germany " non-Aryans " are refused equal opportunities with members of Nazi sport clubs to'train for the Olympics . The second is that , contrary to the time-honored traditions of this international sporting event , the German government is in every respect controlling as well as sponsoring the Olympic games to be held in Berlin . On the first point the evidence is overwhelming and need not be repeated here . The fact that two Jewish athletes have been asked to serve on German teams is a meager smoke screen for the ban on Catholics and Jews in Nazi athletics . On the second point proof mounts daily . Perhaps the most striking was the ill-timed  --  for the Nazi position  --  appointment of Councilor Wilfred Bade of the Reich Propaganda Ministry to the Organization committee for the winter Olympics . Herr Bade , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Joseph Goebbels , Minister of Propaganda , and will undertake to coordinate the winter organization committee 's work with the Propaganda Ministry 's . " If further proof is needed that the Berlin Olympics will be government controlled instead of taking place under the aegis of international amateur sport , it can be found in the pages of a pamphlet written by Bruno Malitz , one of the most prominent sport leaders of the Nazi storm troops . This remarkable document is in the files of the Committee on Fair Play in Sports , which offers translations of some of the more noteworthy passages . It has been distributed free of charge to all sport clubs and youth organizations in Germany and is on the preferred list of the National Socialist Library . Herr Malitz declares : We Nazis oppose neither physical exercise nor sport ; we fight against liberalism and its intrusion into sports . We fight this because liberal thinking is in direct opposition to our own . The Jewish leaders in sports and the ones poisoned by Jews , the pacifists and reconcilers of peoples , the pan-Europeans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herr Malitz even has a word to say about the Olympic games in particular , in addition to his remarks about sport in general : - You will ask us now , " Do n't you want any international games , any Olympic games in the Nazi state ? " We answer , " Yes ; as a matter of fact we consider them , due to international propaganda reasons , as necessary . " . . . The state will name the teams . The roster of organizations favoring withdrawal of the United States from Hitler 's Olympics grows daily . Two important men have also lately added their voices to the protest . One is Ernest Lee Jahncke , former Assistant Secretary of the Navy and one of the three American members of the International Olympics Committee . The other is Zack Farmer , managing director of the 1932 Olympic games in Los Angeles . Both of them earnestly and with reluctance declare their complete disbelief in German promises of equality of opportunity for athletes and their conviction that the games in Germany will be dominated by the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also a member of the Olympics Committee , expresses a belief in German assurances that the code will be observed , General Sherrill has also disclosed some of his other prejudices , which may explain his stand on the Olympics . On November 26 , speaking before the Italian Chamber of Commerce at the Biltmore Hotel in New York City , he said : " I am here today to speak for a man I have long known and admired , for a gallant father who has sent his own two sons into the thick of the fighting for their beloved homeland  --  for Mussolini , also father of that amazing creation of his brain and heart  --  the new Italy . " And referring to Mussolini 's suppression of communism , he added : " I wish to God he 'd come over here and have a chance to do that same thing . " It is clear that Hitler 's brand of Olympic games is exactly to the General 's taste . Those persons who would prefer that Mussolini remain in Italy  --  if anywhere  --  and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphatic opposition to the Berlin games , and , if they are members of the A. A. U. , their votes . The Greatest Living Writer . ITERARY prize committees may take a certain comfort in the results of a symposium recently conducted by J i Books Abroad , a useful review ' of foreign publications issued quarterly by the University of Oklahoma Press . At the editor 's invitation various writers , scholars , and critics made nominations for the Nobel Prize , but on the basis of the results just published nobody got it . What is more , a careful examination of the nominations themselves and of the reasons assigned by the various proposers fails to reveal the slightest trace of that " consensus of informed opinion " to which many persons are in the habit of referring . There is nothing like any general agreement , and that is not all . It is plain from the comments accompanying the ballots that approximately one-half of the fictitious committee would vote the booby prize to the candidates proposed by the other half . - Plainly if Books Abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be almost as unpopular as the Pulitzer drama prize itself . Thirty-three nominations were offered , but the highest score made by any individual was the five votes received by Maxim Gorki . Theodore Dreiser got three ; Willa Cather , Andre Gide , Eugene O'Neill , and Franz Werfel , two each . The remaining seventeen votes , or half the total , were distributed to as many different individuals ; thus even if all the candidates receiving more than one vote each were lumped together , this composite genius would still lack a bare majority . Several contributors to the symposium , in a spirit more conscientious than generous , could not bring themselves to award the $40,000 ( payable in Oklahoma wooden nickels ) to anyone . Several of the others , giving reasons , imply discordant " standards , " the variety of which ought to seem profoundly discouraging to Marxists , New Humanists , and others who go about with yardsticks guaranteed standard by faith , reason , or that hypothetical consensus of informed opinion which either does not exist or proves the gentlemen selected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voting alone for James Branch Cabell , wants the critic to ask himself of any writer , " Do you enjoy his work now more or less than when you first read it ? " Mr. Troy , who apparently regards the classics of literature as a series of tombstones , votes for James Joyce because " he brings to a close one whole period of modern European culture . " Mr. Allen Porterfield  --  who may possibly have a tinge of satire in his nature  --  chooses Christopher Morley because he " leads a decent life " and because , by middle age , he has written more than the ten million words which Goethe finally got to his credit . As for our                     