@@470075

America is dividing into two camps on the issue of foreign policy . On the one hand , there are those who plead for union between the free democracies against the onslaught of the autocracies . They argue that the struggle is inevitable . It is we or they . One or the other will triumph . There is not room for both . The settlement may be postponed , it can not be avoided . If the democracies do not strike and win to-day , to-morrow they must strike and may lose . The victory may be won to-day without war , by a display of superior force , and by the imposition of economic sanctions . If such tactics fail war may be necessary . Even war is preferable to dishonorable capitulation to an unworthy foe . There are greater ills than war . There are values worth fighting for , cost what they may . The protagonists of this theory are the blood sons of Woodrow Wilson , who for all his forebodings of war 's cost in life and liberty , urged war in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace , " he said , " and we shall fight for the things which we have always carried nearest our hearts ? for democracy . . . for a universal domain of right . . . as shall bring peace and safety to all nations and make the world itself at last free . " They who now reflect that Wilsonian faith are men of many creeds ? die-hard Republicans , New Deal Democrats , communists ? but they are united on the doctrine which Wilson wrote into the covenant of the League of Nations . They would have the free nations banded together in firm compact , serving as arbiter between contesting nations , determining the virtue of the contending claims , picking aggressors , imposing economic coercion or waging actual warfare . They view the world as the extension of neighborhood , the duties of the nation as the extension of the duties of the individual . Their creed is expressed by Nicholas Murray Butler , " The ? one path of progress is to organize the family of nations in a responsible fashionfor collective action and security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police do in the city of New York . " There is a second school of American thought which contends that the United States should hold itself severely aloof from the broils of Europe and Asia , maintain her historic neutrality , and avoid entangling commitments . The votaries of this school argue that no company of the " free democracies " will risk war by imposing effective sanctions upon any major aggressor . They failed to do so in the Italo-Ethiopian war in 1935 . They failed to do so when Japan invaded Manchuria in 1931 . As evidence that the democracies will always fail to do so , unless driven by direct national interest , there is cited the House of Commons vote of February 22 , 1938 , by which Neville Chamberlain was upheld in his renunciation of League philosophy . They are convinced that effective economic sanctions lead to war , and quote so convinced a League protagonist as Anthony Eden to bear them out . Furthermore , this second school argues that the division of the world into two camps is specious and artificial , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the contest between those rival forces is being waged within the British Empire , within France , and within the United States ? even within Germany and Italy and Japan ? and that the attempt to freeze such ideological lines serves to unite the citizens of the autocracies behind their rulers , and that it ignores the threats against democracy within the democratic countries . They contend that such easy division between " good " nations and " had " nations is dangerous and hypocritical . They describe the League of Nations as the instrument of the winners to guard their winnings . They oppose the League 's philosophy on the ground that it ignores history and all that history teaches of the ebb and flow of peoples . It ignores , they say , the irresistible changes which come through pressures of population , of the rebirth of creative energy in nations long slumbering , and of the inevitable divisions , redivisions , and amalgamations of territory so long as man exists . That philosophy ignores , they aver , the psychological causes of war and the imponderable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the true motives of the nations which seize the name democracy , and forgets that the democracies have the purity of surfeit . Glorifying the democracy of Great Britain , the Leaguers recall the hospitable air of Hyde Park and overlook Kenya and Amritsar . Exultant in the orderly democracy of the United States , they celebrate Emporia and pass over Jersey City . They conveniently disregard history , mourn over Manchuria and forget Haiti , grow choleric over Ethiopia and omit the story of the Transvaal . The critics of the League reject the promise of the gains through forcible discipline of the unruly , and hazard a diffident guess that war ? or the threat of war ? will neither persuade the erring to return to the ways of democracy nor leave any substantial democracy in the lands which boast their present purity . Therefore , conclude the adherents of this second school , let America abide in self-control , maintain a scrupulously correct neutrality toward all belligerents , and order her own house with such wisdom as she may summon . III Upon which of these two courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States can not go both ways . But for eighteen years the United States has been going both ways . On the one hand , there has been a determined movement toward isolation . The election of 1920 was an angry shout . A cartoonist of that year drew the G.O.P. elephant in full retreat , hearing a banner , " Lafayette , we have quitl " But it was not the G.O.P. which had quit , it was the American people . The rejection of the League had popular support , and no party since 1920 has dared to suggest joining the League . The repeated rejection of the World Court was equally decisive . The acerbity of the rejection was sharpened by the discovery that Europe would not or could not repay her borrowed billions . In 1934 Congress , by the Johnson Act , forbade American loans to defaulting debtors . In 1935 Congress , aroused by the prospect of the Italo-Ethiopian war , passed a neutrality act which was extended in 1936 and 1937 . The trend was clear . Congress , reflecting the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While Congress was thus repeatedly taking a neutral stand , successive Administrations were involving us in world affairs . In 1921-22 we sponsored the Washington Conference , won substantial accord on the limitation of navies , and signed the Nine-Power Treaty designed to preserve the territorial integrity of China . In 1928 , we took a leading part in bringing about the Pact of Paris ? the Kellogg Pact ? a grandiose gesture which was hailed as the " bridge to the League of Nations . " Pro-leaguers talked of " fitting the Pact and the League together . " In the meantime we had already taken a good many steps to Geneva , joining in scores of cultural , economic , and technical activities under the aegis of the League . By 1932 we were moving ahead of the League by virtue of Henry L. Stimson 's precipitate and ineffectual threat to Japan . By May , 1933 , President Roosevelt had authorized Norman Davis at Geneva to announce that , if substantial disarmament were achieved , we would commit ourselves to " consult other states in case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any action tending to defeat " collective action taken by the nations provided " we concur in the judgment rendered as to the responsible and guilty party . " Franklin Roosevelt had thus taken us part way to Geneva without the consent of Congress . In 1935 , during the Italo-Ethiopian war , the United States , under the shield of the Neutrality Act , went farther than Great Britain in taking measures against Italy .. In 1937 , when actual if undeclared war broke in China , we faced the first major test of our course . Where , then , are we going ? . . . We have gone both ways . ... They are not parallel ways . Congress has doggedly moved toward neutrality , with the seeming approval of the people . Does the President propose neutrality ? Those who remember his speech at Chautauqua in August , 1936 , thought that he so proposed . " I can at least make certain , " he then said , " that no act of the United States helps to produce or to pro- mote war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutrality laws passed by Congress , " new weapons , " he called them , by which the President of the United States can maintain our neutrality . " Nevertheless , " he continued , " and I speak from a long experience ? the effective maintenance of American neutrality depends today , as in the past , on the wisdom and determination of whoever at the moment occupy the offices of President and Secretary of State . " Or does the President propose our involvement ? Was his Chicago " quarantine " speech a serious statement of intention ? The answer must be sought in the annals of the months which have elapsed since Japanese troops invaded China , in July , 1937 . When on January 28 , 1938 , President Roosevelt asked Congress to build a greater Navy at a cost variously estimated from eight hundred million dollars to five billion dollars , the outcry was immediate . Some protested on pacifist grounds ? they never liked navies . But far more important were they who questioned the proposal on the ground of policy . Their concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implement . This concern has deepened as the debate has lengthened . In the background were the Neutrality Bills . Congress had in effect said , " When war comes , East or West , the United States will withdraw its nationals , halt its trade in the implements of war , ban loans , and maintain an austere impartiality . " Congress ' decision was gen erally applauded . The ordinary citizen thought it was all settled . On July 7 , 1937 , there occurred the incident at the Marco Polo Bridge . Japan had invaded China . War was on . In the United States there was no declaration of neutrality . No war had been declared , therefore there was no war , seemed the official attitude . ( Nor , let it be recalled , had war been declared in Ethiopia or in Spain . Yet in each case our neutrality was invoked . ) There was justification for some delay in China ? the conflict might have passed ? so some said . The Administration , despite its failure to declare our neutrality , wavered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a sleeper with a bad conscience . Many Americans wanted the neutrality which Congress had charted ? Mr. Hull , Mr. Roosevelt knew this . On August 27th the Japanese naval authorities announced that American shipping might be subject to the blockade of the Chinese coast . Washington ordered a stop to the shipping of munitions to China and Japan in ships in which the government had an investment . The Wichita sailed from Baltimore with airplanes and other war material consigned to China . The State Department ordered the Wichita to unload in California , . . That same day Mr. Hull served notice on Japan and China that the United States reserved all rights on its own behalf and on behalf of its nationals for damages to American lives or property ? the first " strict accountability " note . " What about our nationals in China ? " The question was put to President Roosevelt on a yacht off Montauk Point . September 6th . The President replied , " All of the 7,780 Americans in China have been strongly urged to get out and any who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The next day Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt , Jr . arrived from China , with memories of a bad trip down the Whangpoo River , and a retort obviously directed at her distant cousin-inlaw : " Then why the Asiatic fleet ? " On September 9th Secretary Hull assured the press that the United States government would protect its nationals to the limit of its ability , and that it intended to retain its military and naval forces in the Far East during the Sino-Japanese emergency . On September 25th Admiral Harry E. Yarnell , Commander-in-Chief of our Asiatic Squadron , issued an order to all units under his command , indicating that the naval forces would " offer all possible protection and assistance to our nationals in cases where needed . . . . Naval vessels will be stationed in ports where American citizens are concentrated and will remain there until it is no longer possible or necessary to protect them or until they have been evacuated . . . . This policy . . will be continued as long as the present controversy . . . exists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been warned to leave China . . . . " The State Department , when asked for confirmation , said nothing . Evidently the wavering was over . The Washington Administration was not neutral . By October Ist rumors were abroad that the President was toying with the idea of a long-distance blockade of Japan , in which British and American fleets would co-operate . On October 3rd the New York Sunday News carried a brightly colored double-spread map of the Pacific , with the caption " Long Distance Blockade . " The line was drawn from Alaska to Singapore by way of Hawaii , divided into two parts , American and British patrolled . Some said it was the President 's plan . At any rate the publisher of the News had visited the President a few weeks before . On October 5th uncertainty as to the President 's position was ended . He spoke in Chicago , announced that " the very foundations of civilization are seriously threatened , " that the ninety percent of the peoples of the earth who are minded " to live in peace under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in " concerted effort in opposition to those violations of treaties , of those ignorings of humane instincts which to-day are creating a state of international anarchy and instability from which there is no escape through mere isolation or neutrality " and that the righteous democratic nations must " quarantine " the autocracies , seeking " some way to make their will prevail . " The President 's speech was followed by other events . The same day the League issued from Geneva a denunciation of Japan and a proposal for joint action under American leadership . The next day , the 6th , the State Department issued a memorandum reciting Washington 's peaceful steps , its admonitions on the use of force and the sanctity of treaties , and in effect declared Japan an aggressor ? although avoiding the use of the term . The Department intimated that a conference of the signatories of the Nine Power Pact was in order . Again , by coincidence , there appeared the same day in the New York Times a full-page letter from Henry L. Stimson hailing Roosevelt 's speech as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coincidence ? there appeared an editorial in the Daily Worker in which Earl Browder welcomed " the President 's declaration of a positive peace policy for the United States . " And Senator Key Pittman of Nevada , Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , joined in the praise of the President 's declarations , affirming that a quarantine would put a stop to Japan 's invasion of China within thirty days , and adding that we should promptly " ostracize " Japan . Doubt was ended . The wavering was over . The crusade was on . The press rubbed its inky eye , and responded with varying degrees of enthusiasm . The New York Times was glad that " an eloquent voice has expressed the deep moral indignation which is felt in this country against policies of ruthlessness and conquest . " The New York Herald Tribune was more cautious . If it was an appeal for anything it was for a popular emotional mandate to the President to take whatever course in our international relations seemed to him best . " The Washington Post 's enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson has an American President made so strong a plea for effective co-operation in behalf of peace as was voiced by Mr. Roosevelt in Chicago . . . . The speech ends , for all time it may be hoped , the flabby , vicious , humiliating doctrine that America can see no difference between a ruthless aggressor and the innocent victim of his aggression . " The Philadelphia Inquirer suggested , " Let 's not stick our necks out . " On October 12th the President sat down with the country for a fireside chat . He ? did not repeat any of the prickly words used in Chicago . He assured " My friends " that he wanted peace and proposed to get it , and said , " Meanwhile remember that from 1913 to 1931 I personally was fairly close to world events and in that period , while I learned much of what to do , I also learned much of what not to do . " The emphasis on the word not was remembered by all listeners . On November 3rd the Brussels conference convened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pact , in reality it was a rump League of Nations , with nineteen powers in attendance , including the United States . Our presence brought joy to Downing Street . " I would go from Melbourne to Alaska to get the United States to the conference , " said Anthony Eden to the House of Corn-mom . Eden had no need to exert himself . " it was our idea ; it was our party , " said Edwin L. James in the New York Times . It was a sad party . Mr. Roosevelt , no matter what brave thoughts he had committed to the air on October 5th , had heard from the hog and corn hinterland . " Do n't stick your neck out " was the word to the President . And he did n't . Norman Davis , his spokesman , said little and apparently did nothing . Nor were the British minded to start a crusade . Eden said to the House of Commons when the conference was ended , " There are two possible forms of sanctions : the ineffective , which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means the risk , if not the certainty of war . " The conference closed on November 24th and men asked , " Why the party ? " Mr. Roosevelt 's motives are shrouded . British motives were interpreted by Pertinax , foreign editor of Echo de Paris , " They ( the British ) expected that by giving him empty words about the Far East , they would make him more inclined in the future to join a common front against Europe 's bellicose dictators . " The New York Times mourned that " the United States has lost its leadership in world affairs . . . the reason for this loss of influence is plain ; treaty-breaking governments and dictators have become convinced that for no cause short of actual invasion will the United States initiate or join in any effective movement to assure world peace . " In the meantime the American Congress had assembled on November 15th . Senators and representatives returned from talking with their neighbors . Senators Clark , Capper , and La Follette each introduced bills for war referenda . In the House there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floor . Congress was beginning to ask the President , " Where are you taking us ? " IV The war in China continued . On December 12th Japanese fliers dropped bombs on the United States gunboat Panay and her convoy of three Standard Oil barges , in the Yangtze River , twenty-five miles above Nanking . The Panay carried the American flag . American lives were lost . On December 13th the President instructed the Secretary of State to inform the Mikado that " the President is deeply shocked and concerned . " The facsimile of the instructions was given to the press , showing editing in the President 's hand , the crossing off of suggests , and the writing in of requests ? a stronger word . Before the American protest could be delivered in Tokyo the Japanese had already delivered an apology . Washington held this to be insufficient , but accepted the final apology on December 24th and the incident was officially closed . Motion pictures of the bombing were rushed by plane to New York , protected by American soldiers . J. Hall Paxton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a survivor of the Panay , reached Washington on January 6th and held a press conference . " Mr. Paxton , " reported the New York Times , " was wearing the same suit he had on when the Panay was bombed by Japanese airplanes . The coat and vest were stained by blood and by acid from the bombs , and the coat had a large rent in the right shoulder . " On January 3 , 1938 , Mr. Roosevelt , in his message to Congress , reported that the country had been kept at peace " despite provocations which in other years , because of their seriousness , could well have engendered war . " He recited our excellent record in international affairs , our " observing of our own treaty obligations , " warned that we " can not be certain of reciprocity on the part of others , " and concluded that we must " be strong enough to assure the observance of those fundamentals of the peaceful solution of conflicts which are the only ultimate basis for orderly existence . " On January I Oth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , against bringing the Ludlow Resolution , providing for a national referendum before any declaration of war except in case of invasion , to the floor . This defeat by a narrow margin ? eleven votes would have reversed it ? was hailed as an Administration victory . " The Administration , " commented the Christian Science Monitor , " exerted every energy and influence to defeat the amendment . In the judgment of some members of the House , so much direct pressure has not been exerted by the Administration on any other bill in recent legislative history . . . . Indeed it is safe to say that the measure would have carried easily but for the well-disciplined votes of several city and State ' machines ' . " Mr. Roosevelt 's letter to Mr. Bankhead was read from the floor of the House . Mr. Hull sent his testimony . Mr. Woodring , Secretary of War , spoke against the resolution . Administration servants lobbied . Mr. Farley used the telephone to good effect , reminding Congressmen of those immutable laws of life which determine political careers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill was defeated by a confirmed and honest opposition minority allied with the docile " machine " vote from New York , Philadelphia , and the solid South . Even those who questioned the wisdom of the bill recognized the significance of the fight . " It is important , " commented the Philadelphia Record , " because the one thing which makes democracies such as ours different from autocracies such as Japan is that the people have a say in determining national policy . Yet . . . Alf Landon wrote and Mr. Roosevelt agreed , that neither the people nor their elected representatives should even question the policies of the State Department . On January 10th Mr. Hull , in response to senatorial inquiry , wrote Vice President Garner , outlining American interests in China , giving the figures on our investments , the number of our nationals still there , and the number of our military forces in China . The bulk of the Secretary 's letter was devoted to emphasizing that " the interest and the concern of the United States in the Far Eastern situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continent are not measured by the numbers of American citizens residing in a particular country at a particular moment nor by the amount of investment of American citizens nor by the volume of trade . . . . There is a broader and much more fundamental interest ? which is that orderly process in international relationships be maintained . " .. At this point it may be interesting to cite another letter , written by Mr. Hull to the national president of the Women 's International League on December 21st , replying to a request for an answer to the question " Why has American policy differed so in the Spanish and Far Eastern situations ? " Mr. Hull assured the women that " Our rights , interests , and obligations in China . . . differ greatly from those in Spain . In the one situation it was thought that application of the Neutrality Resolution was in the interest of this country , and its nationals , and in the other situation it was thought that such action would be unwise . " The Philadelphia Record added an unkind footnote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cordell Hull wants to be the world 's Marquis of Queensberry . . Nobody has the remotest notion of obeying the rules but apparently that does n't matter to Mr. Hull . As long as he can write the world 's moral platitudes , he cares not who makes its bombs . " January saw other items added to the record , each to be interpreted according to the mind of the observer . On January 11th the President told the press that we probably would maintain our ties with the Philippines until 1960 . . . . Captain Ingersoll , Chief of the War Plans Division of the Navy , went in great secrecy to London . While he was there an invitation was dispatched to Washington , cordially inviting us to send a detachment of cruisers to participate in the dedication of the new Singapore base . On January lath we accepted , and it was announced that three cruisers would make the trip . The graciousness of the invitation was accented by the fact that no other nations had been invited . . . . On January 17th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offenses against American nationals and property , and affirming that Japanese soldiers " have in numerous instances torn down , burned , and otherwise mutilated American flags . " This last protest was not released to the press until January 27th , the day before Mr. Roosevelt was to make further requests of Congress . On January 28 , 1938 , Mr. Roosevelt asked Congress to authorize a twenty per cent increase in the United States Navy . He asked this " specifically and solely because of the piling up of additional land and sea armaments in other countries , in such manner as to involve a threat to world peace and security . " This request , roughly estimated to involve a minimum expenditure of $800 , - 000,000 and a probable expenditure much larger , provoked sober questioning within and without Congress . The pacifist attack , always expected , was unimportant . The critics and questioners were chiefly disturbed by the implications of the President 's recommendation . They asked , " Exactly what does the President propose to do with this greater Navy ? " They quoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " They suggested that the President outline his policy . Senator Hiram Johnson of California stated his belief that " the Senate is entitled to know what is the foreign policy of the United States . " " I want , " said Johnson , " no peripatetic ambassador running around Europe . . . when all the peoples of the world are on edge and jittery . . . no man . . . to have the right to deal in secrecy with the destiny of my country . " This was understood as a reference to Norman H. Davis . " I call attention to the fact , " continued Mr. Johnson , " that the Senate ought to assert itself and learn the foreign policy of the United States before it goes upon this journey which parallels one that we took in 1917 . " Representative Ralph E. Church of Illinois demanded word as to whether this new Navy was designed to make possible a " quarantine " of Japan . Major General Johnson Hagood , who was retired from the Army after he had criticized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made " a political football , " and that we should content ourselves with a Navy adequate for defense . Representative Maury Maverick of Texas charged that the Administration was suppressing a report on the vulnerability of battleships to airplane attack in the effort to protect its building program . " Obviously , " said Maverick , " the secret is one which is being kept from the American people . President Roosevelt wants a big fleet of whopping battleships , and anything that casts doubt on their usefulness is not for the public to know . " Mr. Maverick also charged that the Army and the Navy are " in a jurisdictional dispute as silly as the fight between the C.I.O. and the A. F. of L. " Army and Navy officers , refusing the use of their names , flatly denied Maverick 's charges . Major General William C. Rivers , retired , urged that the money be spent for purely defensive purposes , to be used " to refortify our Atlantic and Pacific continental harbors , adding many heavy land-based airplanes , mines , submarines , and small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building of capital ships , which are , he said , " more of a long-distance weapon of offense . " Representative Ralph 0 . Brewster of Maine attacked the proposal . " The significant thing , " he said , " about Admiral Leahy 's testimony was his admission that even with an equally large fleet the Japanese could not successfully attack the United States . " He also testified that the Navy is not expecting an alliance against us . " Now , " asked Brewster , " how do you figure these increases are for defense under these circumstances ? " Charles A. Beard , the historian , pressed the demand for a statement of foreign policy . He belittled the scares . " We are told that the Fascist goblins of Europe are about to take South America , that Mussolini will march in seven-league boots across the Atlantic , through the Straits of Gibraltar , to Brazil , or that Hitler or the Mikado will do it some other way . . . . This is the new racket created to herd the American people into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do to satisfy itself on this point is to call naval officers into a secret session , vote them a retiring allowance so that the Executive axe may not fall upon them , and ask them just how Hitler or Mussolini or the Mikado can perform this water-crossing miracle now , with our present defenses . " John T. Flynn , the economist , made four statements in the New Republicwhich , he modestly admitted , " are absolutely true and in good time will become quite obvious . . . First , the President is preparing to lead the country into a vast program of armament as a means of spending money to avert another depression ? houses for the dogs of war rather than the mutts of peace . Second , he is preparing deliberately to sell to this country a war scare as a prelude to the armament program . Third , he is attempting to shift the psychological reactions of the Nation to the patriotic motif in order to distract attention from the disintegrating domestic situation . Fourth , one reason for this is to build up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President ' ? a trap into which the inept Mr. Landon leaps head first . " Senator Arthur Vandenberg of Michigan did his own figuring , adding the cost of a twenty per cent increase in the Navy , estimated at $1,200,000,000 , another $1 , - 250,000,000 for an auxiliary merchant fleet , an additional $3,200,000,000 for the " Atlantic Fleet " sponsored by Chairman Vinson of the House Naval Affairs Committee , and arrived at a total of $5,650 , . 000,000 , which , said Vandenberg , was the President 's true goal . " Fantastic , " said Vandenberg . Senator Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin told the Senate " millions of people in this country . . want to know what it is that occasions the demand for this tremendous increase in armaments . They want to know what foreign policy is in contemplation that such increased armaments are intended to implement . " Senator William E. Borah of Idaho , sharing the general concern over reports of a secret understanding with Great Britain , insisted , " We want no alliance , open or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not want the world to think we have any such alliance . All these things can not be whistled down the wind . They are what makes foreign policy . They are the things which put nations into action . They arc the very things that brought on the World War ; one nation putting forth its program , and another nation putting forth a program to meet that program ; and very soon we are in the midst of war by reason of these misunderstandings . " Representative Hamilton Fish of New York went on the air with an attack on what he felt to be the foreign policy implicit in the naval bill . " I accuse the President , " said Mr. Fish , " of attempting to translate into legislative actuality his Chicago speech , by building a Navy not merely for defense but for aggression , to enable him to quarantine and police the world . . . . I accuse the President of having no peace policy . . . of using secret diplomacy on a scale never dreamed of by any previous Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three American warships to Singapore . . . of having done nothing to collect the war debts . . . of using the war scare as a deliberate plan to distract popular attention from the Roosevelt depression . " To all such attacks the protagonists of the naval bill quoted the testimony of Admiral Leahy . The enlarged Navy was not planned for aggression , simply for defense . If offense were contemplated , a 60 per cent rather than a 20 per cent in , crease would be indicated in order to assure " any reasonable prospect of sucj cess . " Furthermore , the contemplated increase will not assure the protection of both coasts , and certainly not the protection of the Philippines . This discussion of the naval bill , extending from January 28th on through February and into March , served gradually to headline the fundamental ques1 tion involved : What is President Roose-velt 's foreign policy ? While the naval bill was being fought in and out of Congress , other events were piling up . . . . On January 27th a Japanese soldier slapped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Embassy in Nanking . Mr. Allison , it seems , had gone to the Japanese barracks to find the culprit in an attack upon a Chinese girl . The soldier told him to get out , and added the slapping . A protest was dispatched to Tokyo . The press reported " a stiffening of the State Department 's attitude . " Mr. Allison 's report was released by the State Department ? which the New York Times called art almost unprecedented step . Japan apologized . . . . On January 31st Mr. Roosevelt received a delegation of clergymen , to whom he confided his satisfaction in " the spiritual awakening . . . in America . . . . It makes me realize more fully that we do have , in addition to the duty we owe to our own people , an additional duty to the rest of the world . " . On February 5th , the United States in company with France and Great Britain asked Japan to tell its naval intentions ? and set February 20th as the final date for an answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described by Administration spokesmen as further justification for the Naval bill . . . . In February we laid claims to two uninhabited islands in the far Pacific , and it was reported that Britain might generously yield us all rights to them . Another straw in the wind was the introduction of the May bill in February . President Roosevelt had asked in his message of January 3rd for legislation designed to take the profits out of war . The May bill , the successor to the Hill-Sheppard bill of 1936 , was written to meet the President 's request . It provides that upon declaration of war there shall be full conscription of men , government control of labor and industry , government fixing of wages and prices , and a general provision that the Secretary of the Treasury shall be asked to recommend measures for taxing the profits out of war ? but that last , and ostensibly most important step is Ieft to the discretion of the government when the time comes . Congressman Maury Maverick immediately attacked the bill as " a blue-print for fascism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import was under vigorous attack in the Japanese Diet . The demand for a definition of our foreign policy was partially met on February 12th , by a statement from Mr. Hull to Congressman Ludlow . The larger Navy is needed , said the Secretary , " for the national defense of the United States and its possessions . " Questioned by Mr. Ludlow whether lie intended " the use of any of the units in co-operation with any other nation , " Mr. Hull denied such intention , affirmed that the United States avoids " extreme internationalism with its political entanglements " and " extreme isolation , with its tendency to cause other nations to believe that this nation is more or less afraid . " Mr. Hull admitted " that while avoiding any alliances or entangling commitments , it is appropriate and advisable when this and other countries have common interests and common objectives , for this government to exchange information with governments of such other countries , to confer with those governments , and where practicable , to proceed on parallel lines , but always reserving the fullest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He also stressed our duty to defend " our nationals and our interests abroad , " and to help assure the world " conditions of peace , order , and security . " His statement provoked new questions , such as , Just how much of the world must we police ? and How far afield shall we defend American nationals ? for example , how far up the Yangtze River will our duty take us ? The demand for definition was further met by Congressman Vinson , in a statement generally regarded as Administration-inspired . " It is declared to be the fundamental naval policy of the United States to maintain an adequate Navy in sufficient strength to guard the continental United States by affording naval protection to the coastline , in both oceans at one and the same time ; to protect the Panama Canal , Alaska , Hawaii , and our insular possessions ; to protect our commerce and citizens abroad ; to maintain a Navy in sufficient strength to guarantee our national security , but not for aggression ; to insure our national integrity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were insistent : How much navy will be required ? Is there no out side limit on naval policy ? " Insular I possessions " ? does that mean the Philippines ? " Protect our commerce and citizens abroad " ? exactly what does that mean ? " Support our national policies " ? whose policies ? The President 's " quarantine " policy ? Or Congress ' " neutrality " policy ? Or what ? On February 20th the New York Herald Tribune headlined " Capital Hears of Japanese Mexican Deal , " and reported that the State Department was investigating reports " credited in high circles " that Japan is bargaining with Mexico for an iron-ore concession on the Mexican West Coast . This concession is now held by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , but it was feared that Mexico might seize it and transfer it to the Japanese government . There was a hint that Japan might build a submarine base at Mazatlan . This story , as yet unsubstantiated , reminded casual readers who remembered the days of 1915 and 1916 of other stories which appeared one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recall items which the press had carried during the winter of 1937-38 . . . . For example , on December 19th there was a story to the effect that the President wanted more stringent regulation of photographers around national fortifications . " Things going on on the Pacific Coast make the legislation necessary , " said the Congressman who brought word of the President 's request . . . . On December 24th the New York World Telegram gave scare heads to " United States Spy Hunters Raid Japanese Liner , Seize Letters Linked to Navy Plans . " . . . On February 27th the New York Times gave a three-column first-page heading to " Spy Ring in U. S. Army Bared : German Girl , Two Soldiers Seized as Foreign Agents . " It seemed that J. Edgar Hoover 's excellent and vocal bureau had got its hands on three minor agents of an unnamed foreign power . Curiously enough , on page thirty of the very same newspaper it was recorded that Assistant Secretary of the Navy Charles Edison admitted that the Naval Intelligence Service had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program because " the service had to work with insufficient funds . " In 1915 Robert Lansing told Woodrow Wilson that it was necessary to " educate " the people . Some now living will recall the education which Ted to the declaration of war in April , 1917 , and to Flanders fields . The irksome suspicion grows that we are again being " educated . " The fact is freely bruited about in England , where the press refers to " the American educational campaign . " Looking back upon the months which have elapsed since the incident at the Marco Polo Bridge in July , 1937 , the lines of this education appear . Within ten days after the outbreak of hostilities in China , Secretary Hull sent a memorandum to all foreign offices , outlining " this government 's position in regard to international problems , " in which he recited our fealty to " maintenance of peace , " " self-restraint , " to " abstinence . . . from the use of force in pursuit of policy , " to " processes of peaceful negotiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements . " He listed our intentions , among which the congressional pledge of rigid neutrality was not included . This document was highly praised by friendly foreign offices , especially by Dictator Trujillo in Santo Domingo and Dictator Vargas in Brazil , while faintly damned by Portugal which referred to the " inanity " of vague formulae offered for the solution of grave international problems . Perhaps its chief use was in the American classroom . Cordell Hull , the able schoolmaster , did not spare himself . Through the fall and winter he carried his message to all manner of audiences . In September he told a New York audience that " a policy of complete isolation from the outside world would , in its ultimate effects , be as ineffective as the opposite extreme of advised and unnecessary intervention in the affairs of the outside world . . . . " " Our all-embracing preoccupation , " he told the assembly at the University of Toronto on October 2nd , is " order . " " The maintenance of international order , " he assured them , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules of conduct , but also upon their observance of such rules ... there must be firm belief in the inviolability of the pledged word . " On February 19th he told a farmer audience in Iowa that " We can not remain prosperous in a poverty-stricken world ... nor can we be certain to remain at peace in a world growing more disordered , with arbitrary force supplanting the rule of order under reason and law . " These utterances of the greatly respected Secretary , inspired by obvious sincerity , commanded widespread respect for the opinions which he holds . If the implications of the Hull doctrine seem to Iead rather Ear afield in the policing of the world , they serve to reveal Cordell Hull as a convinced disciple of Woodrow Wilson , who believed in goodness for the world , even though won by compulsion . Hull has never wavered from the Wilson creed . As a member of the House in 1920 , he fought for the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles , and for adherence to the League without reservations . The lessons which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American people . Franklin Roosevelt , the schoolmaster , lacks the consistency of Cordell Hull . Roosevelt was for the League in 1920 , outspokenly against it in 1932 , was veering toward it in 1933 , was praising neutrality to a Chautauqua audience in August , 1936 , and was advocating in October , 1937 , a policy more League-like than even the League dared sponsor . His mind has rare resilience . Franklin Roosevelt , as a leader in foreign affairs , has a heritage which is partly Wilsonian , partly Theodore Rooseveltian . When he turns schoolmaster and moralist his accents betray his debt to Wilson . When he berates other nations and takes steps for their chastisement his sentences are reminiscent of the first Roosevelt . To moralism and chastisement he adds his own devotion to ships . Those who have watched Franklin Roosevelt during recent months aver that the President has had a vision of proud ships pushing through alien waters , of ships now built or to be built playing their gallant role of carrying democracy 's gifts to troubled peoples . Franklin Roosevelt hates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he is an honorable man . But it is equally clear that Franklin Roosevelt believes that conflict with the dictatorships is inescapable , that sooner or later the democracies must call a halt to the imperial ambitions of Japan , Germany , and Italy . It is difficult to write current history accurately . Too many facts are hidden . The minds of men are veiled . Insignificant items cast too long a shadow . The chronicler can only report how events seem to move , how the current seems to run . Three conclusions may be set down in diffidence . First , Franklin Roosevelt has caught a vision of a crusade whereby autocracy may be stopped , democracy bulwarked . The President hopes that these ends may be peacefully won , that there will be no war . Meanwhile he takes those steps by which war might come . Second , the generality of the American people turns a wary eye upon crusades . They remember another crusade which turned out badly , leaving less democracy and less freedom . Whether in wisdom orselfishness , the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not even to make the world safe for democracy . We fought that war once , some of them are telling Mr. Roosevelt . Third , recent events indicate that our prospective allies in the next crusade have lost heart for such adventuring . On February 22nd the House of Commons , by a vote of 330 to 168 , upheld Neville Chamberlain 's repudiation of the League . The British , we conclude , will fight when imperial interest is threatened , but will not fight to assure international order . If such reading of the times is accurate , Franklin Roosevelt stands as rather a lonely crusader . He is already committed , by word and deed , to moral judgment upon the offenders and to action against them . By his commitments he has aroused apprehension of his policy in the minds of many Americans . His critics may respect the purity of his intentions while questioning the wisdom of his course . Their plea to the President is , Come home . One third of America is still ill-housed , ill-clothed , ill-fed . American democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hungry or clothe the naked with battleships . You can not win national stability by war . You can not confirm democracy with hate . American plunges into Europe and Asia will not , unless experience lies , yield gains to the world or to the United States . The one faint promise is that here in the United States a zone of sanity may be laid out , a bulwark for democracy in the midst of madness .                     