@@488081

THE PEACE OF EUROPE , having been planted on top of a handsome sowing of dragon 's teeth in the form of the Treaty of Versailles , is now threatened by exactly the crop of bitter fighting men that might have been looked for . That much of Chancellor Hitler 's speech explaining why Germany was withdrawing from the League of Nations and from the Disarmament Conference can be granted him : a bad war was ended by a bad peace , and Europe learned nothing from either , although prior to the establishment of the Hitler Government the sympathy of the world was inclining , more and more toward the Germans . But to dissociate Germany summarily from the only existing attempt to improve matters is the work of an insane and dangerous egotist . France has already repudiated Hitler 's attempt to create a Franco-German bloc against England ; England , it is predicted , will firmly oppose any suggestions for reduction of armament ; Italy talks of a rapprochement of nations without Germany . It is true that Hitler insisted on Germany 's ultimate desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree ; it is true that Italy is taking the German withdrawal- with " maximum calm " and emphasizes those portions of Hitler 's speech which urged amity among all nations . In spite of all this official dispassion , in spite of allthis talk of peace , the cloud of war hangs thick over Europe . In Austria barbed wire is being strung along the frontiers ; in every country of Europe except censored Germany the word " war " is being shrieked or whispered , either one with telling effect . The Disarmament Conference , already on the rocks , is admittedly lost , in spite of Arthur Henderson 's adjurations to carry on . It has adjourned until October 26 . A fortnight after that come the German elections , when every German is to be permitted to approve of the Nazi foreign policy  --  and God help him if he refuses ! Meanwhile Europe waits . IT is at least encouraging to note that the French government is not too much disturbed , although it sees clearly enough that in the conciliatory phrases toward France in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other Allies , especially England . There is no clamor in France for a reoccupation of Germany and little excuse for it in any act of the Reich thus far . Indeed , with , the exception of propaganda in Austria and Schleswig and the various border incidents which may kindle the European powder keg , Teuton fury to date has spent itself chiefly internally . The main cause of friction has been attacks upon foreigners in Germany , generally for failure to salute the Nazi flag . For these occurrences Germany has been officially regretful , and has just arrested , in response to most emphatic protests , the assailants of Roland Velz , the latest American victim of Nazi ruffianism , although dispatches point out that no storm trooper has been punished so far in consequence of attacks on foreigners . If German violence could be confined to Germany , there might be no disruption of the peace of Europe . Foreigners would learn that they entered Germany at their own risk . The outside world has far more effective means of influencing events than military aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightening about the Reich . The resolution of the American Federation of Labor recommending a boycott of German industry commits to that policy the largest organization that has so far spoken in this country . It may be argued that the censorship permits nobody in Germany to know of it . But the censorship can not restrain the effect of the boycott upon Germany 's economic life , and that , in turn , can not be concealed from the German public now any more than could the country 's desperate industrial plight during the World War . WHILE EUROPE IS SHIVERING under the blow dealt it by Germany 's withdrawal from the League , Japan and Russia are continuing their contentious negotiations over the Chinese Eastern Railway . Izvestia and Pravda have both carried articles protesting alleged official documents proposing seizure of the railway by the Japanese . Japan 's comment in reply varies from indignation to the soft answer which is evidently designed to smooth the incident over . But two Soviet officials , recently appointed to posts on the railway , have been summarily removed by the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this action also . It is plain that there is considerable tension be-                     