@@492222

M AN is always striving for perfection . Utopia is just around the corner , but we do not seem to reach the great goal of universal contentment . The way is barred by the same imperfections , the same mistakes and human failings that our forefathers wrote on the pages of history . For no generation seems to take seriously the advice of its predecessor , let alone the spoken or written wisdom of a couple of generations back . And as for fifty or a hundred years or a , thousand , why , somehow those people could n't possibly have had brains  --  certainly not well-developed , quick-acting , twentieth-century brains ! Their minds must have been as slow as their horse-drawn vehicles . God surely couldn't. have been creating men a hundred or two hundred years ago who knew anything about government ! As for the sagacity of the Greeks or the logic of the Roman orators , well , these things are legends or fables , are n't they ? Thus , with a cynical skepticism , the generation of today dismisses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you talk to some of the college professors , for instance , who loom large in our procession of virtues these days , they speak with scorn of " nineteenth-century liberalism . " They smile at the idea of a Constitution written a hundred and fifty years ago . Why , it may be a sort of shrine worthy of a historical worship , but surely not sufficiently up to date to guide our destinies in an era of new deals . Fortunately , however , the record is not erased by the passage of time . We are not prohibited in America from conscientiously seeking to illumine the paths of the future by light from the past . Some of the older heads do not easily throw off painful memories vividly brought back to them out of the agonies of revolutions and civil wars , tyrannies and despotisms  --  a strange sequence of episodes in the lives of nations that always have struggled to be free . Nineteen twenty-nine gave us a climax that has jolted with its earthquake shocks , ever since , all manner of custom and tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became widespread . Finding no other means of explaining the plague that befell the land , the prejudice of the mass visited its bitter denunciation on the leaders of yesterday , whether they were governmental or financial or industrial or the economists of orthodoxy . So bitter is public opinion about the unhappy turn of fate that a jury of people on the street would convict almost without deliberation any " leader " of 1929 . Such condemnation is stimulated by the unscrupulous acts of a few whose ambition slew them . But even if the integrity or innocence or stupidity of the 1929 leadership were established , the popular concept today is that the system was wrong , that we must never again allow business life to be what it was before 1929 . It is as if everything before was miscalculated and mismanaged . Not only were the persons who essayed to lead charged with incompetence and narrow vision , but presumably the economic laws they strove to uphold were obsolete and now have become unsuited to modern society and the new economic order , The alternative , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the individual and put all trust . and faith in the state . This is the latest preachment from on high . Only yesterday  --  it was 1914 ? we read with amazement how the iron command of Prussianism had its origin in the doctrines of Nietzsche  --  that all life existed for the state . We thought such tyranny a cancer of the human spirit . We objected to the regimentation of men and women . We foresaw a world of autocracies . And in a feeble cry of warning , Woodrow Wilson in 1917 exhorted free peoples to war to preserve democracy in this world . It has indeed proved a feeble cry . For it was not heard above the din of ( Continu  --  d an Pair 84 ) battle or the clatter of spurs in the halls where another militarism wrote its treaty of peace . No sooner had the ink dried on the pact of Versailles than nationalism rose to new heights in France , to be followed by a concentration of powee in an Italian dictatorship . Russia had abandoned democracy before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but feeble effort at republicanism , Germany was to say Farewell to freedom in a mad plunge into medievalism . The cycle of democracy was ' short-lived . Back to dictatorships and the submerging of individual initiative , swung most of Europe . We camouflage these new tyrannies with new names . We talk of Fascism and Communism . We do not hear now the words that revolutionaries used to sing as they marched ; there is no mention of tyrants and usurpers of power . We speak today of democracy itself in whispers . The Old System and the New So much for the world picture . With true egotism , we have shunned all this as largely European turmoil . It could not and would not touch us . We have lulled ourselves into a security of wellintrenched patriotism . Surely , we say , American tradition is too strong , too deeply embedded in the life and character of us all , to think that any American-horn leadership would ever suggest the scrapping of an American system . To most of us it has seemed merely that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that whatever its formula for the emergency , all would work out well in the end ; there was no real cause for worry . But precisely ' because there is never a well-marked distinction between power obtained for emergency and the assumption of authority for a period beyond emergency , because this has always been the means whereby transformation of government has been accomplished , we have a right to begin . asking questions . We have the responsibility of at least understanding what is going on at Washington before our eyes . Forces are bigger than men . The late President Wilson started a movement for self-determination in the world which could not be held in check when economic necessity dictated a coalition of small countries to form economic units in redrawing of the map of Europe . Mr. Roosevelt may encourage the left or the right wing philosophies , the liberals or the conservatives , as he cautiously steers between them . But the system we set up now will have its influence upon us long after the smile of a Roosevelt shall have vanished from the scene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are installed in high places . So it behooves us to examine the two systems  --  the old and the new  --  with a critical perspective . They must not he viewed in the light of present-day personalities , but in the broad impersonality of time and human fallibility . Above all , we must be able to think rather than feel , to substitute reason for emotion . We can not make the choice in the wake of an angry passion , What was the " old system " ? Basically it is defined by its critics as individualism unrestrained . But was it ? Do not t he statu te books show a mounting pyramid of laws and restrictions , beginning in the 90 's , immediately after the preceding depression ? We hear sarcastic comment about " rugged individualism . " But we have forgotten that it went hand in hand with incompetent Government . Any fair analysis of the force that brought . on the 1929 panic must lay down an indictment of Government as an accessory in many of the crimes that were committed . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crazy-quilt typo of regulation by Government of business could be offered to us than the report on previous railroad policy just made by the new Coordinator of Transportation , Joseph B. Eastman ? He.is no old-dealer . He has always been considered a radical , a. believer in public ownership of railroads . Today he confesses that the railroads could not and can not do certain sound and logical things , which they must do in order to get on their feet , because Government regulation in part only serves to prevent efficient operation by private management . He admits , For instance , that the railroads ought to make certain economies in pay roll , but . concedes that this would conflict with the blue-eagle idea of raising wages . What Mr. Eastman really shows is that he thinks the Government could do a better job if it . had the complete responsibility and ownership than if it tries to regulate effectively and has to encounter various competing forces in the transportation world that are unregulated . What Mr. Eastman has indeed proved is the principle that a dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy , because it has no individual rights to worry about and no particular regard for properties except to confiscate what is needed . For years the railroads have not been free agents . The Government fixed the price of transportation in American commerce by fixing the costs in a complicated structure of rate making that sought to equalize economic and regional differences and disadvantages . Just as Mr. Eastman does not today dare to rearrange labor costs for fear of presidential or political command to the contrary , so have the railroads been unable to manage their own affairs in the past for fear of political bombardment . The Bent Backs of Business If we look at the Sherman Antitrust Law and kindred statutes that have been written in the last two decades to regulate the conduct of business , we find that in the desire to prevent monopoly we clumsily loaded businesses with restrictions that virtually forced them into ruinous competition . Shall Government now be absolved of its responsibility for what has been happening in this domain of business in the last thirty years ? What power over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 ? It issued its warning against speculation . Did Government insist upon breaking the inflation that was sending prices of securities to unbelievable heights ? Were financial leaders alone to blame for the balloon , or did the Government encourage the multiplication of securities ? As we look back on the lending of money to foreign governments during the last ten years , we can not find that r 404.4 Government disclosed the facts to the American people . It . had ample powers to make known conditions in foreign countries . The cure , then , is not to abolish international commerce or international flow of capital , but to put the right kind of people in Government to see to it that the public is not deceived . Also , we have plenty of laws in the states which govern the behavior of corporations . Stockholders have always had channels of redress . Because they have been indifferent to their own fortunes is no reason to assume that the governments of the states were any more vigilant . There are few instances in which state governments have eared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against fraudulent transactions in securities . There is a Federal law on the statute books which forbids the use of the mails to those detected of fraud and provides for their imprisonment . It is broad enough to cover almost any kind of transaction . But the power has never been vigorously asserted by Government . We might at this point ask frankly why with all these laws and rights the Government did not act . The answer is a single word  --  polities . Emerson , in an essay written nearly a hundred years ago , exclaimed : " What satire on government can equal the severity of censure conveyed in the word ' politic , ' which now for ages has signified ' cunning , ' intimating that the state is a trick ? " Today we are suggesting that the state be made supreme , that it be given not merely temporary but permanent power to regulate every business and industry , every profession , every form of human service . Governments , it is argued , shall hereafter decree the rates of wages and hours of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strength have dictated a lesser and lesser working day . No such thought is controlling now . Rather is the brief working day offered as a means of rationing the work that remains . It is the very negation of human instinct  --  to repress the desire to work at one 's craft and to compel the exercise of leisure and recreation . Marching to a Government Tune If the individual wishes to occupy himself at his chosen work , the Government perforce would deny him the opportunity , not because it objects on grounds of health , but because it is assumed America will always have a limited volume of business , hence other workers must have the chance to earn a livelihood too . With respect to the products of the soil or the fabrication of goods , the state is to allocate the amounts that can be produced and distributed , and in time the quantities that shall be disposed of abroad . A comprehensive system of economic management from Washington is under consideration as the highest obligation of the state . Theoretically it would be a marvelous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would make every business synchronize and mesh with every other service or activity in our economic scheme and give to every individual the measure of happiness and contentment that he or she would wish . It might be a pleasant prospect to contemplate the care that the state might give those who are unable to work or who , after a period ' of service , can no longer , for physical reasons , endure the strain of daily labor . These visions of a well-ordered society have always been presented with appealing sentiment from time immemorial . The President 's message recently opened up a vista of new hope in that direction . Other Presidents have talked of social justice and humanitarian considerations as paramount in a progressive democracy . We have , however , never seriously proposed that the principal job be done by man-made Government  --  the creature of the American political system . Twenty-five years of experience in the national capital , observing Republican and Democratic administrations , have never made this writer particularly enthusiastic about . intrusting to Government any more responsibilities in the future than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved conclusively that governments do not exercise effectively the responsibilities they have always had . The Hardy Spoils System The political system is operated by different persons every generation , but the intrigue and the selfishness are just the same . If we are to give the state the control over human destiny in America , we ought at least to be sure to identify the state in concrete terms . The state is a composite of political power . It consists of the President and Congress plus the political-party organizations , irrespective of whether the label happens to be Republican or Democrat . But we can by no means stop there . We must examine more closely what we mean by " party organizations . " Few party workers enter into the game for the love of the thing . Most of them want preferment for themselves or their friends . Postmaster General Farley , who was chairman of the Democratic National Committee in the last campaign , recently wrote a magazine article reiterating an old saying in American politics  --  namely , that to the victors belong the spoils @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every city and town in the country . Despite efforts to get the post office out of politics , it remains a means of distributing patronage to members of Congress whose votes on legislation are needed . Can an important office be filled without the consent of senators and representatives from the district or state in question ? Occasionally it is done , but this is the exception that proves the rule . The newspapers remark upon it when a President disregards the senators and makes a " personal " appointment . We were all shocked when we read of the disclosure of preferred lists by the investment bankers . But the political group which wins an election has a preferred list much more extensive and far more iniquitous . For in the banking world the victim of a preferred list fails to win as much money as those who are permitted to get in on the ground floor . In politics , the preferred list plays with the people 's money in the Treasury . Take the ease of Government building or engineering projects . The competition between states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader of a victorious party gets more attention , more money for his constituency than members of the opposite party do for their districts . In fact , many a campaign argument is that election of one man will " get more " for a distil than can be obtained by his rival , who presumably would not " stand in " with the President or the leaders of the party in power . Then there are the campaign contributors , not a few of whom give away perfectly good money for no other purpose than to " stand in " when the time comes " to ask for things . " Every member of Congress must , as a rule , spend something to get elected and to keep his seat . The records of what is spent are accessible to the public . But . we rarely give more than passing thought to these campaign contributors . The lists are printed , but not . the subsequent activities of the donors . Often they do not ask rewards for their own businesses , but for others to whom they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nevertheless , is a claim check on Government , not infrequently redeemed in favors of real value . . The Driue Against Lobbyists No really efficient lobbyist plies his trade without knowing the influential campaign contributors to the legislator 's war chest . They are often the determining factors behind the scenes . Is this corruption ? is this graft ? Call it . what you like , but the system which tolerates pull and influence is full of vicious practices that tell their own story . Not long ago , President Roosevelt was asked by newspaper correspondents why lawyers who were members of the Democratic National Committee were permitted to practice before Government departments . Mr. Roosevelt condemned the practice . Throughout the capital there was a scramble for writing paper on which to pen hasty resignations . But the former national committeemen are not different people the day after they resign . It might be asked how many persons in the executive commissions and bureaus and departments today were indorsed or recommeuded by individuals  --  lawyers or business men  --  who do not hesitate to call on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law partners of men now in public office ? And how about members of Congress who practice law in state courts and receive fees therefrom , and find it necessary to act for those same clients in pursuing Federal matters  --  not for the same fee , of course , but in the conduct of business " for constituents " ? The ramifications of our political system are numerous . Government officials are underpaid . Business men who call on them frequently are impressed with the ability of these offis vials . They offer them jobs . Again and again it is a case of merit being recognized and no desire to find out what was happening in Government in relation to a particular business . But too often it is a means of influencing the judgment of a Government official . There is a law now that officials of the Internal Revenue Bureau can not , for two years afterward , if they go into commercial life , practice before the Treasury . A similar rule about all Government officials might work hardship here and there , but the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If , on the other hand , we are going to try to legislate honesty and integrity , if we are to inculcate strength of character just by imposing new restrictions , we are not likely to build up the personnel of Government . The sad experience of the Federal Government with prohibition agents is fairly recent . The temptations were great . Many agents yielded . Graft was a matter of common knowledge . And enforcement . was defeated . Experience shows that public sentiment has much to do with the effective administration of any law and with the kind of people we put in public office . But it also shows that unless we are to find some way to make competent people give up their professions and businesses so as to enter the public service , and also some method of avoiding political appointments , we had better not . try to load up the governmental machine with too many delicate tasks , such as regulating human conduct and the size of profits or the amount of time that each of us should spend in work or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to elect their candidates . And the party workers must have rewards . And if these rewards are limited , then we must be ready to scrap political organizations and depend upon the people to make up their own minds about candidates and go to the polls each time with a sense of discrimination between job-seeking and public-serving individuals . Such reform is not achieved overnight . There is. nothing so naive as the point of view of the college professors who have been coming to Washington to help the Government . They draft laws and regulations with the curious notion that politicians do not administer laws any more . They think because they are themselves detached from political influence , everybody else in Washington is also . They seem to have overlooked the fact that members of the House of Representatives have to be elected every two years and one-third of the Senate is up for election at the same time . These college advisers have had little actual training in business or contact with the problems of management . They have read hooks about it , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstractly as is the pain of the man who tells you he has a toothache . Unless you 've suffered at some time or another , you are not quite sure just why hs should make a fuss or bother to tell you of his aches . Experience is like pain  --  not an abstract but a concrete expression of human behavior collected in a lifetime of vicis- situdes . The New Thinking Machines There can be no doubt that the dis-interested advisers contribute much that is of value . Indeed , the brain trust is the best proof we could possibly have of the inadequacy and deficien-cies of the modern legislator . As ad-viers they can be helpful ; but they will never sit in Congress , because members thereof must appeal to con- stituencies that do not understand highbrow phrases or complicated eco- nomics . The legislator today talks the language of demagoguery and obeys the groups that are politically power- ful in his district . or state . By and large , dictators have found national legislatures a nuisance . Italy has virtually abolished her national legislature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will demand a re-turn of powers they have lost and the pendulum of history will swing back . The recapture of sovereign rights is usually accompanied by violence and disorder . Political usurpation has its . cycles like economics  --  there are booms and depressions . The tides ebb and flow over decades of time , but they do ebb and they do flow . When the kings of France polluted the government , there was revolution . When a British monarch sent us a tax collector , we demanded representation and rebelled . The people are in the end masters of their own destiny . When one-man governments assume power , they usually need vast sums of money . However perfect is their theory of economic rearrangement , the vital question always is whether money can be obtained to carry on experiments . It is simple enough to send dollar bills to all parts of the United States as a subsidy under the guise of balancing production and consumption . It is easy to choke off farm strikes by sending Federal money to soothe the crying strikers . With an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to choke off the flow of paper money , once the printing presses begin to send their reams of engraved paper into the hands of the people as the state endeavors to convince the recipients that the said paper money has the value written on its face . Nearly every experiment in socialized or concentrated government has been wrecked on the rocks of fiscal imprudence . Mr. Roosevelt , as governor of New York , once made a speech about it , issuing a warning against reckless expenditure . But in the very nature of things , political Government must satisfy all sections , all regions . It must keep an eye to voting strength . It can not reduce wages for fear of the labor vote . It can not very long keep down veterans ' expenses for fear of the ex-service man 's vote . Only this session the Congress is putting back money it supposedly saved last year . And it will do more next year , because the pressure of politics makes it inevitable . If the system we have had for generations , wherein the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is bad , then the political system is just ten times worse . We will be going from the frying pan into the fire if we enlarge governmental tasks and curtail the opportunity of the individual . For one thing , we shall fail to enforce the laws we set up . If the Vol-stead Act was difficult to enforce with hundreds of millions of dollars and thousands of agents and policemen , it will be impossible to get enforcement of statutes that regulate the ethics and morals and behavior of all businesses and individuals engaged in gainful occupations . Sympathy with those oppressed by the new laws will be far more powerful than with the toter of a hip flask . Government is most successful when it passes the buck to the people  --  when , in fact , it places on the people themselves the job of governing themselves . Prohibition would have been less difficult to enforce if there had been a real public sentiment back of the particular form of regulation selected , but the Federal Government found itself with most of the responsibility and a widespread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Can we now try more experiments and build up more bureaucracy and expect to keep t he people happy ? Can we go suddenly from habits of freedom to the strait-jackets of legal discipline ? Can the people be assured of evenhanded justice , or will the preferred classes  --  the campaign contributors and political lawyers and vote manipulators  --  dispense the favors ? If we put our faith in that system , we shall accumulate such irritations and grievances that the people will begin to disregard the rules and regulations handed down from on high , and the consequences will be tragic . We can not have economic health in the midst . of continuing disorder and an unbalanced relationship between the Government and the people . Political management of Government leads to subsidies and bribes for votes . Government credit rests on sound finance . If the central authority spends more than it . can collect in taxes , it must either raise the taxes or print fiat money , which ends in the collapse of all credit . Had the net incomes of all persons earning 310,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirety  --  that is , if every dollar had been taken away from the rich  --  we would still have had a total revenue amounting to less than one-third of the sum needed to make up the deficit this fiscal year , assuming that it will be $7,000,000,000 , as officially predicted by the President . So , with the rich unable to earn enough to pay the tax bill , the Government will have to dig into the pockets of the people whose incomes run down as low as fifteen dollars a week  --  for that 's the minimum wage now . Will the politicians dare to remove the tax exemptions and go that far ? If they do not , they will hurt the credit . of their Government . If they do dare , they will risk defeat at the polls . They will not risk it . The state , when managed by politicians , never taxes many voters . Out of 120,000,000 persons , less than 2,000,000 paid taxes to the Federal Government in 1932 . What Was Wrong With the Old Deal ? But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do ? Shall we go back to the system that gave us the panic of 1929 ? It is much more logical for us to lay the old system on the table and find out what was really wrong with it than to condemn the one hundred and fifty years of American history as having yielded no happiness or prosperity to the American people . What single exposure by a congressional committee , what individual or corporate misbehavior can anybody point to in condemning the old deal which does not reveal as its central failing a lack of common honesty and moral fiber ? Yes , we should learn much by retracing our steps . We could then have Forced out of power in business or Government anybody who abused or exploited his fellow man  --  and we can do it in the future too . We have usually learned something from every depression . It is that human character needs to be rebuilt . This is the obligation of God-fearing parents as much as it is the task of pastors and schoolmasters . Then governments in turn learn that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they be allowed to languish in a system of government-made rules for everyday life . For the individual needs to be reawakened . Can he be given new strength by taking away the incentive that lies in his very soul ? Do we make our children better able to carry their burdens in the world by doing things for them or by encouraging them to do things for themselves ? Clearing the Government Decks Government itself ought to he divested of many of its emergency tasks . It must be persuaded to rid itself of many chores that the people themselves must do . Philanthropy , for instance , is a private responsibility except when the givers have been extinguished either by a panic or laws that strangle incentive and profits . Many things , of course , that Government does in an emergency are justified on the ground of self-preservation . We are not considering emergency powers so much now as permanent readjustment . If we are to construct a new social and economic order , we ought not to build a monster , as Frankenstein did . Politics will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We have enough laws , but . not enough courageous officials to enforce them . We have sound economic doctrines inculcated in our people , but not enough leaders of unquestioned honesty to champion these ideas . As the persuasiveness of facts and experience clarifies the job of finding what has to be done to improve and renovate the old economic order , we shall find its foundations still unshaken by the earthquake . These fundamentals are still sturdy enough , Constitution and all , to move America onward  --  at least until mankind yields again to temptation and disregards the experience of the past . Some day it may dawn on those who would concentrate all power in the state that back of all laws and formulas must be a realistic approach to the defects that have always made self-government difficult . Hope of success would be immeasurably increased for the new crusaders if they were to employ their talents energetically in winning adherents to the oldest cause in all history and yet the least obeyed in 1929 ? namely , the Ten Commandments . When such precepts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we shall not need to worry about the transitory evils of individualism . Meanwhile , ' confronted by a choice , on the one hand , between a state-managed rOgime with politics and ragged individualism and , on the other , by a system of rugged individualism which broke down only because its leaders worshiped false gods and abandoned the teachings of their fathers , history warns us that the 