@@142241

One day last week an American Airlines pilot about to take off from Newark Airport with a load of passengers in a Douglas DC-3 , discovered in time 's nick that his controls were jammed . Cutting his motors for an immediate investigation , he discovered that his radio microphone had fallen off its hook by the seat into the V-shaped well in the wall between the movable control column and the fixed structural parts of the cockpit . Grim-faced at his narrow escape from tragedy , the pilot told his employers about it . They at once passed the word to other lines using DC-3 's . United Air Lines , whose February crash into San Francisco Bay was still a mystery , quickly took another look at the wreckage in which seasoned Pilot Alexander Raymond ( " Tommy " ) Thompson , Co-Pilot Joe De Cesaro and nine other persons perished ( TIME , Feb. 22 ) . They looked in the cockpit and there lay the simple evidence : Co-Pilot De Cesaro 's microphone jammed in the V-shaped well at the base of the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reconstructing the tragedy , the investigators could see Pilot Thompson making his banked turn over the Bay ; the microphone falling off its hook unnoticed ; Pilot Thompson pulling back on his stick to bring the ship 's nose up after the turn ; the stick jamming , Pilot Thompson straining horrified against it as the ship roared on down to smite the water . <P> United did not announce its discovery at once , being bound as are all airlines by agreement with their insurance companies not to disclose accident causes until the Bureau of Air Commerce makes its official statement . This is to avoid premature damage suits . To avoid similar tragedies , United and other users of DC-3 's immediately ordered leather boots to be fitted around all control columns , covering the V-shaped well . Spotting this innovation at Newark , the New York Herald Tribune 's crack Aviation Editor Carl B. Allen immediately understood it , broke the story in a front-page scoop .                     