@@493533

MOVIE queens , prominent society women , ball ? players and other famous folk are likely to have their incomes reduced in these hard times by a re ? cent ruling of the Federal Trade Commission . In future , the Commission orders , testimonials which have been paid for must not be published without a mention of that fact , and a statement of the price . The Commission , at the time of issuing its order , somewhat unkindly mentioned several persons who have been cleaning up in this racket and revealed to all interested persons that the names of Miss Ethel Barrymore and Mrs. Michael Arlen were bought by a manufacturer of beauty preparations for $1,000 each , while Mrs. Howard Chandler Christy and the late Anna Pavlowa rated only half that sum . While the Commission has issued its order against only one company , presumably the same rule will hold good in other similar cases . It is understood that the ruling will be appealed to - the courts , and it may of course be overruled . If it is not , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be followed , and a movie star 's testimonial will be published , with a conspicuous statement that nothing was paid for it , just at the time when her new picture is being re ? leased and about a million dollars ' worth of free publicity will do her the most good . The racket is too useful to be abandoned merely because the mean old Federal Trade Commission gets up on its ear . THE news that the Senate has called upon the President for the suppressed Wickersham report dealing with Mooney and Billings is the only ray of hope now shining in the gloom which descended on the famous case immediately after Mayor Wal ? ker 's much publicized crusade . When the Wicker ? sham Commission six months ago made public its long discussion of " Criminal Procedure , " which contained only a few references to the case , rumors were circulated and never denied by the adminis ? tration or by members of the Commission itself , that a voluminous repOrt on the Mooney-Billings case had been prepared by a staff of eminent law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political expediency . As the case now stands , the publication of the report ? and there are no valid reasons why it should not be given general circula ? tion ? might somewhat offset the effects of Mayor Walker 's crusade , which , though it brought the case into the public eye , seems chiefly to have intensified Californian class prejudice . Let us hope that Presi ? dent Hoover will accede to the Senate 's request . Certainly he will not increase his moral prestige by ' denying it . THOUGH the textile strike in Lawrence , Massa ? chusetts , ended nearly two months ago when the strikers accepted a 10-percent wage cut , almost half of the workers still remain unemployed . Many of the mills have been running only on part time , those workers who took an active part in the strike have been refused reinstatement , wage slashes running in some cases as high as 30 percent have been put into effect , speed-up methods have been instituted generally , and every effort has been exerted by the mill owners to demolish what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed against the American Textile Workers ' Union , an aggressive local organization whose members are largely drawn from the Pacific Mills . These mills , which have remained closed until only recently when they took back 10 percent of their 5,400 employees , at drastic wage cuts , will not reopen on full time until February . Meanwhile the workers and their families have been left to fight through hunger and cold as best they can , for the various charity organi ? zations of the city have refused help to any citizen who took part in the strike . The union is making desperate efforts to supply at least bread and milk to the children of union members , but unless finan ? cial aid is immediately sent to union headquarters , Room 8 , 180 Essex Street , Lawrence , even this minimum of aid must be abandoned . IN England , the truth about certain political subterfuges and alarmist maneuvers used by the Conservatives to gain their ends in the last elections is now finally beginning to leak out . A fair number of the Liberal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the so-called National Government have learned to repent of their folly . There has even been a perceptible shift in public opinion . One well known Labor minister , who stood his ground and was defeated at the polls , has reported that he has already received four hundred individual letters of regret from constituents who voted against him under the stress of the economic " crisis . " And Professor Gilbert Murray has re . cently made a public confession of error and re ? pentance on behalf of himself and of at least half a dozen Liberal friends . As The New Statesman and Nation expresses it , Professor Murray deeply regrets supporting the National Government , denounces as a fraud the scare that the pound was in danger , expresses grave doubts about the future of in ? ternational policy at the mercy of a Conservative majority , and , in short , explains in a series of beauti ? fully phrased paragraphs that he and many others have made fools of themselves . ALTHOUGH Congress was bound by the promise of a majority of its members to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was only natural to expect that our legis ? lators would raise loud objection to any further remission of the war obligations . Public opinion in this country has been sedulously protected from the economic fundamentals in this matter by all those in authority , and by none more than the President himself , in past years . Any suggestion that Germany could not pay , or that it was better for all that the Allies should not pay , has been treated as little short of heresy , To admit the anti-debt case was to touch with profane hands the sanctity of the War itself , and of this country 's course in the War . It was to admit that we not only fought for no advantages to ourselves , but could not even collect the loans we made to help others fight . The admission , once made , will be the final blow to the prestige of the war-makers , " internationalists " and isolationists alike . The arguments made by those who fear further adjustment downward of these objections have , in themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arguments does not prevent the immense harm done by the action which they prompt . The truth is that we live in a world in which the justice of payments from debtor to creditor does not al ? ways make these payments possible or desirable . If the failure of payment makes the creditor seem like a fool , the answer may be that he is one . Not a fool for annulling the obligation , but a fool for ever allowing it to arise . First , let , us take the charge that forgiveness of the governmental payments would occur at the in ? stigation of , and in the interest of , the international bankers who have made loans to Germany . No matter what specific denials may be made , this is unquestionably true . Why , then , should the tax ? payers be made to suffer in the interest of reckless investors and underwriters ? The answer is that the truth of the charge rests on grounds which those who made it do not appear to understand . German economic life can not go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintaining a surplus of payments out over payments in , large enough to meet the total reparations charge , as well as to buy the excess of material essential to feed her people and supply her industry . Before the War her imports exceeded her exports : the relation of her population to her natural resources is such that without an excess of imports she would have difficulty in sustaining a decent standard of living for her population . The War deprived her of many of her natural resources , as well as of the capital investments abroad which largely enabled her to pay for the adverse trade balance . The fact that she has paid reparations under these circumstances has been due to the loans flowing to her from abroad ? the very loans which are now set off in opposition to further reparations payments . When the inflow of loans stopped , Ger ? many of course drifted rapidly toward insolvency . Stopping reparations was the inevitable result . Even so , the repayment of private debts has had to be held up as well . The cancellation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one ? for German recovery . If reparations are not canceled , Germany will not be able to plan for the future at all ; she will not be able to pay either reparations depts or private Gents , because she will be in bankruptcy . The choice lies not between paying reparations and private debts , but between cancellation of reparations and an insoluble crisis in the German economy and hence in the trade of Europe and the world . Even if reparations are canceled , the chances are that many of the private obligations of German citizens and business concerns to Americans can not be paid . If they are not canceled , reparations can ? not be paid anyway , since the destruction of Ger. , man credit which accompanies the default of private obligations will make it impossible for her to obtain the inflow of foreign loans which is the condition of reparations payments . The priority of private debts is not a matter for political decision ; it is inter ? woven in the capitalist structure of society . The other main argument against revision down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to the effect that the Allies are rich ; they are able to spend plenty of money on other things ; they maintain huge armaments . Why , then , should re ? ducing the debt payments be singled out as the means of relieving them , even if German reparations payments to them do fail ? We have never admit ? ted any moral connection between German repara ? tions to the Allies and repayment of the Allies ' bor ? rowings to us . This argument , like the first , is perfectly just , if we confine our attention to the way in which the debts originated . The answer to it is that the policy which it supports is economically impractical and politically inexpedient . The amount of money which a government can raise and spend within its own borders is no cri ? terion of the amount which it can transfer to other nations . This basic economic truth , so often ex ? plained in the past ten years , has not yet penetrated the consciousness of the objecting Senators and Rep ? resentatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money within the country , it merely transfers income from one part of the population to another . But when it pays money abroad , if it really does so , this payment must ultimately take the form of an excess of exports over imports ? including in exports invisible items like shipping services , tourists ' expenditures and the like , as well as physical goods . To produce an excess of exports over imports where there was none before , or to enlarge an existing surplus , means that in some way the nation which does so must sell more abroad , or buy less abroad , or both . And when this is accomplished , the result is that the goods available to its own people have been proportion ? ately reduced . Income is transferred out of the nation . Such a process , taking place on a sufficiently large scale , means difficult readjustments of the channels of world trade , and brings with it a likeli ? hood of domestic political and economic disturb ? ance . If it is not successful , it means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which accompany that process . The economic position of Great Britain in recent years has become precarious even in the attempt to maintain her pre-war balance of payments . The world depression , with its ' depreciation of prices by enormous amounts , has greatly enhanced the burden of her foreign debts . Even with a simultaneous moratorium on her receipts from Germany and her Allies and her payments to the United States , she has had to go off the gold standard , and is now seeking to enlarge her exports and restrict her im ? ports , to the detriment of the British standard of living and to the injury of her foreign competitors in the export markets . If war-debt payments to us were resumed though reparations were canceled , her difficulties , and consequently the obstacles to worldwide economic recovery , would be immensely aggravated . In the case of France the possibilities of transfer are considerably brighter . In recent years gold has been flowing toward her , not away from her . But it should not be thought that if France should abolish her army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position than she is to transfer funds abroad . Moreover , it would scarcely be expedient to remit the British obligations while insisting on the payment of the French . A third consideration which is even more important is that , reluctant as France is to forgo German payments to her , a firm stand by this country against revising her payments to us would make it politically impossible for any French government to adjust the German relation ? ship . The whole economic crisis of Europe would be frozen . The practical result would be that reparations would be defaulted and debts would be defaulted , while the governments continued to bicker and the hostility of the peoples increased . The shrewder French statesmen understand that reparations can not be paid in any case , and the chief use of the French legal claim to them is to press for political and economic supremacy in Europe . Do we wish to embark on a similar course in insisting on our legal right to debt payments from France ? If so , there is no hope for Western civilization un ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would re ? ceive without any revision of war debts are not a vital element in our budget or our economic life . Any contribution to world appeasement which we can make by their cancellation would be worth ten times as much to the American people , taxpayers and foreign bond holders alike , as the debt pay ? ments themselves . IN EXPERTS ' committee at Basle once more is wrestling with the problem of German reparations . All the facts about Germany 's capacity to pay ? or rather incapacity ? have been known in great detail for many months . There is no more excuse for another investigation than for an in ? quiry into the alphabet or the multiplication table . The summoning of the Basle committee is due solely to French insistence . Sometime in January , a full-dress international conference will be held to deal with reparations , and the French government believes that strict adherence to the letter of the Young Plan will bring it some slight tactical ad , vantage . It is evident that France 's antagonist at the January conference is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political neuter . Already the British and French governments have assumed ostentatiously irreconcilable positions . Said Stanley Baldwin last month in the House of Commons : " London has been largely instrumental in financing Germany during the last ten years , thereby enabling her to carry on international trade and pay repara ? tions . These financial advances .. . must not be endangered by political debts . " Two weeks later in the French Chamber of Deputies , Premier Laval replied acidly : " We will not accede to priority being given to private debts over our reparations . " Both Mr. Baldwin and M. Laval presumably know that Germany , at least for the next few years , can pay only a very small part of its private foreign debt , and can not pay reparations at all . M. Laval has , in fact , officially intimated that France has neither hope nor intention of collecting reparations ( other than reparations in kind ) before 1933 or 1934 . The problem , as most experts agree , is not how or what Germany can pay , but how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate lay opinion , however , is likely to be heard at next January 's conference . The present indication is that it will be solely an affair between official Britain and official France , with questions of diplomatic prestige uppermost . The British Foreign Office is now definitely anti-French , and eager to curb France 's domination of the Continent . Sir Austen Chamberlain , chief friend of France in England , was conspicuously omitted from the present Cabinet . Neither Mr. MacDonald nor Mr. Baldwin likes or trusts France , and the Foreign Office permanent staff , ever since the enforced resignation of Lord Tyrrell , has consistently opposed French policies . In the gathering struggle between the two gov ? ernments , there are two uncertain factors . One is the policy of the Hoover administration . The other is Hitler and the Nazis . The United States , by virtue of the White House compact between Mr. Hoover and M. Laval , now is a passive ally of France . The British count heavily upon their ability to break up this understanding , and to bring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in part , for the purpose of gaining our support that Britain now stresses the reparations issue . Germany 's immediate economic future is much more important to us than to the English . Germany , despite last summer 's standstill agree ? ment , has slowly been repaying its short-term debt to London . The amount now outstanding , $275 , ? 000,000 , is , as The London Times recently pointed out , no more than is normally required by Ger ? many 's export trade . The English share of the German long-term debt is only $261,000,000 , or slightly more than 10 percent of the total . 