@@487393

THE special Congressional session , called primarily to pass a farm bill , will undoubtedly end in the Christmas holidays without having completed its job . The House and Senate will each have passed its own bill . But the divergences between them are so great as to leave a good deal of ironing work for the conference committee , which will carry over to the January session . It is a basic paradox of the capitalist structure that the harder the farmer works and the more he produces , the smaller his own income is . The depression hit the farmers more than a decade before it hit the industrial areas . A combination of factors accounted for this : first , a loss of the world export markets for American farm products ; and second , an improvement in agricultural techniques which heightened the farm yields and brought a glut of production . These factors caused a price drop immediately after the war which sent the farmer 's income spiraling downward . And the lower the spiral dropped the more feverish became the farmer 's efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a device that caused an even sharper price dip . When the industrial depression merged with the farm depression at the end of the twenties , another factor was added in the form of a decrease in the purchasing power of the working masses . The iron ring around the farmer drew even tighter when the ups and downs of farm prices were accentuated by the activities of speculators in the commodity markets . And the cycle was completed when soil erosion , drought , and exhausted fertility , without solving the problem of the general glut , reduced the smaller farmers and the tenants and croppers , especially in the South and West , to abject poverty . The farmer was a tragic victim of the impersonal forces of the capitalist market , helpless in a world he never made . The last two decades have seen a whole series of attempts to relieve his condition  --  first , through cooperative marketing ; second , through the McNary-Haugen export-subsidy plan , twice vetoed by President Coolidge ; third , through the catastrophic operations of the Federal Farm Board , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the open market , with a liberality which benefited the farmers less than the speculators ; and finally , through the crop controls and the domestic-allotment plan of the AAA , which achieved higher farm incomes at the expense of consumers . Whatever else may be said of the AAA , there can be little doubt that it came doser to being farm relief than any of its predecessors . Of the two versions , the House plan seems to us far superior to the Senate bill . It has been drawn with greater care and ability and is less restrictive . In its eighty-six-pages , without the amendments that have come thick as hailstones , it sets up a series of marketing-quota procedures for the five major crops  --  tobacco , field corn ( linked with the whole livestock market ) , wheat , cotton , The NATION and rice . The Secretary of Agriculture is given wide and flexible powers at the opening of each crop year to fix a marketing quota for the crop , to set up machinery for apportioning it among states and counties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year to year , to reward the farmers by crop loans and benefit payments for living up to the control plan , and to apply legal penalties when they violate either the marketing or surplus quotas . The plan as a whole distinguishes between crops , it sets up an effective enforcement machinery , and it gives latitude for flexible administration to the Secretary . The Senate plan calls for more restriction of both the farmer and the farm administration . Both plans , however , suffer from basic weaknesses and contradictions . They are presumably based on the principle of seeking to effect a balance  --  between the crops , between seasonal peaks and valleys of production , between farm prices and industrial prices , between the domestic and the world markets . In this respect the House bill is significant , because the goals that it sets for itself are the goals that all economic planning must set  --  of an adjusted balance arrived at through administrative flexibility of control . But there are two glaring defects . First , the balance is set in a scarcity economy rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look forward to anything except a scarcity economy . Second , the controls operate chiefly in the interest of the larger farmers and accentuate the existing inequalities of income within the farming population itself . It was left to Senator Borah to expose most effectively in the Congressional debates the paradox of legislating agricultural scarcity in an economy in which the working masses need the very products that are being curtailed . Senator Borah suggested that the government buy up the farm surplus , instead , and use it for feeding and clothing the people . All praise to him for having the courage to reveal the weakness of the whole plan . But what Senator Borah refuses to face is that the government can not legislate an economy of farm abundance without premising an industrial economy of the same sort . If the government were to buy up the cotton surplus of some 13 million bales or the wheat surplus of some 150 million bushels , it would not only have to make huge expenditures , but it would have to face the problem of making cotton cloth or bread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost spread would be four or five times the original cost of the crops . Only a socialized industrial system could tackle the job . And only a government that had the courage to socialize industry could resolve the contradiction of crop limitation in a time of need . Because the whole farming industry has got a raw deal under capitalism , progressives have had a tendency to favor any plan that raised farm income . But it is now time to recognize that all benefit-payment schemes favor the large landowners and sharpen the disparity between them and the underlying farm population . For the farm benefits are apportioned not according to need but according to amount of land withheld from cultivation . And that means that the poorest farmers and sharecroppers get the least government aid . The present farm December 18 , 1937 plan does not dare do anything else , because it does not dare disturb the system of vested interests in farming . A rational farm plan today would include crop controls and the ever-normal granary , despite the absurd charges of dictatorship that always come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money for crop benefits . It would divert the largest share of the funds to direct farm relief , in proportion to need . It would exempt the small farmers from land taxes and would lower for them the interest rates on loans . It would put the apportionment of farm benefits into the hands of local groups in which the poorer farmers had express representation . It would seek to build larger export markets by lowering tariff rates . But such a plan would finally depend on the widening of the domestic market through the socialization of industry . Organized Hatred THE National Association of Manufacturers met in New York City last week in a " Congress of American Industry . " If this wishful title had a sound reminiscent of the corporative system of industrial representation in Mussolini 's Italy , the raven remarks of various keynote speakers were even more so . Virgil Jordan , down-in-the-mouth president of the National Industrial Conference Board , croaked of " another " inflation . " Whether the outcome , " he groaned , " will be the fascist or communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " By comparison the speech of Lammot du Pont was a chirp of hope . He asked only that the labor situation be stabilized and that tax uncertainties be ended . " As long as the law-making mills grind , the fog of uncertainty mocks the industrial planner . " As for unemployment , he saw the possibility of creating 3,000,000 new jobs in industry , and seemed to feel that an ultimate solution would be found in a fall of population ! Just how the legislative grinding is to be stopped in a democracy , Mr. du Pont did not say . But he and all his friends in the N. A. M. had very positive ideas on how the labor and the tax situation were to be stabilized . They were outlined in the plan the N. A. M. issued  --  which turned out to be the same old plan . Needless to say , it began with Encouragement of Private Initiative , which in fact states the theme of the whole congress . And it was a foregone conclusion that the two sections of the plan on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were those pertaining to labor and " sound government policies . " What business wants in the way of sound government policies is neither new nor surprising . Its program for labor relations surpasses all former efforts and is a direct response to the rise of the C. I. 0 . Appropriately enough , it was adopted at a session presided over by Walter T. Kohler , at which E. T. Weir was a principal speaker . And its eighteen points , if they were put into effect , would put labor in a vise that would fulfil the fondest dreams of Tom Girdler , who was also present.677 In its elaborately detailed program , the N. A. M. advocated that the National Labor Relations Act be amended into complete ineffectiveness ; it condemned the closed shop and the use of the check-off under any circumstances ; advocated " preventative " justice in labor dis-The in the courts , through injunction ; suggested that The Byrnes Act be amended to include the banning of ' strike-makers , " that is , organizers who move from one state to another ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right to work . This program of specific recommendations for the curbing of labor was larded through with bland statements of the good-will and excellent intentions of management toward employees , of which our favorite is the solemn recommendation that whenever practical adequate advance notice be given to employees of any change in the schedule of hours of work . In the face of the present strength of labor , the recommendations of the N. A. M. might be dismissed as the unrealistic utterances of reactionaries who have learned nothing in the past few years . It is much more sensible to regard them , along with the cries of doom of the Jordans and the Weirs , as a measure of the N. A. M. 's organized hatred of organized labor . China 's Hope THE flight of Chiang Kai-shek from Nanking has revived rumors of his early retirement and the establishment of a government which would be more " sympathetic " with Japan 's ambitions in China . Although the rumors are entirely plausible in that they specify men long notorious for pro-Japanese activities as the probable heirs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to us from Tokyo , Shanghai , and Berlin makes them suspect . Not a word has come out of the territory controlled by China which can be construed as indicating Chinese surrender . Even the Japanese papers , moreover , have carried reports that Chiang was preparing secondary defense lines as far up the Yangtze as Nanchang and Kiukiang . And if Chiang plans to submit , it is scarcely likely that he would permit Nanking to be destroyed and thousands of Chinese lives to be sacrificed . The loss of Nanking will temporarily strengthen the hands of men like Wu Ting-chang , until recently Minister of Industry , Chang Tso-pin , the new governor of Anwei , Chang Chun , former Minister of Foreign Affairs , Wang Ching-wei , the present Foreign Minister , and Ho Ying-ching , the War Minister , who are known to favor a compromise with Japan . But important as these men are in Chinese political life , it is doubtful whether they could maintain a government , even with the support of Japanese arms . Private letters and confidential reports from the interior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposing Japanese aggression . And all the evidence indicates that the determination to resist has been increased rather than diminished by the Japanese capture of Shanghai and the attack on Nanking . Although a few military leaders are somewhat uncertain in their loyalty , the overwhelming majority  --  including all the more distinguished generals , such as Feng Yu-hsiang , Pai Chung-hsi , Li Tsung-jen , Chang Fa-kwei , and Tang Sheng-chi  --  have exhibited a unity unprecedented in recent Chinese history . Moreover , the Communist leaders , who have been foremost in urging resistance to Japan , are apparently gaining in influence . The Japanese criticism of Chinese military strategy in the south , as expressed by Hallett Abend of the Times , seems justified . Largely for the sake of " face , " the Nanking generals carried their resistance at Shanghai and Nanking to the point of endangering their entire army . But in the north the guerrilla tactics of the former Red Army , while not so spectacular , are bearing fruit . During the past month the Japanese have made no gains , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previously occupied because of threats to their lines of communication . Columns of the Chinese Eighth Route Army are known to be operating within forty miles of Peiping . Even if the Japanese should succeed in establishing a puppet government at the former capital , its rule would , be limited to the cities and railway zones which are directly under Japanese military control . While the rising prestige of the Communist leaders ? Chu Teh , Mao Tse-tung , Chou En-lai , and Lin Piao --  may not be widely recognized among the masses of the population outside the former Soviet areas , it is a bulwark against a possible coup by the pro-Japanese clique . It also increases the possibility that Chiang may tear a The NATION leaf from their notebook and develop guerrilla tactics in the south . But Chiang 's problem is not merely one of shifting from positional to semi-guerrilla warfare ; he must also arm and train the masses to supplement the regular troops in defense . In the north the Eighth Route Army , without a large number of troops at its disposal , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to harass the enemy lines of communication . This is a task which calls for skill and experience , an experience which only the former Communists possess . In order to win , Chiang must swallow his pride and call upon the assistance of those who were formerly his bitterest enemies . There is every reason to believe that he will do this rather than surrender . Prominent Chinese newspapers have been urging such a shift in tactics . And if the Japanese army carries out its threat of advancing on Hankow , 600 miles up the Yangtze , the opportunity will be too obvious to miss . If the Chinese blundered in attempting to defend Shanghai under the guns of the Japanese fleet , the Japanese would be equally foolish to carry their attack to an interior city a thousand miles from their base of supplies . Yet modesty has never been a characteristic of the Japanese military leaders , and the Japanese passion for " face " may prove their undoing . China has not yet begun to tap its full resources for defense . The primary cause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself of traitors and settle down to a war of endurance , in which it will have every reason to hope for ultimate success ?                     