@@487322

S most of us know from personal experience , the financial aftermath of illness is often worse than the ill- ness itself . Except for the wealthy fraction of the population  --  negligible in point of numbers  --  almost every family in the United States has its own story to tell of difficulties with doctors ' bills . Many carry almost permanently the burden of debt piled up by a single major illness . As a result we have today a profound undercurrent of public dissatisfaction with medical service . Popular criticism is directed not so much against the science as against the economics of medicine . As a matter of fact , a large proportion of the doctors are also dissatisfied . The uncertainty of income plagues the physician as much as the uncertainty of expense has plagued his patients . Into this ferment of national interest the final report of the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care has now been plunged . Like a chemical precipitant it has already begun to clear the cloudy waters . While a final solution is far in the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been before . Incidentally the work of the committee has been a most valuable laboratory test of the way in which economicresearch can be focused and applied to the practical uses of man . Owing largely to the pioneering vision and interest of Dr. Llewellys F. Barker , Michael M. Davis , Edward A. Filene , Walton H. Hamilton , Paul U. Kellogg , Harry H. Moore , Edgar Sydenstricker , and Dr. C.-E . A. Winslow the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care was formed five years ago to make a thorough study of the economic aspects of medical care and to formulate constructive suggestions for bringing adequate medical service to the people at a price they can pay . The committee , under the chairmanship of Ray Lyman Wilbur , ' Secretary of the Interior , is composed of seventeen physicians drawn from private practice ; ten representatives of institutions and special interests , including five physicians ; nine representatives of the lay public ; six members from the field of public health , including four physicians ; and six economists . There can be no question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group which has studied the public aspects of medicine in this country . It has been financed , moreover ) by the joint efforts of eight leading foundations . The committee now comes before the public with two principal achievements : first , a statement of facts and , second , a program of action . The statement of facts is composed of twenty-five research reports which give as complete a picture as has been drawn of medical service as it exists in the United States today  --  personnel , plant , income , expenses , and activities . The facts dispose of at least one public misconception : the reason medical costs are high is not that doctors are overpaid . The average income of the American doctor is only $5,300 a year , and this figure includes the " high-priced specialist ? in the cities . The committee finds that one-third of the physicians live on less than $2,500 a year . Medical expenses are high because they come unexpectedly and then , often , in staggering doses . We have no way of budgeting illness as we budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our clothes for several years at once , we should complain of the tailor 's bills ; and if we could not fit the time we bought them to the exigencies of our bank account , our resentment would be all the greater . The committee has shown by bare statistics  --  on which are hung a multitude of individual human tragedies  --  the uneven and unpredictable burdens of illness . They disclose the fact that almost one-half of the total costs of illness in any one year are borne by about one-tenth of the population . Nor is there any way by which this one-tenth which are so hard-hit can forecast their troubles and prepare for them financially . The committee 's research also indicates that the costs of medical care have not been and can not be reduced by improved mechanical technique , as can the manufacture of automobiles or shoes or razor blades . The progress of science has , in fact , increased its cost by elaborating the measures and appliances used without decreasing the amount of personal service required . Machines and mechanical power can never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the layer of bricks . The facts have led the committee to the two central problems of medical economics : first , the reduction of costs , in the only way they can be reduced  --  by a more efficient organization of plant and personnel ; and , second , the distribution of these costs so that they can be budgeted in advance and paid for in instalments . For each of these problems a large majority of the committee suggests a constructive solution . They advocate " group practice " to eliminate the wastes of the present disorganized individualism among doctors , and " group payment " to render costs both predictable and bearable for their patients . The majority report of the committee suggests that better service can be given at a lower cost by units of doctors  --  general diagnosticians and major specialists , with dentists and oculists as well  --  furnishing all-round medical care through jointly owned and operated office and hospital plants . By pooling the overhead and allowing for a more intensive use of X-ray and other laboratory equipment the expense per doctor can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of duplication may be avoided . By turning over their business affairs to a central management the individual doctors can be relieved of a task which now burdens them and which others are better trained to perform . The report further suggests that the costs of medical service be distributed among groups of people and over specific periods of time " through the use of insurance , through the use of taxation , or through the use of both these methods . " Most of the majority members of the committee urged that voluntarily " organized groups of consumers unite in paying into a common fund agreed annual sums in weekly or monthly instalments and in arranging with organized groups of medical practitioners to furnish them and their families with virtually complete medical service " ? in effect , consumers ' cooperatives for the purchase of medical care . Several members of the majority recommended that at least the industrial States should immediately begin to plan for the adoption of compulsory health-insurance legislation . In a distinguished dissenting statement Professor Walton H. Hamilton of Yale criticizes the majority report for not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very minimum , " he says , " which this committee should have recommended . " Mr. Hamilton would also have the State make membership compulsory in the medical centers proposed by the committee . As an ultimate aim the majority suggested the formation in the urban areas of " medical-service centers , " including a general hospital , offices of physicians and dentists , and " all the facilities necessary for the practice of modern scientific medicine . " Such a center would offer complete medical and hospital care . " Its physicians would see patients in their homes , at the offices of the center , and in the hospital . . . . Preventive medicine would receive special emphasis . Full use would be made of periodic medical examinations . . . and every effort would be made to discover disease in its early stages and to limit its development . " The service would be paid for ' by regular fixed fees , as is insurance , for those who could afford to pay . The committee estimates that the costs would amount to between $20 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for complete service . For those who could not afford the fee local or State tax funds could be used to make up the difference . In the operation of these centers the committee believes the role of " the family practitioner " could be " prominent and respected . " " Each patient would be primarily under the charge of the family practitioner of his choice . " The specialists of the center would be called in only on more difficult and obscure ailments  --  as is the case now with the independent family doctor , except that the specialist would be in the same building and the same organization and thus working in closer cooperation with the general practitioner . The importance and the drastic character of these recommendations are obvious . They point the way to a possible solution of the economic problems of both doctors and patients . The medical staff of such medical centers would be relatively free of the uncertainties of collections and the difficulties of adjusting their fees to their estimates of their patients ' incomes . The patients , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them they would be guaranteed good medical care and would never have to pay more than a regular annual fee . And , most important of all , the whole current of economic interest of the medical staff would be directed to keeping their patients well . Nine members of the committee dissented from these particular recommendations of the majority . All but one are physicians and they include Dr. Olin West , chief executive officer of the American Medical Association . This medical minority  --  which is a minority of the medical members as well as of the committee as a whole  --  opposes both group practice and group payment . They believe that groups lead to undesirable " competition " and " underbidding " ; that " the continuous personal relationship of physician and patient would be difficult if not impossible " ; that " the evils of contract practice are widespread and pernicious " ; and that " the medical-center plan is the adoption by medicine of the technique of big business , that is , mass production , " which is " destructive of professional traditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made public , copies of an editorial from the Journal of the American Medical Association were given to the newspapers of the whole country bitterly attacking the majority report . Its recommendations , the editorial says , " will mean the destruction of private practice " ; they " represent exploitation of physicians for the gain of business " ; they contain " the pet plans of many of its members sweetly elaborated . " " The alignment is clear , " continues the editorial , " on the one side the forces representing the great foundations , public-health officialdom , social theory  --  even socialism and communism  --  inciting to revolution ; on the other the organized medical profession of this country . " This sort of emotional opposition is unfortunate  --  not so much for the committee 's program as for the medical profession . The American people demand adequate medical care at a price they can pay . The committee 's suggestions offer a way in which this can be given without sacrifice of control of medical service by the profession . This control is threatened today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and through the possibility of state domination in some form or other . Large corporations are more and more instituting medical services for their employees which , of necessity , put professional personnel and achievements at the mercy of the business profits and losses . The pressure of a dissatisfied public may also break through the dam of caution and individualism in a wave of legislation sweeping the doctors in large numbers on the pay rolls of city and State governments . As Secretary Wilbur said at the conference at which the committee report was presented : " Something must ' be done . Either the doctors will do it , or it will be done to them . " The implied strategy of the majority report should not be misunderstood . Through the medical-center proposal the committee has suggested a form of social and professional machinery which , if it worked well in the experimental stages , could , and I believe should , be used as a vehicle for compulsory health insurance and yet leave the final administration of medical service where it belongs  --  in the hands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used by large corporations under group contracts to serve their employees without the dangers of direct corporate domination . For the doctors to be led by the stale red herrings of " communism " and " revolution " to oppose the only form of reorganization of medical service which offers them a prospect of continued control would seem not only nearsighted but in the face of the uncertain future very close to professional treason .                     