@@469231

At 1ER a thirteen-year struggle to induce the government to intervene effectively for the relief of agriculture , the political efforts of the American farmers now bid fair to be crowned with success . The spokesmen of the agricultural interests , uniting on the so-called farm parity or voluntary allotment plan , were able to push through the lower house of the outgoing " lame duck " Congress the Jones Bill embodying that principle , and would have pressed for its final passage but for the fear of a veto by President Hoover . Assured , however , of the support of the new administration , which pledged itself even in the inaugural address to " definite efforts to raise the values of agricultural products , " the farmer 's friends look forward confidently to an early enactment of the farm plan at the special session of the new Congress . It is possible that before these words are read the farm parity scheme will already have passed from the stage of project to the stage of actuality . In any case , it may be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enactment of the scheme sooner or later would appear to be definitely indicated . Never in the history of American politics has public opinion approached a political and economic experiment with so little consciousness of the consequences involved , or with so little realization of the seriousness of the underlying situation for which the experiment is offered as a cure . Inthe prevailing depression-mentality , public opinion has passively decided to let the farmer have what he wants first because it can not suggest anything better , and second because it hopes that the farm plan may have a good psychological effect on the business tempo as a whole . Little do we realize that the farm parity plan commits the country to the virtual enrolment of the agricultural class into the national service on a secured income and employment basis , as well as to the creation of a socialistic precedent that is likely to be utilized with revolutionary effect by other social classes . Still less do we suspect that the American farm problem , for which the parity scheme is offered nonchalantly as a cure , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general breakdown of our competitive economic system . Because we have been accustomed to look for basic trouble only on the industrial side of our economic system , we find it difficult to conceive of the farm problem as being anything else than a farm problem . That it may mark a general revolutionary crisis , and that the tinkering with the specific problem may mark the beginnings of a general revolution ? all such possibilities fail to enter the pragmatically bounded consciousness of the average American . What is the farm parity plan ? Its nature may be defined in terms of its purpose , which is to restore American agriculture to its prewar prosperity by giving to agricultural commodities the same purchasing power which they had before 1914 . It is sufficient at this point to state the fact , without inquiring into the reasons , that the farmer is caught to-day between the upper and nether millstones of low prices for his crops and high costs for his articles of consumption and expenses of production . According to a recent tabulation made by the Association of Land Grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodities stand today at about 55 per cent of the prewar averages , whereas the general index of costs that the farmer pays is 140 . The farmer 's situation is thus equivalent to that of a laborer or office worker whose wages were cut 45 per cent while his cost of living went up 40 per cent . The farm parity plan does not aim to correct directly the entire disparity between the prices of farm products and general farm costs , but only that disparity which exists between the prices of farm products and the prices paid by the farmer for the commodities that he buys . This disparity is not 55 to 140 , but 54 to 106 , both figures being of a later date than the Land Grant College estimate . From this same tabulation ( made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics ) we learn that the wages of farm hands have dropped to 84 per cent of the prewar level , but taxes have climbed to 250 . The cost of mortgages is not given , but that , too , is probably as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mortgages represent capitalization of land values at the war boom of agricultural prosperity . Although the tax burden and the mortgage indebtedness would thus seem to stand out as the most crying abuses in the farmer 's situation , the remedy for these specific evils ( equivalent to an adjustment on the city worker 's house rent ) would not by itself bring back the farmer to his prewarlevel of material well-being ; after the taxes and interest arc paid , the farmer still has only his low-priced farm crops with which to buy high-priced city articles . This disparity , measured by the figures 54 to 106 , is tremendously aggravated by the tax and mortgage burden ; since if he pays that burden at the overwhelmingly inflated tax and mortgage rates he usually has nothing left with which to buy city commodities even at the exchange rate of 54 to 106 . But the disparity in itself is not caused by taxes and mortgages , inasmuch as even if taxes and mortgages took only the same proportion of his crop as before the War the balance would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War . The force of these figures is offset only slightly by the greater per capita productivity of the individual farmer . On the other hand , in the chief export crops like wheat , cotton , etc. , for which alone the price parity plan is to be applied in its present stage , the price differential is greater than that indicated by the general farm prices . Thus wheat , which in 1913 sold for above 90 cents a bushel , is to-day around 40 cents ; or 44 per cent of its former price , instead of 54 as with the general index of farm prices . Not only has the farmer 's purchasing power fallen to about half of the prewar average , but in the meantime the welfare of the class with which the farmer likes to compare himself , the city worker , has increased . Or at least so he is told by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics , which posts the fact that the level of industrial wages is to-day at 175 , while the general wholesale level of all commodities ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rent ) is 94 ? in other words an increase of purchasing power of at least 75 per cent . What these figures do not indicate , however , is the amount of partial and total unemployment ? a circumstance that helps to explain the paradox that , with the farmer 's plight worse than it has ever been since pioneer days , we should be witnessing a drift hack to the farm from the city . The same press release of the Department of Agriculture which announces that the American farmer has fallen to a subsistence level of living announces also that , thanks to the drift from the city , the population on the farms now stands at 32,000,000 ? reaching , if not exceeding , the peak figure of 1910 . Thus the farmer 's plight , while very grave , is evidently preferable to that of the urban unemployed . Those of the unemployed who have any family or property connection with a farm prefer to go back to the old homestead and share subsistence rather than stay in the city and face direct or indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grievance which the parity plan seeks to redress by political or semi-political methods . How does it seek to accomplish its purpose ? By Congressional enactment the leading export crops , the heaviest sufferers in the drop of agricultural prices , are singled out to receive the benefits of a price adjustment in the domestic market . These are wheat , cotton , hogs , and tobacco ; three other crops , namely rice , butter , and peanuts , were incorporated at the last moment in the bill passed by the House of Representatives , but some of these are likely to drop out in any final act . The amount of the price adjustment is to be determined periodically by the difference in the purchasing power of a unit of the crop , say , a bushel of wheat , at the world-market price and its prewar purchasing power ( based on the five-year average before 1914 ) . This price adjustment is tobe collected by the government in the form of a tax levied at the point of the first processing ( e.g. , the miller , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the crop which is to be consumed in this country ; exports , whether raw or processed , being left free of the tax in order to meet competition in the world market . After deduction of administrative expenses , the proceeds of the tax , which thus functions as an indirect price-raising scheme , are to be distributed to the farmers in proportion to their crop . Since the success of any price-raising scheme depends on the stabilization or limitation of the supply , the distribution of benefits is made properly contingent on an agreement of the growers to stabilize their output . In this ease not only is stabilization demanded , but an actual reduction by 20 per cent is to be made effective through the provision that only those farmers who " voluntarily " reduce their acreage or tonnage by that amount are eligible to share in the government-collected price adjustment . The purpose of the provision for the reduction of output , aside from the negative one of preventing an increase in the supply , is to make the economic mechanism of supply and demand perform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and perhaps ultimately ( if the scheme continues for a number of years ) to replace the latter entirely . In the case of wheat , it is evident that the 20 per cent reduction , if effective , would soon put production on a domestic-consumption basis , with the price determined by the tariff wall on imports . In the case of cotton , where more than half of the crop is exported , some complications are likely to result : despite the dominant position of America 's cotton crop in the world supply , the economic benefits of a 20 per cent reduction will be diluted in the world market , and whatever natural price changes result from it will go to the world 's cotton growers as a whole rather than to American planters exclusively . But it is evidently hoped that through the double device of the tax and the reduction of output the projected benefit for the American farmer will be in one way or another assured . The restriction of the scope of the plan to a limited number of privileged crops has been justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all on the ground , already noted , that these have been the worst sufferers by the price depression ; and second on the theory that they are " controlling " crops , whose price-raising will raise the price of other crops as well . In Chairman Jones ' own words , " If consumers pay more for pork , they will turn in part to beef , lamb , and poultry , and thus the price of all meats will be helped . Also , if hog producers are getting a more satisfactory price they will not push into the dairy business at the same rapid rate as they have been for the past four years . Higher wheat prices will help corn , oats , rye:barley and , in fact , all grain prices . " This explanation is subject to two words of caution . In the first place the amount of benefit that is shifted to the subsidiary agricultural commodities will diminish to the same extent the contemplated benefit to the privileged principal crops . In the second place it is quite likely that the growers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines is limited by decree , will use their spare time and land for the cultivation of the subsidiary unprotected crops and thus depress rather than raise the price . If this should prove to be the case , as is extremely likely , it will mean that in order to enforce the principle of farm parity we shall have to embark on a policy of output control and pricefixing for all agricultural crops , andthat the present plan is only an experimental first step along the long and difficult road which already looms up to our vision . With the farm relief plan calling for such far-reaching ultimate commitments , and with the manifest difficulties in the way of administering even its initial scope , not to mention the resentment of the classes who are to pay the cost of the price-adjustment , our cause for wonder turns from the drastic character of the remedy to the disease of the economic organism for which the remedy is invoked . Ever since Adam Smith we have been told that the best and , indeed , the only cure for economic ills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply and demand and in the principle of free competition ; and that the function of the wise government is first of all to remove the barriers against nature which unwise governments have set up , and second ( with great caution ! ) to facilitate the movement of natural law . But how does it come that in America , a country that has observed so faithfully all the precepts of Doctor Smith ( except the relatively minor one on international free trade ) ? how does it come that in this country the class most imbued with laissez-faire , competitive individualism should be suffering from such a fell disease as to be ready to subject itself to the radical socialistic remedy of state control and fixed prices ? What has happened to the celebrated magic of the natural order , with its mechanism for the survival of the fittest and the weeding out of the unfit , that not only do the economically unfit survive and refuse to die but , without fear of sacrilege , turn on the natural mechanism itself and prepare to smash it to pieces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must begin , as is customary in medicine , with a little history of the case . Once upon a time , in the golden age of 1913 , agriculture in America was enjoying the cornucopia of prosperity . Agricultural production no longer bulked as importantly in the national production of wealth as in the old pioneering days ; but what was more important for the individual farmer was that , with a rapidly increasing population , the rate of agricultural production was increasing at a slower pace than the production of manufactured goods . Agricultural products were still an important part of American exports ( 45 per cent ) ; but in foodstuffs at any rate the time was approaching when the output of American farmers would prove just sufficient or even less than sufficient for domestic needs . In the meantime even in non-foodstuffs , like cotton , the price was holding up because , the world over , manufactures were outstripping agricultural produce . The farmer was assured of a high exchange value for his products in terms of manufactured articles , and the increase in individual productivity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a curse ) was compensated by the drift of farm population to the city , in quest of the high wages which we now know to have been largely mythical . Then came the war years with the vast increase of demand and of output . Although no new acreage was devoted to agriculture after 1917 , yet the use of machinery in place of farm animals has released , since that time , about thirty million acres of plow land and large pasture areas for human agricultural purposes . This process of increased efficiency in land utilization was interrupted by the postwar deflation of 19W . Not only was the wartime foreign demand largely removed , but in the United States itself population growth suffered a severe check through the restrictionof immigration . After an initial crash the farmer made a slow price recovery from 1922 to 1929 thanks to his increased efficiency , a stiffening of world prices , and a drift of population to the city ( at the rate 1.3 per cent a year ) . The ratio of farm prices to prices paid by farmers stood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1913 standard ) ; but the farmer , thanks to mortgages and taxes , and even allowing for the decrease of farm population , nowhere near approached the material well-being of 1913 . In the meantime industrial wages stood about 200 , while the index of wholesale prices ( which as we have said roughly , but only roughly , measures urban cost of living ) was at 1365 . In other words , " real " wages were anywhere between 40 and 50 per cent higher in 1929 than in 1913 . There was a huge wall separating the well-being of the industrial worker from the well-being of the farmer during the entire postwar decade , and yet the free flow of economic competition acting over a decade was unable to make much of a dent in that wall . This speaks volumes on the " plasticity " of the competitive system . That the farmer was unable to pull up his stakes quickly enough , that he feared to take the risk of unemployment in the city ? all this is quite true , but it goes to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is theoretically open , the process of natural adaptation according to the law of supply and demand may be infinitely slow . With the depression of 1929 , brought on by world conditions , but conditions in which America played a large part , the farmer 's economic defeat became a rout . A slightly diminished worlddemand , owing to the poverty of the city working classes , and an increase in production on the part of competing agricultural countries precipitated a terrific and dizzy drop in agricultural prices . And to-day there is no talk of the farmer pulling up stakes and finding his salvation in the city ; instead the city is coming to the farm . In reading the odyssey of the American farmer one may easily fall into the impression that his sufferings represent merely the process of adjustment to the changed relative position of agriculture in the national economy , a process of adjustment made all the more painful through the fact that it was temporarily reversed during the hectic years of the War . The present farm surplus is from this point of view a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the declining market for American agricultural products and by the sudden stimulus to overproduction given by the abnormal War situation . Eventually this disequilibrium will right itself through the play of natural economic forces . Were this view an accurate interpretation of the nature of the farm surplus , the whole question of farm relief would reduce itself to a sentimental concern ? to an effort to mollify by political subsidies and adjustments the roughness of the natural process of liquidation . Unfortunately this optimistic interpretation does not resist factual analysis . For the agricultural surplus to be liquidated it is essential that there be a demand for industrial workers which will take up the farmers who are squeezed out of agriculture . But nowhere do we see any signs of an actual or potential labor shortage in industry . On the contrary , we see that in the postwar decade when American industry was at the zenith of its prosperity there existed a tremendous gulf between the wages of industrial workers and the incomes of millions of poor farmers , a gulf which economic law could not seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmers were unable to be absorbed rapidly enough into industry . In the present depression it is of course absurd to talk of industry liquidating the agricultural surplus ; but without assuming the present depression to be permanent , it may readily be shown that even in normal times industry will face a surplus of its own and will be in no position to absorb the extra million or two of agricultural breadwinners responsible for the farm surplus . In a recent address President Roosevelt declared that even " if every factory wheel in the country were turning at full speed to-day we should still have 6,000,000 unemployed , " and suggested that we put these 5,000,000 unemployed back on the farms ! One may pass over in respectful silence his suggestion of using agriculture to liquidate the industrial surplus after advocating the farm parity plan as a way of dealing with the agricultural surplus ; but his testimony as to the existence of an industrial surplus is certainly unimpeachable . But this changes the whole significance of the American farm problem . So long as the farm surplus might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mere relative surplus ? that is to say , a surplus of supply over demand in one field only and compensated by a shortage in another field ? then we might look forward optimistically to the liquidation of the farm problem through natural economic laws . But the moment we have to recognize that for the country as a whole there exists a net , or absolute , surplus , and that the farm surplus is a part of that absolute surplus , then we must admit that there is something seriously wrong in the economic kingdom of Denmark . This " something wrong " is the idea that there should be a basic disequilibs rium between productive supply and consumptive demand and that people should be suffering misery and starvation in the midst of plenty . If such a disequilibrium really exists , not as a momentary fact , but as an inherent tendency of our " natural " economic mechanism , then it means that sooner or later the roused common sense of one or another social group will arise and smash the mechanism to pieces and attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that increased productivity should mean increased well-being and not increased misery . Considering the American nation alone , as representing a self-supporting economic area ( not necessarily a selfsufficient area with a Chinese wall round it ) , the scandalous fact of an excess of production over consumption may be statistically demonstrated for the whole of the postwar period . It is admitted even by our mulelike orthodox economists . But rather than draw the conclusion that this dooms our existing distributive mechanism , they pin all their hopes on some magic adjustment through the juggling of international trade . Ask them what to do about the farm surplus or the industrial surplus or both , and they will reply : let America and the rest of the world remove the tariff barriers , let them open up the channels of world trade to free competition , and there will be markets for everybody . What appears to be an excess of supply over demand in the national market will he transmuted on the world-scale into a harmonious equilibrium and permanent prosperity . The advice of the orthodox economist must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the practical difficulties of persuading nations to lower their tariff barriers , when in fact they are all raising them , are so immense as tomake all hope in that direction purely academic . Nonetheless , since we are attempting to find out whether the difficulty with the present system is merely momentary and accidental or else permanent and intrinsic , it is highly instructive to follow out the argument of the orthodox economist to its logical lair . Alas ? the orthodox economist who argues that the juggling of foreign trade would restore harmony into national economies which are otherwise disharmonious betrays the present economic order in the very act of defending it . For if foreign trade is to serve as a corrective force , it means that there is already something to correct ; whereas on the premises of orthodox economics there should never , in any given area , be any disequilibrium between supply and demand , but a permanent and natural harmony . On the premises of Adam Smith , there should be harmony in domestic economic exchange and harmony in international exchange , and harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says , in effect , one disharmony may be counteracted by another disharmony . This may be true for a while ; but the correction of one disharmony by another can not give us the same confidence that comes from the support of one harmony by another , any more than a sick man who takes drugs can be compared with a healthy man who in addition cats healthy food . These considerations become clearer as we analyze the precise forces of disharmony and the manner of their interaction . Whence arises the disharmony of production over consumption in a national area ? If we start with the normative ideal situation in which economic exchange represented an exchange of pure labor values , that is to say , a situation where human labor was the only factor to be considered in economic production , and where everything else was as free and uncontrolled as the air ? in such a situation no disequilibrium would ever exist . In our actual economic universe , however , there enter complicating factors , such as the control of natural resources , in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of reserves of goods and claims on goods , in the form of capital . For our schematic analysis we need pay attention only to the factor of capital . Now what does capital do ? On the side of productivity the use of capital , as everybody knows , serves to increase enormously and progressively the per capita production of goods , by virtue of the fact that capital makes possible large-scale operations , greater specialization of skills , the harnessing of machines , the use of science , etc . On the side of distribution , capital ? by virtue of its connection with individual human capitalists ? brings about a great social change in the apportionment of rewards . He who by inheritance , begging , stealing , cajoling , or even saving , can get hold of a shoestring of capital has an advantage of bargaining power over the vast surplus of moneyless and landless laborers which modern economy has inherited from the feudal age . The result ? as compared with the distribution in our ideal economy based on pure labor values ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the laborer a trifle less ( even though in absolute terms he may get more than before the introduction of capital ) . Were the capitalist to spend his extra rewards or " surplus value , " as Marx calls it , all would be well ; but since his advantage of bargaining power depends on the amount of capital at his disposal , he seeks inevitably to pyramid his gains into capital and production plant in the hope of making more money in the end . Socially , this mechanism of greed serves the purpose of providing a rapid accumulation of capital resources ? but , alas ! it serves this purpose not wisely but only too well . We soon reach a point where too much is concentrated in capital funds and production plant and too little in consumers ' purchasing power . Against this disharmony , which would quickly create an impasse in a limited economic area , what alleviations does foreign trade offer ? In so far as foreign trade is merely the equitable and static exchange of commodities between nations on the same scale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as foreign trade represents many elements of inequity ( due to differences in national levels of development and differences in bargaining power ) , it serves to alleviate the disharmony in the mother country and to prolong what would otherwise be a direct impasse into a series of cyclical expansions and depressions of prosperity . Among these elements of inequity , one may mention the trafficking in wares with a semi-civilized country ? amounting in effect to exploiting a low standard of living for supplying cheap goods to a Western community ; the exploitation of concessions , such as mines and railroads , in non-industrial countries , which serves to drain off the surplus funds from the mother country ; and , finally , the export of capital to build up the productive industrial machinery of a new country ( as for example the export of capital from England to the United States in the nineteenth century ) . All of these foreign-trade methods which alleviate the disease of " surplus value " are in the nature of the case potentially limited . Thus as regards the first method , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industrial countries have had to scramble to get their share before the supply is exhausted . As regards concessions , not only is the supply potentially limited , but the profits from them tend soon to swell the glut of capital in the mother country . And in the case of simple export of capital to build up industry , this means eventually to build up another vast factory of surplus value which competes with the country which originally supplied the capital ( witness the case of the United States and England ) . Thus , taking world economy as a whole , nobody indeed can say whether or not the limit of cosmic tolerance has now been reached . Possibly a tariff juggling might enable this country to drain off the effects of the disease of surplus value a little while longer . But one thing is certain and that is that the economic universe is finite , and that there is a limit of tolerance under the present economic mechanism . Indeed , the very increase of tariff barriers against which the orthodox economist complains may well be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the approaching limit of cosmic tolerance . V If our analysis has taken us far from the immediate range of the American farm problem , it has served to emphasize the fact that sooner or later the country will have to consider the farm surplus not as a relative surplus that may be solved by the Iaissez-faire methods of orthodox economics , but as an absolute surplus that can be solved only by a direct social and political approach . Already on the side of the farmer there is the obscure consciousness that the virtues of the competitive system are about played out , and it is round this consciousness that the rationale of the farm parity plan is constructed . Thanks to a series of historical causes , the individual farmer has enormously increased hisoutput in the fund of national production . The agricultural output per worker increased 2e per cent between the two decades 1912-21 and 1922-31 , and the individual farmer ? so we are told by the Committee on Social Trends ? now provides food for himself , for three members of his family , for le @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a total of 18 persons . But thanks to the same series of historical causes , the farmer , instead of getting a reward in proportion to his output , has been penalized for his services to society . He is told that there are too many farmers in the nation , according to the law of supply and demand ; but according to the law of supply and demand there seem to be too many men in every pursuit . From the social point of view , it is quite likely that the thirty million people on the farms do not represent an excessive allocation of population to agriculture , and from that point of view it is entirely proper that this agricultural group be rewarded more in keeping with their services to the nation . And it is to achieve these more equitable rewards that the principle of farm parity has been developed . But whereas on a thoroughly socialized basis of income distribution for all groups of society , the rendering of justice to the farmers would in no wise injure the other groups , the farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income to the farmers while keeping the general distributive mechanism otherwise unchanged . On this account the rendering of justice to the farmers may very well mean doing injustice to others . This in fact proves to be the case when we analyze the incidence of the farm parity plan . With the reduction of output contemplated by the plan , there will be no increase in the national dividend , at least from the side of agriculture ; and there will even be a decrease , since American agricultural exports , being diminished , will buy less than before . Whether there will be a compensating increase of industrial activity remains to be seen ; but in our analysis we must necessarily start with the assumption that the transfer of benefits to the farmer represents in the first instance a transfer from a fixed and even diminished pool of national income ? a case of taking from Peter to pay Paul . On the basis of the four main crops ? wheat , cotton , hogs , and tobacco ? the yield of the processing tax was estimated at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this sum $250,000,000 would probably be absorbed by the processor or middleman and $750,000,000 would be passed on to the consumer in the form of increased prices on articles of consumption . Since the stepping-up of industrial prosperity is dependent on increasing purchasing power for consumption goods as against capital and investment funds , the question arises as to what effect this transfer of funds from the consumer and middleman to the farmer will have on the relationship of consumption power and investment funds . The part of the tax absorbed by the middleman will in large measure be charged off against his profits and savings without reducing his purchasing power for consumption goods . On the other hand , the $750,000,009 paid by the consumer will fall chiefly on the poor and the unemployed . With limited wages , the extra expenditure they will make for bread , meat , etc. , will curtail their expenditure for other articles . Finally when we come to the side of the farmer , everything will depend on how he uses the billion-dollar bonus . One thing is certain , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the present time the farmer has not been paying much on his mortgages ? foreclosure being in most cases impossible . Although bills for the relief of mortgage indebtedness are now before Congress , it is unlikely that this indebtedness and the farmer 's annual charges will be legally so reduced as not to constitute a big drain on his new-found money . Like the bill collector , the banker and the mortgagee know when there is money in the house . Thus if we strike a balance between all the factors , it will be seen that in so far as there is no net increase of purchasing power for consumers ' goods as against investment funds and this is likely to be the case ? there will be no step-up of prosperity ; and from a fixed or even diminished national income what one party gains another will lose . The city consumer ( poor man and rich man ) will lose and the processor or middleman will lose ; the farmer , the banks , and possibly the manufacturer of agricultural machinery will gain . In so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds into investment channels and less into consumers ' purchasing power than before ( this would be the case if the moneyed interests absorb a large part of the farmer 's gains ) , then the general level of prosperity will decline , and the urban worker will suffer double . The political consequences of the farm parity experiment would be interesting to watch . We have already noted the possibility that in order to assure price and output control in the four or five major crops it may be necessary to extend the system of government regulation to all agricultural crops . One may go even farther and envisage the possibility that it may be necessary to prohibit farmers from hiring out their spare time in industrial work and thus underbidding the city worker . For it must not be forgotten that the moment we limit agricultural output below the present developed productivity , we shall be putting a surplus of time in the hands of the farmers , who will still not be as rich as Croesus and will be open to the lure of additional gain . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progresses to such a point will also be interesting to watch . It is an open question whether the human material ? the farmers and the officials ? which is the product of an individualistic , self-seeking civilization , will have the requisite honesty to assure the success of an experiment which is socialistic in method but without socialistic inspiration . The farmer will still be working for his private pocket and is likely to be no more social-minded than the industrialist who receives a tariff subsidy in the name of the national interest . In the meantime , assuming that the experiment goes on , what will be the attitude of labor ? The unemployed , who will now have before them the spectacle of government protection for a large popular class , will wake up and demand that they , too , be installed on the land and given the protection of fixed prices . Labor as a whole will demand for its calling the same protection , the same virtual enrolment into the national service on a guaranteed income and employment basis that the farmer enjoys . Will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter 's demands ? Or will he behave like the hired military and become a defender of the order in which he will now have a vested interest ? In any case , whether or not the farmer joins with labor to achieve " labor parity , " the scheme will not be so simple a contrivance in the case ofindustry as it has been in the case of agriculture . No mere mechanism of price or wage adjustment , no mere unemployment insurance will suffice . It will be necessary to counteract or eradicate that whole tendency which collects " surplus value " for the capitalist and heaps it up on the side of capital plant . And as this tendency is the mainspring of our private business enterprise , to eradicate it will mean that the state will have to take over directly and actively the whole management of economic life on a new basis and in a new spirit . On the side of foreign trade it will be necessary , in order to prevent imperialistic wars , for the state to develop a method for exchanging commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as a method for lending capital to undeveloped countries in a non-usurious and non-exploitative manner . In a word , it will be necessary to remove in international trade as well as in domestic economy the " surplus value " feature which is in effect a conventional means of cheating in exchange and which like the cursed love of gold is the root of all our evils . But we are speculating on the enactment of the farm parity plan and its successful enforcement . If the farm plan is not put into operation or if it fails or is sabotaged at the first stage , thirty million people will be Left with a powerful and deeply smoldering resentment against the present order . Revolutions are not always made by the starving ; most often they are made by those who have bread in their stomachs but carry a common grudge in their hearts .                     