@@487408

IT IS a new Italy that I find after an absence of more than three years . The basis of this Italy was laid when I was there in 1935 ; the superstructure has developed in the interim . It is an Italy with an insatiable thirst for power and for expansion , an Italy with a nationalism that , probably for the first time since the establishment of the regime , has become definitely and visibly pernicious , an Italy for which the earth is just too small . On the other hand , it is a hungry Italy , an Italy in which the standard of living has visibly declined , in which there is more restlessness , more criticism of the regime , and more fear than I ever saw before . In 1935 1 found military men very skeptical of Italy 's ability to carry on a major war ; now they have a tremendous self-confidence which may yet lead them to wild adventures . The victories in Spain and Ethiopia seem to have turned their heads . On the other hand , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the offensive nationalism , are much more critical of the regime and its policies , both internal and foreign , than I ever found them before . A young Italian who had been a member of the party from 1922 to 1931 assured me that not less than 80 per cent of the population was opposed to the regime . I disputed his figure , suggesting that he was living under an illusion . As a traveling salesman , however , he insisted that he knew his Italy and thatforeign observers meet only the official and upper lasses , who naturally support the regime . " If you want to know the truth , talk to people singly , " he said ; " when three or four get together each one is afraid of the other . " In the spring of this year the country was engulfed by a wave of dissatisfaction with the deterioration in the quality of bread . Fearing a shortage of wheat , the government had ordered bakers ' to use a high percentage of Other flour . After the outcry the government rescinded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country is by no means satisfactory . That Mussolini recently canceled a planned visit to Turin because the police chief would not guarantee his safety is common knowledge . ' What brought about the situation is not exactly known . Some say that troops back from Spain , considering themselves privileged , had taken to highway robbery and terrorized the population ; others think that there had been some labor unrest . A usually reliable observer claims that " Down with the Regime " , had been found painted on buildings in the center of Turin . The king was forced by an extraordinarily cold reception from the populace to curtail his visit in Turin , and Mussolini has had to cancel planned visits to a whole group of industrial towns around Trieste . Without question Mussolini is more popular than the regime . I have heard people denouncing the government and all it stands for but expressing great admiration for 8 the personality of the Duce . Count Ciano , Mussolini 's son-in-law ; Starace , the secretary of the party ; Alfieri , and many other high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures are generally attributed to them . Ciano , for example , is supposed to be the author and chief advocate of the pro-German policy ; Starace is alleged , to have championed the intervention in Spain ; Graziani is the one who led Mussolini into the Ethiopian adventure . No recent act of Mussolini 's has been more genuinely popular than his recall of 10,000 volunteers from Spain . And Mussolini knew it would be popular . One can say without qualification that the whole population , with the exception perhaps of the military , regards the Spanish adventure as a huge mistake and is thoroughly tired of it . Assured a thousand times of an immediate Franco victory , people are disappointed to find the struggle dragging on interminably . Italians wonder what Mussolini expects to get out of Spain except friendship and prestige . The rise in the price of foodstuffs is popularly attributed to the Spanish war . The Ethiopian adventure has also won much less favor than was anticipated . As one observer put it , " People agree that both Spain and Ethiopia are bones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extract them . " To swallow them appears to be no less difficult . The official press talks constantly of the infinite mineral wealth of the new empire , but most people see in Ethiopia only a drain on Italy 's financial , material , and human resources . Only the military and to a certain extent the university youth really support the Ethiopian business . The latter see in the creation of a colonial empire new openings for jobs . Many students are specializing in colonial administration  --  and wondering how they will look in sun helmets . WAR-TIME ECONOMY Italy 's financial condition has certainly deteriorated during the past three years . The two wars and the preparations for a third have fallen heavily on the shout , ders of the people . Italian economic life is now practically conducted on a war basis . Public finance is shrouded by a veil which no observer that I spoke to had succeeded in penetrating  --  and that includes many commercial attaches . In 1935 the Bank of Issue still published fortnightly statements of its reserves of gold and foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past two years . On December 31 , 1930 , the bank had a reserve in gold and foreign currency of 9,625 million lire ; by June , 1936 , this had fallen to 2,266 million . Budgetary deficits have grown steadily . The fiscal year 1934-35 closed with a deficit of 2,030,000,000 lire ; at the end of the following fiscal year the deficit had grown to 12,686,000,000 ; during 1936-37 it amounted to 16,230,000,000 lire . How large the deficit was during the past fiscal year is not yet known . Inevitably the public The NATION debt has grown . On September 30 , 1935 , it amounted to 107,078,000,000 lire ; but no one that I spoke to could tell me how large it is by now . The government has ceased publishing even doctored statistics . These budgetary deficits have grown in spite of the increased taxes for war needs and in spite of the various capital levies . In October , 1936 , a levy was imposed on all real-estate owners to the value of 5 per cent of the property . The levy took the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but unless the owners preferred to pay the levy outright , their taxes were increased not only to redeem the loan but to cover the cost of the service . On October 23 of the following year another levy was imposed on all corporations . As modified after discussion in the Chamber , this levy took between 7 and 8 per cent of the capital and reserves of joint-stock companies and partnerships , and yielded about 5,000 million lire . The turn of small businesses came a few weeks ago , when a new capital levy of 7/ per cent on private shops was enacted . People now wonder who will be next . Taxes have caused much dissatisfaction among the masses . Wages and salaries , no matter how small , are now subject to a tax of 8 per cent , for which the employer is responsible . This tax is therefore subtracted before the employee sees his pay envelope . Taxes on artides of consumption have grown . Gasoline is three times its original price  --  a gallon costs now about 75 cents . Sugar , tobacco , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring more revenue than before . I have checked with a number of business men and office workers and it appears that the former now have to pay about 40 per cent of their income , however small , to the state ; the latter , if they are married and have at least two children , pay somewhat more than 20 per cent . The clothes people wear are old and shabby . The price has gone up and the quality down . The retail price of clothing  --  taking January , 1936 , as 100 , when prices had already gone up considerably  --  stood at 140 in July , 1937 , and at 134 in July last . The cost of living as a whole has advanced from 74 in September , 1934 , to 99 in September of this year , and the cost of food has gone up from 68 to 92 . But these figures do not tell the whole story . The rise in price of essential articles  --  bread , spaghetti , cheese , olive oil  --  has been much greater than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most optimistic figures I have heard , have not increased more than 20 per cent . According to the last Annuaro Statistico , published by the Institute of Statistics , the wages of white-collar workers increased only 14 per cent between 1935 and the end of 1937 . ' The great catchword at the moment is " autarchy . " On November 17 I was present when Mussolini opened a great exhibition called " Our Autarchy of Italian Minerals . " A tremendous amount of money and labor is being spent on working mineral deposits of no economic value . An official publication , for example , announces that " attention is now directed toward the extraction of the high percentage of iron , 20 to 25 per cent , contained in the sand of certain sections of the seacoast . " Coal veins of no value are being worked ; large sums are being put into the development of Albanian oil with a high sulphur content and filled with extraneous matter . The use of home-grown fiber for the textile industry is increasing . At the order of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manufacture of clothing has fallen from six-to-one to fifty-fifty . The home population can be compelled to purchase goods of any quality if foreign competition is eliminated , but all economic observers are now asking how , given the movement toward autarchy , Italy can expect to compete on the world market . For one thing the best goods are , of course , sent abroad , and the government is heavily subsidizing the export trade . But in the end the Italian people have to pay with a lower standard of living . The 1937 " Yearbook of the Fascist Confederation of Industrialists " contains the following highly illuminating statistical table : taking 1929 as 100 , industrial employment at the end of 1936 had reached 94.90 , but the amount paid in wages stood at 73.81 . TERROR AND " CAPILLARITY " Because of the discontent the secret police are much more active than in previous years . In 1935 I heard comparatively little about them ; now , however they make their presence felt . A friend told me that at a fireworks show a man standing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but there is none for feeding our starving children . " He had hardly finished the sentence when someone tapped him on the shoulder and took him off . The number of plain-clothes men on the Piazza Venezia has noticeably increased . Telephone tapping has been systematized to a high degree . The material thus obtained is summarized every day in every city and passed on to the district authorities . They in turn pass it on to Rome , where it is boiled down for Mussolini 's perusal . According to an absolutely reliable source , the first thing Mussolini does in the morning is to read this report . A word now heard frequently in Fascist circles is " capillarity . " According to this doctrine only fascism provides real democracy since the government is in constant touch with the broad masses of the people . Fascists will tell you that the hundred and one organizations with which nearly the whole population comes in contact  --  the various guilds , the social-service organizations , the party , and the recreation units  --  serve as tribunes for public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it moves upward , to the head of the state . Much is now being made of this doctrine . Of course , it really works the other way around . The Fascist state is " capillary'l in the sense that through these various organizations but especially through the extensive network of police espionage the head of the state is in constant touch with every particle in the body politic . But instead of the will of the people reaching upward and affecting policy , the will of Mussolini reaches downward . Only occasionally , when in a com- , pa ratively unimportant matter popular dissatisfaction 10 reaches a high pitch  --  as in the bread situation  --  does the head of the state find it advisable to give in to the popular will . During the war crisis of last September public opinion went to great lengths to express opposition to the German connection ; Mussolini , however , refused to budge , and assured his critics in a public speech that they would " be dealt with . " ANTI-GERMANISM AND THE AXIS Whoever thinks that the Rome-Berlin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day after  --  is sadly mistaken . The axis is a functioning organism . It works . I know of no way to emphasize sufficiently this overwhelming fact , pregnant with immeasurable consequences . Next in importance comes the Berlin-RomeTokyo triangle . The axis and the triangle  --  these are the foundation stones of Italian foreign policy ; and the chances of the cornerstones being undermined in the near future are very slight indeed . A joke now current in Rome states that for Germany the colonial question has been settled . It has obtained Italy . The Germans certainly make their presence felt.to an extraordinary degree . There is a constant influx of German experts of one sort or another . Much of the present autarchy campaign is directed by Germans . It is not impossible that the recent anti-Jewish laws were actually written by Germans . Many German officials are reputed to be working in the Ministry of the Interior . Italian foreign trade is coming to depend more and more on the Reich ; it is expected that during this year more than a third of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tangible an intense propaganda campaign is spreading a certain kind of knowledge about Japan . Publications devoted to the glorification of the Aryan race and to exposing the wicked designs of other races never mention the " yellow peril " except to refer to Chinese communism . The Japanese invasion of China is of course a great crusade of Western civilization against Asiatic bolshevism . There is much propaganda for better trade relations within the triangle ; some writers even advocate a customs union to counterbalance the British imperial system . Obviously the immediate concrete value of the triangle can not be compared with that of the axis , but it is often said here that the triangle will come into its own in the event of a world war or a war against Soviet Russia . Without doubt no other single policy of Mussolini 's has evoked so much general apposition , without distinction of rank or station , as his German policy . The Germans are almost universally detested , especially among the common people . The showing of a newsreel in a Roman movie house was interrupted not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Fiihrer were thrown on the screen . Older people , to whom a buffet state on the northern frontier has been a dogma , are The NATION dismayed by the menace which the might of Germany constitutes , and wonder what possessed Mussolini to permit the occupation of Austria . A Fascist official confessed to me that " Mussolini might have carried us into a war on the side of Germany , but not for long . " During the September crisis many adopted the unique method of speaking their thoughts into telephones during conversations with friends , in the hope that their opinion would be Overheard . To make sure of their views being brought to the attention of the authorities many expressed themselves to persons whose telephones are always tapped . Mussolini is not ignorant of the unpopularity of his foreign policy , but he is determined to stick to the alliance and to strengthen it . Since Hitler has so far reaped greater benefits from the axis than his partner , most observers here feel that the hour of payment will have to come . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everybody ; some diplomatic observers who claim to have pipelines to the Duce maintain that Mussolini does not insist on immediate payment . Most persons , however , are convinced that if only to maintain his prestige Mussolini will have to show some concrete profits from the axis  --  and show them soon . Many point to the feverish activity in armament factories as proof that preparations for a crisis are continuing . The main question at the moment is where and when the axis will strike . Speculation is rife about Tunis and French Somaliland . The latter is especially important because of Djibouti harbor and the Addis Ababa railroad . The thought of an offensive against British interests at the outset seems to have been given up . Instead , more and more attention is being devoted to the French colonial empire , the dismemberment of which , some Italians think , the British would not seriously oppose . Yet it is difficult to see how Italy could obtain either Somaliland or Tunis without violating the agreement just signed with England . A move against Tunis would of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the basis of the agreement , while a change on the Red Sea could not but affect British interests profoundly . Mussolini will not risk lightly a violation of the agreement which might lead to its renunciation by England , for no other measure , except perhaps the recall of the soldiers from Spain , has been so genuinely popular as the English pact . Possibly it is too much to say , as some do , that it has saved the regime ; certain it is , however , that more than anything else it has bolstered up Mussolini 's prestige among all sections of the population . In his foreign policy as in internal affairs Mussolini has been impaled on a , dilemma from which escape is likely to prove impossible . He needs England to counterbalance somewhat the growing German influence ; yet the agreement rules out any imperial expansion which might be his reward for service to the axis . Moreover , it is not so certain that Hitler is anxious to pay . Yet to break away December 31 , 1938 from the axis would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with France and other democratic powers , might conceivably overcome the German menace in the north , but such a course would spell the collapse of the regime at no distant date . ANTI-SEMITISM AND THE VATICAN Only in the light of internal and external difficulties can the Jewish situation in Italy be understood . Sufficient for a prison sentence in Italy is to be overheard saying that Mussolini is aping Hitler in his anti-Jewish legislation ; he is aping Hitler because he has to . It is probable that Hitler demanded a common Jewish policy during his recent visit to Rome . Today the Jewish problem , which has been badly mishandled by the world press , is at least as serious in Italy as in Germany  --  possibly more so . Yet during my stay in Rome and other cities in 1935 I went out of my way to search for a Jewish problem and found none . No doud hung over the sky for years ; when the storm broke it took the political weather forecasters by complete surprise . No anti-Jewish propaganda which had taken root had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm has been as ferocious and devastating as it was sudden . The Italian government has not provided any of those ameliorating measures which , certainly during the first four years , left avenues of escape open to German Jews . The anti-Jewish decrees have followed one another with the rapidity of machine-gun firing , and with worse effects . In less than three months they have achieved the following : no Jewish student , Italian or foreign , is allowed to begin studies in a university ; all Jewish students have been expelled from high schools ; special classes have been opened in the elementary schools for Jewish children , who must enter the building through a special door ; all Jews who entered Italy since the World War , whether naturalized or not , must get out before March 1 , 1939 ; Italian Jews can not own urban real estate which produces an income of more than $1,000 annually or more than about fifty acres of rural property ; they can not own factories employing more than 300 workers ; " Aryan " maids must not serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state , whether in the civil service or the armed forces or semi-state institutions , have been dismissed ; all Jewish teachers , university professors , journalists , writers , and artists have been dismissed ; a Jew may not appear on the stage , nor may the work of a Jewish writer , Italian or foreign , be published ; banks , insurance companies , and other financial institutions may not be directed by Jews and must dismiss their Jewish employees ; the Jewish owner of a shop or any business may not leave his property to his children ; no new Jewish employees may be taken on by any organization . This list is by no means complete , but it gives a fair idea of the thoroughness with which the work has been done.11 What is the role of the Italian people in this tragedy ? Is it staging anti-Jewish riots and demonstrations , is it smashing windows , are mobs attacking Jews ? Have the Italian masses all of a sudden become conscious of their exalted Aryan origin and begun to despise the lowly Jew ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all about Italy will agree with me that 90 per cent of the population does not like these laws . Most people , the vast majority of the population , do not understand what it is all about . In Germany the movement began , at least superficially , in the lower classes and hardly ever reached the upper strata ; here it began at the very top . Italians have confessed to me that , coming on top of his other recent mistakes , the anti-Jewish laws have convinced them that Mussolini has lost his head . It would be a grave injustice not to mention the , courageous attitude shown by the Vatican . The Vatican was the first to speak out against the new racial dogmas , terming them " excessive nationalism . " It had no legal means of implementing its opposition to the anti-Jewish laws , but it never left any doubt about where it stood . Only when Mussolini prohibited marriage between Aryan and non-Aryan Christians was it given an opportunity for official intervention . In very polite letters addressed to the King and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marriages was a clear violation of the Concordat , by which the state agreed to confirm marriages solemnized by the church . The Vatican has also gone out of its way to extend aid to baptized Jews . Events have driven the Vatican more and more to the conclusion that peace between the church and the Fascist state is impossible . This conclusion has been unwelcome to the papacy ; for years it struggled against it . A liberal French journalist who for years has asserted publicly and privately that fascism and Christianity are fundamentally irreconcilable told me of a high church dignitary who used to grant the basic incompatibility between the two but argue that a modus vivendi might yet be found . About a month ago , however , this prelate said to him , " I have been mistaken . I now see the impossibility of finding even a temporary modus vivendi with this monster . It must be crushed . " One priest said to me , " The greatest battle in the history of the Catholic church is looming on the horizon . " Unfortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small . It might still win on the international front , but in Italy the church has ceased to be a power . In the official Fascist trinity of loyalties the church comes only third and last , and that is its position in the heart of the Italian youth . In Rome the Vatican has no longer any influence whatever , and churchmen make no denial of this fact . Meanwhile , Mussolini is ceaselessly trying to capture the church and make it the handmaid of his policies . The next struggle will probably be fought within the church itself .                     