@@154848

Several dozen U. S. hospitals have X-ray machines transforming 400,000 volts of electricity into X-rays for the treatment of cancer . Half-a-dozen have machines ranging from 600,000 to 1,200,000 volts . Last week the man most responsible for the development of vacuum tubes which accomplish those tremendous transformations of energy , Dr. William David Coolidge of General Electric Co. , reminded the Fifth International Congress of Radiology in Chicago that Massachusetts Institute of Technology has a 5,000,000-volt generator which could be adapted for X-ray work , told them that an experimental 10,000,000-volt generator exists , promised them that " it would be a perfectly straightforward engineering and manufacturing job to build one for several times this voltage . " <P> Thus was opened to specialists a vast extension of the X-ray 's use whenever they learn to employ it profitably . It was only one of many new X-ray possibilities of which the radiologists last week heard as they sat in convention . Other notable advances of which they learned : <P> A method of making X-ray cinema photographs of organs functioning in the living body . Devised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a very bright fluoroscopic screen on which the direct X-ray picture is thrown and there photographed as it changes by a cine- camera . Since motion picture film must pause 16 times each second to make its record , Dr. Reynolds likewise interrupts his X-ray beam 16 times a second . This reduces the danger in X-ray work of burning a patient or sterilizing him , and therefore enables Dr. Reynolds to make exposures of as long as 20 seconds . To heart specialists the new method promises a new means of checking their findings by ordinary methods ( stethoscopic , percussion , cardiograph ) . <P> The demonstration by Dr. J. G. Dillon that not only the human lungs but the bowels breathe . Dr. Dillon , a U. S. emigre practicing in Moscow , explained : " Air which has found access into the stomach and then into the intestines can be sucked into the blood . Especially it is true about oxygen which can dissolve in any liquid of the digestive tract . There is no impediment of anatomic character to such absorption of oxygen through the walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from the same source as the respiratory tract . Comparative physiology presents indisputable proofs of a respiratory function of the digestive tract of some vertebrae . There is sufficient evidence as to the possibility of utilizing oxygen in the digestive tract . There are known cases ( testified by medical observation ) of life during ' several hours of the infants , whose lungs on post-mortem examination were found to be absolutely unstraightened . " Special significance of this : if an X-ray of a newborn infant shows air in the stomach or bowels , then no matter if the lungs lack air , that infant was born alive .                     