@@487436

NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN said the other day that we must distinguish between war aims and peace aims . For once I agree with him . The aim of the present war is quite simple and purely negative . It is to put an end to German aggression and rescue its victims . No other way of doing that remained . Heaven knows . that the British and French governments did their best  --  or worst  --  to avoid war by making concessions to Hitler in the hope of appeasing him ; and it was this policy of appeasement that made war finally inevitable , as some of us foresaw that it would . We are at war now because we did not take the risk of war in time . Hitler could almost certainly have been stopped without war at any time up to last March  --  and even perhaps as late as last March  --  if the British and French governments had made it clear to him that if he did not stop they would fight . As Pravda said on August 14 , ten days before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called democratic . ? . yielded to the aggressors not because they are weaker  --  the bloc of capitalist democratic Countries is stronger than the Fascists . What was the cause of the free hand that they gave to the aggressors ? Comrade Stalin indicated the essential cause in his historic report to the eighteenth congress of the Bolshevik Party . He said : " The essential cause consists in the renunciation by most of the non-aggressive countries , England and France in particular , of the policy of collective security , the policy of collective resistance to the aggressors . " This is not an imperialist war on the part of the Allies . One of the paradoxes of the situation has been that a British government mainly composed of members of the party that claimed a monopoly of imperialism has done more to damage the British Empire and ruin its prestige than any previous government in history . Whatever the result of the present war may be , I doubt whether the harm done to the British Empire can ever be repaired . Nor is this a capitalist war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been for some time past ultra-pacifist . They have advocated peace at any price  --  even at the price of sacrificing vital British interests and allowing Hitler to dominate the greater part of the European continent  --  because , as Philip La Follette said in his speech to the Economic Club of New York last spring , they put their class interests , or what they believe to be their class interests , before those of their countries . They have feared that war might lead to social change , as it possibly will , especially in England . They have called social change " bolshevism " or " communism , " to hood-wink the people . One thing that attracted them to Hitler was his destruction of organized labor . Now that Stalin has sacrificed communism to Russian imperial interests and thrown the whole European labor movement into confusion , the British ruling classes are disposed to be lenient toward Russia . This is a people 's war . The British pro-Nazis were obliged to change their policy , much against their will , by the pressure of public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that they had been duped by the promise of " peace for our time , " and they determined to put an end to concessions to Hitler . In his speech in the House of Commons on March 15 , after Hitler 's entry into Prague , Chamberlain declared that what had happened could not make him change his policy . Three or four days later he had to eat his words . He was faced with the choice of changing-his policy or resigning , and he chose the former . Had not his vanity been stronger than his concern for the welfare of his country he would have resigned after the catastrophic failure of his policy had been demonstrated . I am not surprised that his continued presence at the head of the government causes England to be distrusted in America and elsewhere , but he can not turn back now . He is no longer master of the situation . There is no enthusiasm for the war in England and France , but there is a firm determination to carry it through to victory . I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace negotiations with Germany until Germany has been beaten and reduced to impotence . They are unlikely to be taken in by the talk of communism in Germany , which no doubt has its source in Nazi propaganda . Communism is unlikely in Germany , and in any case it could be no worse than the Nazi regime . Hitler undoubtedly wants peace  --  on his own terms . He was forced into war because , confident that England would never fight , he had gone too far to draw back . But these are reasons why the Allies should go on with the war . All intelligent people in England and France know that GOring or the Reichswehr would be no ? improvement on Hitler . Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is not new . It is the continuation and logical development of the policy of imperial Germany before 1914 , one of the bases of which was the Drang nach Osten , No peace aims are necessary to justify the war , but we ought to consider what we are going to do if the Allies are victorious . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice in the matter and will no doubt have to submit to a December 23 , 1939 peace treaty even more oppressive than the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk , compared to which the peace treaties of 1919 were extremely lenient , ' although too many people seem to have forgotten that fact . For my part I believe that European federation  --  the creation of the United States of Europe  --  is the only solution , but I am not blind to the immense difficulties in the way of it , and we had better first consider what should be done in any case . The fundamental error of the peace treaties of 1919 was that they broke up Austria-Hungary and left Germany intact except for a certain diminution of territory , whereas they should have done exactly the contrary . The history of the last twenty years has indeed justified the dictum that if Austria did not exist , it would have to be invented . We must now reverse the process of 1919 by restoring Austria and breaking up Germany . I do not mean that we should restore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danubian Federation . The problem of Germany is quite other . We must recognize that we have to do with an abnormal country . An eminent diplomatist said to me in Berlin in 1933 : " This is not a normal civilized country , and the German government is not a normal civilized government and can not be dealt with-as if it were one . " This is the truth , and the removal of Hitler would not change it . It his book " Unto Caesar " F. A. Voigt says : " Only the shallowest understanding will see in the National Socialist k revolution ' the result of Versailles . ' That revolution is the nightmare of German genius come true . In the history of the Third Realm Versailles is but an incident and the Great War but an episode . " He is undoubtedly right . The success of the Nazi movement was due fundamentally to something in the German subconsciousness . It was foretold more than a century ago by great Germans who knew nothing about the Treaty of Versailles . Mr. Voigt quotes a prophecy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made barbarous by industry and science and even by- religion . " Hitlerism is essentially a religion , and Hitler is primarily a religious leader . Goring said in an article published in the now defunct London Morning Post on January 31 , 1934 , that as Catholics believe the Pope to be infallible in matters of faith and morals , so , the Nazis believe Hit-703 ler to be infallible in all matters concerning the moral and social interests of the people . Heine foretold the Nazi movement in a remarkable passage in which he even foresaw the pagan revival in Germany . " The old gods , " he said , " will shake the dust off their statues and descend from their pedestals . " Goethe and Schiller said in the " Xenien " that the revolutionary class in Germany was the middle class . They were justified 140 years later by the Nazi revolution , which was , to begin with , essentially a middle-class movement . Much later , after the war of 1870 , which he regarded as a defeat for German civilization , Nietzsche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Hitler , in whom , he said , " degeneracy determines an excess of spiritual and nervous electrical discharge . " Such a man , he said , inspired fear , for " the fanatic , the man possessed , the religious epileptic , all eccentrics , have been regarded as the highest types of power , as divine . " In an interview with H. R. Knickerbocker published not long before I left Europe , Dr. Carl G. Jung said that Hitler belongs in the category of magician-chiefs to whom their followers attribute supernatural powers . " Hitler , " Dr. Jung said , " is the mirror of the subconscioUsness of every German , a loud-speaker who magnifies the imperceptible murmurs of the German soul . " Vernon Bartlett expressed the same thing in different words when he said : " Mussolini rules Italy ; Hitler is Germany . " That is still true even if there is a certain amount of discontent in Germany at the present moment . If we distinguish between Hitler and the German people we shall make a disastrous mistake despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their beliefs . When I returned to Germany in 1933 I was struck by the fact that many people whom I had known as sincere republicans and democrats had become equally sincere Nazis . In reality , they had been subconsciously Nazi all the time . The success of the Nazi movement was due to several causes , one of which was the world economic crisis , but its chief immediate cause was the concessions made by England and France to Germany . In an article published in the Temps in 1929 Dr. Wilhelm Fiirster , the well - known German pacifist , 704 said that it would be a mistake to evacuate the Rhineland , for its evacuation would lead to a great militarist and nationalist revival in Germany . I criticized him at the time , but I discovered later that he was right . He knew his fellow-countrymen better than I did . Hitler never counted as a force in German politics until 1930 , after the evacuation of the Rhineland . At the German general election of 1928 , nine years after the signature of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Ruhr , there was not enough resentment left in Germany at those events to give Hitler more than 800,000 votes in the whole country . At the general election in September , 1930 , after the evacuation of the Rhineland , he polled between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000 votes . In March , 1933 , he made himself absolute master of Germany in a few days , without any opposition , although Germany had the strongest trade-union organization in the world and the Socialist and Communist parties were very large and powerful . If Goethe , Schiller , HOlderlin , Heine , Nietzsche , and other great Germans were able to make prophecies that have been fulfilled , it can have been only because they recognized certain faults in the German character . Every nation has certain peculiar characteristics which , although they are not shared by every individual , are so prevalent that they may rightly be called national , and which show themselves particularly in collective action or inaction . They are due not to race but to national history , environment , climate , upbringing , institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been the bad influence of certain German philosophers , notably Hegel and Fichte . Among the chief German national characteristics are an inferiority complex , a craving for a Fiihrer , and an abnormal lack of common sense , which means a lack of political sense . Billow was right when he said : " Wir sind ein unpolitisches Volk . " The unification of Germany in 1871 intensified the faults of the German character and converted Germany into a huge machine which crushed whatever independence there was and destroyed individual initiative . When the machine broke down in 1918 , most Germans were helpless . Moreover , unified Germany has been a menace to Europe ever since it existed , and in particular to France . For the fact that it is now a greater menace than ever the German Social Democrats have a heavy responsibility . As Mr. Voigt says in the book already quoted : They carried the work of Bismarck one stage further in circumstances far more difficult than Bismarck ever had to face . And it is this work which Hitler and the National Socialists are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been destroyed had it not been for the Social Democrats . Without the Social Democrats and their organized and highly disciplined following , the unity of the German Empire would have perished in 1918 . The NATION Mr. Voigt thinks that it was to the credit of the Social Democrats that they-sacrificed socialism to German nationalism . I can not agree with him . Had German unity perished in 1918 , we should have been saved this war . One thing is certain . The French will not , if they can help it , tolerate the menace of a united Germany on their frontier any longer . They have had to put up with it for nearly seventy years and they have had enough of it . If the Allies have the victory , the French will probably insist on the break-up of the German Empire into its constituent parts and on the reduction of Prussia to its original dimensions . They will certainly insist on what they asked for in 1919 , namely , the separation of the Rhineland from Germany and its conversion into an autonomous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army . I was opposed to the French demand in 1919 , but experience has taught me that the French were right . They abandoned that demand in return for guaranties by England and the United States , which were not implemented . The French felt , quite rightly , that they had been badly let down , and they are determined not to be let down again . When the German sheep were split up into little flocks with inoffensive little Fuhrers , they were harmless . When the sheep became united in a single - flock with a single bellwether , they became moutons enrages . Germany is a pathological case and needs pathological treatment . I do not say that the German people will never change , but it will take a long time to bring them to sanity and civilization . If there is no European federation , it will be necessary to put the German states for a time under some sort of tutelage . They should be treated as mental patients , not as criminals . The Treatyof Versailles was much too severe economically and too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be severe politically but very lenient economically . There must be no indemnities , even if nicknamed " reparations , " and everything must be done . to foster the economic life of the German states . They should be forbidden to have a totalitarian regime but should be allowed to have either a monarchy or a republic as they prefer . The matter would be immensely simplified by a European federation of which all the German states would be members . In any case a European customs union is essential , for we can not permit the German states to have a customs union of their own . We must get rid of all the tariff barriers that are ruining the economic life of EurOpe . A European federation would be particularly to the advantage of the small countries , for it would make the continued existence and autonomy of even the smallest country possible . Without federation , the very small European countries can hardly survive . It was inevitable that the Baltic states , for example , should fall under Russian or German domination . A European federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have said , the difficulties in the way of European federation are immense . The linguistic and other differences make it much more difficult to form a United States of Europe than it was to form the United States of America . But the difficulties are less great than would be those of Clarence Streit 's proposed union of certain selected countries , widely separated from one another geographically . In spite of modern communications , it is both more easy and more natural to federate the countries of a particular continent . I am not in a position to propound a scheme for a European federation . It is a matter that needs long and careful study . I should suggest Paris as the federal capital , for Paris is already the intellectual capital of the world . Moreover , the European continent should be federated even if England holds aloof , as I hope would not be the case . Naturally , there would have to be a federal Parliament with a senate in which every country would have the same representation , or perhaps the big countries might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be no armed forces except those of the federation . Complete disarmament is quite impossible at present and is likely to be so for a long time . No country in the federation should be allowed to have a totalitarian government , but here again some might have monarchies and others might choose republics . The colonies of all the European countries should be held by the federation and administered by international mandates until they become sufficiently developed to stand alone . The position of the British dominions , which areindependent states , would naturally not be affected , and India should be given full dominion status . There is no reason why the British Commonwealth should not continue even if the dominions were outside the European federation , as they would probably have to be . Russia would , I regret to say , have to be excluded until it ceases to be a totalitarian state . It is possible that federation would have to be imposed on some countries as it had to be in America . The doctrine of self-determination , which was an exaggerated form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present deplorable conditions in Europe . A million people can not be allowed to override the general interest of Europe . I do not know whether the governments of England and France would agree to the abolition of absolute national sovereignty which federation involves , or whether it would be possible to achieve federation immediately after the end of the war . It would certainly not be possible if Germany were victorious . There are , however , encouraging signs of a growing belief in the necessity of federation in every European country . It is possible that we may have to proceed by stages . At least , as I have said , we must make a European customs union , or Europe will perish . A federation of Europe does not involve the suppression of the League of Nations . On the contrary it would strengthen the League . If the example of Europe were ultimately followed by other continents we might in time attain Tennyson 's ideal of " the parliament of man , the federation of the world . " 