@@164942

The Federal Trade Commission 's three-year-old investigation of the electric light , gas , &; power industry is now in its second , most politically explosive phase . The first phase was investigating the industry 's propaganda in schools , colleges and the Press ( TIME , July 16 , 1928 et seq . ) . Then the investigators tackled the more difficult job of ascertaining the financial set-up of the industry , the relationship between holding and operating companies , stock ownership , management fees , interlocking directorates . After a year 's secret work , the investigators are now ready to state their findings . Since this phase of the inquiry will touch the public pocket nerve , it is the phase for which professional foes of the " Power Trust " on Capitol Hill have most eagerly waited . Eminent in this group is Iowa 's loud , intransigent Senator Smith Wildman Brookhart . Like Senators Norris , Nye , Howell , La Follette et al. , he is ready to seize upon the Commission 's disclosures and therefrom argue for stricter Federal regulation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II last week in a schoolroom atmosphere of charts and maps , who should be called to the witness stand but Smith Wildman Brookhart Jr. , the Iowa Senator 's slender , soft-voiced , studious son , aged 25 . When the Senator arrived in Washington in 1926 , Son Brookhart had been given a clerical job with the Trade Commission . Graduated from George Washington Uni versity in 1929 , he was promoted to the rank of a Commission economist and investigator . Married , father of a year-old daughter , he is now studying law . Phase II began with a scrutiny by Son Brookhart of huge North American Co. ' s structure and functions . Examiner Brookhart testified that 76 companies , most of which North American controls , servicing 687 communities , produce about 7% of the electric power consumed in the U. S. Its holdings are particularly heavy in Ohio , Wisconsin , Missouri , Illinois , Iowa , California , District of Columbia . Its largest single owner is Harrison Williams , New York utilitarian , who holds 27% of its stock through New Empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of industrial health on the ground that it allows its subsidiaries free operating control , does not charge them exorbitant management fees . <P> One North American subsidiary , Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. , received high praise from Judson Dickerman , Commission examiner . This Ohio company was called a " model concern which conforms to the best ideal of public regulations . " Its rates ( 5 per kilowatt hr. ) are low , its securities well secured , its management efficient , its service high-grade . Examiner Dickerman pointed out , however , as one possible reason for the Cleveland company 's excellent record , the fact that it operates in competition with a municipal power plant which charges a nominal rate of 3 per kilowatt hr.                     