@@468924

THERE may be heard in the land to-day a rising din of alarums and excursions which announce a breakdown in our system of justice . Many reasons have been given for this breakdown . Politically minded judges , corrupt court officials , negligent district attorneys , an outworn jury system ? all have come in for their share of the blame . But little has been said about the weakest spot of all in our administration of justice ? the impunity with which witnesses are allowed to commit perjury . In these days when so few men fear punishment in the after life it would seem naive to assume that the mere taking of an oath will necessarily influence a witness to tell " the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth , " and still more naive when one considers how that oath is administered . Sometimes the witness is told to raise his right hand as he is hustled up the aisle of the courtroom ; sometimes a dog-eared Bible is held out to him while he listens to the clerk mumble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you swear . . . " and ending with something like " S'helpyougod . " The witness will hardly have had time to nod his head and murmur assent before the question is fired at him , " What is your name and address ? " When these formalities have been duly complied with , all in the space of a few seconds , the witness takes the stand , presumably to help the court determine the facts but actually , in the great majority of cases , to further his own or someone 's else interests . The comparatively few people who possess too much self-respect to commit perjury are unfortunately seldom seen in the courts . They are not often involved in litigation , and they are not likely to be sought as witnesses by those who are so involved . As distinguished from the rare witness who has high ethical standards , the average man on the stand feels no compulsion to tell the truth , first , because his conscience makes no such demands upon him and , second , because he has been given no reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ falsely . In all probability he has never heard of anyone who has been arrested for committing perjury , and he may not even know that under the laws of most of our States the offense is a felony , punishable by a number of years in prison . Or if he happens to be versed in the ways of the law , he will know that he could not be convicted of perjury unless the prosecuting officers of the State could convince a jury beyond a reasonable doubt that he had made a false statement as to a material fact under oath willfully . So the average witness fears only one thing as he tells his story , and that is cross-examination by a hostile lawyer . But when he comes to this ordeal he is protected by a friendly lawyer who whenever possible gets the court to excuse him from answering embarrassing qucstions . If the witness should , nevertheless , break down under the grilling , he may run to cover and correct an earlier statement and in this way save himself from a charge of perjury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Knowing that man is by nature given to deceit , they threatened perjurers with immediate and dire punishment . The Mosaic law of the Hebrews prescribed that a man who was found to have testified falsely against his brother should be punished for the same crime of which he had accused his brother ? so that " those which remain shall hear , and fear , and shall henceforth commit no more any such evil among you . " The Egyptians counted perjury a capital offense , and the Romans summarily disposed of perjurers by throwing them from the Tarpeian Rock . In later days perjurers were treated with less severity , although for many centuries they ran the risk of having their tongues cut out or of being condemned to the pillory or the whipping post . As these brutal forms of punishment passed away , the Ecclesiastical Courts in England came to rely chiefly upon man 's fear of divine wrath , and they accordingly administered such elaborate oaths as " So help me God and all the saints , " " So help me God in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and these holy evangelists by me bodily touched , " while the witness was required to kiss the Bible . At the same time a system of trial by compurgation had grown up , which meant that a defendant could establish his innocence by a solemn oath if he could at the same time produce a number of friends or neighbors who would swear , not to the truth of his defense , but simply to his credibility . Trials of this kind were bound to give rise to perjury , and yet curiously enough they were fostered by the Ecclesiastical Courts . Blackstonetells us in his Commentaries that trial by compurgation was a special privilege of the clergy as well as of the educated and upper classes who could claim " benefit of clergy . " He explains that privileged defendants who had been convicted in the King 's Courts were turned over to the Ecclesiastical Courts where they were retried and almost invariably acquitted on the strength of the oaths of twelve compurgators , no matter how patent their guilt . Blackstone describes these proceedings as " solemn farces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bishop who presided were partakers in the guilt . " The sanctity of the oath was thus abrogated at times by the Church itself , and as the Middle Ages receded and men 's dread of eternal damnation weighed less heavily upon them , perjury became an increasingly common offense . One writer recounts that professional perjurers were wont to walk in Westminster Hall with straws in their shoes to advertise their services , while the records of the Ecclesiastical Courts of the last of the 18th and the first of the 19th centuries contain a considerable number of cases where the judges declared that in their opinion some of the witnesses had committed perjury . A recent controversy in the London Times suggests that perjury is not altogether negligible in present-day England , and yet the general consensus is that it is not so widespread there as it is here , perhaps because the English hold their courts in far greater respect than we do ours . There can be no question of the prevalence of perjury in the trial courts of the United States . Mr. Samuel Untermyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to taint and well nigh paralyze the administration of justice . " Mr. Charles H. Tuttle , former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York , finds that " the practice of perjury has come to be surrounded with a practical immunity ? it sends honest men to jail and turns loose on the community predatory lawbreakers of every kind . " Mr. Herbert Harley , Secretary of the American Judicature Society , gives it as his opinion that " perjury is one of the dark corners of judicial administration , " and he adds that " the bar has learned to operate in spite of perjury , and to accept it . " Voicing similar views Dr. John M. F. Gibbons , General Attorney of the New York , New Haven and Hartford Railroad , writes to the New York Times as follows : " After a broad and varied experience covering a period of twenty years within the courts of this enlightened country , I am only able to report two cases in which there was no perjury or subornation of perjury to be found or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have been most careful to distinguish between malignant false swearing and benign inaccuracy . " Confirming Doctor Gibbons ' opinion , the New York County Grand Jurors ' Association , through its organ , The Panel , declares that " the crime of perjury is prevalent on one side or the other in nearly every lawsuit brought to trial , " while the Columbia University Law Review finds that " there are literally thousands of civil and criminal actions as revealed by the American Digest in which witnesses or parties giving testimony have been impeached as being unworthy of credit , but rarely have the courts held such persons in contempt or committed them for prosecution for wilfully falsifying under oath . " Arrests for perjury are in fact rare , and convictions are still rarer . Mr. Tuttle tells us that the Federal Census Report of 1923 showed a total prison population , state and federal , of 109 , - 075 , out of which there were 16,500 individuals whoa had been sentencedfor burglary and only 171 for perjury . It is unfortunate that more recent prison statistics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions in our large cities afford ample proof that perjury to-day is punished only in isolated instances , or when searching investigations of the courts disclose it . In Greater New York there were 103 arrests for perjury in the years 1925 , 1926 , and 1927 , but only fifteen convictions , and in Chicago , where perjury must be very rife indeed , the Crime Commission reports that there were only three people who received penitentiary sentences for this offense in the years 1926-1930 . Such a shocking state of affairs calls for diagnosis . Are the trial judges , before whom perjury is committed day in and day out , primarily responsible ? Or does the fault lie with the laws as they are written and administered , or with lax juries that refuse to punish offenders , or indeed with the legal profession itself ? In most jurisdictions a judge of a court of record has the right to hold a suspected perjurer for arrest and recommend that he be tried for the offense . But this action is seldom taken for the reason that so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A judge of the Supreme Court of New York said to the writer quite frankly , " We have reached the point where we merely try to find out which side is lying the least . " He went on to say that he did not greatly blame a litigant for shading or distorting the truth in order to win his case or to save himself hundreds of dollars . But he expressed the greatest contempt for " people of education and professional standing " who prostitute their reputations on the witness stand . A year ago he was so outraged by the flagrantly false testimony of a doctor in a malpractice suit that he had him and his colleague arrested for perjury . He is a judge of high standing , and yet his sentimental attitude toward the average perjurer as compared with his condemnation of " educated " perjurers can hardly be called consistent . Still more shocking is the attitude of criminal judges who accept without question the testimony of officers of the law and send men and women to jail on the strength of it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Magistrates ' Courts in New York City that certain policemen had been " framing " women on immorality charges in order to extract hundreds of dollars from them , one of the magistrates who had heard a great many of these cases naively testified that he had thought all the policemen appearing in his court were " honest and upright , " while another magistrate admitted that it would never have occurred to her to question a policeman 's testimony . Not all judges are so purblind , but in civil cases , at least , most judges look upon perjury in a very pragmatic fashion indeed . If litigants lie too blatantly , they reason , the jury will see through their ruse and punish them by handing down an adverse verdict . But juries are not always so penetrating , and their verdicts often fall short of substantial justice . Then again , the average judge is so pressed with work that he is loath to take the time necessary to arrest a perjurer , even when the offense is flagrant . In one case a defendant had admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was his but had stoutly insisted that an identical signature on a contract was not his . The judge examined both exhibits and decided that the handwriting was the same beyond a doubt . As a matter of discipline he held the witness for contempt of court for a few hours but released him when he tearfully admitted that he had not told the truth . Another New York judge allowed a still more shocking instance of perjury to go unpunished in a suit for heavy damages brought against the Consolidated Gas Company of New York . The plaintiff claimed that the explosion of her gas oven had given her such a severe nervous shock that paralysis had set in . She was brought to court in a wheel-chair and lifted to the witness stand , and her doctor testified that she had lost the use of her limbs . But in the course of her cross-examination she became so enraged at the searching questions put to her by the attorney for the gas Company that she forgot herself , jumped to her feet , and shouted to the jury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make out that I am lying . " The case was dismissed , but the softhearted judge refused to comply with the request of counsel for the defendant that both the woman and her doctor be arrested for perjury . Justice had not been defeated , he said , and , in short , no harm had been done . No harm ? except that the court had wasted its time , the Gas Company had been obliged to retain counsel to defend a specious claim for damages , and the crowd in the courtroom had seen the boldest kind of perjurer escape punishment . Too many judges are supine in the presence of perjurers . During the famous trial in Cleveland , ten years ago , of Chief Justice McGannon for second-degree murder , the court appeared " helpless and prostrate before palpable perjury , " to quote the Cleveland Crime Survey . Miss May Neely , " star " witness for the State , had made a detailed disclosure incriminating McGannon at the first trial which had ended in a disagreement , but at the second trial she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgrace herself if she did so . Puzzled as to her attitude , Judge Powell interviewed her privately and thereafter supported her refusal . It was manifest that she must have told him that she had perjured herself in the first instance , since no other excuse would have covered her refusal to repeat her testimony . Yet when he allowed the prosecuting attorney to examine Miss Neely fully in the absence of the jury , she swore that she had told the truth at the first trial . " Under such circumstances , " the Cleveland Crime Survey concludes , " a court sensitive of its position would have known how to dead with such a witness . " And it adds that " the fact that Judge Powell did not vindicate the dignity of the court is typical of the general attitude toward perjury . " Many of our judges hesitate to question a witness 's credibility , or order him held for arrest during the course of a trial , for fear of being denounced later by an appellate court for having unduly prejudiced the deliberations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our judiciary is an unfortunate result of the present tendency in this country to strip trial judges of all real power and reduce them , as compared with English trial judges , to ineffective bench robots . III If our trial judges were to assert their authority and arrest all suspected perjurers , convictions would not necessarily follow , since under our laws it is very difficult for the prosecuting officers of the State to prove a man guilty of perjury . Most of our state laws , like the federal law , define perjury as a false statement made under oath ( a ) wilfully and ( b ) in regard to a material fact . Therefore , to get a conviction the prosecuting attorney has to show " beyond a reasonable doubt " that the accused deliberately gave false testimony and that what he said was material to the issue , i.e. , of such a nature as to influence the decision . Our courts also adhere to the common-law principle that perjury can not be established on the strength of one person 's testimony . That is to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand as proof of perjury unless it is corroborated by the testimony of another witness or by convincing circumstantial evidence . As a result of this precedent it is harder for the State to convict a man of perjury than of robbery or murder or a number of other crimes for which circumstantial evidence alone is sometimes accepted as sufficient proof . Perjury may be more easily established if the State can show that a witness has contradicted himself under oath on two separate occasions , but the difficulty comes in proving when he lied and when he told the truth . This fallacy in the law makes it easy for the friends of criminals to reach key witnesses for the People and to bribe or intimidate them to tell a different story at the trial than the one they told before the grand jury . Any district attorney will tell you that this very thing happens time and time again , making it impossible for the State to convict criminals who are known to be guilty of the offense in question . The . State is quite helpless as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perjurer unless it can prove which of his two sworn statements was false , and that is next to impossible when his testimony is a matter of his own recollection . The difficulty of getting a conviction for perjury on the basis of a witness 's contradictory sworn statements may be illustrated by the following story . Miss Edith St. Clair , an actress , a number of years ago sued Mr. Abraham Erlanger , the former theatrical producer , for having failed to fulfill the terms of a contract under which he had agreed to pay her , " for services unspecified , " twenty-five thousand dollars in ten yearly installments . She was able to convince the judge and jury of the authenticity of her claim and accordingly won a judgment in the Supreme Court of New York , which ordered Mr. Erlanger to make the yearly payments . Subsequently , however , she appeared at the office of Mr. Erlanger 's attorney and for some unknown reason confessed that she had lied about the contract , and that her attorney , Mr. Max D. Steuer , a New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ print , had put her up to the story . Her statement was reduced to an affidavit , and the judgment which she had obtained was accordingly set aside . As a result of Miss St. Clair 's revelations , disbarment proceedings were instituted against Mr. Steuer by the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court , at the instance of the New York City Bar Aasoeiation . But when she was called as a witness she once again recanted and said that she had told the truth the first time and that Mr. Steuer had not been responsible for her claim against Mr. Erlanger . The charge against Mr. Steuer was accordingly dismissed , and the State 's next move was to try Miss St. Clair for perjury . But the prosecution suffered from the disadvantage of not being able to prove at which time she had sworn falsely , and so the jury failed to convict . Here was a case where the courts were shamelessly exploited and yet no one was punished . When there is sufficient evidence to prove a man guilty of perjury he may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apt to think that the punishment prescribed by law does not fit the crime . In the States where perjury is a felony the maximum penalty ranges from ten to twenty years , with a somewhat shorter term of imprisonment in States where it is only a misdemeanor . In New York , where the penal code defines perjury as a felony , the maximum sentence is twenty years ' imprisonment in cases in which the offense was committed in connection with a trial for a felony , and ten years in all other ( asses , while in Pennsylvania , where perjury is only a misdemeanor , the maximum penalty is seven years ' imprisonment and a fine of not more than five hundred dollars . The maximum sentence , however , is very seldom imposed . In New York State sentences as short as six months or a year have been given perjurers who have never before been convicted of a felony . Yet every jury that hears a perjury case is sure to be told by the counsel for the defendant that if they convict the accused they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theoretically , a jury 's only function is to determine the facts without regard to the sentence which may follow their verdict of guilty . But juries are very human and they are often of no higher moral caliber than the person who is being tried for perjury . The average juror , no doubt , would be capable of perjuring himself if he wanted to set aside an unprofitable contract or salvage a little property from bankruptcy proceedings . He would be equally capable of exaggerating an injury so as to collect large damages from a wealthy corporation , or of misrepresenting a material fact in order to help a friend or a relative win a case . This being the rage , the average juror would naturally consider it a bad precedent to send a man to prison for an act that he himself might want to perpetrate some day . It is a little harder to understand why juries sometimes acquit , or at least fail to convict , perjurers whose testimony has been calculated to send innocent people to prison . Only recently a jury in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the New York Vice Squad on the charge of having committed perjury , in testifying against a night-club hostess and an entertainer on an immorality charge . The District Attorney 's office presented evidence to show that he had attempted to " frame " the two women and that lie was well acquainted with the " unknown man " ? actually a stool pigeon , whom he had discovered in their apartment . Judge Nott , in his charge to the jury , referred to this evidence as " refuting certain statements made by Halpern in Magistrate 's Court , " and yet the jury exonerated Halpern . Since then Policemen Tait and Ganly have been convicted on similar charges , while two others , Murray and Stiglin , have been acquitted . It remains to be seen what will happen to the five others who have been indicted for perjury . A few convictions , however , will not necessarily prove that juries have a sense of justice , but merely that they are sensible to public clamor . In those States where the grand jury system obtains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has first been indicted , witnesses who are arrested for perjury may be so fortunate as never to be brought to trial , since grand juries are frequently no less tolerant of perjury than are trial juries , and district attorneys for their part are not always zealous in pressing for indictments . In New York County , where the Association of Grand Jurors has for several years been waging a campaign against perjury through their organ The Panel , there were as many as seven perjury charges dismissed by grand juries in 1929 out of a total of sixteen cases that were presented to them . V It has been suggested that juries might be readier to convict if perjury in all of our States were tried as a misdemeanor rather than a felony . In line with this idea , a law has been drafted by the Statutory Crime Commission of New York State which would make " false swearing " a misdemeanor while it would reserve the felony charge for extremely grave cases of perjury . Such a change in the law would have the effect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although as a matter of practice it would not materially lessen the comparatively short sentences which are now imposed in the great majority of cases . The proposed law also provides that a man might be convicted of false swearing whenever it could be proved that he had contradicted himself under oath on two different occasions . Such a reform in the perjury laws is badly needed , since a witness who deliberately recants. as Miss St. Clair did , is most certainly guilty of willful misrepresentation of the facts , and there is no good reason why the burden should be on the prosecution to show at which time he or she swore falsely . Should the proposed law be passed , indictments by the grand jury would not be necessary , and in cities of one hundred thousand population or over , cases of false swearing would be tried by a Court of Special Sessions composed of three judges and no jury . It is confidently expected that in New York City at least ? where the judges of Special Sessions are noted for their severity ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good deal to be said for a change in the laws of all the States which would provide that in communities of every size persons accused of false swearing be tried by a judge or several judges without benefit of jury , since juries have time and again proved that they have no real understanding of the gravity of the offense . Such a change could not be effected , however , in those jurisdictions where perjury is a felony , as under the laws of all our States a person accused of a felony has a constitutional right to trial by jury . Hence the argument for making it a misdemeanor . Judges , it is true , have shown themselves surprisingly tolerant of perjury as it is committed in the course of one trial after another , but some of them at Least are likely to be more severe when they come to try a man for the offense , since they must see in him and his kind the root and cause of the corruption and congestion in the courts . There appears to be little danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anyone of false swearing since , in the absence of contradictory sworn statements , the offense would still have to be proved by at least two persons ' testimony , or the testimony of one person substantiated by circumstantial evidence . It is conceivable that a corrupt judge might convict an innocent person , and yet it is not probable , since there would be no graft to be collected . There is a time-honored maxim which holds that " it is better that ninety-nine guilty men should escape than that one innocent man should be convicted . " And yet a convicted person would have the privilege of appealing his case to a higher court , and the occasional injustice that might be done by judges acting alone would be as nothing compared with the wrong that is done to society by morally blind juries who refuse to punish perjurers . The objection has been raised that a law making perjury a misdemeanor instead of a felony would tend to mitigate the gravity of the offense . But this objection is an academic one , as the new law would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salutary effect . It is an open question whether the prospect of punishment acts as a positive deterrent to wrongdoing and yet , as Judge Joseph E. Corrigan of New York City points out , if a man sees his neighbor sent to prison for a year or two for having testified falsely under oath , he is likely to think twice before be commits the offense himself . It has been further suggested by Dr. John M. F. Gibbons that witnesses should be warned by the judge before they begin to testify as to what constitutes the crime of perjury or false swearing and how it may be punished under the law . Some such exhortation would seem to be badly needed , since the oath has lost its force . Even if witnesses were sworn in more solemnly than at present , it is extremely doubtful whether the oath would have the desired effect , as men no longer fear punishment in the hereafter . Obviously it is necessary to put the fear of the law rather than the fear of God into witnesses ' minds . Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would aid judges in detecting and investigating suspicious statements made by witnesses . A workable plan of this kind has been outlined by Mr. Charles Robinson , Vice-President of the New York County Grand Jurors ' Association . He suggests that counsel for either side be permitted to appear before the judge of the trial court after adjournment and ask for an investigation of questionable testimony . If the judge considers the request a reasonable one it will be incumbent upon him to detail either a court attache or a deputy sheriff to make the investigation , and he will at the same time set a date for a hearing on the findings . The person suspected of perjury will be invited to attend this hearing and given an opportunity to explain away any inaccuracy . If be proves unable to do so , it will then be the duty of the court to refer the entire record to the District Attorney with a recommendation that the accused be tried for perjury . Such a procedure would fix the responsibility for initiating the investigation of all suspected cases of perjury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism , since the witness 's credibility would not be questioned until the court had adjourned . The only argument against a system of this kind is that it would add to tlaej edge 's burdens , and yet in the long run it would relieve the congestion in the courts since it would discourage the inception of specious suits . Still another important measure , this one designed to forestall perjury , has been proposed by Mr. Edward Alexander of the New York Bar . He is of the opinion that witnesses to civil suits should be subpoenaed to appear for an examination under oath before the trial and as soon as possible after the beginning of the action , and their testimony made a part of the record , as is done in England . Under our present law a litigant may serve a notice on his opponent requiring him to appear for a preliminary examination under oath , and this notice must be obeyed unless the courts grant a motion to have it vacated ; but there is no provision for summoning witnesses . If they could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not so easily conceal the truth at the trial by pleading that they do not remember , while dishonest lawyers would be given less time to fabricate evidence and " fix " witnesses . Such a practice would also make it impossible for either side to produce " surprise " testimony . That is to say , if the lawyer on one side had induced a witness to tell a cock-and-bull story , his adversary might , if he knew about this testimony in advance , be able to procure witnesses of his own to refute it . VI But no revision in the laws or their administration will wipe out perjury so long as the legal profession countenances and encourages it . If it is true ? as lawyers and judges frankly admit ? that perjury is committed by one side or the other in the great majority of court actions , why , then , it must follow that the great majority of lawyers are privy to perjury . It is conceivable that an occasional litigant might succeed in withholding material facts from his lawyer , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all would be unable to worm all the facts out of his client if he wanted to do so . Assuming , then , that a lawyer knows the facts , and assuming that they are unfavorable to his client 's case , he will naturally be tempted to suggest ways and means by which the facts can be materially exaggerated and distorted , if not actually misrepresented . Should he yield to this temptation he will become guilty of subornation of perjury , which , like perjury , is punishable by a prison sentence . But convictions for this offense are even fewer than convictions for perjury , except when an infrequent investigation is held . In the great majority of cases the lawyer who coaches his witnesses to misrepresent the truth has nothing to fear and everything to gain . A lawyer 's fee , it must be remembered , is commensurate with his success in winning a favorable verdict , and this applies to lawyers of both high and low degree . But the lawyers who are the most desperately anxious to win their cases are those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other types of cases . The average lawyer of this school employs " runners " or ambulance chasers who gather news of accidents at the police stations and hasten to the victims to offer them their employer 's professional services . When the lawyer has been put in touch with the injured person he magnanimously offers to collect handsome damages for him without charging a cent for his services . He will only ask the victim to sign a paper agreeing to share the anticipated damages with the lawyer on a fifty-fifty basis . If the lawyer thinks the case looks like a particularly remunerative one he may advance money to his client in order to win his confidence further . A complaint is then entered and large damages are demanded . Should the street-car company , railroad , or other public service corporation refuse to settle the case for the desired sum and the matter comes to trial , the negligence lawyer will put the victim of the accident on the stand and have him tell a story pathetic enough to wring the heart of any jury ; and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ . As a result of such machinations damages are frequently collected that are out of all proportion to the seriousness of the injury or the actual liability of the defendant . Negligence lawyers became so bold in their operations in New York several years ago that an " Ambulance-Chasing Investigation " was initiated by the Supreme Court of the First and Second Departments . The outcome of this investigation was that sixteen lawyers were disbarred , eighteen were suspended , and thirteen were censured . A similar inquiry was held in Milwaukee not long ago , with similar results . But the ripples of such investigations soon subside , and the courts once again afford smooth sailing to negligence lawyers . As a result , " a negligence law suit without perjury is almost as rare to-day as a glass of good Pilsener , " to quote Professor I. Maurice Wormser , Editor of the New York Law Journal . There has been more than a little agi , tation for a law which would make the collection of contingent fees illegal . But such a radical remedy might kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make it impossible for the man of no means to secure legal representation . In this connection , it is interesting to know that Abraham Lincoln took cases on such a basis . A far better remedy , as Mr. Wormser and others have urged , would be to place contingent fees under the supervision of the court so that no lawyer could charge an exorbitant price for his services . A canon making this recommendation was passed by the American Bar Association in 1908 , but so far as the writer can ascertain no laws have been enacted giving courts the right of supervision over retainer contracts between attorneys and their clients . Higher standards for admission to the bar would tend to purge the profession of that undesirable substratum of lawyers who have so little education and background that they , can not carry on a legitimate practice . But society would still have to reckon with the more reputable members of the profession whose consciences can not all be as white as snow . There is in this country an eminent and unusually brilliant attorney -- recently elevated to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract case was heard to coach a witness while he was escorting him to the stand . " Remember , " he said , " that your authority to purchase did not exceed one hundred barrels . " One of the attorneys for the plaintiff , whom the writer knows , was positive that the purchasing agent 's authority had not been limited as claimed , and he personally believes that his distinguished opponent was guilty of subornation of perjury . Undoubtedly there are some members of the profession who practice as " gentlemen and officers of the court . " A lawyer of this stamp should not only be above suborning perjury but he should be quick to call the court 's attention to any misstatements that his witnesses inadvertently make . One New York lawyer walked out on a negligence case when he discovered that his client was lying about the facts of an accident . This same lawyer declined to continue to act as counsel for a multimillionaire in a long-contested divorce suit that involved much questionable testimony . There are probably other lawyers like him , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of long experience , the greater part of these honorable practitioners of the law have had the good fortune to inherit or to marry money , although he admits that there are a few lawyers without a private income who have preferred a modest practice to a very large one built up by unscrupulous methods . Some members of the bar condone if they do not defend the dubious practices of their fellows on the ground that lawyers are no worse or no better than any other group of business men . But that is beside the point , just as a similar defense of the present-day practices of certain members of the medical profession is beside the point . Lawyers , like doctors , are in an ideal sense trustees for society , and we have a right to expect that they shall represent a higher average of character and intelligence than the mill-run variety of business men . Chief Justice Cardozo of the New York Court of Appeals has said , " Membership in the bar is a privilege burdened with conditions . A member Is received into that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes an officer of the court and , like the court itself , an instrument or agency to advance the ends of justice . His co-operation with the court is due whenever justice would be imperilled if co-operation were withheld . " That there are to-day comparatively few lawyers who give such co-operation to the courts was plainly implied by a former president of the New York State Bar Association when he said , " If the lawyers of this State would positively discourage false swearing on the part of their own clients and honestly endeavor to have it punished when committed by the clients of their adversary , the crime would grow suddenly less . " With such low standards prevailing in the legal profession , prospects for a reformation of the courts at the present time are not bright . In the first place there can be no revision of the laws governing the apprehension and punishment of perjurers without the acquiescence of those many lawyers of philistine philosophy who pack our legislatures . This class of lawyer is not likely to approve of a change in the statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If such a change could be effected in the laws , conditions would not be greatly improved unless the bar associations and the leaders of the profession would give up their laissez-faire policy and determine to discipline summarily all lawyers who soil their hands with perjury. 