@@470073

WHEN America shook off British rule she took it upon herself to complete the process of democratic evolution which had been under way in England for more than a century . Of this process the restriction or abolition of the king 's power was only the negative part . If the people wanted to get rid of rule from above , and still to maintain the values of civilization , they had to find other ways of fulfilling the social functions which the monarchical power had fulfilled before . Of these functions none was more important than the settlement of disputes between social groups . It had been an essential part of the philosophy of absolutism that the king was needed as a supreme judge between nobility , citizenry , and peasantry . The ways in which the kings settled social disputes were very different , in spirit as well as in technic : The kings of France , after having subdued the rebellious nobles , protected the social privileges of the nobility to the point of subjecting both citizens and peasants to cruel oppression ; the kings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kings of beggars , " without fully living up to the implications of that title , tried to restrict exploitation of the masses ; so , much earlier , did Elizabeth of England . But whatever the conception of justice and wisdom in social struggles , absolutism imposed the king 's peace on social groups and therewith prevented violent struggle in social conflicts . In order to establish government by the people it was necessary to show that the various parts of which a nation consists could get along with one another peacefully without being forced to keep peace by a superior , hereditary power . Thus the task of democracy has always been a twofold one : to prevent political privilege , Jrorn reestablishing itself , and to make peaceful settlement of disputes possible in a society without privilege . Democracy is an order of political equality , and at the same time it is an order of social peace . These two aspects are inseparable ; and as often as it seems that democracy can not guarantee peaceful settlemer " ssf social disputes , the desire to obtain nis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a supreme judge becomes strong and - nes overwhelming . n representative democracy , which has grown out of various roots in the course of a good many centuries , uses majority rule for the peaceful settlement of all conflicts . The rationale of majority rule is not that majorities are always right ; it is very easy indeed to find historical examples of unwise action on the part of majorities , cases in which the judgment of the minority group has been much sounder . But while in an individual case the majority opinion is not necessarily superior to the opinion of the minority , the process of obtaining decisions by majority rule is superior to any other way in which the will of a nation can be determined for the simple reason that one can win a majority through persuasion . While a majority may act erroneously when the issue is first put to decision , there is a basic probability that it can be persuaded to change its decision if experience bears out the truth of the minority 's claim that the opposite course is wiser . Still more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most educational and the least destructive method of settling differences of opinion and interests and , therefore , of government . From the fact that the value of majority rule lies in the process of building up a majority by persuasion , it follows that the rule is valuable only where conditions exist which make persuasion possible . Therefore , the mere fact that a country is governed with the consent of the majority of its citizens has no particular significance if the process through which the majority has been formed does not satisfy the criteria of government by persuasion , that is , if the proponents of conflicting policies have not had an equal opportunity to succeed in persuading each other and the rest of the population . The institutions which are most important in giving significance to the process of persuasion are freedom of speech , press , assemblage , and political organization , and the protection of personal rights ( including the chance to earn a living ) independent of political beliefs . If Cesarism or any other form of dictatorship uses a government monopoly of propaganda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because many people fail to distinguish between the essence and some outward technicalities of democracy ; but the basic arguments which have been developed in support of democracy are not logically applicable to the defense of dictatorial rule supported by plebiscites . II The conditions under which democracy has to function in a modern industrial society are very different from conditions which prevailed in the period when thephilosophy of the system was first proposed . There was much social inequality in that period too ; but those who advocated democracy believed that political equality would bring about equality of economic opportunities , if not actual equality of income and wealth . These hopes have failed , since the industrial development favored concentration of property and the building up of positions of economic power , largely hereditary in character . Nobody who has accepted the basic ideas of democracy can approve of the present division of society into owners of wealth and non-owners if he sees the facts as they are . If equality is desirable , why confine it to the voting power instead of extending it to the economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their daily life ? It seems a very limited achievement to remove political disabilities if we can not remove the inability of a man to acquire the means for a life worth living while others , not better than he , can live in abundance . These arguments have not lost but greatly gained in convincing force since the Jacobins used them against the Girondins . There are people who say that they do not oppose the present economic order although they firmly believe in democracy . Some of them maintain that greater income is still , by and large , the reward for greater service due to higher personal qualities , so that opportunities may still he called equal . It is not difficult to see that this position is highly unrealistic . It is certainly true that exceptional qualities , combined with exceptionally good hick , can still lead a newspaper boy to the position of a high business executive , and it is even more true that bad hick , with or without lack of ability , can make a rich man poor . But this does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a millionaire has still a thousand times more of a chance for a comfortable life than the boy or girl born in a truck driver 's family ? and yet the truck driver is not at the bottom of society by far . Other defenders of the existing economic order do not deny that democracy requires as much economic equality as possible . But , they say , no considerably greater amount of equality is possible , at least not if we want to preserve free institutions in politics . Inequality is the price , so this argument runs , of civilization ; if we were to make opportunities equal we should have to interfere so much with the Life of the individual that we should paralyze the personal initiative of the leading people , and we should all be very much poorer than we are now ; or we should have to extend the powers of government so much that we all should become dependent upon our rulers , and liberty would be lost . It is everyone 's privilege to feel that the proposed schemes of social reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But a person who thinks that there should be as much equality among human beings as possible can not stop at developing a critical view of the existing plans for reform if he feels they are unsatisfactory ; he will feel a strong urge to work out better plans ; and since a democrat believes in the possibility of improving ideas by discussion , he can hardly be convinced from the start that we can never have a closer approach to a combination of economic and political equality than we have to-day . For all these reasons the people who believe that the ideal of equality has a place only in the political sphere have become a minority in all countries . There is now a very large body of public opinion which supports these two ideas : First , that it is the duty of governments to propose laws and to take other measures to diminish the differences in opportunities and standards of living of the wealthy and the poor ; and second , that to this end some extension of the collective institutions will be necessary . Naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of equality which will be obtainable and as to the amount of collectivization which will be necessary or should be accepted ; between those who want only a cautioussocial security legislation and others who advocate a totally socialistic order there is certainly a very wide gap . But in spite of the gap they agree on the direction in which we should move . Thus , with the exception of comparatively few dissenters , we arc all convinced that social change must be accomplished ; and we should find it very hard to maintain our belief in democracy if it did not prove to be a suitable framework for that change . Fortunately , as far as historical facts can warrant a general statement , political democracy has proved to be a very efficient lever of social reform . Tradeunion recognition , social-security laws , higher education for the people have been obtained by the masses through the vote . Democratic societies are now taking away , through income and property taxes , more than half of the annual income of the very wealthy , and the proceeds of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support of welfare services . Beginnings have been made in gradually restricting the " ' industrial command " of the capitalistic entrepreneur ; in a number of countries the sector of national business which is under public ownership has grown rapidly ; and , still more important , the methods of business regulation by the government and public management of business have greatly and rapidly improved . The technic of Central Bank policy and the science of Public Finance have been permeated by a new interest in making the government an agency fit for greater economic responsibilities . It does not matter greatly , with regard to our problem , whether we think the experiments in this or that field have already proved successful ; the really important thing is the experience that democracy can and does move in the direction of social and economic reorganization . The economic and social reforms which have been obtained through equality of political power have nowhere been as complete as the democratic ideal would require . It is quite inevitable that economic inequality should influence the distribution of political power . Wealth can fill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Industrial leaders have social reputation and often economic knowledge which give them an extraordinary influence on public opinion . The critics of " bourgeois democracy " are certainly right when they say that under capitalism perfect democracy is impossible ; but the social record of the democratic countries shows that the argument is of limited weight ; for the democracy which they have had , however imperfect , has made their social progress possible . The influence of money and economic power has only had the effect of a brake which somewhat slowed down the social and economic reorganization ; in spite of the delay , the tempo has been rapid enough to change some basic features of society within less than a century . III While it is established beyond question that strong forces exist in every modern democracy which promote social progress , it may still be asked whether another political form would not be likely to make progress more rapid . All the steps in social reform have been the result of struggle ; they have been achieved against the resistance , usually strong and sometimes desperate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slightest reason to assume that further progress can be made without struggle . This is not in itself contradictory to the existence of a democratic order of peace . Social peace does not mean absence of conflict , but absence of violence ; an order of peace means not prohibition but limitation and regulation of struggle . Democracy permits the clash of social forces , but it restricts the freedom of action of the struggling groups ; they are forbidden to use destructive means . Should those who fight for social reform accept this limitation on their freedom of action ? Let us not he too easily satisfied with an affirmative answer to this question . It is clear enough that violence is an evil , and that civil war ordictatorship can not last long without a destructive effect on the material as well as on the moral foundations of society . However , let us also consider that the world is still full of grave social injustices and that every year of unnecessary delay in the accomplishment of desirable reforms perpetuates human misery . Moreover , a gradual process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building of new institutions into an old system may create disorganization and maladjustment , and the resulting disturbances may provide the opponents of reform with weapons of propaganda . Therefore , is it not humane and wise to " shorten the birth pangs of a new society , " even if this has to be done by violent means ? Innumerable wrongs have been inflicted upon mankind in the course of history ; if we can rid society by one stroke , or by a short period of violence , of all or most of the remaining inequities , should we then hesitate to lead the historical process quickly to its goal ? Considerations like these have led many men and women of intellectual sincerity from the democratic into the revolutionary camp ? men and women who feel emotionally opposed to violence but consider it a lack of moral courage not to use every means in the hour of decision . Their case would be much more arguable if it were sure , or even probable , or at least imaginable , that there will be an hour of decision in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short transitional period , which would not last long enough to do very much harm , is a heritage from a period that did not know that technical means would be developed which in a few months of civil war could destroy the material foundations of civilization for decades . How short would the period of violence now have to be to leave more than ruins ? But aside from this , what justifies the assumption that it would be short , measured by any yardstick ? To be sure , not only political changes but economic changes too have sometimes been performed in a quick , revolutionary way and have been successful . Debts or tributes have been abrogated ; large es " tates have been confiscated and distribwed among the peasants who had previously worked them as serfs , or had lived , landstarved , in the nearby villages ; slaves have been freed by the stroke of a pen , or have freed themselves through an upheaval , and have been turned into wage earners . All these changes have one trait in common : what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old institution or an old right , Only a modest amount of governmental effort in the form of economic reconstruction is possible or necessary to satisfy the purposes of the policy , though the changes may greatly interfere with the life of individuals . An entire creditor class may be ruined by a law which forbids the collecting of debts ; but if the creditors are merely the beneficiaries of payments from the productive group , and do not have any share in the productive organization ? such as banks ordinarily have ? no large-scale economic reorganization is necessary ; the productive machinery will function as before . Where the creditor class is more than a group of beneficiaries , e.g. where it has the function of currently supplying and distributing credit , revolutionary abrogation of debts has never been an economic success . It is possible to redistribute land by revolutionary methods if the peasants who are to receive the new lots live beside the large estates from which it is to be taken ; but wherever the peasant has been eliminated from the territory in which large estates prevail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany through the very similar process of Bauernlegen , the new settlers must be brought to the land , which is a very difficult , costly , and time-consuming process and can not successfully be promoted by revolutionary methods . ( The " Junkers " owe their preservation as a class during the period of the German Republic primarily to this difficulty in the way of the official settlement policy . ) The freeing of the slaves by an essentially revolutionary act in America was unsuccessful for a long time as an economic measure because slavery could not be entirely and immediately replaced by the wage system or any other adequate system of productive organization ; and the economic consequences of the failure were bearable for the country as a whole only because they were confined to its economically less important sector . Great constructive tasks of an economic order have never been accomplished by one revolutionary act . Feudalism as well as capitalism grew for centuries before it became the prevailing system of its epoch . The building up of socialism will probably be a rapid process as compared with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is very little which suggests that it can be done , in a country with Western civilization , in less than a number of decades ? and this is longer than any such country can exist under conditions of civil war or dictatorship without being morally and materially ruined . How much more complex a task it would be to transform the industrial machinery of a modern capitalistic country into a socialistic one than it was to build a new industrial machinery in Russia along socialistic lines ; and even in Russia it took more than a decade to get the socialistic process of industrialization started in earnest . Now , while the economic reorganization is still very far from its goal , the effects of the dictatorship are becoming intolerable to all the independent spirits in the country , communists and non-communists alike , and utterly detrimental to the operation of the industrial organization . Gradualism is truly inevitable in any approach to a socialist order ; the idea of " shortening the birth pangs " is not realizable . And since the period of transition will not he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iife or death for civilization . IV Whether social progress will be peaceful does not only depend of course upon whether democracy is objectively preferable to revolution ; history is in the main not made by people who are strictly objective in their judgment . Serious doubts have occurred as to whether democracy , however desirable , will not be destroyed or made unworkable by certain features of modern industrial life . Modern society consists of classes , that is of social groups whose members occupy a characteristic position in the productive process which largely determines their social philosophy , and who have reason to consider this position as permanent and , with some reservations , hereditary . There has been a strange reluctance in America to acknowledge this fact ; but if we refuse to see it , we can not undertake a realistic appraisal of the chances of democracy in the present age . Undoubtedly class stratification of society is the source of the principal difficulties which democracy has to face in present-day society , but at the same time democracy depends on the forces which grow out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the underprivileged was a most important driving force toward the realization of the democratic ideal of equality in the economic field . We should not have even complete political equality in the Western World if the laboring masses had not become class-conscious . If there had not been a class movement the economically underprivileged would have been powerless , since for them the only source of strength is their numbers , and masses must be organized to be a force . Consequently , without the class movement of the have-nots , democracy would be an empty word in modern industrial society . Yet the emphasis upon class antagonism has endangered democracy as an order of peace . The class struggle is a struggle for bread and butter ; but it is much more than that . The worker , owing to his peculiar social position , has an outlook of his own toward life , and especially social and political life , and the same is true of entrepreneurs , farmers , and urban middle-class people . Thus the class struggle has become a clash not only of interests butalso of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires are behind the demands of the various classes ; and this combination of interests and ideals has given the antagonistic forces in modern society their dangerous strength , which is comparable only to the strength of antagonistic religious convictions in the Middle Ages and at the beginning of the Modern Era . It is true that the class struggle , as the Marxists say , is an indispensable condition for the development of a higher form of human society ; it is equally true , as the conservatives say , that it is a threat to civilization and to the institutions which safeguard human freedom . In shaping any policy we can not ignore either of these fundamental facts . It is clearly a task of political education to remind the struggling classes continuously that their common interests are not less vital to each of them than their antagonistic interests . A democracy which would neglect this task would fail in a necessary act of self-preservation . But education must be supplemented by institutional provisions . A modern democracy must try to lead the class forces into channels where they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce the incentives to violent action as far as possible . All modern democracies are still experimenting with the mitigation of disputes between capital and labor . Public agencies for industrial reconciliation or arbitration exist everywhere , and it is pretty generally realized that strikes and lockouts should not be the regular methods for the settlement of conflicts between capital and labor , not only because they involve heavy material losses but also because they overemphasize the conflicting interests and make the classes forget what they have in common . However , no country has yet developed an adequate technic for preventing industrial warfare . We shall hardly make any progress in this field unless we acknowledge two elementary rules . First , that relations based on agreement and arbitration are possible only if labor is well organized , because strong unions are much more peaceful than weak ones . Therefore society must not only grant freedom of organization but it must deliberately promote the organization of labor . This means that the " right to work , " independent of membership in a union , can not be put under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aloof from a union without endangering the attempts of his fellow workers to obtain bargaining power equal to that of the employers ; and inadequacy of labor 's bargaining power is the cause of despair pernicious to democracy . We do not permit individual citizens to stay out of a local community even though they might be willing to protect themselves without the help of the police , to extinguish fires without calling the fire department , and to teach their children so that they need not be sent to school . We do not tolerate that type of rugged individualism because we know that local communities can be efficient organizations only if all the residents support them . The same considerations apply to vocational communities . We may grant , nevertheless , that it would satisfy democratic ideals better if the state could remain neutral toward the adherence or non-adherence of an individual to an organization . But labor needs social support in its effort to organize , and this support involves preference for the organized as against the unorganized worker if the power of wealth is to be checked and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the right to strike can not be unconditional if we want to regulate the conflicts of social forces . In the United States of to-day and in a number of other countries it is unconditional only according to the letter of the law ; if labor refuses to have an important conflict arbitrated while the employers accept arbitration , public opinion turns so much against labor that the government is often induced or forced to take steps which will practically break the strike . Airtight schemes of compulsory arbitration will do more harm than good , and there are many reasons for that ; one of them is that if the government were to take the regulation of wages entirely out of the hands of the parties it would have to accept full responsibility for the wage level ; and in the present state of knowledge and information no economist could advise the government what the wage level ought to be at a given moment . But while the powers of arbitration boards must not he absolute , they must be greater than they are now , and a regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must replace the discretionary use of police power and militia in dealing with " unreasonable attitudes " of unions . V In order to imbue the various social groups with confidence in peaceful progress the mechanism of democratic government must satisfy some technical requirements . It is particularly important that the system should have a sufficient amount of elasticity . No group will voluntarily obey majority rule if it is quite sure that it can never obtain a majority itself . This is the reason why questions of national minority rights , for example , are unfit for decision by majority rule ; a Pole does not , as a rule , become a German because he is persuaded to change his conviction ( although in some of the border districts in Europe adherence to one of two rival civilizations has become a matter of conviction rather than of racial background ) . Consequently a Polish minority in German territory can not become a majority in the same way as a political party , namely by convincingly presenting its case . Therefore it is political wisdom to exempt matters of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the granting of cultural self-government to national minorities . Similar considerations apply to religious matters , and , therefore , home rule has long been granted , in most civilized countries , to religious communities in their own affairs . The fear has been expressed that class consciousness will work out very much like conscious adherence to racial or religious communities . Indeed , the person who chooses his election ticket in consideration of his social position is more likely to associate permanently with one party than the man or woman who does not vote as a worker or an industrialist or a farmer or a storekeeper . The trend toward parties with permanent programs ( " parties of conviction " ) which is now noticeable in the United States and which had in an earlier epoch transformed British politics , is largely the product of the desire to have the permanent interests and beliefs of groups expressed in the basic demands of great political organizations . There is nothing illegitimate in this desire from a democratic standpoint . But the decrease in political mobility of the individual voter must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all modern countries the elasticity of the system is provided mainly by the existence of a middle group which is strong enough to keep the balance of power and not entirely committed to either conservatism in its capitalistic conception or socialism in its proletarian conception , and which can be impressed by arguments and attitudes of either one of the more extreme groups . Usually the political middle group is identical with an economic middle group ; but in one important instance , in the German republic , the middle group had mainly ideological foundations , being represented by the Roman Catholic Party ( the " Center " ) which consisted of people from all strata of society and for this reason was committed to a middle course in social affairs . In any case the middle group will ally itself with the leftists or with the rightists depending on where it finds a greater regard for its own desires . Usually the group to the right or to the left which follows an extreme policy will lose the opportunity to establish an alliance with those in the center and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or keeping a majority position weakened . Thus it is the middle group rather thanthe individual voter which is the object of persuasion . It is not always necessary that the middle group be organized in a party of its own ; it may change from the right wing of a progressive or labor party to the left wing of a conservative party , and be discernible as a sociological entity rather than as a political organization . In the United States , as in France and ( perhaps less conspicuously so ) in England , the elasticity of the system is created by the existence of an economic middle class . It can not be the old " independent " middle class of fifty years ago ; it will consist more of professional men and salaried employees than of people who conduct their " home-owned business . " But every party which wants to govern will have to take the ideas , interests , and even the prejudices of this group into account . As long as this middle group preserves some independence of mind it will work as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social progress would best be served if the middle group were on the whole to side with labor , it is important that its intellectual and political mobility be retained . Intellectual independence and self-reliance is firmly rooted in the American middle class , and this is one of the great assets of American democracy . VI The problem of the middle class has gained still more in importance since the rise of fascism . The victory of the fascist movement in some countries which previously had democratic constitutions has supplied the advocates of social revolution with an impressive argument . Granted , they say , that democracy is desirable ; granted even that it may work for a time in a society divided into classes , without too much friction and without losing so much of its original meaning as to become worthless , nevertheless , democracy is not a suitable way in which the necessary social changes can be effected ; for as soon as the privileged feel that their privileges are seriously threatened they will destroy democracy as they did in Italy and Germany . This prophecy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme of historical de'elopment which is to be found in the vritings of Karl Marx ; it suggests that : atastrophe is the price of human prog ? ess , that the evolution of better forms of society can never be essentially peaceful , ind that , therefore , he who is too much terrified by the destructive effects of hisDrical cataclysms is in effect a reactionary Mho tries to preserve ohsolete social sys.ems . This scheme would appear less : onvincing if all of us realized that it is much more in the nature of a vision than of a theorem supported by proof , and that Marx himself , whose great spirit was stronger in producing ideas than in coordinating them , did not stick to this extremely revolutionary philosophy , but aside from it developed a gradualistic line of thought and made some optimistic statements about peaceful social progress in democracies . Those who believe that fascism is simply a tool which Big Business created as soon as it found democracy dangerous overlook one important fact : the opposition of Big Business to democracy is much older than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as the masses were given the vote they would try to use it for the betterment of their social position , and that this would mean , in a capitalistic society , curtailment of the power of the capitalist . While some of the leaders of the business world were advocates of democracy for ideological reasons , the group as a whole has opposed the spread of political power wherever it could . The new element in the situation in Italy in 1921 and in Germany in 1932 was not the opposition of Big Business to democracy , but the weakness of the democratic regime which gave its opponents a chance to destroy it . Why was democracy weak ? Because it was supported almost exclusively by workers . The small tradespeople , the plumbers and the butchers , the innkeepers and the peasants , the bulk of the intelligentsia had turned against democracy . If we want to ex-plain why fascism came to power we must understand why the middle class turned against democracy , and why it fell into the fascist mood . It is much easier for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final aim of communism is the greatest happiness of the greatest number of individuals . The aim of democracy is the same . The way , not the goat , is fundamentally different . Fascism , on the other hand , does not consider the happiness of the individual an essential thing ; both the democratic and the communistic belief are condemned as " materialism " by the fascists . At the bottom of the fascist opposition to " materialism " is disbelief in the perfectibility of human life ; man will always remain a predatory animal and there is no escape from war and oppression ; the great task of man is not to change his condition of life but to be strong and to enjoy the beauty of strength . Technical and organizational progress may be used as a tool by the strong ; otherwise it is not important . This philosophy presents itself as a combination of idealism and realism and , depending on the circumstances , stresses sometimes the one and sometimes the other aspect . Fundamentally , however , it is neither realistic nor idealistic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more alien to the average American 's philosophy of life than almost anything else which may be in the mind of a human being . The American business man hates the communists , out of fear that they may endanger his economic interests ; and most of the ordinary Americans of any class are temperamentally opposed not only to the communist ideas but to the communist approach , to the attitude of cocksureness which does not permit compromise or trial and error . But even the American capitalist is sometimes on common ground with the communists ; both , for instance , believe that it is a very valuable thing to give people telephones or refrigerators or good cheap cars ; or that government is nothing but an instrument for the accomplishment of some of the purposes of the citizens ; or that there will be a future in which people can live together peacefully . The fascists disagree with all these points . If looked at from the standpoint of American democracy , communism is a fundamental and potentially disastrous mistake ; but fascism is a disease of intellect and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and interesting task of explaining why in some of the European countries the middle classes have fallen into the fascist mood . Fortunately for other countries , this mood does not grow very easily , and the existence of social friction and economic maladjustments will hardly ever suffice to produce it . But certainly one of the conditions for the rise of a fascist movement is that the middle class is frightened by the proletariat . The fascist attitude toward progress is largely due to the desire to refute progressive philosophy because it justifies government by the masses , and this desire results from the idea that the masses , which are identified with the workers , will level down whatever is above them if they get the power . As long as the small business men and the salaried employees and the farmers feel that they have nothing to fear if labor gains they will consider themselves part of the masses and democracy will be safe ; Big Business will then have to accept the laws on which labor can agree with the middle class . The greatest obstacle to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the most important cause of a dangerous red scare , is the philosophy of proletarian dictatorship . In all Western countries the middle classes are sufficiently self-conscious not to tolerate the idea that they should be excluded from political power by manual laborers . If the proletariat wanted to dictate it would have to crush not only the capitalists , but the small tradespeople , the clerks , the engineers , and the doctors as well . If there is to he peace between all these people and the workers there must be democracy . But to what extent can the middle clay be reconciled to the workers ' ideas about social progress , even within the framework of democracy ? In no country would the middle class accept a program which would irrevocably commit it to socialism ; but in many countries it is willing to support a policy which may end in socialism if the steps in the gradual approach prove to he successful . American experience shows this very clearly . The movement against Big Business which started in the period of Jacksonian democracy , if not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political groups from the Free Soil propagandists to the La Follette movement and the New Deal ; while most of them were also supported by labor , they were primarily middle-class movements , and this middle-class Social Democracy has become increasingly similar to the proletarian reformism of Europe in its results . Democracy does not face the choice between giving up social progress and ending in fascism . Democratic government may be overthrown by fascism as a result of lack of wisdom , or lack of determination , or lack of good luck . But in spite of widespread opinions to the contrary , there is very little likelihood that democratic government will vanish from the earth or that its dictatorial alternatives will prove to be more successful methods of conducting the affairs of nations . Every regime must give the people the impression that it can handle the vital problems of the age with an adequate amount of success ; otherwise it will not be retained . Democracy must show that it is at least not unsuccessful in improving the conditions of life for the underprivileged . For this reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with more equality and more conscious guidance are operating against a firm establishment of democratic rule . To be sure , no other form of government would be better able to secure satisfactory solutions . But democracy can not live merely by the weakness of its alternatives ; it must show strength of its own . Every effort which leads to the elaboration of reasonable methods of economic change will contribute not only to the economic welfare of the masses but also to more security for government by the people . Even with wisdom and success democracy will not survive if it does not have determined defenders . No system of government has an unlimited faculty of self-preservation . It is impossible so to balance political forces that we can be absolutely sure that none of them will ever destroy the established framework . Democracy is a system of internal peace , but this does not mean that it has automatic safeguards which prevent everyone from breaking the peace . Although democracy is the system which guarantees minorities a peaceful way of seeking the victory of their principles , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still be revolting minorities . If so there must be no doubt that they will be subdued . People must believe in the strength of the democratic order , otherwise they will not rely on it but will arm for violent struggle ? and this will mean the beginning of the end for democracy . VII Democracy must he justified by its own merits ; yet it is important to investigate the achievements of non-democratic governments to find the right yardstick . The dictators boast of their greater efficiency , and defenders of democracy are frequently inclined to yield on this point . In the solution of technical tasks it is indeed sometimes easier to get things done if the power to act rests with one dictator and his appointees than if the system provides checks and balances . This is the reason why every country , however democratic , has to put itself under a temporary dictatorship in case of war . But the technical superiority of dictatorship exists only where the danger of mistake is smaller than the danger of delay , or where secrecy is very important . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about revenue and expenditure , the greatest technical achievement of the Nazi dictatorship , namely Dr. Schacht 's financial policies , would not have been possible ; and the same is true of the reoccupation of the Rhineland and probably of the invasion of Ethiopia . It is also very likely that the preparation of the Five Year Plan would have taken a longer period of time in a country where public opinion would have had a voice in determining the objectives and the means . However , what is the net result of dictatorial government ? Fascism has sometimes ? certainly not always ? selected surprisingly rational means , but only to serve entirely irrational ends . By much cleverness in technicalities the fascist powers have , for instance , achieved a small alleviation of their foreign-exchange troubles , which other nations , not naturally better endowed , have avoided through a wiser policy in international trade , public finance , and foreign affairs . Communism , after having developed admirable concepts of economic planning , is spoiling the advantages of long-range schemes to a very great extent by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the most serious international crisis through which the Soviet state has lived since the end of the Russian civil war in 1921 the Soviets see their military and industrial organization largely paralyzed by mistrust , fear , and enmity , if not by actual disloyalty of men on whom the efficiency of government depends . This is not to say that democracy can learn nothing from either communism or fascism . Aside from economic planning , which is not originally a communistic conception but which communism has done much to develop and to realize , the communist movement is the strongest embodiment of impatience with social injustice , and it would be better for democracy if some of its defenders would be more strongly infected with the germ of this impatience . Democracy may learn from fascism that a good number of obstacles to energetic action are not really as strong as they seem to be on the surface , and that for this reason there is a chance for leaders who are not easily frightened by an appearance of great difficulties ; but the leaders must also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is another lesson to be learned from the communist as well as from the fascist form of the totalitarian state . Every government must teach the citizens , and particularly the youth of the country , the basic philosophy on which it rests . It is not necessary , and for a democratic government it is entirely illegitimate , to persecute those who disagree with that philosophy ; but it is necessary to tell the people why they are governed by the form by which they are governed . What is necessary in the United States is not stern measures against communists and fascists but an instruction in civics which presents , in an impressive form , the fundamental arguments for democracy . Parliamentary democracy was the great invention which has made liberty and peaceful social change compatible . We shall lose this achievement if we allow the institution to be destroyed or to decay ; it will decay , and it can not be successfully defended against attacks , if the basic human qualities which have animated the founders of democracy can not be preserved and from time to time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of points of view , an insight into the fact that the absolute truth in human affairs is not revealed toanybody but must be found through intellectual co-operation . Another essential quality is a fundamental confidence in men ; if we do not believe that our fellow human beings can appreciate the value of arguments there is no point in trying to convince them , and if we fear that they will do the worst they can there is not much use in working with them to build up an order of peace . Finally , democracy is based upon an appreciation of individuality . Only if we see the value of independence of opinion even in those whose ideas differ from ours shall we develop that attitude of tolerance which will make us not only obey but approve the laws of democracy . Therefore democratic education does not merely mean the teaching of political doctrines ; it includes the development of an outlook toward life which makes the political doctrines acceptable . And it means one more thing which has often been forgotten , namely , the teaching of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others does not preclude determination in the defense of one 's own principles . Let us remember again that democracy , and with democracy peace , will be extinct if the believers in democratic government will allow their desire for peace to develop into nonresistance toward intolerance , their readiness for self-criticism into a lack of selfreliance , and their recognition of the rights of their opponents into a lack of moral courage to fight those who deny the principles of freedom .                     