@@469571

Nor long ago I attended a conven- tion of several thousand women who had gathered together to hear from the lips of those who spoke with authority about the change which has taken place the world over in the status of women during the last precarious years . The challenge of the clay was issued by two Americans . One , a successful lawyer and a figure in feminist activities , told of the plight of our wageearning women . She predicted that if heed were not taken , by some compulsion or another , they would be faced with the tepid alternatives of eking out a dwindling existence or of having to return to the home , notwithstanding that the only homes they might have were those they were able to earn for themselves . The other , a journalist of international distinction , used as her premise the statement that during the past fifteen years the women in our western world had lost more than they had gained ; that indeed , instead of having progressed , they had retrogressed legally , politically , and economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what had happened abroad , placing a special emphasis on conditions in Germany , and concluded with " to-day the feminist movement is as dead as last week 's newspaper . " Not infrequently of late I have heard similar statements among those who are aware of what is going on in the world . In this convention they bore a deeper significance as they were made to so large an audience , most of the members of which are active in one or more of those national and international organizations composed of millions of women in whom is vested the bulk of power in the feminist movement . It was a message they needed to hear , since it looks very much as if they had fallen down on their job of being their sisters ' keepers . This is not to say that they have been wholly without zeal , or that they have not made valuable contributions to the cause . Nor does it imply that they are responsible for all of the ills which have overtaken women during the depression . In any such widespread economic collapse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But it need not follow , as it has , that they should be made to suffer in undue proportion by being deprived of their hard-won rights as human beings , discriminated against in matters of work and pay , and denied access to the same avenues of recovery as men . And herein lies the culpability of the women 's organizations . Had they been awake to the real issues at stake in the woman movement or , being awake , if they could have come to some agreement on principles and procedure ; had their leadership been such as to inspire their followers to concerted action , they could have built a stronghold so impregnable that the prevailing injustices of to-day would have been as spray dashing against a rock . Instead of this , with slight exception , they lost sight of their basic need and , unable to agree on processes , they worked at fruitless and often destructive crosspurposes . Their leaders , for the most part , have been uninspiring and lacking in vision . The women whose guardian angels they should have been , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a valid estimate of the present and to predict what the future of women may be it is necessary to go back fifteen years and retrace their line of march , checking up on their gains , marking their losses , and noting the reasons for them . In doing this I shall chiefly concern myself with the American scene , mentioning only those situations abroad which give accent to conditions at home and serve as an example or a warning . In 1920 it looked as if the first paragraph of a happy ending to the century-Iong struggle for equal suffrage had been written . In all of the English-speaking countries , and in all of Western Europe except France , Italy , and Spain , women had been granted the franchise . This did not signify that they had gained absolute equality with men . In several countries , including the United States , there were still in effect numerous laws discriminating against them in relation to property and inheritance rights , to the guardianship of children , to compensation insurance and the collection of accident indemnity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , that through the persuasion of their concentrated vote they could prevail upon their legislators to remove these discriminations from the statutes , thereby establishing equality with men within the law . But as we look at the feminist map to-day we find that of all the countries in which women have been given the vote the only ones where they enjoy the same civil , legal , and economic rightsas men are Norway , Sweden , Denmark , the Netherlands , and Czechoslovakia . All professions and occupations except underground work in mines are open to them there . They may attend the universities on the same basis as men . Wives may hold and administer property independent of their husbands . They have equal guardianship rights over their children . They occupy key positions in the public service . They receive equal pay for equal work . They sit in parliament where they serve on important committees and have a real voice in government . Especially is this true in Norway where they have maintained a fine balance in government and have worked with the men for much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced groups throughout the world ? such laws as those permitting and regulating birth control , forbidding child labor , providing for sbcial insurance , declaring the equal responsibility of both parents of children born out of wedlock and establishing the legitimacy of these children . The most notable point about their progress is that during the last four years they have lost none of their intrinsic gains . When they have suffered through unemployment it has been as men have suffered , no more , and perhaps a little less because of the provisions made for old age and for widowed mothers . At an international conference of women a year or so ago I met the Scandinavian delegates . From them I learned of a concept of feminism that had not developed on the lines of a sex-war , but on the ideal of mutual cooperation between men and women . The delegate from Norway , replying to my questions , said , " We wanted the vote , of course ? but only as a step to something much bigger . We wanted security for the entire population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much legislation . Because of the reactionaries the forward-looking men had to have our help . Before we could help them we had to be established on a solid basis ourselves . We knew that if we were to be constantly occupied with trying to remove a discrepancy in the law here and another there we should have no time for other things . So we educated our women and we stood together in a concentrated voting mass and asked for a complete sex-disqualification removal act . And we got it . So now we work not as women but as citizens . Our people are generally progressive , and we are not indifferent to the problems of the various groups , for we realize that a nation is no stronger than its weakest spot . " II In all other Occidental nations the women have taken their losses in varying degrees , German womanhood being the greatest losers . That this is so is all the more startling since for twelve years before the rise of Hitler the German women were the marvel of the feminist estate . Prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they . The surface of their activities outside of the home was so thinly spread as to be negligible . But among them there were an advanced number who worked under cover in the councils of the revolutionary party . Immediately following the revolution they stepped to the front and took a definite part in drafting the constitution of Weimar . It was largely through their influence that complete and unrestricted equality was given women in the following articles : " All Germans are equal before the law . " . . . " Men and women have fundamentally the same civil rights and duties . " . . . " All citizens without distinction are eligible for public office in accordance with the laws and according to ability and service . " . . . " All discriminations against women in the civil service are abolished . " And to safeguard the Reichstag 's power to pass welfare enactments an enabling clause covering the protection of motherhood , the care of the child , and the regulation of labor was included . From the first election after the Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Reichstag . In 1919 there were forty-five . They came from all walks of life and from all parties , teachers , lawyers , working women , doctors of medicine , of science , of philosophy , of letters and of political economy . Personalities in their own right , they had conviction and courage and keen , incisive intellects . So high was the esteem in which they were held by their colleagues that they were appointed to such important commissions as those of Foreign Affairs and of International Treaties of Commerce on which they were deferred to as authorities . On the floor of the Reichstag they constituted what was virtually a woman 's bloc . While they belonged to various parties , as a group they had their own private clique to which they were bound by ironclad principles . They were disgusted with militarism . They felt deeply the disrespect into which Germany had fallen . They were determined to have peace , to regain their high place in the respect of the world , and to work for better economic and health measures both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , was that in all measures touching upon this three-point program they were to stand together irrespective of party . Before every session they held a caucus , going over prospective legislation , discussing it , and deciding which way their unified vote should be cast . Any member who betrayed her trust became automatically an outcast . This , I understand , occurred but once when the member in question was given ! the silence treatment throughout the remainder of the session . When she came up for re-election the whole committee took to the platform against her , with the result that she met an overwhelming defeat . To-day the women of Germany are completely without power . All they have left is the vote , which under a dictator means nothing . There is not a woman in the Reichstag . Only a few , who were found indispensable , occupy public positions . They are being dropped from the schools , from hospital staffs , from all forms of employment . Whereas in 1925 eleven and a half million women were employed in gainful work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was the promise that it was to be reduced to three million . Women and girls turned out of industry and the professions are in concentration camps , where they are being trained as domestics or farm hands , or to perform the minor duties of auxiliary war-work . Thousands of girls are being sent into homes to act as servants without pay . In 1926 I met in Berlin some of the women who were then members of the Reichstag . At their invitation I had occasion to watch them in action on the floor , where it was to be seen that they were dominant figures . When I was abroad last year I renewed my friendship with one who was considered outstanding for her brilliancy of mind and purpose . Of an old Hanoverian family which for generations had held a high place in the cultural life of Germany , she was a self-exile . " It seems incredible to me , " I said , " that you should have given up without a struggle . What happened to all of you women ? " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " some are in London or in Switzerland , some in concentration camps . The others went over . " I ventured to say that under the circumstances I supposed there was nothing they could do . " Quite the contrary , " she replied . " We could have done much . We did nothing ? except on the wrong side . At one time the women could have defeated Hitler . He had no funds with which to go on . Women financed him - - they raised an enormous sum of money for him . Even then we might have done something if we who were at the top had stood together to mobilize and marshal the woman vote . One by one we defected , and the whole structure was shattered to its foundation . Those of us who remained firm are exiles or prisoners . " She paused to give an emphatic nod . " Yes , " she went on , " the women of Germany betrayed themselves . " A word now about England . Legally speaking , when one considers the obstacles they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a marathon . They had to contend not only with the body of the Common Law , in which women are rated little higher than chattels , but with the stolid Anglo-Saxon tradition of male superiority . In their favor were several factors . They were adroit politicians ; they had well organized groups in the Labor Party ; and when thoroughly aroused they were good fighters . Since 1918 when , with the voting age set at thirty and over , they were granted the franchise , they have made deliberate and assured strides forward . Through a series of reform bills they have acquired the right to be elected to the House of Commons , to hold public office without regard to whether they are married or single , to enter all professions and types of business and industry , to serve on juries , to attend the universities and receive degrees therefrom . Married women may now secure divorce on the same grounds as men and they may hold and administer property on the same terms as spinsters . In 1928 the franchise was extended to all women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have broadened their acreages in many fertile areas . They have been successful in the trades and professions . They have been admitted in good number to the civil service . They occupy public positions , such as magistrates , judges , teachers , and they have served on the County Councils where they have given fair account of themselves . They sit in Parliament , although here they have not accomplished a great deal , as there have never been more than six at one time , and only one or two of these have been articulate and effective . In spite of this advance they are at the present moment threatened with disaster . In mercantile and manufacturing establishments women have been let out of their jobs to make place for men . Boards of Education have closed their doors to them as teachers . When they took their cases to the courts the judges decided against them . In industries engaged in fabricating materials for the government women have been refused work . Only the civil service has thus far remained undisturbed . But now there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million married women who constitute one-sixth of the wage-earning women of Great Britain and who are engaged in all branches of employ . ment , including government and civil service . And a powerful industrialist with an immense political influence has declared that if all women were to be put in their place ? that is in the home ? there would be no unemployment situation in England . This omen of is directly traceable to two defects in the feminist organization : the cleavage at the top and the indifference of the rank and file . This rift began immediately after their enfranchisement in 1918 . On one side were the militmts who wanted absolute equality and nothing else . On the other were the reactionaries who wished special legislation for women and feared that if equality were to be realized their aims would be frustrated . The result of their deadlock was that they did nothing . Practically all of the worthwhile legislation for women enacted in England during the last fifteen years has been through the persuasion of the Labor Party . Their neglect to protest against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sex Disqualification Removal Act of 1923 which , while appearing to give women parity in government service , provided that in certain circumstances His Majesty the King could by order of council authorize regulations as to their admission to the civil service and conditions of appointment . . . was their greatest mistake , So far this clause has not been invoked . In the present situation it remains a menace . III Here in the United States the drive to defeat women is no longer a menace ; it is a condition in fact . To those who have had occasion , as I have had , to observe maneuvers at close range over a period of years , there is little of the unexpected in the present situation . It has been brought about by the same errors which precipitated the defeat of the German women and are now threatening those of England ? errors which have been only slightly mitigated by the virtues which have rendered the Scandinavian women triumphant . These flaws have been the cleavage in the women 's organizations , their acute inaction as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great body of wage-earning women , a dearth of inspiring and inspired leaders , too great a variety of self-interests , and the inability to stand together on matters of vital importance . The conflict dates back to pre-suffrage days . On the one side was the conservative element which felt that the franchise could better be obtained through State action . On the other were the militants who favored enfranchisement by constitutional amendment . They reasoned that because of the reactionary attitude toward women in those States where they most needed emancipation , it would take generations of waiting for dead men 's shoes to attain their purpose . After years of disheartening effort in legislatures only four Western States had admitted women to citizenship . Then under the able and animating leadership of such women as Anna Howard Shaw , Alice Stone Blackwell , Carrie Chapman Catt , and Alice Paul they came to agreement on the nineteenth amendment which was passed and ratified in 1920 . No sooner was it written into the Constitution than a deeper and wider rift occurred . In every State there were laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the old English Common Law , the Napoleonic Code , or the medieval Spanish mores . While both sides were agreed that these disqualifications should be removed , they split on principles and procedure . On the one hand , we had the equalitarianswho stood for absolute equality untouched by what they termed advantages in the way of protective laws for women . And to remove all disqualifications from the State laws they advocated a " Blanket Amendment " which would with one stroke of the pen write their definition of equality into the Constitution . Opposing them were the " equalitarians in principle . " They maintained that women were at a natural disadvantage because of their biologi cal function and that , this being so , their interests , for the sake of the race , must be safeguarded by protective laws . They reasoned further that if such an amendment were to be passed it would deny the right of the States , and Congress as well , to make laws or appro-priations to enforce them which would regulate the condition of women in industry or provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played a lone hand . Supporting their opponents was an alliance of women 's organizations , with a combined membership of ten million and over , which maintained a Congressional Lobby in Washington and in the State capitals . In spite of their interests in common , they , too , were often a house divided . The welfare groups were interested only in welfare . The reformers were not at all concerned with the progress of women but entirely with the promotion of sumptuary legislation . The housewives were largely occupied with questions affecting their own prerogatives such as community property rights , maternity and infant measures . As a considerable group within all of the groups ? and I should say they preponderated ? were the " Joiners " who had a facility for getting their names on as many lists as possible and then sitting back and doing nothing whatsoever . Entirely outside of the alliance were the unorganized factions . They included the women of wealth and leisure , the comfortably placed middle class who had never taken part in the suffrage campaign , were indifferent or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the home who had reached the higher brackets of business and the professions . Safely entrenched in their positions , they were concerned only with their own affairs , or they were complacent and inert . Many of those included in this paragraph would not even take the trouble to go to the polls . Many joined the regular political parties , voting as their men directed . A few , proving amenable , were elected or appointed to subordinate office , as a sop to the woman vote , where they obeyed the mandates of the bosses whether for better or for worse . Ground between these forces were the eleven million and more women in the middle and lower brackets who must work in order to survive . Inarticulate , or too preoccupied to look after their own well-being , they relied upon the organizations to do this for them . Out of this melee of maladjustment much good might have accrued if we had had enough compelling leaders to effect a compromise ? leaders like those doughty old generals of the suffrage campaign ? who could have come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all legal and economic discriminations from the statutes , would have included a clause enabling Congress and the States to enact such necessary measures as mothers ' and widows ' pensions , an eight-hour day and minimum wage for women in industries . But most of the old leaders were gone . Those who remained were tired or disappointed and had turned their attention to other things . A few of those who have taken their places are able and inspiring , especially those with labor affiliations . They are drawn largely from the leisured who have no conception of what it means for women to compete with men in a man 's world . As a consequence , after fifteen years ' growth the family tree is far from robust ? a meager efflorescence at the top , roots too feeble to draw sustenance from the soil , and a trunk suffering from malnutrition . Starting from the top , we find a few who have attained political distinction . There are Miss Frances Perkins , Secretary of Labor ; Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen , passage of the Child Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in State ratification . One group had a hand in the Eighteenth Amendment , another entirely different alignment helped to bring about its repeal . In the States they have been instrumental in removing from the books injustices relating to community property and the guardianship of children . But what is noticeable is that they have so far made no progress in sections where these laws were most discriminative . And save for a scattering , here and there , in the way of eight-hour and minimum-wage laws and the prohibition of night-work for women , some of which are now proving abortive , they have done practically nothing for the great mass of women at the bottom and in the middle , who have never been so badly off as they are to-day . Iv Ever since 1929 it has become an increasing practice with employers when economizing on labor to begin with the women workers , retaining only those whose places can not be taken by men . Throughout the country , in State after State , married women , without regard to their responsibilities , have been discharged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have been stricken from the rolls of teachers in schools and colleges . They have been removed from the staffs in hospitals . And their cue for this came from the government service in Washington where the " marital status clause , " known as Article 213 in the Economy Act of 1932 , has been taken advantage of by officials who interpreted it according to their own prejudices . This article provides that when reducing personnel in any branch of the service , married persons , living with husband or wife also employed by the government , must be the first to he dismissed . When the Economy Act was submitted to Congress it was seen that the clause could easily be made subversive to women 's interests . A number of fair-minded senators rallied to the support of the married couples who would be affected by it . The House , which was already New Deal , passed it . To save the Act in its entirety , the Senate , after a valiant fight to eliminate 213 , finally voted the whole bill . When signing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should be repealed . The Civil Service Commission did likewise , declaring that it was an attack on the merit system and suggesting that the same amount of money could he saved by granting pay-less furloughs of a month to all employees . It was hoped that President Roosevelt on creating the Economy Act of March 1933 would delete Article 213 . The Act , as submitted , bore no mention of it , and as many of the specific provisions of the former enactment were specifically retained , the question arose as to whether or not it would die a natural death at the end of the fiscal year . A group of women who would suffer if it remained a law called upon Mrs. Roosevelt , who referred them to the Secretary of Labor . She , in turn , sent them to the Budget Director , who said the decision was up to the President . The President said the decision was up to the Attorney General who ruled that the " marital status clause " was permanent legislation . The first to put it into action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all of whom had high efficiency records over an average of fifteen years and all of whom had dependents . In addition to their jobs they lost the right to reappointment and to the pension toward which they had been contributing . During the past two years the Civil and other Federal Services have discharged thousands of married women . On the surface there might be some reason in this if those discharged were in the higher brackets or if the reason were purely economic . But it did not apply to executives nor , curiously enough , to the wives of congressmen who are acting as their husbands ' secretaries on a government wage of $5000 a year . According to a recent survey made by the Women 's Bureau of the Department of Labor , nine out of ten of those discharged were in real need of their jobs . Either their husbands ' earnings were not equal to maintaining a home on a " health-and-decency basis " or they were taking care of their parents and other dependent relatives . In one department where many wives had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $720 a year or less and that of the wives $600 . Mortgages on homes have been foreclosed and the life savings which have gone into them have been lost . Insurance policies have lapsed . Standards of living have been lowered beyond actual health requirements . The wives and children of enlisted men in the Army or Navy are on relief . In some cases where the husband was earning less than his wife , the husband gave up his job . An example of this was a married woman in the Bureau of Engraving and Printing whose wage is seventy dollars a month . She has six dependents ? a mother and a sister with four young children . Her husband , who had worked in the Navy Yard for fifteen years , was receiving only $48 a month . He resigned in order to save his wife 's place . Recently when fifteen hundred men were to be taken on he applied for reinstatement . He was told that he could not be taken back unless his wife resigned or he secured a divorce . Several couples are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divorced and are going on together as ? if nothing had happened . One woman who was obliged to resign for her husband 's sake was let out three months before she was fifty-five , at which time she would have been entitled to retire on a pension . Another who had been in the Government Printing Office for seventeen years and who received a salary of $1800 a year had no alternative but resignation , as her husband 's enlistment in the Navy had two years to run . She had the highest efficiency rating in her group and in a year would have been credited with a deferred annuity . They have three children . Her husband draws $55 a month . The places of many of those who were let out have been filled by inexperienced and inefficient followers of political henchmen , sometimes two or three members of the same family , and not infrequently they are the sans and daughters of men of means and property . It would appear that clauses have become women 's chief source of tribulation . When the National Recovery Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a single wage standard for all workers , but again a clause emerged , stating that " when females do substantially the same work as males they shall receive the same pay . " Realizing that this was a subtle evasion , a group from the women 's organizations took the issue to General Johnson . He had nothing to say . They wrote to the White House asking to be heard , The request was denied . The Act was signed . To-day there are seventy-one codes ? some of them for industries entirely dependent upon women for patronage ? which set a lower wage for women than for men employed in the same kind of work . These differences run from five cents to twenty-five cents an hour in a fortyhour week . In 1933 , when the C.C.C . was set up for the young men who were roaming 1 the country in search of work , nothing was done to alleviate the condition of the hundred and forty-odd thousand homeless girls who were wandering from city to city . Mary Anderson , Chief of the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done for them and for the four million unemployed women . After eight months ' delay a conference was held at the White House where Mr. Harry Hopkins , Federal Relief Administrator , acknowledged the government 's recalcitrance . " Women , " he said , " have had less attention than any other employed group . . .. The government now has the money and the determination to care for them . It has the power to give , but it has not done what it should and it feels pretty humble about it . " Representative Edith Rogers of Massachusetts then advanced the plea that since no P.W.A. had been set up for women and the C.W.A. gave them but scant opportunity for work , twenty per cent of the money allotted to the States for relief work should be set aside for women . Mr. Hopkins appeared to approve . That is as far as it went . Although relief measures have been set going there has as yet been no adequate program of relief work for them . In parts of the country they have been entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects only 142,000 are women . Where they have been thus employed their wages have been three dollars a day in contrast to the five dollars a day paid to men . Women with dependents and widows with families are receiving thirty cents an hour while unmarried boys are getting fifty cents an hour . A new danger signal looms . I have just talked with one of a group of women who called upon a congressman a few days ago to speak about the repeal of Article 213 in the Economy Act . When they went into his office a man was leaving . " Did you notice that man ? " he asked them . " It is a coincidence that you should be coming in just now . He has been talking to me for an hour , trying to persuade me that women are to blame for the depression . He is one of an influential lobby which is starting a movement to repeal the Nineteenth Amendment . He did not get very far with me . And I do n't think there is much chance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Still you can not tell in times like these . A few flakes of snow have been known to start an avalanche . " V Bleak as the picture may appear , there is yet light on the horizon . And it is , I think , going too far to declare that the feminist movement is dead or that to-day the condition of women in the whole Western world is no better than it was fifteen years ago . We have been asleep . We have lost a good deal of what we had gained . And the wageearning woman has come to a point where she is eking out a dwindling existence . But in some directions new strides have been taken and they have held some ground . Where we have done this it was because the women in power were aroused to concerted and effective protest . This leads one to believe that if , as a whole , women will face reality they may yet achieve their ideal of emancipation and progress . Since 1920 the franchise has been extended to the women of Spain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Argentine , and in Peru they may vote in municipal elections . Last year , through the efforts of the Inter-Allied Commission of Women , twenty-two countries , including our own , signed the Equal Rights Nationality Treaty and it is now on the agenda of the League of Nations . In every part of the world , with the exception of the Fascist countries , wider avenues of preferred occupations are opening up . In France , where there has been a cleavage between the two groups of women seeking enfranchisement , it has now been healed and , working together in harmony , they have received the promise that the Senate , which has always stood out against them , will come into line with the Chamber of Deputies which has on several occasions registered a majority vote in favor of suffrage . In England the two opposing groups of feminists have for the moment forgotten their differences , and the conservatives and progressives are working together to overcome the defects in the Sex Disqualification Removal Act . Here at home the cleavage is still extant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have awakened to the need of the hour and are co-operating with the labor groups to bring about the nullification of Article 213 by a Civil Service bill which reads , " And no person shall be discriminated against in any case because of his or her marital status in examination , appointment , reappointment , reinstatement , reemployment , promotion , transfer , retransfer , demotion , removal , or retirement . All Acts or parts of Acts inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed . " In a number of cities and States new organizations are being formed to take care of group interests and they have recorded some victories . An instance of what may be done when women stand together under able leadership occurred in a recent election in Los Angeles . An official in high office up for reelection had proposed that all married women teachers should be dropped from the schools . An unmarried teacher , taking the lead , mobilized ten thousand teachers in a fighting unit against him . Dividing their number into districts , they went from house to house , ringing door-bells , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who promised to vote for the other candidate . The official whom they were opposing had heretofore polled a large majority . Now he was defeated for the first time in his political career , the margin against him corresponding , district by district , to the aggregate votes of the teachers and their converts . What one can do so may another . Considering the trend of events , it is time for the women everywhere to get together wi thin their organizations and come to some agreement on a federal act which will render unconstitutional any attempt to place them in the underprivileged class . Had we possessed any such guaranty of security as the Sex Disqualification Removal Acts in effect in the Scandinavian countries , our women wage-earners could not have been so ruthlessly discriminated against as they have been in the present emergency . They could not have been penalized because of marriage . They would have had in all forms of government service the same pay as men . All relief measures would have had to apply to them in the same proportion as to men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their activities the necessity for constant nagging bits of legislation which now deter them from directing their energies toward the many problems to be solved if to-day 's confusion is not to resolve into utter darkness . The field for to-morrow is rich and inexhaustible . It can be tapped only by the co-operation of men and women with vision and stamina . Are the women of America going to realize the destiny marked out for them when they began their long march of emancipation ? Or are they , like the women of Germany , to stand accused of having betrayed themselves ?                     