@@487869

THE SENATE VOTE ON THE NEUTRALITY BILL seems likely to have been taken by the time this issue of The Nation appears unless the diehards stage a last-minute filibuster . Amendments are probable , with " cash " more rigidly defined so as to prevent even normal ninety-day terms , but with the " carry " section eased so as to permit American shipping to continue trade with belligerent ports outside the danger zones . On the main issue of raising the embargo all observers forecast a comfortable majority for the Administration . Some disquiet , hoWever , is being expressed about the situation in the House , where opposition to repeal is said to be increasing . Yet if the Gallup polls are to be relied on , isolationist propaganda has made little headway in persuading the people that to supply the Allies with munitions is tantamount to putting America into the war . Nor has the support lent by Senators Borah and Nye to the new Communist line that the war is a contest between rival imperialisms had any significant results . Eighty-four per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the end this weight of opinion should prove decisive . It must be remembered , however , that Congressmen , with their smaller constituencies , are more susceptible to local pressure groups than Senators . Thus a good many of the Irish Catholic Democrats from the Northeastern states who normally stand by the Administration may bolt on this issue , believing that England 's danger is still Ireland 's opportunity . On the other hand , the capture of the American freighter City of Flint by a German cruiser and its internment in the Russian port of Murmansk , whatever their legal significance , will certainly tend to speed action on the bill . If the cash-and-carry provision had been in effect , the incident could not have happened , and this , fact alone should serve to put a damper on the fires of oratory and reduce opposition in both houses . THE INDICTMENT OF EARL BROWDER ON A charge of passport falsification has been denounced by the Communist Party as " an attempt through legal pretexts to silence the , Communist Party preparatory to destroying the democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accusation rests upon a technicality rather than on the confessed offense , which is no longer indictable under the statute of limitations , and the inordinately high bail lend color , for all its hyperbole , to the Communist cry of persecution . But democratic rights do not include the privilege of breaking inconvenient laws , and since Mr. Browder has admitted using a false passport , we do not see how the Department of Justice could avoid seeking an indictment . If revolutionary parties must use conspiratorial methods , they must also , expect to face the consequences . Defenders of civil liberties should be on the alert for the slightest lapse from judicial fairness in the conduct of the Browder trial . Even more important , they must fight against any attempt to make the case a jumping-off point for a general onslaught on ' the civil rights of political minorities , however unpopular . JOHN L. LEWIS 'S RECENT DECLARATION pact ; and it is part of the heavy price that Communist movements everywhere are paying for that agreement . Although some groups in the C. I. 0 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Lewis had repeatedly declined to initiate a purge . He was apparently convinced that its danger outweighed its compensations . There were persistent and authentic reports of friction between Lewis and Sidney Hillman on this score . The basic issue , of course , was one of expediency : would the C. I. 0 . ultimately profit or suffer from an anti-Communist house-cleaning ? ' Whatever may have been true before , the answer was clear after August 25 . The plain fact was that the Communists had become a serious political liability and their presence in leading posts a powerful weapon for the C. I. 0 . ' s enemies . This fact did not , of course , simplify the problems connected with even a moderate purge . In the first place purges are rarely moderate . And certainly no worker should be barred from membership in a union because of his political affiliations . Nor can the C. I. 0 . afford to let its voice blend with the anti-red --  -- -and essentially anti-liberal chorus now audible throughout the country . Lewis 's moves , thus far indicate his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red-hunt in the ranks but has directed his fire at Communist leadership . " ABOVE ALL , THE LESSON THAT 1938 SHOULD teach the public ... is that unionization of the automobile industry is here to stay . . . . Whether we agree or not , the conclusion is inescapable that auto workers believe the union has helped them . " These sentences appear in the October 16 issue of Barron 's , the national financial weekly ; and they provide indispensable background reading in the present struggle between the Chrysler Corporation and the C. I. 0 . United Automobile Workers ' union . The corporation insists that it is fighting " sovietization " of industry ; the Detroit newspapers faithfully echo its cry , and letters from anonymous " union members ' wives " are freely exhibited , reciting the beneficence of the corporation and warning that most unions are Soviet unions . What is really at stake is not quite so grandiose an issue . The chief points of dispute are the union shop , a voice for the men in the fixing of productions standards , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made toward settlement , strong pressures in the union 's favor are operating behind the scenes . First is the inescapable strength of the union itself ; it has experienced a dramatic resurgence after the long interval of factionalism . Secondly , there is the pressure of the dealers , who have already appealed for federal intervention . Finally , a protracted war now would mean serious losses to the corporation . All of these forces may contribute to the early conversion of the Chrysler officials . * THE FIRST YEAR OF THE WAGE-HOUR ACT was completed on October 24 , and the standards it sought to establish were automatically changed to 30 cents an hour and forty-two hours a week . The immediate effect of the act when it first came into force was to raise wages for some 300,000 workers and shorten hours for about 1,400,000 . Under the new schedules pay envelopes will be increased for upward of 600,000 , and a still larger number will be favorably affected by the hours provision . There are signs in the press of a renewed agitation against the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in vehemence if the present business activity is checked . Since the act has become operative forty-seven criminal prosecutions have been instituted and forty-three suits for injunction . Only two of these cases have been lost in the courts . In spite of this record there have been complaints in labor circles about the alleged failure of the former administrator of the act , Elmer F. Andrews , to crack down on violators and speed up the formation of industry committees intended to fix higher minimums in certain fields . Mr. Andrews 's resignation , however , is believed to have been due to personal- reasons , and there seems no justification for reports , circulated by anti-New Deal journalists , that he was the victim of a " vendetta . " There are better grounds for criticism in , the appointThe NATION meet of Colonel Philip Fleming as his successor , or rather , since under the law an army officer can not fill such a post , as assistant to a non-existent acting administrator . We have nothing against Colonel Fleming , who has a good ? reputation as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafting military men to civilian positions requiring a broad social background " has increased , is increasing , and ought to be diminished . " * AMBASSADOR JOSEPH GREW 'S FORTHRIGHT speech to the America-Japan Society at Tokyo was a well-timed blow at the persistent sunshine , propaganda with which the Japanese government has sought to cover up hostile reactions in this country to the course and conduct of the war in China . His representative audience was clearly startled by his declarations that the " American people have been profoundly shocked by the widespread use of bombing in China " and that they regarded " with growing seriousness the violation of and interference with American rights by Japanese armed forces in disregard of treaties and agreements . " After this it will be difficult for the Tokyo authorities to maintain that the United States , in contrast with Britain , views Japanese activities in China with benevolence , and any new " incidents " arising from " misunderstandings " will take on a different perspective . Reports from Japan suggest a favorable reaction to the speech in civilian circles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's warning represents another blow at their prestige , already undermined by the collapse of the anti-Comintern pact and the stalemate reached in China . It should also help to promote a realistic approach to possible negotiations for a new commercial agreement when our denunciation of the old one takes effect at the end of the year . * THE GERMAN EXODUS FROM THE BALTIC ON orders from Berlin provides one of the strangest mysteries of the war . Germans are not , a large minority in Estonia , Latvia , and Lithuania , but they have been settled there for centuries and form a considerable section of the commercial and professional classes in these countries . Now they are being , evacuated almost overnight . They are allowed to take only a few dollars apiece , and all their property is being handed over to a German government commission for liquidation . Why has the German government ordered this hurried retreat ? Is it , as one report indicates , because of the insistence of Russia , which wants to eliminate any future German claims on its new proteges ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repatriating Germans from all over Eastern Europe  --  a gathering of the Teutonic tribes into one solid block . There may be political or sentimental reasons for such an undertaking , but economic October 28 , 1939 importunities may also be a powerful factor . The little Baltic states all have export surpluses of butter , meat , flax , and timber , for which Britain has hitherto been the best customer . Germany would like such supplies as a help in withstanding the blockade , but it is already in debt to these countries and has neither gold nor goods to spare for additional purchases . However , by taking charge of the property of the people it is evacuating , it in effect mobilizes investments which , as they are liquidated , can be turned into the Baltic currencies and used for financing imports of foodstuffs and raw materials . Obviously this same operation could be repeated by recalling the much larger colonies in the Danubian lands . The German landowners and merchants of Hungary , Rumania , and Yugoslavia , however , are still a little removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cousins to jump into the Nazi frying-pan . OFFICIALS OF THE INTERGOVERNMENTAL Committee on Political Refugees who attended the White House luncheon in their honor must have come away from the table a bit shell-shocked . For several years they have found it a herculean task to keep their rescue efforts trailing at a pitiable distance behind the fascist juggernaut . And now-President Roosevelt describes their project  --  not their accomplishments to date but their whole plan  --  as a " short-range program " presenting " a problem of comparatively small magnitude . " What the President envisions as the real business of the committee is the preparation of plans to resettle " ten million or twenty million men , women , and children " in sections of the " African , American , and Australasian portions of the globe " when the war is over . This gargantuan program , tossed off almost casually , is said to have caused some annoyance in British and French diplomatic circles , and it certainly calls for clarification . Is the President resigned to a fascist victory in Europe ? Probably not ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expect migrations on so gigantic a scale ? It is this point which is reported to be the subject of informal representations by the British and French , who in the midst of war against the Nazi ideology can hardly be asked to accept the necessity of population shifts for " racial " reasons . GOVERNOR OLSON HAS SERVED THE CAUSE of justice once more by setting Warren K. Billings free , Billings was as innocent as Mooney of the 1916 Preparedness Day bombing in San Francisco . The two cases involved different procedures because Billings had been convicted once before  --  of transporting dynamite in a San Francisco transit strike . Under California law the Governor may not pardon a man twice convicted of a felony without the recommendation of the State Supreme 455 Court . The case of Billings came before that court in 1930 , and permission for a pardon was refused , butboth the decision and Justice Langdon 's scorching dissent strengthened the conviction that Billings was innocent . The Governor has now commuted his sentence to time served , and done so with the approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the present members of the court . In the case of Billings as of Mooney the verdict of the people at the ballot box has proved a better safeguard of justice than the courts . Both men owe their freedom to the election of California 's first liberal Governor since Hiram Johnson . WHEN CONGRESS PASSED THE EMERGENCY relief appropriation act  --  the Woodrum bill  --  last June , it ' inserted provisions designed to prevent the coercing of persons on WPA by local machine politicians . These provisions , in Section 28 of the act , were the result of the revelation that in Kentucky and Tennessee , as in some other parts of the country , the WPA had been used ' as a vote-getting apparatus . Section 28 has yet to be in- , yoked against political corruptionists , but in Minneapolis it is being turned into a weapon against the freedom of WPA. workers to organize , strike , and picket . In Minneapolis , as elsewhere , WPA workers struck last July against the relief cuts instituted by the act . But only in Minneapolis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repressive measure . So far as we know , Washington had no hand in the matter . More than 140 WPA workers were indicted , and seven have already been convicted , on the ground that their picketing and strike activities constituted " coercion " within the meaning of Section 28 . Bail was set as high as $10,000 in many instances , and those convicted are liable to sentences of two years in jail and fines up to $2,000 . The C. I. O. and the A. F. of L. have joined hands in defense of the workers being tried . Dangerous precedents may be established by their prosecution . " MEIN KAMPF " AND " DAS KAPITAL " BY TWO-well-known German authors are on the reading list prepared for the British fighting forces at the request of the British War Office . No odds are offered which book will win the war . . . . On the basis of his reports on " Herr Hitler " and his attendants , Sir Nevile Henderson might well hang out his shingle as a psychoanalyst ; and is n't the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interneship in a psychiatric ward ? . . . Captain William Sallsten has just left New York in. a twenty-five-foot catamaran for a. trip around the world . The more we think about this world the ' more sure we are that Captain Sallsten has the right idea ; the only thing to do is to take a detour around it .                     