@@141240

SANFELICE-Vincent Sheean-Doubleday , Doran ( $2.50 ) . <P> In Personal History Vincent Sheean wrote the autobiography of a 30-year-old newspaperman who had seen and participated in some of the most momentous events of the post-War period : the pacification of the Riff in Africa , the Chinese Revolution of 1927 , the German Inflation , the Allied occupation of the Rhine . The book revealed a sensitive and searching intelligence that honestly faced the dominant political issues before the modern world , contained careful expositions of Communism and Revolution , gave a general impression of intelligent inconclusiveness , of dismay before the towering threats to contemporary society . Last week Vincent Sheean followed his best-selling ( 100,000 copies ) autobiography with a volume which , while it seemed less likely to enjoy popular favor , was even more clearly in the nature of a call to readers to consider seriously the future , to appreciate fully the consequences of social irresponsibility , inertia and misjudgment . <P> A long ( 449 pages ) , rambling , historical novel , Sanfelice strikes a contemporary note in its exhaustive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolution of 1799 and overthrown a few months later . Central figure of the novel is Luisa Sanfelice , 34-year-old daughter of impoverished nobles , unloved and unloving wife of a dissolute , treacherous aristocrat who has run through two fortunes , abandoned his children , left his wife in a state of dull , stupefied despair . At a ball given for Admiral Nelson on his return from the Battle of the Nile , Luisa meets Fernando Ferri , an ill-favored , impetuous , garrulous lawyer 's clerk , secretly a radical who lacks the courage to state his views or the resourcefulness to try to achieve them . Luisa recognizes Fernando 's weaknesses , loves him as the one individual who has broken the monotonous pattern of her life . <P> In 1798 Naples was ruled by Maria Carolina , daughter of Maria Theresa of Austria , sister of Marie Antoinette who had died on the guillotine only five years before . Carolina 's husband , King Ferdinand , was a lazy , ineffectual , long-nosed barbarian whose concept of statesmanship was simply to keep out of trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Carolina 's life was dominated by her hatred and fear of the French Republic , by her determination to lead Naples in a holy war against France . She was encouraged in this suicidal plan by the English , particularly by Lady Hamilton , wife of the English Ambassador , Nelson 's mistress , a huge , handsome , hearty woman who had been picked up in a London brothel only a few years before . It was commonly believed that Lady Hamilton 's influence over the Queen was the result of a perverse relationship . The court was one of the most corrupt in Europe . Yet revolutionists like Fernando did little more than repeat scandals about the nobles , fearing the wild , starving , superstitious Neapolitan mobs almost as much as did the aristocrats and the Queen .                     