@@486303

THE now famous decision of Judge William Clark , of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey , invalidating the Eighteenth Amendment adds twelve and one-half newspaper columns , or about seven running yards as such columns go , to the available material for the prohibition debate , although not , apparently , quite the kind of material that either the wets or the drys expected . Stripped of its masses of verbiage and irrelevance and its imposing citations of authorities all the way from John Marshall to Walter Lippmann , the decision holds that the amendment is invalid because it was not ratified by conventions in the several States . In Judge Clark 's view , if a proposed constitutional amendment " is one designed to transfer to the United States powers heretofore reserved to the States , or , if there be any - such , to the people , " a proper interpretation of Article V , relating to amendments , in the light of the principles of political science requires that ratification should be given by a convention instead of by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Clark contends , lies in the fact that a convention is " a better vehicle for the expression of public opinion than a State legislature . " Moreover , the Supreme Court having held that Congress , when it submits a constitutional amendment , is not performing a legislative function , " it follows , " Judge Clark points out , " that the nature of its function is administrative . " That being the case , its action is subject to judicial review , and an application of the principles governing such review leads to the conclusion that the submission to the judgment of State legislatures of amendments transferring powers from the States to the United States would violate the spirit of Article V and hence " constitute an abuse of discretion on the part of Congress in its capacity as an administrative agent . " The decision , as was of course to be expected , has been promptly appealed by the government to the Supreme Court , so in due time we shall know what that tribunal thinks about it . That it will be affirmed seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple and apparently dear . The article provides that amendments , whether proposed by Congress or by a convention called for the purpose , " shall be valid , to all intents and purposes , as part of this Constitution , when ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States , or by conventions in three-fourths thereof , as the one or the other mode of ratification may be provided by Congress . " It may fairly be assumed , we think , that the States , when they ratified the federal Constitution in their conventions , waived any right they may have had to limit Congress either in the kind of amendment it should propose or in the method of ratification which it should prescribe . The Supreme Court , in the case of Hawks vs . Smith , an Ohio case in which the question of the method of ratifying amendments was at issue , was unanimous in holding that both methods of ratification " call for action by deliberative assemblies of the people , which it was assumed would voice the will of the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him the possible effect of his decision , if it should be sustained , upon the validity of other amendments than the Eighteenth , although he finds that aspect of the matter so attractive that he permits himself to discourse about it to the extent of a newspaper column . All the amendments except the Fifth may , he suggests , be passed over as not in danger . The " due process " clause of the Fifth Amendment , on the other hand , " might , " he thinks , be tested somewhat as follows . Since the Eighteenth Amendment " does not and could not , " in the absence of direct declaration , abrogate the " due process " which the Fifth Amendment guarantees , " any action thereunder must be regarded in the light of what is reasonable . The more advanced school of constitutional thinkers consider this ' reasonableness ' from the point of view of the efficacy of the remedy prescribed for any particular evil " ; and since the Supreme Court has found vaccination and sterilization " efficacious in preventing the spread of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as violative of " due process , " the efficacy of the Eighteenth Amendment and its accompanying legislation in preventing the spread of intemperance might be used as a similar test . Judge Clark admits that the application of the test would be very difficult , but he nevertheless hopes that " some day , " in " some court , " it may be tried . All this , of course , like much else in the decision , is merely obiter dicta and unctuous preachment . As the decision does not affect the question of the propriety of prohibition , the enforcement of the system may be expected to go on as heretofore until the Supreme Court has had its say . Far-fetched as the decision seems to be , however , Judge Clark has performed a useful service in exposing the unsatisfactoriness of the amending process as Congress has uniformly applied it , and in challenging the notion that judicial decisions , once made , should be stuck to with something akin to awe . Whatever the liberty which the Constitution allows , it is evident that insistence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it possible to jam through amendments which would atmost certainly have been rejected if the people had had a chance at them . We should not have had the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments but for the approval given by rotten legislatures in a reconstructed South which a Republican Congress controlled , and it is quite possible that we should not have had the Eighteenth-Amendment if conventions had been asked to pass upon it . It may very well be , therefore , that Judge Clark 's pronouncement will hasten somewhat the calling of a national convention to revise the Constitution for which some thirty-five States , at one time or another , have asked . Be that as it may , the decision is a challenge to Congress to adopt in the future a method of ratification more in keeping with the nature of popular government than is the one which it has thus far employed , and an invitation to the Supreme Court to reconsider some of the positions which it has taken in interpreting and applying the Eighteenth Amendment . We may , in short , get something more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though the amendment which Judge Clark has read out of the Constitution continues to stand . Revolution in Spain SPAIN 'S revolution is long overdue . It could have come at the time of the French Revolution 140 years ago ; it could even have come as recently as ten years ago and still have had healthy consequences . Instead , it has been delayed these many years , principally because of the inertia of the Spanish people , whose normal attitude toward politics and government is one of amused indifference . Apparently it has lately been once more delayed , but even so the revolutionary house-cleaning which Spain desperately needs will have been only postponed . A century or more of military rule , abetted by the clergy and in the last decade supplemented by a playboy king 's sophomoric attempts at dictatorial government , has piled up for Spain a political heritage upon which it is probable neither parliamentary rule nor dictatorship can safely rest . It has brought into being at least two score factions and cliques , most of which are anxious to overthrow the monarchy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone or to establish any substitute form of government likely to be stable or lasting . Moreover , their constant quarreling among themselves has thus far made it impossible for a sufficient number of these groups to unite in a real revolutionary effort , while the intensity and complexity of their quarrels hold no happy omen for any revolutionary government , should one of their number succeed in that direction . The century of military government , but particularly the last seven years , has also left Spain with an acute financial problem in the shape of an enormous public debt , and with an economic problem arising from the overdevelopment of -a few favored industries at the expense of the general welfare of the country . This economic situation has lately resulted in a serious shortage of food , if not actual starvation , in many parts of Spain , and this in turn has been directly responsible for the marked increase in revolutionary agitation of the last few months . Should the monarchy be toppled over in the present crisis , anarchy might well be the result , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monarchy as it stands today would be but to keep alive the anachronistic and medieval system that has brought Spain to the pass in which it now finds itself . The Spanish monarchy has always been feeble , whether under the Hapsburgs , the House of Savoy , or the Bourbons , since the defeat of the Armada in 1588 and the decline of the once widespread empire . English and Dutch intervention saved it in the seventeenth century . The Bourbons , in the following century managed through despotic means to prevent it from going under . Early in the nineteenth century Spain and its rulers were ever and again at the mercy of Napoleonic France , and through the latter part of the century only military rule , supported by the Catholic church , whose clergy lulled the population into amenable docility , held up the throne in Spain , despite the abortive revolution of 1820 and the twenty-three months of republican government in 1873-74 . After the World War , however , the population , or a goodly part of it , threw off its habitual indifference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of which the government had been arbitrarily rotated between the Conservatives and Liberals . Therefollowed a period of makeshift governments , the Primo de Rivera dictatorship , the various attempts to overthrow the dictator ( one of which was with the secret connivance of King Alfonso , who himself had arranged the coup d'etat that brought Primo de Rivera into power ) , and , finally , the shelving of Primo de Rivera and the present futile experiment with Berenguer . It was during this last period ( when Alfonso substituted dictatorial for make-believe parliamentary rule as promising more effective protection for his throne ) that Spain 's difficulties passed from the chronic to the acute stage . Under the dictatorship a tremendous debt was permitted to accumulate , an unhealthy industrial development took place ( behind the highest tariff walls in Europe ) , the Catholic church strengthened itself by seizing control of secondary education , civil liberties were almost wholly abolished , and a feeling of distrust and political insecurity spread over the country . The resultant dissatisfaction undermined military morale and gave strength to the republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the expansion of syndicalist and Communist activities ; and the political chaos encouraged the separatists of Catalonia and the autonomists of the Basque provinces . Thus the monarch brought Spain to its present crisis in his effort to save the monarchy . Both of his dictators have failed , he can no longer count on the army , and the clergy has in effect withdrawn its support , fearful lest a political collapse might also result disastrously for the church . Only the many quarrels dividing the various factions seeking the king 's power have kept Alfonso on his throne . Nevertheless , any small accident may in the present circumstances unseat him . Then will probably come the long-delayed and much-needed revolution . Whether it leads first to a period of anarchy or temporarily to Socialist or Communist rule is of small moment as history goes . What is essential is that the revolution should rid Spain of the medieval system that has kept it among the so-called backward nations . A Life for a Life MORE than 350 homicides in New York City in 1930 resulted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of nullifying itself , not only in New York but all over the country . Grand juries refuse to indict for first-degree murder ; trial juries time after time will not convict for the same charge , with the electric chair as an outcome . Men who actually get as far as the death house at Sing Sing wait months and even years , living through appeal after appeal and reprieve after reprieve , as if the state itself were reluctant to insist on this particular application of the letter of the MoSaic law . , A select committee on capital punishment in Great Britain has just issued a report urging a suspension of hangings for a period of five years , to test the punishment of murderers by other means than legal murder . The committee also urges the House of Commoni to authorize commutation to life imprisonment of the sentences of all persons already sentenced to death and awaiting execution . The committee feels most strongly that such a step would not " endanger life or property or impair the social security of the country , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawing itself from the public gaze . The death bell is no longer tolled , the black flag is no longer raised . If we take away the scaffold as well , it is because we feel that it is not needed in this new day of social building . We can build better without it . This action recommended for Britain is but another indication that the proponents of capital punishment are finding themselves more and more on the defensive . In a recent issue of Current History appear two articles on the subject : the first , in favor of the death penalty , by Judge Marcus Kavanagh of Illinois ; the second , urging the abolition of capital punishment , by the warden of Sing Sing prison . Judge Kavanagh wishes to keep the death penalty because it prevents murder . To prove his point he adduces figures which seem superficially to show that when the death penalty has been revoked murders have increased and that in the States where it no longer exists the population is so agricultural and so scattered that nobody is disposed to commit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjacent to these , where capital punishment is still in effect , the homicide rate is smaller per unit of the population , although the character of the population is substantially the same . Warden Lawes , with the same country to examine and presumably the same figures to prove his point , demonstrates the exact opposite of Judge Kavanagh 's contentions . Answering the Judge point for point he shows that in the eight States which have definitely abolished the death penalty the homicide rate has not appreciably increased , that there has been no definite abatement of murder in the forty States that retain capital punishment , and that neither the imposition of the death sentence nor consequent executions have been followed by a marked falling off of the homicide rate . In Kansas there is no capital punishment ; in Missouri there is . Kansas City , Kansas , had a homicide rate in 1929 of 15.2 per 100,000 of population ; Kansas City , Missouri , just across the river , had a rate of 24.8 . The homicide rate in Montana , where the death penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjacent State of North Dakota , where it has been abolished , the rate was 1.7 . In 1929 Milwaukee , Wisconsin , with a population of over 500,000 , and no death penalty , had 17 murders ; Minneapolis , Minnesota , with no death penalty , and with a population of 455,000 , had in the same year 10 murders , Buffalo , New York , where capital punishment still exists , with a population of 500,000 , had 31 murders in 1929 . The answer to our shockingly high homicide rate , compared with almost any other country in the world , is to be found , not in the imposition of the death penalty , but in prompt and effective law enforcement without it . The theatrical atmosphere which now surrounds our trials for murder with death at the end of them precludes an unprejudiced consideration of the case and allows for innumerable delays and evasions . The murderer now knows that there is a good chance he may never see the inside of a courtroom ; if he does , there is a far better chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is justified in concluding , is one of the best rackets in America today . In Defense of Weather A S the year 1930 draws to its unlamented close , we feel strongly that something ought to be said in defense of its weather . The whole year through , it has been the subject of well-nigh universal reprobation . Either it was too - hot or too cold , too wet or too dry , too windy or too breathlessly still  --  always too something . In fact we can not recall having heard a good word for the weather since the stock market crashed fourteen long months ago . It seems to have no more friends than the Hoover Administration in the Senate . Now this , we hold , is thoroughly unjust . To begin with , the weather ca n't help it . Like a mongrel dog , which it is not like , the weather is what it is . What right-minded man will blame it for that ? And more than that , it has many amiable characteristics . It never answers back . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have never known it to say a word in reply . And we respect the weather , too , because , like a cat , it does what it pleases , and not what we please or what Secretary Mellon pleases . And because it never pleases to do the same thing twice , the weather , unlike many of our pet aversions , is interesting . Note the alternative . Southern California has no weather . The wretched inhabitants have had to invent climate to take its place . Hence , instead of denouncing the weather which they do not have , they are driven to a universal and unanimous praise of their climate , just as ill-mannered parents praise the virtues of their bad baby . Let no one complain of the weather until he has suffered from the virtues of climate . Then he will not want to complain . It-is all very well , the critics reply , to defend the weather in general ; their complaint is against the weather of 1930 in particular . But James H. Scarr , forecaster for New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Building where the public can not feed or annoy it , has just shown the hollowness of their complaints . Nineteen thirty broke more weather records , he points out , than any other year in history . Now we may be out of a job , and we may refuse to pass the international copyright law ; but every American bosom will swell with pride in recalling that 1930 gave us the hottest February 19 , 20 , 21 , 24 , and 25 on record , that April gave us four record cold days , that May broke the records for both cold and heat , and that August 23 eclipsed all previous performances with 2.73 inches of rain in thirty minutes  --  and so on from one peak of glory to another . Is all this nothing ? we ask . What more will any loyal American demand ? Just to be comfortable , say some mean-spirited citizens , in whose blood will doubtless be found an alien taint only half a dozen generations back . But the full truth crushes even them to earth . With all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good normal year . If you were too hot on January 8 and too cold on November 28 , on the average you were very comfortable , even if you did n't know it . But , demand the critics , do you simply defend an order that has made no progress since the days of Washington and Jefferson ? Have you no constructive suggestions ? We have ? a very simple one : Let those who do not like our weather go back each and every one where he came from . Then our weather will be perfectly satisfactory .                     