@@143536

The Dutch-owned island of Java has been a rich hunting ground for investigators of the human family tree . In 1890 Professor Eugene Dubois found the first fossil bones of the famed apeman , Pithecanthropus erectus . Another early type found in Java , Homo soloensis , shows affinities with the Neanderthalers of Europe and the Rhodesian men of Africa . The fragmentary skull of a child , christened Homo modjokertensis , appeared to be in extremely ancient ground , but its features were too undeveloped for exact anatomical comparison . Two years ago primitive tools were found in Java , including points , scrapers , cores , and hand-axes typical of Old Stone Age cultures elsewhere but never before found east of Madras in India . <P> If anthropologists had as clear a picture of human evolution as they have of horse evolution ( a neat series ascending from four-toed little eohippus ) , their lives would be less exciting but laymen would understand them better . Professor Dubois first ascribed Pithecanthroptis to the Pleistocene or Glacial Age , then shifted him to the preceding period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the human family by the skin of his primitive teeth , but Professor Dubois has changed his mind again , now pigeonholes the ancient creature as an ape related to the gibbons . Professor Dubois considers that all the original bones belonged to the same species ; other authorities disagree with him . <P> The equally famed old man of China , Sinanthropus or Pekin man , is definitely human but paradoxically more primitive in some features than Pithecanthropus . It is not certain that Sinanthropus is older than Pithecanthropus , although the workers in China think so . Both appear to have lived somewhere near the beginning of the Pleistocene . One figure given for their ages is 500,000 years ; another is 1,000,000 years . Two conclusions which emerge with reasonable probability from the welter of anthropological confusion are : 1 ) that early man flowered in a number of different genera and species which became extinct before Homo sapiens appeared , and 2 ) that the common ancestor was a giant , arboreal ape related to the well-known fossil ape genus called Dryopithecus . <P> In Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clarify the situation or obfuscate it further , and is certain to be argued about . Dr. Gustav Heinrich Ralph von Koenigsvald , research associate of the Carnegie Institution of Washington , had found on the banks of the Solo River in Java several teeth , a lower jaw and skull fragments of a humanoid creature which he took to be considerably older than Pithecanthropus , and therefore the oldest human or subhuman relic ever discovered . The lower jaw was " very heavy , with large teeth having resemblance in various characters to several of the most primitive human types . " The position of the ear and lower jaw socket were human , the absence of a well-developed mastoid process " very apelike . " The back of the skull was missing , as though smashed in by a blow .                     