@@488080

A T ATLANTIC CITY that picturesque old anachronism Bishop Manning did his best to convince the general conference of his church that it had nothing more important to do than to reaffirm the " fundamentally and definitely Catholic character " of its creed and to lament a prevalent tendency to doubt the virgin birth . The conference , however , was clearly more interested in births of another sort and it voted , forty-four to thirty-eight , for the acceptance of a resolution which indorses " the efforts now being made to secure for licensed physicians , hospitals , and medical clinics , freedom to convey such information as is in accord with the highest principles of eugenics and a more wholesome family life , wherein parenthood may be undertaken with due respect for the health of mothers and the welfare of children . " The action is of first importance , and ? the discussion appears to have been more lively than one would have expected in so solemn a body . Bishop Matthews of New Jersey trotted forth the usual vague platitudes about " the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected of the church ; Bishop Jenkins of Nevada arose to protest in the name of the boys and girls who needed " protection . " But Bishop Huston of Washington was real-istic : " We can not find out the necessity for such action by looking through stained-glass windows . We must go into the streets and into the homes of the poor . We have had a lot of twaddle from celibate clergymen . The under-privileged should have access to information which others can so readily obtain . " To its eternal credit the conference agreed . D ASSAGE BY THE MEXICAN SENATE of a bill requiring secular Socialist education in all the schools is the latest and most drastic step in the government 's campaign against the reactionary influence of the Catholic church in Mexican affairs . Previously several of the provinces had enacted legislation restricting the number of priests within their boundaries , and several members of the clergy had been expelled for undue political activity . A number of churches have also been converted into schools or otherwise used in the interest of the public . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mole fundamental attack than any which preceded it , and may well be the result of observation of the counter-offensive assumed by the church in Spain , where a parallel situation has existed since the overthrow of the monarchy . It may also be taken as indicative of a new turn to the left in Mexican political development , which may yet recapture some of the idealism of the early days of Calles . Enforcement of the new law by President-elect Cardenas depends primarily on pressure , or lack of it , from abroad . Public sentiment in Mexico itself appears to be definitely behind the government . A LTHOUGH CHINA is unlikeirtO carry out its threat to adopt a gold standard as a defense against the Administration 's silver-buying program , its I epeated protests to the State Department have at least served to expose the hypocrisy of those who maintained that raising the price of silver would increase the purchasing power a the East . The truth , of course , is directly the opposite . Under normal conditions India and China are among the largest consumers of silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . The buying power of a country is not determined by the exchange value of its curl ency , but by the aggregate worth of the goods and services which it sells abroad . A decline in the exchange value of its currency is a distinct though temporary advantage to exports , because it aids their competitive position . It would be impossible , moreover , for the United States to purchase the billion-odd ounces required by recent silver legislation without a serious drain on China 's silver reserves , which would have a deflationary effect on that country 's domestic economy similar to that experienced by the Western world during the dizzy ascent of the price of gold . The money doctors who have been advising the Administration have prescribed one medicine for the United States and a directly opposite remedy for China , though both were suffering from the same disease . Against these misguided quacks , China , unfortunately , has no real defense : the export tax recently imposed is unlikely to have more than a temporary effect , while resort to gold is highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             