@@486533

FFENSE is often the best method of defense . It occupies the attention of the enemy and spends his strength . So the power industry , finding itself confronted with growing sentiment in Congress for regulation of all utility holding companies and all interstate power transactions , with a manifest swing throughout the country toward public ownership , has launched an attack upon the existing Magna Charta of power regulation , the Federal Water Power Act . Thus , after elections calculated to dismay the stoutest power-company heart , those representatives of the people who are on the other side of the battle have had no time in which to savor victory . The Water Power Act is under fire from several directions . The Clarion River Power Company has asked an injunction in the courts of the District of Columbia to test the extent of the Federal Power Commission 's authority under it . A second court test is in the making through refusal of the Appalachian Electric Power Company to recognize the right of the commission to supervise its hydroelectric project on New River , Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Attorney General of the United States has written an opinion in which he suggests the possibility of " serious questions regarding the constitutionality " of the Federal Water Power Act . The same opinion outlined a technical way by which the Power Commission might put aside the provisions of the act and give the Appalachian Company the right to go ahead with its project free of all federal regulation . Finally , the " lame-duck " Federal Power Commission , composed of Secretaries Wilbur , Hurley , and Hyde , has recommended to Congress in its annual report that control of water-power developments be considered primarily a responsibility of the individual States . The Federal Power Commissioners and the Attorney General are the government officials with whom defense of the Power Act , in the court cases now pending , rests . The Clarion River Company case is concerned with the right of the Power Commission to audit accounts of con-struction work on projects it licenses , and to make determina-tion of the net investment in each . This net investment is the basis of the price to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of recapturing them when the license has expired . It is the basis of any regulation of rates or of security issues which the government may undertake in States not providing regulation of their own . Last winter the Senate Interstate and Foreign Com-merce Committee discovered that the Power Commission had never , in its ten years of existence , actually exercised the power of determining net investment . It learned that the accounting , department of the commission had been so starved and crippled that it had never completed the work of auditing accounts on any project . Until last year the commission had never been provided with a solicitor to ad-vise the accounting division on legal points involved in its work . It was urged , then , that Cabinet members had not sufficient time left from their other duties properly to attend to the work of the Power Commission , so Congress created a new commission of five full-time members . Meantime President Hoover nominated three of the new commissioners , but too late for the Senate to confirm them , and the " lame-duck " commission has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accountant Wil- ? liam V. King and Solicitor Charles A. Russell have proceeded with the accounting work and have prepared several cases for hearing and final determination of net investment . One of these is the case of the Clarion River Power Company and its Piney project in Pennsylvania . The company claimed a net investment of $11,032,816 . Chief Accountant King recommended that $6,387,731 of this amount he rejected , contending that actual legitimate expenditure on the project was $4,60,085 . Mr. King objected especially to certain items in the company 's investment account , namely , $144 for neckties bought at Vantine 's in New York , $4,000 spent for cigars and dinners at the grand opening of the Piney project , and other charges , including " unsupported items " totaling $1,121,942.67 . The Power Commission set a date early in November for hearing Mr. King 's recommendations and the Clarion River Power Company 's reply to them . The hearing has not been held , however . A few weeks after Attorney General Mitchell 's opinion mentioning " serious doubts " as to the validity of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Columbia Supreme Court and asked that the Power Commission be enjoined from holding hearings or making any adjudication with reference to the net-investment claims of the company . At first the Department of Justice announced that since the case was " only a minor one , " the government 's position would be left to the district attorney 's office to present and no one would be detailed from the department to assist . But Attorney General Mitchell asked Solicitor Russell of the Power Commission to handle the government 's case after he had been criticized and after the National Popular Government League had asked leave to intervene , presenting an imposing list of attorneys associated with it , on which appear such names as Judge George W. Woodruff of Pennsylvania , Felix Frankfurter of Harvard , and Frank P. Walsh of New York . The grave import of the coming test was recognized also by the State of Pennsylvania after Gifford Pinchot was elected governor , and its attorney general asked leave to intervene in behalf of the government . After argument in the courts of the District of Columbia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Supreme Court . If the company finally wins , the Power Commission will be deprived of its major functions and will have little authority left except to determine where hydroelectric projects may be situated . But even this function will be lost if the Appalachian Electric Power Company wins the fight it is now carrying on . The Appalachian controversy is an old one , originating long before Wilbur , Bonner , et al . took over the Power Commission . This company intends to build on a stream which is a non-navigable tributary of a navigable river and has contended for years that this location puts its project on a different footing . For two years it has refused to accept a regular license offered it by the Power Commission and has insisted that it be given instead a license prescribing only such conditions as shall protect navigation on the Kanawha River , to which the New River is tributary . But in July of this year the Bonner-Wilbur-HurleyHyde Power Commission took the matter up again and had it referred to the Attorney General for an opinion as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company wants , free from regulation of construction plans , of net investment , of securities , of rates . The question is particularly important in the case of the Appalachian Company , because under an interpretation of Virginia law it is exempt from regulation by the authorities of that State . Mitchell replied to the Power Commissioners that they had full authority over non-navigable tributaries of navigable streams . An earlier opinion of his in the Cumberland Falls case had established that precedent . He held that the Appalachian Company " is prohibited from proceeding with the construction of its project until it shall have applied for and received a license under the provisions of this act . " But Mitchell did not stop there . He went on to advance the theory that a broad interpretation of the Power Act " appears necessary in order to avoid serious questions regarding the constitutionality of this act . " Accordingly he suggested that " every purpose within the power of Congress may be accomplished by issuance of a minor-part license . " This was a new idea in water-power regulation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitchell obtained it reads as follows : In issuing licenses for a minor part only of a complete project , or for a complete project of not more than 200 horse-power capacity , the commission may , in its discretion , waive such conditions , provisions , and requirements of this act , except the license period of fifty years , as it may deem to be to the public interest to waive under the circumstances . Mitchell said he thought this section ought to apply to the Appalachian Company 's 80,000 horse-power project , since " the only interest which the United States has to protect , and for which it may be justified in issuing a license , is a very minor part of the complete project . " It took the big power companies of the country less than a week to grasp the possibilities of this opinion . Within a few days several of them had written to the Power Com-mission asking that they too be given " minor-part " licenses instead of regular ones , because their hydroelectric ' plants were only a minor part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be granted , some of the most important river systems in the country could be developed hydroelectrically free of all federal restriction . At about the time Mitchell was writing his opinion , Solicitor Russell of the Power Commission was writing as follows , in answer to a similar contention raised before him : When Congress said that any applicant for the construction of a power plant on a non-navigable stream under certain conditions would be required to obtain a license under the provisions of this act , it meant the same character of a license to be issued for construction on a navigable stream , without any limitation , and such license should contain all the provisions required in a license on a navigable stream . To hold otherwise would result in questioning the jurisdiction of the commission over projects located on navigable streams . . . . A license means a license , not a piece of paper .. . After the stir caused by the two opinions the Power Commission did nothing for some months about the Appalachian Company 's request . The fact was disclosed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still president on leave of absence , has a considerable investment in securities of the Appalachian Electric Power Company , as well as other electric utilities . Wilbur denied that he had anything to do with the university 's investments . Finally , the week before Congress was to convene to confirm successors to Wilbur , Hyde , and Hurley , a meeting of the Power Commission was called to discuss the Appalachian application . Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana protested to President Hoover against final action by retiring officials . Several other Senators quietly let their disapproval be known . Only Wilbur and Hyde were present when the meeting was held . The matter was debated at length , and in the end they announced that they had decided to let the courts pass on the issues involved . The power company will start construction of its project without a license ; the Power Commissioners , if the successors of Wilbur , Hyde , and Hurley see fit , will then ask an injunction to stop them . And Attorney General Mitchell , who is on record as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build without regulation , will be responsible for the defense of regulation in the courts ! All this contention and litigation may or may not have been designed to divert attention from the Couzens bill , scheduled for prompt consideration in Congress , which provides a system of power-company regulation in some respects more thorough and more far:reaching than present regulation of railroads by the Interstate Commerce Commission . In any event , the power companies tried similar tactics once before and won a Pyrrhic victory . They used all their resources , some two and a half years ago , to have Senator Walsh 's resolution for investigation of utility holding companies and utility propaganda referred to the Federal Trade Commission . They were successful . And the Trade Commission has done the most thorough , fair , and workmanlike job that Washington has seen in a long time . With its financial investigation only half complete , the Trade Commission has disclosed closer inter-company relationships , more extensive methods of transferring profits from regulated utility-company books to unregulated holding-company books , more sudden and unexplained appreciations in property book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of appreciations , the basis for security issues but not for fixing rates , is now somewhere in the neighborhood of $400,000,000 . The Couzens bill , awaiting hearings before the Senate Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee , of which Couzens is chairman , provides for regulation hereafter of all utility companies doing an interstate power business , of all holding companies furnishing and sending in interstate commerce information , advice , instruction , intelligence , or direction concerning the generation , distribution , transmission , or sale of power , and of all holding companies supplying these services to any company which sells , distributes , or generates power in interstate commerce . It provides for regulation also of rates and security issues of these companies and continues the power of the commission to license companies desiring to build on government property or on streams important in interstate commerce . The Couzens bill is part of a general movement for-regulation of holding companies  --  railroad holding companies and banking holding companies as well as the utilities . It was due to receive considerable support even before the elections with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the recent attacks upon existing regulation will quicken interest in it and hasten its enactment . But it will not be enacted without a battle . Whatever the outcome , the future of regulation rests with the men who will compose the new Federal Power Commission and the men they select to work under them in legal , engineering , and accounting departments . As this is being written the Senate is considering President Hoover 's selections for the commission , an event as significant as any in the winter 's many-sided power struggle .                     