@@493712

The Week THE Supreme Court 's unanimous decision that students with conscientious objections to war have no constitutional right to escape compulsory military training , where this is imposed by land-grant colleges , seems to us a long inference from the principle that the government can force unwilling citizens to fight in its defense . Far more important , however , than the specific case under review is the reassertion of the general conclusion . This , it seems to us , in spite of its denial of one of the most important kinds of liberty , is inevitable in the world as it is today organized . Those who are opposed either to war in general or to any specific war can not expect that they can make their opposition count by refusal to fight , with the consent or protection of governments . They are themselves engaged in a warfare against the existing system , and they must accept the risks and casualties of that war . It is well to have this fundamental fact emphasized . It is naive to suppose that war can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it and threaten not to fight . Governments will always be able to raise armies and suppress objectors , as long as those governments themselves are not upset by the opposition . The way to end war is not by a moral campaign aimed at non-participation , but by a reorganization of society such that war situations do not arise . And it is more than likely that those who want such reorganization will in the end have to fight for it , if they are to get it . WE APPLAUD merely with a quiet and skeptical smile Senator Borah 's call to the Republican Party to throw out its old guard and liberalize itself . The old elephant can scarcely transform himself into a race horse . In the unlikely event that the Democrats under Roosevelt come really to oppose the capitalist order , there is no place for the Republican Party except as a conservative opposition . What is much more likely is that many rulers of big business and industry will desert it in order to ally themselves with the now dominant Democrats ; in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and much further from the left than the lumbering old party will ever go . What is needed is a new set of principles and a new name under which those who want real changes in capitalism can unite . Such a party would gather recruits from both of the old machines . Movements in this direction have already done so , as in Wisconsin , Minnesota and Oregon . The Republican Party has no place to go ; indeed it is no longer all dressed up , but is panhandling about in pathetic rags and tatters . Why anybody should bother to try to save it is beyond us . IN ALL nations the pressure of events is forcing the various factions who claim to represent labor in politics to close their ranks . This accounts for the attempt of the Socialists and Communists in the United States to find some basis of cooperation on immediate issues . From their behavior in the past , one would think that each of these parties regarded the other as a more dangerous enemy than capitalism itself . The result of this state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class being divided , Hitler was enabled to seize power . In France the lesson has been learned , at least for the time being ; the common front of Socialists and Communists against Fascist tendencies has given the reactionaries pause . In the United States neither party is strong enough to carry much influence , but the quarrels and bickerings between them have produced the worst possible moral effect and have done much to retard the growth of a political labor movement . The left wing of the Socialist Party , while disagreeing with many of the Communist tenets on ultimate issues , has been impressed with the need of a truce to combat the common enemy in this crisis . The right wing will make no compromise . The result is that the National Executive Committee , under the control of the lefts , has attempted to approach its objective without causing a split in the party , by allowing state organizations to do as they please in this matter , postponing a national decision until 1936 . But if we must wait for this slowly evolving unity before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must wait until it is built , the whole effort may be too late . Sectarianism is the heaviest handicap of those who want to change the world . MEANWHILE , the same general problem is receiving realistic attention abroad . Not long ago the Communist International made an honest effort to repair the harm its intransigent attitude had done in the past , with almost immediate practical results . Late in September the Red Trade Union International met in Moscow for an extraordinary conference in which the chief object of discussion was the question of a united front in the world trade-union movement . The resolution finally adopted represents a wholesome departure from former declarations , which called for " unity from below " and meant the acceptance of Communist control . The new position of the Communist trade unions recognizes that unity from below must come and can come only as a concomitant of " unity from above " by direct negotiation between trade-union leaders on both sides . As a token of good faith , the resolution declares that Red Trade Unions and federations shall be dissolved wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been as good as its word . The Red Trade Union International has just appealed to the Norwegian Trade Union Federation , which recently joined the Amsterdam ( Socialist ) Trade Union International , to use its influence within that organization for acceptance of Moscow 's plan . In France the merger of the trade-union organizations is well under way . FOR months past the bellicose utterances of the French and German governments in the Saar dispute have lacked conviction . It was plain to the discerning observer that discussions were going on behind the scenes ? discussions that have now crystallized in a concrete understanding . Germany agrees to repurchase the Saar coal mines for 900,000,000 francs and 11,000,000 tons of coal and guarantees " equal rights to voters and non-voters among all the inhabitants of the Saar regardless of race , religion or language . " The agreement followed a month 's hearing on the subject before a special committee of three appointed by the Council of the League of Nations and presided over by Baron Bompeo Aloisi of Italy . The League of Nations Council , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this settlement of a more than vexing problem and give it legal standing . The Saar is thus probably eliminated as a source of danger to the peace of Europe . The settlement proves that both France and the League of Nations Commission have seen the handwriting on the wall and now accept a German victory on January 13 as a foregone conclusion . France would never have consented had there been the slightest hope of maintaining the status quo in the plebiscite election . THE French capitulation virtually tells the voting public in the Saar district that every vote against Germany is a vote wasted . It leaves the anti-fascist groups , which have borne the brunt of its fight , in a dangerously isolated position . There is nothing in the Franco-German agreement that gives the political opponents of the Third Reich security or protection against its vengeance , nothing to prevent a general round-up of these courageous fighters on the day after the election and their arrest in prisons and concentration camps ? unless they flee from the Saar before the vote is taken . THE comparative ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mine question was not accidental . On October 26 the Saar police unearthed a conspiracy against the life of the League 's Saar Commissioner , Mr. Knox , and his immediate assistants . A few days ' delay might have been fatal . A partial mobilization of French troops near the Saar border was the immediate consequence . The London understanding of October 30 among the General Staffs of the French , English and Belgian armies for immediate unification of their forces in case of a German attack followed . France and her allies were prepared for the worst and determined not to be caught napping . Germany understood and gladly accepted the proffered alternative . It is not unlikely that as the next logical step a representative of the German government will again take his place in the League Council . THE Saar agreement , some cynical observers argue , conceals practically all the details of a long- drawn-out maze of negotiations among all sorts of conflicting interests . In the first place , the argument goes , the agreement shows that the forces of Schneider ? Creusot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in France , have triumphed over the Laurent interests , who wanted access to Saar coal for themselves . In the second place the fact that coincidental with the pact , the Catholic press of Europe blossoms forth with statements that the Saar is German and belongs to the Reich tends to show that von Papen 's recent negotiations in Rome have borne fruit . The future will reveal what Hitler has promised in return . ANY assassination is likely to be futile in its political effect ; but an assassination is doubly futile if nobody knows the motives of the assassin . In that case it fails to be even a gesture , symbolizing the protest of a dissentient group . This seems , so far , to be the case in the killing of Sergei M. Kirov , one of the high Soviet officials . The murderer is a Russian , and the act is deLounced by the government as part of a White conspiracy , but this generic term of condemnation conveys little enlightenment . What movement did the conspirators represent ; what are its aims ; what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial of the seventy-one or more arrested suspects will reveal the answers , but so far the whole affair is shrouded in a fog . Certainly there is no immediate revolt in the Soviet Union with enough support to make it in the least formidable . If the authorities had not made so many arrests and had not decreed such prompt trials and swift punishment for those adjudged guilty , we should have been inclined to dismiss the whole affair as the satisfaction of a personal grudge or the act of an unbalanced person . Evidently , however , the Soviet officials fear other assassinations and regard the matter with the utmost seriousness . That indicates that there is a dangerous amount of hostility to them among some group or other . We shall await with interest the further developments . WHEN it comes to genuine collective bargaining , The New York World-Telegram , member of the reputedly liberal Scripps-Howard chain , appears to have notions scarcely distinguishable from those of the steel , automobile and cotton-textile employers . The only important difference , so far as we can judge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has been willing to carry on negotiations for several months with the New York Newspaper Guild , and to discuss improvements in the working conditions of its editorial employees . It has even been willing to make partial concessions to the demands of the Guild on hours , pay and so on . But when the Guild proposed that these terms , if acceptable to the editorial employees , be incorporated in a signed agreement , The World-Telegram flatly refused . Section 7a , it declared , does not require an employer to sign a contract . ( The National Labor Relations Board has , of course , held otherwise . ) In any event , said the management of The World-Telegram , the Guild was guilty of " class-conscious " and " trade-union " tendencies that were " utterly incompatible with objective reporting and independent journalism . " This charge is , of course , a preposterous smoke-screen , since the Guild is interested only in bettering working conditions of newspaper workers . Moreover , The World-Telegram 's fear of the " class-conscious " aspect of the Guild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Association might not also have a " class-conscious " basis and might not also threaten independent journalism . Further , the claims of the publishers to exemption from 7a have just been demolished by the Labor Relations Board in the Jennings case against The San Francisco Call-Bulletin . Here the Board ruled that it had jurisdiction over the Press Code and that " the newspaper business stands on a footing no different from that of other industries . " A CASE where Francis Biddle , new head of the Labor Relations Board , might try his hand at speeding up the Department of Justice is the B.M.T. 's defiance of the Board . In November the company " laid off " ( it insists it did not " discharge " ) twenty members of the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway employees . After investigation , the Board decided that the men had been discharged for union activity and ordered their reinstatement . The B.M.T. refused , though it took back eight of the men ? perhaps as proof that they had been " laid off " ? not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is in two parts that have nothing to do with each other , but perhaps if one will not stick , the other will . It alleges in the first place that it is not subject to the N.I.R.A. and so is beyond the jurisdiction of the Labor Relations Board . Its second defense is that most of its employees belong to the various railway brotherhoods . The B.M.T. did not explain how that gave it the right to fire members of other unions . Perhaps it just proves that the company loves the working class . SENATOR Huey P. Long , self-ordained godfather of Louisiana State University , is reported to be shedding mournful tears into his pot-likker as dolefully he dunks his pone . The journalism students of L.S.U. , with base and shameful ingratitude , have turned against their protector and are out on a general strike . The King of the Ozarks is so used to having his ram-like way that it probably never dawned on him that the students would resent the suppression of their newspaper , The Reveille , after the journal published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Kingfish . But resent it they did and as matters now stand the journalism college is in open revolt and the seven members of the Reveille staff have resigned . In retaliation , striking through President James M. Smith , Senator Long has forced the suspension of twenty-six students and more suspensions are expected to follow . Thus does the Hitler of Louisiana seek to gain his ends . Dr. Smith , in a way that would do credit to the Senator himself , announces that he is going to see this thing through " as a matter of principle " and that he will resign if he is not backed up . He will be backed up , of course , and every effort will be made to cause the students to back down . Whether the Kingfish succeeds in his purpose remains to be seen . It also remains to be seen if , as has been alleged , the , entire faculty of L.S.U. is under Mr. Long 's thumb . 