@@494033

Chicago Fails at Brussels The Brussels Conference found nothing better to do than to vote a mild reproach to Japan ? in which Italy and the Scandinavian countries would not join . Its attempt to mediate failed because Japan would not accept its intervention . And of course it did nothing to implement President Roosevelt 's speech at Chicago calling for a united front of peace-loving peoples against the international anarchists . Its complete futility was underlined when France , under Japanese pressure , stopped the transport of muni- tions to China through French Indo-China . The Brussels failure was predicted by The New Republic , and is a sad commentary on the enthusiasm aroused by Mr. Roosevelt 's bold words . The lesson , It seems to us , is so clear that only the most stupid could possibly fail to see it . At the risk of boring our readers with reiteration , we will state it again . There is no use whatever hi striking moral attitudesabout international behavior and calling for collective security unless the nations that do so are prepared to stop the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures that may involve the use of armed forces . Resolute action of this kind might prevent the spread of war . But if we , and Britain , and France , and the Soviet Union are not prepared to go this far , the more sensible policy folthe United States would be to devote all its energies to keeping out of trouble ? and that means strengthening and applying the Neutrality Act of 1937 . To Keep America at Peace Two proposals have been made in the special session of Congress that are of great importance in relation to foreign policy . One of these is a suggested constitutional amendment , introduced in two forms by Senators Capper of Kansas and La Follette of Wisconsin . Both forms provide that except in case of an actual invasion of this country , Congress shall not declare war until after a referendum by the whole people . The second of the two proposals is a demand that the Neutrality Act be rewritten , taking away from the President the power he now has to say when a war has begun . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application of the Act to the Sino-Japanese conflict . Our readers hardly need to he told that we are warmly in favor of both these enterprises . The more pressing of the two is the rewriting of the Neutrality Act , since it applies to an existing situation ; but the plan for a national referendum before we again send millions of young men overseas to light as we did in 1917-18 is also of great importance . The special session of Congress has already shown that it is prepared to challenge President Roosevelt on many of his policies . Here arc two cases where such an attitude can meet with hearty approval . Britain in Spain Italy and Germany helped to start the civil war in Spain , by promising to help the Rebels and by keeping their promise on the very first day of the lighting . That by now is an old story . It is an old story , too , that Britain prolonged the var by bluffing France into closing the Pyrenees , at a time when the government could have stopped Franco with a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Britain 's policy since that time is not so easy to determine . The cynics say that she has helped Franco consistently ; quite possibly the cynics are not cynical enough . She has helped Franco , yes , but she has also hindered him at moments when it seemed that he might win a speedy victory . She has allowed Italy to send more and more arms to the Rebels , but she has discouraged Italy from sinking Russian ships and thus preventing arms from reaching the Loyalists . Apparently her real policy has been to make the war as long and costly and bloody as possible , so as to weaken both sides . That , in London , is called pacifism . But during the last two months she seems to have changed her policy ; quite evidently there are new agreements which have been kept out of the press . It is rumored that the Italian forces in Spain are being reduced to 40,000 men . It is rumored that the blockade is becoming so effective ? of course with British permission ? that very few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , that Russia has ceased sending aid , on account of the more immediate threat from Japan . We do n't know just how these pieces of the puzzle lit together . But perhaps the most sinister detail is the fashion in which news from Spain is being played down , not so much by the newspapers , which print the news they are given , as by the various Foreign Offices , which hand out the news . Under cover of this artificial darkness , it seems likely that the powers are preparing some new stroke that could not bear daylight . Acquittal James H. Rand Jr. , president of Remington , Rand , Inc. , and Pearl L. Bergoff , the former head of the well known strikebreaking agency , have been acquitted . They were charged with violation of the Byrnes law , which forbids the transportation of strikebreakers across state lines with the intention of interfering with peaceful picketing . The case grew out of the strike at Remington Rand 's plant at Middletown , Connecticut , in June , 1936 , where Bergoff sent fifty-seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as was revealed during the National Labor Relations Board 's investigation of the industrial conflict . The story that Bergoff and Rand gave the jury , and which the jury accepted , was that Bergoff 's men were not strikebreakers at all , but millwrights hired for the purpose of dismantling the plant . According to reports in the daily press , Presiding Judge Carroll Hincks , in his charge to the jury , inferred that the Rand strikers were engaged in " organized intimidation " and that therefore the Byrnes law ought not to apply ; said that there is no law against bluffing ( thereby giving the lie to the already discredited allegation that the Bergoff men were hired to dismantle the plant ) ; and suggested that he , the judge , and the jurors were in " partnership " together ? whatever this may have meant . To many individuals familiar with the facts about the Remington-Rand strike as disclosedby the National Labor Relations Board , the jury 's verdict can only seem a miscarriage of justice , and the judge 's charge a procedure inexplicable on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pontiac Another " outlaw " strike in an automobile plant has taken place . About 450 employees in the Fisher Body plant in Pontiac , Michigan , have been engaging in a sit-down strike which forced suspension of operations in the plant . As a result , anti-unionists all over the country have been announcing loudly that collective bargaining is impossible , since the men wo n't obey their own union officials , etc . Actually , the story is a good deal more complicated than that . It is true that the United Automobile Workers ' union has been doing what it could to prevent minor stoppages and that a good many of these have taken place in spite of the union 's efforts . It is also true , however , that in many plants workers feel that they have genuine grievances and that the employer refuses to listen to them until they bring the belt line to a halt . Demands are heard that the union keep its workers under control , but nobody proposes that the General Motors Company , for instance , shall keep its foremen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under them . Indeed , the suggestion is heard that with the whole contract between GM and the UAW up for negotiation , the corporation is by no means sorry to see trouble like that of the past few days , for its value as a bargaining point . It remains true that the only way for industry to operate successfully in the long run is to convince its workers they will get fair treatment . That has n't happened yet in automobiles . Filibuster for Lynching One of the most unjustifiable filibusters in which the Senate has ever indulged is that directed against the anti-lynching bill . It is conducted almost entirely by Southern Senators ? in spite of the fact that a poll by the Institute of Public Opinion indicates that the South , as well as the rest of the country , is in favor of the measure . We do not wish to deny any Southern Senator ? or any from the North either ? the privilege of opposing the bill if he disapproves of it . It may be unconstitutional , or it may be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very worst its passage could do no harm , and its object is laudable from any point of view . Why not let it come to a vote ? The reason for the filibuster is , of course , that if it were voted upon it would be passed . But in choosing this way to deny the will of a majority , the ' opponents of the bill have been delaying urgent business that Congress will have too short a time to finish in any case . Surely the defeat of this bill is not so important that all other debate must be delayed , including that on farm and labor programs and the international situation . The Southern Senators in question are in effect saying : " It is more necessary to prevent the federal government from making even a dubious attempt to diminish lynching than it is to do what we can to restore prosperity and avert war . " For the Sake of the Record The Senate Civil Liberties Committee has subpoenaed the records of the Johnstown Citizens ' Committee , but the investigation is blocked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a record of the receipt and disbursement of funds during the progress of the strike against Bethlehem Steel last June , but nothing more illuminating than that . Lawrence W. Campbell , secretary of the Citizens ' Committee , has explained that his group was a voluntary and spontaneous assemblage , formed to meet an emergency situation and designed to live only during the duration of that emergency ; that on this account there was no necessity for keeping detailed records . In all probability there are only fragmentary records , and for a good reason . The fact about the Johnston Citizens ' Committee which is particularly worth concealing is that it was inspired and -- -at least to the extent of $30,000 ? financed by the Bethlehem Steel Company as part of its campaign to break the strike . This was brought out during the course of the National Labor Relations Board investigation of the Bethlehem strike . The Citizens ' Committee , it was then revealed , acting as the intermediary agent , turned over that amount contributed by the steel company to Mayor Daniel J. Shields of Johnstown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " New Mexico 's Plan Goes Wrong In New Mexico there is a reclamation and flood-control project that is in serious difficulty . The Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District is the scene of a large irrigation , drainage and flood-control project . On the land supinnedly benefited are several thousand Spanish-Amciican subsistence farmers who have not , and never have had , cash with which to pay heavy assessments on their farms . Naturally , they are delinquent , and are threatened with eviction ? which throws a pretty light on the philan-. thropic character of the plan . ( Thus far the chief beneficiaries have been the city of Albuquerque and the Santa Fe Railroad . ) The scheme was based from the beginning on the false assumption that these subsistence farmers could be changed overnight into successful American ranchers , without having the land , the facilities , the market , or the slow and thorough training necessary for such a transformation . Unless some 25,000 Spanish-American farmers and their families are to be dispossessed and thrown on relief , the project must be reorganized on a realistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and impossible assessment . Klan in Miami One way to clean up the vice dens of a city is to smash them to bits . That is the way the members of Miami 's Ku Klux Klan chose when they sent a bard of hooded raiders to end the revelries at the La Palomar night club by assaulting the entertainers and breaking up the furniture . According to reports , the managers of other Miami hot spots , fearful that the Klan 's violence might next be turned against them , have boarded up their establishments and left town . The terrorism in Miami is typical of the Ku Klux Klan , which occasionally tries to do a worthwhile job but always with the wrong weapons . There is little doubt that Miami 's night life needed cleaning up ; it is a city that depends for its economic existence on unlicensed gayety . Its public officials have boasted that what few blue laws exist in Miami are not to be enforced . But the Klan , in its blundering manner , attempts to establish law and order bv employing weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clubs of Miami are of a great deal less significance of themselves than the proof they furnish that the Klan has reappeared in Flori ( Li as a powerful force . There have been other indications of this , of course ; notably the Klan 's participation in the murder of Joseph Shoemaker and the trials that followed his death . When we see how completely the Klan is able to dominate Miami , it i ; no longer possible to believe that it is a minor power in Florida . News Notes of a Week in the Far Eastern conflict , Japan pushed on toward Nanking , and most departments of the Chinese government were moved to various places farther west , as Chiang Kai-shek prepared to harassing , guerilla tactics . Japan demanded the full sovereign rights heretofore enjoyed by China in Shanghai , including the International and French Settlements . . . . The long expected Rebel drive in Aragon was officially postponed on account of wet grounds . Franco insisted and the Loyalists denied that serious political difficulties were weakening the Barcelona government . . .. Viscount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received the Nobel Peace Prize . . . . Viscount Halifax , spokesman for Great Britain , continued his discussions in Germany , which have caused many observers to say that England is swinging away from France and Soviet Russia and toward the Fascist powers . . . . In the United States , the special session of Congress gave ominous signs of yielding to big-business pressure for reduction or repeal of taxes on capital gains and undivided corporate surplus . The old game of guessing whether the President intends to move to the Right or Left continued with fresh zeal .... The voice of the cuckoo was heard in the land , appealing to private enterprise to construct vast quantities of housing .. . . The Conference of Mayors met and announced that federal appropriations for relief are not large enough to meet the growing burden . . . Last week The New Republic was attacked by The New Masses for being isolationist and therefore anti-Soviet . The December issue of The American Mercury appeared on the same day . It attacked The New Republic for doing the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 