@@431045

 | The Psychology of Hara-Kiri Condensed from The Living Age ( August , ' 32 ) IN THE East , as elsewhere , the primary causes of war have only an indirect connection with the group psychology of a nation . Yet , by what might be called the exploitation of unemployed emotion , an apparently spontaneous outburst of patriotism may be produced in a given community as neatly as the familiar knee-jerk by a tap on the right spot . The complex and dangerous situation in the Far East today makes it worth while to follow the Japanese emotional engineers in their search for the right spot to get the maximum kick out of the populace . It is important to realize the lines on which a highly suggestible people , capable at present of endless harm , is likely to react in an emergency . The object of these few examples drawn from the Japanese press in the last few months is to indicate these lines , and to leave the moral to point itself . One of the essentials of militant patriotism is the hero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhaust the public interest . Yet the rounding up and shooting down of bandits by forces superior in equipment , supplies , and organization is not likely to provide a sufficiency of heroes for the stimulation of the masses . Fortunately for the moral effect of the campaign on Japan , a woman leaped into the breach . On the eve of his departure for Manchuria , a lieutenant attached to the Ambulance Corps of the 4th Division returned home , and " hurrying into his wife 's sitting room . . . he found his spouse dead in an extremely orderly manner , " says the Osaka Main-ichi . She had put on her best costume , written the usual suicide note , and then cut her throat with a dagger , " which her soldierhusband has treasured . " The note explained that her suicide would leave him free to serve the Emperor without worrying about his wife . " Words fail to describe my joy to leave you before your heroic march to Manchuria tomorrow . " This " female version of General Nogi 's hara-kiri , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of martyrdom that has been followed by dozens of attempts at patriotic suicide since last December . The latest was that of a girl who threw herself under a troop train in Himeji , when some soldiers were leaving to take over garrison duty . Her note kept the same tone : " Though I can not be a soldier ,  | I can encourage them by dying " ( Japan Chronicle ) . Though it is this peculiar attitude toward suicide that seems of main importance , there are other complexes to be used ; and another turns on the reactions of the populace to the Japanese sword . These are mediaeval . The press loves to explain that no " foreigner " can ever understand the devotion of the Japanese soldier to the colors , still less the reverence of the bushi ( warrior ) for his sword . Japanese two-handed swords were widely used by the ronin ( plain-clothes soldiers ) in Shanghai , as well as by daredevil naval men , and their mention rarely fails of its effect on the mob . A well-made wire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the artillery was either not on the spot or inefficient . Three sappers from Kyushu ( the emotional parallel is roughly " sea dogs of Devon " ) exchanged cups of water in the style of samurai going to almost certain death , and determined to break it at all costs . They did so , and were blown to bits . The newspaper accounts decide that they pulled out the pins of their bombs and then rushed into the wire . The example to be set was plainly one of self-destruction , not of successful daring . The dauntless three have been given the name of nikudan ( literally " meat bombs " ) and have undergone something analogous to canonization . Photographs of the three , and prints giving a pictorial account of their death , are now selling all over Japan , and providing material for primary-school homilies . The " Song of the Human Bombs " achieved an instantaneous success , and in some parts shrines have been dedicated to them . In this glorification of self-immolation a definite reflex is being cultivated in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a reflex totally out of place in a world of closeknit economic relations , whose Great Powers have nominally renounced slaughter as a method of policy . Yet in Japan the common sense of those unwilling to be slaughtered at a word is represented as " Western materialism , " powerless against the " spiritual " qualities of the Land of the Gods . It remains to be seen in what manner this close emotional integration of a people still somewhat less than grown-up will be employed . Certainly these violent antidotes for " dangerous thought " in Japan give one singularly little faith in the common sense of the Japanese people and its supposedly restraining effect on the militarists.                     