@@493749

The Week WHERE are the American pacifists ? Now , if ever , they ought to assert themselves . The United States , Great Britain and Japan are engaged in naval discussions in London that are dearly headed toward disaster . Japan is demanding an increase in her relative naval strength and says if she does n't get it she will repudiate all treaties of naval limitation ; everyone knows that she means what she says . The British are seeking desperately to work out a compromise of some sort that will continue the principle of limitation , bringing Japan somewhat nearer to security against a combined attack by the British and Americans in Japanese waters , while still making it utterly impossible for her to attack us across the Pacific . The United States , however , is adamant . Japan must continue with a fleet three-fifths as large as the British or our own , or we will start a building race . Surely , if ever a firm voice was needed . in America on behalf of common sense and a continuation of the principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we are aware , hardly a word has come from all those millions of American citizens who have repeatedly said that they are opposed to war and to everything that makes for the danger of war . Our admirals can argue with some show of reason that the country seems to be behind them . Unless more voices are raised in opposition to them , the world will believe they are right . PRESIDENT Roosevelt 's special Committee on Economic Security will make its report in the near future ; and presumably the President will base on it his recommendations for new legislation to the Congress which meets the first week in January . The joint responsibility that rests on the Committee and on the President is very great ; the Committee is supposedly composed of the best available experts , and the President 's prestige with Congress is so high that his recommendations will probably be followed closely . It is safe to assume , however , that at least as regards unemployment insurance , the reactionary employers of the country will fight for proposals that put the least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that can be turned to their advantage in the struggle against labor , as pension plans have often been in the past . In Mr. Abraham Epstein 's article appearing on page 37 of this issue , some of the difficulties in the way are described , and the alternative possibilities laid down . In other articles in our series on security for Americans , various plans will be described and discussed in more detail . At least one important principle is , we think , already clear : that it would be better to wait a few months longer , if necessary , and establish plans that will stand the test of time , than to rush something through Congress now and then spend twenty-five years trying to undo the harmful results . AT LAST there is a gleam of hope for Tom Mooney . His attorneys have petitioned the United States Supreme Court for the right to file a petition for a writ of habeas corpus ; and the Court , while it has not granted this right , has directed the warden of San Quentin prison , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within forty days why Mooney 's attorneys should not be allowed to file the petition . Thus the slow machinery of justice begins to revolve again , with the prospect that at some time in the future the Court may be asked to consider whether due process of law was observed in California when Mooney was sentenced to death ' ( his sentence was afterward commuted to life imprisonment ) on trumped-up , perjured testimony , by a city government hand-in-glove with the reactionary employers of the community , anxious to get Mooney out of the way because of his labor-union activities . The legal situation is admittedly unusual ; but so was the frame-up by which Mooney has been kept in prison for eighteen years in the face of strong evidence supporting his innocence . THE report of Dickerson N. Hoover on the " Morro Castle " disaster is said to be in two sections , one public and the other confidential . If the rumors about the confidential report are correct , it is a pity they were not reversed ; for the confidential report is believed to place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the officers and crew that necessarily followed years of systematic underpay , overwork , poor food and lodging , lack of training and thorough mismanagement by the Ward Line . The public report , on the other hand , finds the cause of disaster in " man failure , " which is hardly an original discovery ; the question Mr. Hoover was sent to investigate was why the men failed . On the other hand , parts of Mr. Hoover 's report are much to his credit . He frankly points out the inadequacy of the Steamboat Inspection Laws and the failure of the inspectors to enforce them , though here again there is the interesting and unanswered question of why the inspectors do not or can not compel great steamship lines to spend money in keeping their ships and crews up to the law . He makes the further point that thorough revision is needed in the laws concerning salvage and limiting the liability of steamship companies for damages . Both are difficult and involved matters , but there is no reason why financial protection of passengers , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended to the sea . PARALLEL to the Hoover report , the testimony of Gus Brown , secretary of the Eastern and Gulf Sailors ' Association , makes interesting reading . Appearing before the Dickstein subcommittee of the Congressional Committee on Merchant Marine , Mr. Brown gave a detailed description of the ways in which the steamship companies dodge the various seamen 's laws . He said that the regulation requiring two-thirds of a crew to be American citizens was avoided by construing first papers as equivalent to citizenship if the holder had a three-year certificate , and that even this minor difficulty was smoothed over by maintaining an open market along the waterfront , where such certificates could be purchased . With almost unlimited freedom in hiring , the lines , he added , make a practice of building up rival unions among their crews and thus crippling the power of both . This is true at least of the REPUBLIC November 21 , 1034 Eastern and Gulf Association , which has shrunk from a membership of 100,000 to less than 22,000 . EVENTS of the recent past in Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raged for more than a year between the Austrian Nazis and the Christian Social governments . A deputation of ten National Socialists waited on Chancellor Schuschnigg , Vice Chancellor von Starhemberg and Colonel Walter , Minister of Propaganda , to pledge their organizations to the inviolable sovereignty of the Austrian state , to the repudiation of the former stand in favor of union with Germany and to recognition of the Fatherland Front as the sole political organ of the country . Having come to an agreement on fundamentals , technical questions of organization and other formalities will take care of themselves . But with this comes a turning point in the mutual relationship between these fascist brothers . The Nazis , having accepted the basic demands of the Schuschnigg government , the **25;323;TOOLONG coalition will now find itself in the unpleasant situation of having to take a stand on National Socialist demands , chief among them the Aryanization of Austria by a general ejection of all Jews and " half-castes " from the Fatherland Front , from all fascist government bodies and from all positions of importance in the Austrian press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the one hand promised Jewish representatives complete equality and on the other countenanced the removal of Jewish physicians and other officials from municipal posts , will overcome this issue by compromise . After that it will be a question of personal power . ON November 1 , the new corporate state of Austria became a fact with the appointment of a state council of fifty , a cultural council of forty and an economic council of eighty , all of them chosen by the National Cabinet and announced by President Wilhelm Miklas as the official government of the Austrian corporate state . In the future , Dr. Schuschnigg proclaimed over the radio just before the appointments were announced , Austria 's parliament will be elected through corporative guilds . The large majority of the 190 yes-men who will henceforth sanction the Cabinet 's decrees are former members of the Christian Social Party ; the minority are members of the Heimwehr organization . Between the two groups there have always been and still are deep-rooted differences which only two weeks ago found turbulent expression in bloody skirmishes between the Christian Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short duration . The granting of a minority representation in the corporate parliaments will merely whet the appetites of the National Socialists . THE announcement comes of the award of the Nobel Prize to the Italian playwright , Luigi Pirandello . Few could object to this . Some years ago the Spanish Benavente received the same honor ; November 21 , 1934 THE NEW and though there were some who considered his work too generalized and widely derivative for such an honor , it could be said , on the whole , that the author of such plays as " The Passion Flower " and " The Bonds of Interest " could certainly be a competitor among all living dramatists . The Pirandello merits have an interestingly different slant . His contribution to the theatre could not be called either generalized or imitated , so far as modern drama sources lie . He has made to dramatic technique a genuinely original contribution . We may take , for example , as two of his typical works , facile and profound , " Six Characters in Search of an Author " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dramatic form , or pattern , for the philosophical ideas that absorb him in general , the theme of reality and unreality , fiction and fact , the two forces , one of which achieves the form that contains the idea and the other of which breaks it down . To the dance and tradition of the commedia dell'arte he has brought a new and absorbing abstraction ; philosophic , modern and , through his genius , theatrical . He is short on esthetics , if you like , but long on a kind of brilliant monotony . In addition to his dramatic activities Pirandello has established himself in Italian prose literature , fiction especially , and has been one of the leaders in the theatrical organizations and impulses of modern Italy . IN THE course of a libel suit at Berne , Switzerland , brought by the Union of Swiss Jewish Communities against the Swiss Nazis , we are at last getting what appears to be the authentic record of the Protocols of Zion . The Union of Jewish Communities has brought to the stand a long string of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or civil servants under the Tsar and the Kerensky government . From the archives of the Tsarist secret police , to which these men had access , comes the detailed trail of how the Protocols came into existence and what they were used for . It appears that at the height of the revolutionary troubles of 1905 General Rachowsky , an officer of the Russian Secret Police stationed at Paris , needed , either for himself or to sell to others , some powerful anti-Jewish material . At that time the Tsar was considering modifications of the Russian Constitution that would have freed the Jews from many disabili , ties . Rachowsky knew that powerful influences in Russia were opposed to this and would appreciate materials to aid in stopping it . The General found himself a Frenchman , Henri Bind , and a Russian agent provocateur , Golowinsky , who was besides something of a bibliophile . The two latter undertook the work of concocting the desired sort of material from obscure sources in the National Library at Paris . SATISFIED with his product , Rachowsky sent it on to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and then spread over the world , eventually reaching even Henry Ford . The Berne trial has also disclosed the obscure sources that Messrs . Bind and Golowinsky used in the National Library back in 1905 . Page after page of the Protocols were shown by the court expert to be identical with a forgotten work " A Dialogue in Hades Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu , " by Maurice Joly , published in 1864 . The famous chapter in the Protocols on the meeting of the elders of Zion in the Jewish Cemetery in Prague turns out to be a chapter from another forgotten book , " Biarritz , " by one Goedsche , who wrote under the name of Sir John Retcliff , and was an anti-Semite of mild note in his day . But even so we have probably not heard the last of the Protocols of Zion . It was not for their credibility that they were used , since they had none ; nor will people anxious to believe such nonsense wish to investigate its authenticity . GEORGIA is building herself a choice case in civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York attorney , Clarence Weaver , a Negro delegate to the last Congress Against War and Fascism , Mrs. R. W. Alling of Atlanta and Nathan Yagol , a young instructor and graduate student at Emory University , Atlanta . All are charged with " inciting to insurrection against the lawful authority . " The crime appears to have been attending an informal current-events club meeting at Mrs. Alling 's home at which discussion turned to the prevention of war . Through some oversight by the authorities Mrs. Ailing 's fourteen-year-old daughter , present at the meeting , was discharged at the arraignment . The evidence of insurrection consists of copies of The New Republic , The Nation , The New Masses , and the fact that Yagol is a member of the League for Industrial Democracy . The real " evidence " of the state seems to be that Mr. Rackolen was retained by the International Labor Defense to help in the Scottsboro case and had attempted to defend two pickets arrested in the recent textile strike . Another piece of " evidence " is the fact that Mrs. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Negro , to attend the private meeting in her home . To cap their crime , according to Chief of Police Parker , a copy of Liberty magazine was found on one of the defendants . Any magazine with the word " liberty " on it , must , the Chief explained , be communistic . ONE election story , based on rumor for which we can not vouch , is worth repeating . California interests opposed to Sinclair , so it alleges , approached an underworld character in New York , one of whose sources of income is supplying crooked voting machines . They offered him a large sum of money to ship a consignment to Los Angeles , to be substituted for the genuine variety . After pondering the offer , he declined . Sinclair , he said , was trying to abolish poverty , and he did not want to ruin his chances . That would be dirty politics .                     