@@153868

University of Oregon , in Eugene , and Oregon State College ( formerly Oregon State Agricultural College ) in Corvallis , are one-but only legally . Their mutual antipathy has led to a bitter series of football games of which the Oregon State " farmers " have lost more than they have won . Early last week , wild with joy over their second football victory over Oregon in two years , Oregon Staters danced in Corvallis streets all Sunday night . After dawn , 1,500 of them cut classes in a body , piled onto the running boards , fenders , hoods and roofs of automobiles , set out for a crowing carnival in Eugene , 40 miles away . At that town 's portals , State and city police halted the cavalcade and warned it against " rough stuff . " Nevertheless , within 30 minutes as fine a roughhouse was in progress as had taken place on sobering U. S. campuses in a decade . <P> With three police cars as escort , the " farmers " rolled into Eugene . Up Skinner 's Butte @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Oregon 's yellow cement ' ' O ' ' on the hillside with Oregon State 's vivid orange . The procession tooted on to University of Oregon 's campus . With the exception of a stubborn professor who continued to lecture to his class on the French Revolution , most Oregonian faculty and students had rushed pell-mell from their classes to repulse the invaders . At the law school an Oregonian turned a fire hose on the Staters . In Eleventh Street , a State car stalled . One of its occupants began to throw ears of corn at the Oregonians . In a flash the Oregonians hauled him and his three companions out of the car and tossed them into the chilly millrace running by the campus . The Oregonians then started roaring through the town to do the same to the rest of the Staters . <P> The Oregonians soon cornered 50 Staters in a restaurant . When the management locked the doors , they picketed the establishment as ' ' unfair to Oregon . " After an hour 's siege proprietors and police prevailed upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bridge into the icy brook to join some 150 of their fellows . But the insult to Oregon had not yet been washed off . Up Skinner 's Butte the dripping invaders were driven to be set to painting the " O " yellow again . " Slide them down ! " yelled an Oregon girl . Dipped in yellow paint , the Staters were sent scooting down the steep 50-ft. sides of the " O " to paint it with the seats of their pants . By nightfall the streets of Eugene were strewn with strips of clothing , eleven motorists had been arrested for driving " with obscured vision . ' ' bruised , bleeding and half-naked Staters were on the road to Corvallis . Crowed President C. Valentine Boyer of the University of Oregon : " Today 's outcome is what our visitors could expect after coming over here to crow over us. "                     