@@143628

Native music in out-of-the-way parts of the world is fast disappearing . Thousands of songs and drum rhythms handed down through generations of woolly-headed blacks , Oriental priests and court musicians ( even by U. S. Indians , hillbillies and Negroes in the South and West ) are already extinct . Causes of this high mortality rate : the phonograph and the radio . Primitive races find old-fashioned radio sets somewhat fragile for jungle use . But cheap , hand-cranked squeak-boxes with chipped records of American cowboy songs and Italian operas are found today in mud-walled villages from Timbuktu to Singapore . Impressed by this mechanical magic , natives imitate the scratchy voices , learn to sing Il Trovatore , and end by preferring it , for better or worse , to their own ancient chants . <P> Fighting a losing battle against time , and using the same weapon as the phonograph salesmen , anthropologists and folk-locists the world over are doing what they can to salvage the remnants of primitive music . Patient , ill-paid scholars sweat through the tropics holding microphones , and even old-fashioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to catch and preserve melodies that are on the point of death . Collections of their records are kept in museums . Now &; then a few are put on sale . <P> Two years ago , under the auspices of the Belgian Government , a tall , rawboned cinema director , Armand Denis ( Goona-Goona ) , and his wife , Leila Roosevelt , undertook a $150,000 expedition to the Belgian Congo . Purposes : to make a motion picture survey of certain parts of the country for Belgian Congo 's National Park Institute ; to take sound film material suitable for use in an African movie . Explorer Denis , his wife , cameramen , and Pooka , a cat ( which survived sand storms and a fight with a leopard , only to be run over later on a quiet New England country road ) pushed their way through jungles and over mountains never before seen by the cinecamera 's eye . The film has not yet been released , but some of the most exciting portions of the sound track have been re-recorded on discs , last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herzog of Columbia University , these discs constitute the best authentic anthology of African Negro music to be found on commercial phonograph records . Much of this music shows rhythmic resemblances to jazz , includes drums , flutes , xylophones and chanting by long-headed Congo Negroes , by the Mambuti Pygmies , and by the Watusi. a race of 7-ft . African giants living as feudal chiefs in what was formerly German Tanganyika . The Pygmies sing repetitious melodies in the manner of change-ringers , each one hooting his single note in turn . The Babira Negroes of the Ituri Forest punctuate the high-pitched gargling of their soloist with aggressive whoops . The Watusi Drummers hammer an intense counterpoint of rhythms more complicated than Gene Krupa 's randiest rataplan.                     