@@144241

Pre-Nazi Vienna was a tight bottleneck for Central European news . Correspondents in Czechoslovakia , Hungary , Rumania , Yugoslavia , Bulgaria , Greece kept Vienna bureaus of the great press organizations primed . Thence the news of Central Europe-much of it brewed by good imaginations in Viennese coffeehouses- flowed out to the world comparatively free of censorship . <P> Violently upset last week was this clearinghouse press system . During the first hectic days after anschluss ( TIME , March 21 ) the lid of Nazi censorship was harshly clamped on Vienna 's journalists . Telephone calls for foreign correspondents were tapped , mail was watched , teletype communications halted . When Adolf Hitler made his belated Vienna speech , 55 newsmen , the bulk of the foreign corps , were summoned to receive press passes , promptly caged at the point of Nazi guns , allowed to watch the scene only through the Chancellery windows . <P> Nearly half of Vienna 's 25-member Anglo-American Press Association found it wise to get out of Vienna-or were bluntly ordered to leave . International News Service 's Alfred Tyrnauer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office while filing a story , his passport confiscated , his detention ordered ; when the U. S. Legation took note , he was released for transfer to the Paris I. N. S. office . The New York Times 's , bureau chief , G. E. R. Gedye , who had spent 13 years in Vienna , was ordered to leave the country in three days . His expulsion was countermanded but he would not stay . Marcel W. Fodor , famed Manchester Guardian and Chicago Daily News correspondent who supplied John Gunther and Dorothy Thompson with much of their Hitler-baiting background , thought it best for his health to flee Austria . Acme 's Photographer Ernest Kleinberg , a Polish Jew , was taken into " protective custody . " By week 's end transfer of several foreign news service bureaus to suppression-free Prague , Budapest and other Central European capitals was under way .                     