@@487349

T HE anniversaries of two revolutions and a lecture series are the improbable agents that are rapidly provoking a new political crisis in the Mexican government . The honeymoon period succeeding the overthrow of Calles last June is nearing its end . Not that these six months have been all sweetness and light fora , President Cardenas . The government 's consolidation of its power throughout the country , a problem that involved ousting the Calles governors of the individual states and exterminating the foci of Callista infection wherever they were to be found , has not been easy . But in that campaign the forces which joined to eliminate Calles have at least worked together in self-defense . Now that other issues must be faced , the essentially divided nature of the administration is glaringly revealed . Superficially a " left " government if viewed in the light of its ruthless campaign against the Callista reaction , it is actually composed of left and right elements . It is attempting to face both ways at once , to satisfy the claims and allay the fears of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power by any and all means . No social theory or program held in common brought its elements together ; their only political bonds were hostility to Calles and the thirst for office and privileges endemic among Mexican politicians . The old schism within the P. N. R. ( Partido Nacional Revolucionario ) which provoked the Calles break has not been healed ; it has merely been carried over to the new ruling group . In essence it is a quarrel over the methods by which rule is to be maintained , with the so-called Left wing favoring the traditional crimson coloring of official Mexican demagogy and the right wing drifting steadily in the direction of open reaction . In the present governmental set-up General Francisco Mitgica , Minister of Communications , and Gonzalez Vasquez Vela , Minister of Education , represent the left wing ; General Saturnino Cedillo , Minister of Agriculture , and Emilio Portes Gil , president of the P. N. R. and the man generally credited with having engineered the coup against Calles , are the chief leaders of the right wing . President Lazar() Cardenas is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existing coalition may split has made its appearance in the past few weeks , and the public controversy which recent events have raised may easily lead to a new government shake-up and Cabinet reshuffling . It has ended for the moment in a pitched battle between members of the working class , fighting under the banner of the Committee for Proletarian Defense ( the executive body of the United Front ) , and the Camisas Doradas ( Gold Shirts ) , an openly fascist body formerly maintained by ex-President Abelardo Rodriguez and Aaron Sienz , ex-Governor of the Federal District , both of whom were shorn of political power and influence by the ousting of Calles . Their organization , however , found new backers , and the direct line leading from the Dorados into the present administration is the trail of dynamite that may blow up the deceptive facade of government harmony . A brief review of the developments of the past few weeks is essential for a proper understanding of the fierce tension which has suddenly gripped Mexico City . On October 20 Vicente Lombardo Toledano , leader of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to Mexico from a three months ' study tour of the Soviet Union , where he had been the invited guest of the Russian trade unions . The C. G. 0 . C. is the largest , best organized , and most influential of the various Mexican labor and peasant groupings . It is the heir of the old C. R. 0 . M. ( ConfederaciOn Regional de Obreros Mexicanos ) once led by the redoubtable Morones , political ally of Calles and the most corrupt labor leader Mexico has ever known . When Lombardo split with Morones in 1932 he took the larger part of the organization with him , and while Morones still leads the remnants of the C. R. 0 . M. , the C. G. 0 . C. today comprises fully half the organized workers and peasants of the country . The united front formed spontaneously at the height of the Calles crisis last June has endured , and it has marked the end , even if as yet only on the surface , of the bitter rivalries and enmities within the labor movement . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent headway , had been proposing the formation of a united front . Its swift realization in a moment of crisis was largely due to this persistent campaign . Since then , the resolutions of the Comintern Congress , the threatening war situation , Fascist Italy 's aggression in Ethiopia  --  keenly felt here , as Mexican labor knows only too well the weight of imperialism  --  have served to strengthen the bonds of unity , and the recriminations which formerly kept Mexican labor hopelessly divided have largely disappeared . IVIoreover , when the united front was formed last June it was based on class consciousness , all the constituent organizations pledging themselves to a nation-wide general strike in the event of any fascist attack on the rights of the working class . Immediately upon his return Lombardo announced a series of lectures on the Soviet Union to be given by himself and Victor Manuel Villaseiior , a brilliant young lawyer and Marxist who had accompanied him on his trip . A scurrilous campaign against him was begun at once in the press . Obviously the nefarious Bolsheviks had led him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had wanted him to see , and the true state of affairs in that unhappy country had been concealed from him ; he had been hedged about by guides who were spies , by interpreters who were secret agents of the 0 . G. P. U. ( the news that the 0 . G. P. U. no longer exists has reached very few ears in Mexico ) ; his Communist sympathies ( as a matter of fact , Lombardo had been the target for merciless attacks by the Communist Party almost up to the moment of the June united front ) were well known , and of course he had found only what he had looked for . On November 7 the anniversary of the Russian Revolution was for the first time formally celebrated by Mexican labor in a meeting at which Lombardo and Hernan Laborde , secretary of the Communist Party , spoke from the same platform , also for the first time . On November 11 Lombardo delivered his first lecture in the theater of the Ministry of Education . The newspapers the next day redoubled their attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the experts of Universal and Excelsior , the two leading dailies of the city , produced sheafs of quotations from their favorite authorities on the Soviet Union ? Panait Istrati , Tatiana Tchernavina , W. E. Knickerbocker , " Believe-It-orNot " Ripley , and the ineffable Walker , Hearst 's star Russian correspondent  --  to refute it . The most transparent and vicious lies of the Hearst press were shamelessly repeated , while middle-class and conservative Mexico City nodded its collective head sagely before the testimony of these unimpeachable witnesses . Nevertheless , the lectures continued before packed audiences , and the tension grew . In practically all social circles the only topic of discussion was Lombardo and the Soviet Union . It is perhaps difficult for anyone unfamiliar with the appalling provincialism of Mexico City'to believe that a mere series of expository talks , laden with graphs and statistics , on the economic progress of the Soviet Union in the last few years could produce a state bordering on public hysteria , but that is precisely what happened . And in this atmosphere of mounting neurasthenia , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1910 . In the preliminary celebrations on November 17 a parade of sports organizations was held in which many luckless government employees who would not know a soccer ball from a tennis ball were required to march to swell the ranks of Mexico 's " revolutionary " athletes . In the line of march the Camisas Doradas , uniformed , disciplined , armed , had a prominent position . Their participation in a parade under government auspices aroused great indignation in labor circles . Who was their backer ? Their former subsidizers in the government had fled with Calles . Obviously , the organization had found a new angel who was in a position to grant it official favor and protection . And then it was announced that in the parade of Veterans of the Revolution to be held on November 20 the Dorados would again take part . The labor organizations issued a call to their members to prevent the fascists from marching , by force if necessary . Needless to say , official permission , from a government which nominally bases itself on the masses of workers and peasants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a celebration of the very revolution from which this same government claims to derive its moral authority and prestige was at best a stupid blunder . The main guilt for the tragic consequences must be laid directly at the door of the administration . Warning was duly given by the labor unions that they would oppose the Gold Shirt demonstration by every means . In this supercharged atmosphere the twentieth of November dawned and the stage was set . Shortly before noon the Dorados mobilized in the National Stadium , where they swore an oath of allegiance to the flag and passed out shirts to the hundreds of innocent recruits hastily hired for the day to increase their numbers . Then , in a semi-military column , variously estimated at from two to three thousand , they began their march through the city , with mounted and armed contingents at the head , " infantry " making up the bulk of the column , and a rear guard of another detachment of cavalry . Through bad organization and a mistaken fear that the Dorados would attempt toattack the locals of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been held on guard at their own union offices . As a result the march of the Gold Shirts ' column was practically unopposed until it reached the ZOcalo , or central plaza , at about two o'clock . There the revolutionary veterans , various workers ' and peasants ' organizations , and the Socorro Rojo ( the Mexican section of the International Red Aid ) had been holding a meeting since noon . The President 's private secretary , Luis Rodriguez , had been reviewing the demonstration from the main balcony of the palace . Orator after orator had appealed to him , as the government 's representative , to dissolve the Gold Shirts and to disband their parade before they reached the ZOcalo . Rodriguez compromised at last by sending word to the Dorado leader General Nicolas Rodriguez , not to lead his forces past the palace itself , but to debouch through one side of the plaza and so into the side streets behind the palace . It was a compromise that could not possibly prevent the impending collision . As the Dorados swept into the ZOcalo , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the demonstration . No one can say exactly how the fighting began , but within a few minutes the mounted Dorados , shouting " Death to Jews and Communists , " were charging into the packed onlookers , among them many women and children , firing their revolvers , and striking and cutting with knives and machetes . ' Taxi-drivers drove their cars against the horses , and as the newspapers here reported the engagement , it really seemed like a battle between tanks and cavalry . The workers , for the most part unarmed , defended themselves with clubs torn from the reviewing stands , stones , and bottles . After half an hour of fierce fighting the police succeeded in clearing the plaza . Casualties so far reported are five dead and fifty-odd wounded , among the latter General Rodriguez , the Dorado leader , who was stabbed in the abdomen : Today as in the crisis of last June the question on every tongue in Mexico City is : What will Cardenas do ? In view of the government 's repeated ? expression of its proletarian sympathies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But there are difficulties . While the fight was actually between them and organized labor in general , it has been made to seem a battle between fascists and Communists , so that suppression of the fascists would be almost universally interpreted as governmental protection and support of the Communist Party . The problem for Cardenas is not dissimilar to that which he faced in the Calles crisis six months ago . The Dorados are being supported by the reactionary , anti-labor , and potentially fascist members of his own government . These are the men whose alliance he won in the struggle to oust Calles . They are politically strong , and they have followers among the populace , particularly among the peasants , and in the army . Unrest is on the increase all over Mexico . Sporadic uprisings and rebellions , for the most part engineered by the Catholics  --  with money sent in by Catholic organizations in the United States  --  and by Callistas and other reactionaries , continue to break out in Guanajuato , Jalisco , Sonora , and other states , embarrassing the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little public belief in the invincibility of the administration . Only a firmly integrated government composed of politically homogeneous elements and backed by the unswerving loyalty of the masses could deal effectively with such a situation . But the Cardenas government is at cross purposes , and so far the President has not dared risk the break which an open move either to the right or to the left would provoke . To suppress the Gold Shirts would be to affront not only their backers within the government but finance capital and the United States as well , for it would imply support of the Communist Party . Not to suppress them will mean the risk of a country-wide general strike , which the united front , in its protest against the events of the twentieth , has already threatened . If Cardenas allows the incident to develop to the point of a general , strike , it can only mean that he has decided on a showdown , not with the reaction , but with labor , for such a workers ' movement could be crushed only by armed force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hand to be forced . What he is most likely to seek is a compromise formula which will allow him to retain working-class support without splitting his administration wide openand without bringing down on his head the wrath of the White House . Unfortunately , the nature of such a compromise is all too obvious . Suppression of both organizations  --  the Dorados and the Communist Party  --  would keep peace in his Cabinet , satisfy the press and middle-class opinion , and alienate only a minority of organized labor . It would have the added advantage of splitting labor 's united front without seeming to , of sowing again the seeds of mutual distrust among the various sections of the labor movement , which the united front has nearly uprooted , of preserving labor 's support of the government and at the same time eliminating from its ranks the most articulate and critical opponents'of the administration 's pseudo-socialism . Moreover , such a maneuver would undermine Lombardo 's position within his own organization . The C. G. 0 . C. and the rest of Mexican organized labor are too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the defense of their new comrades in the face of a determined assault by the government .                     