@@456157

THE Jew has alternately rejected and embraced the world ; he has never come to terms with it . For a half millennium he secluded himself within ghetto walls , totally unconcerned about what lay beyond . Confined by the pressure of persecution and moulded by the influences of a traditional culture , he became a sharply defined personality , living his own patterns of conduct and thinking in a unique universe of discourse . But the day came when the world would not be denied , when it insinuated itself into his retreat , upsetting his balance of life , disturbing his peace . It hinted beguilingly of freedom and emancipation , of a fuller existence and a richer being . It beckoned , and the Jew crept forth . He tasted of this strange experience called liberty . It was sweet to the palate ; he wanted more . So he abandoned his ghettos for the pursuit of it , he stripped off his protective segregation and exposed himself . The modern world took hold of him . It bent and twisted , thumped , kneaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of emancipation a new creature , the Jew as the world knows him to-day . Despite the entrance of the Jew into society , the modern world understands him no better than did the mediaeval . Israel still runs true to form as the riddle among the peoples of the world . 26When the Christian of the Middle Ages referred to Jews , he knew exactly whom he meant . He was talking about those alien recluses who lived in ghettos , who read books in talismanic characters , who refused the true faith , and who uniformly and scrupulously performed suspicious rites . What the Christian could not comprehend was why the Jew did these things or how he managed to survive . The modern Gentile is puzzled for an entirely different reason . When he thinks about Jews at all , it is with a sense of pained confusion . His experience with Jews is replete with contradictions . He knows some Jews who are pietists and others who are atheists , some who are radicals and some who are reactionaries , some who are cynics and others who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are crude and brash with the boisterousness of parvenus , and moved to admiration by the quiet self-respect and poise of others . He always assumed that Jews were learned in their own heritage , only to discover many of profound intellectual attainments who are familiar with every literature but Hebrew , at home in any civilization except their own . His confusion is infinitely worse confounded when he considers the divergent attitudes of Jews to their own group and its tradition . He knows one HOW THE JEW DOES IT Jew who is passionately loyal to an . cestral sanctities and another entirely careless of them . He has met the Jew who eagerly seeks social acceptance from Gentile society and the Jew who is content to live within his own people . He has heard Jews argue sincerely for the assimilation and disappearance of the group into the larger body of mankind , and others insist on the right and duty of the Jew to persist as a distinct personality . Consider for a moment some of the contradictions and conflicts of the Jewish scene as they reveal themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city on a Saturday morning a Jew makes his way from the synagogue . His handkerchief is bound about his wrist , for rabbinic law prohibits the carrying of even the slightest burden on the ' Sabbath . Five precepts of the Law of Moses forbid shaving , wherefore no razor has ever touched his face . The weather may be inclement , but he will not ride , even in a public conveyance driven by and for Gentiles . He has recited the prescribed Sabbath prayer ; he will soon partake of an elaborate meal prepared the day before in strict conformity with traditional rules of diet . Twice more , before the sacred day is passed , will he intone immutable formularies of prayer . At dusk , he will kindle a light for the first time in twenty-four hours and send the Sabbath angels away , as ordained , with the sweet savor of spices . In the eyes of the world he may be a living anachronism , a vestigial survival of medievalism ; in his own eyes he is a loyal Jew , obeying God 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lovely . Along the same street , in perfect oblivion of the Sabbath , another Jew drives his automobile from his place of business to a luncheon engagement . From the point of view of Jewish tradition , he is sacrilege in motion ' : a redundancy of transgression . He has shaved , he has labored , he is riding , he has not prayed . The food he is to eat is forbidden and no wine cup will be blessed before he partakes . The game of golf or bridge which will afford his afternoon 's entertainment is a travesty on the ancestral conception of a day of rest . If he is properly representative of his type , he has never given the whole matter a passing thought . At best , he has endured a perfunctory twinge of an anaemic conscience , or a transient nostalgia for an older way of life . At worst , he has dismissed it all as obsolete and fit only for those Jews who are not sufficiently modern to know any better . Or consider the following contrast . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment of condescending attention . His whole life is concentrated on earning an accolade from the non-Jew . The mark of his triumph is enveloped in an invitation to a dinner or a membership card in some Gentile club . To attain his end , he has stripped himself deliberately of ' every vestige of his Judaism . He has Anglicized or Teutonized his name ; his home is as conventionally American or German as he could possibly make it . Because he feels insecure , he is driven to ape his neighbors in every detail . He assimilates himself so completely to his environment that he becomes an object of suspicion . His conventionality is so perfect that it proclaims its spuriousness , his patriotic ardor toward the land of his residence so complete that it betrays deliberation . He may deny his Jewish descent and sedulously avoid contaminating contact with other Jews . Normally , it is all in vain . He finds the Gentile suspicious , polite , and cold . Ultimately he is convinced that the world does not want him . He then takes refuge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a class of Jews who do not want to be what they are and can not be anything else . In a communion of affliction , they look on yearningly like beggar children at the windows of palaces in fairy tales . In direct antithesis stands the Jewish chauvinist , always forcing his Jewish identity on the attention of the world . This super-Jew may not be conventionally religious ; his observance of tradition is often more than a little ragged ; even his knowledge of the group culture may be a bit hazy ? but his pride is explosively inflated and his allegiance impeccably complete . He resents militantly any aspersion on Jewish honor , even when it is justified , and resists bitterly any insinuation of inferiority . For the renegade , the assimilator , the social climber , he entertains a vigorous contempt . In the intensity of his loyalty , he insists that the world shall know him for what he is , and , with a dramatic flourish , he binds his Jewishness for a sign upon his hand and for frontlets between his eyes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toss of the coin which is more objectionable , the ingratiating and fawning suppliant or the supersensitive and belligerent patriot . II This series of violent contrasts is not confined to conduct and social attitude . It penetrates into the realm of Jewish ideology ; it has split the philosophers and theorizers of Jewish life into two camps ? the assimilationist and the loyalist . Some there are who point to the bitterness of the Jewish lot , to the irritation which the Jew inflicts on the Gentile . They advocate the deliberate and conscious dissolution of the Jewish group on thegrounds that the Jewish problem can be solved only when there are no Jews . Over against these counselors of mass disappearance stand the protagonists of survival , the justifiers of persistence . For them , assimilation involves a too heroic surgery on the Jewish personality . In their eyes , the attempt at submergence is impossible of success so long as the Gentile world exhibits little cordiality even to the dejudaized Jew . Above all , the whole effort of escape implies a wanton disregard for a great historic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations of man . All of these contrasting illustrations from the Jewish scene are extreme and limited cases . The reader will recognize them as such . Most Jews are neither totally observant of nor completely indifferent to traditional practices , neither eager aspirants for Gentile acceptance nor contemptuous of it , neither deliberate assimilationists nor subtle loyalists . In addition , the vast majority are neither completely ignorant of nor adequately informed in Jewish culture . Their knowledge is composed of odds and ends of information ? fragments , half truths , and misconceptions . The average Jew is , then , a pathetically confused person who stands midway between these ultimate states and knows not which way to turn . He observes some Jewish forms and not others , nor is he entirely clear as to the logic which impels his acceptances and rejections . He would like to be at home among Gentiles ; he actually feels comfortable only with his fellows . He is deeply , if unreasonably , loyal to his past and present , but he has his moments when he wonders what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abuse him , and inquires whether he and the world would not be happier if he could cut away his Jewishness in one clean stroke . Such is the portrait of the modern Jew , the picture of his conflicts , contradictions , and confusions ? a people that seems less a people than a potpourri of diverse individuals , a group in chaos to which it appears futile to apply logical categories . Of all the prophecies of Scripture concerning Israel , one has been fulfilled , even if not in its original connotation : ' And ye shall be unto me a peculiar people . ' Now , the Jew may be an anomaly ; he is certainly no miracle . Yet , when one recalls the figure of the ghetto Jew in its pre-emancipation lineaments , one is tempted to postulate some magician 's wand , some sorcerer 's charm , to explain how , from what he once was , the Jew became what he now is . A bare century and a half ago , the Jew lived apart from the world under a tacit covenant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conduct , to which he adhered uniformly and rigidly in all the diverse lands of his dispersion . He knew one culture and this he cultivated carefully and lovingly . In the larger world he displayed no interest ; it was a place of cold crudities and of an inferior morality . He regarded it with patient tolerance ; certainly he felt no desire to win either approval or acceptance from it . No haunting doubts beset him as to ultimate ends and objectives ; he never asked himself whether it was not the part of wisdom to lose himself among the nations . The God of his fathers had elevated him to a high position and none could question the omniscience of the Divine . Mediaeval Jewry stands , then , in sharp contrast to modern . It was homogeneous and universally ordered rather than formless and inchoate . It was serene and self-contained , at peace with itself , and not restless with perplexities . It was free from either servile subjection to the world or blatantrebellion against it . And it was rich in its possession of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sicklied over with abstract alternatives of to be or not to be . Only cataclysmic events could have effected so violent a transformation , only the strangest alchemies of destiny could have driven the Jew so far in so short a time . It is to this transforming and disintegrating history that we must now turn our attention . In our analysis of it , the character of the modern Jew will find explication , his contradictions resolve themselves reasonably . Without this understanding , the Jew must appear an absurd and unreasonable grotesque . With it , he may still be a strange or even an unpleasant person ; he will at least be intelligible . III More than the Bastille fell on July 14 , 1789 ; in its capitulation feudalism gave up the ghost . Through the thunder of falling beams could be heard the tolling of a death knell . An old order had changed , yielding place to new . For the nations of Western Europe the French Revolution was a spectacular but not a decisive event . It introduced no violent changes in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were for all practical intents already dead . The events of the last decade of the eighteenth century were only the elaborate rites of a decent burial . For the Jew alone the French Revolution inaugurated a real revolution . Only his world experienced radical transformation . And when the smoke and dust of struggle subsided a half century later , his seclusion had disappeared ; he had been transformed from a passive and indifferent spectator into an active and interested partici- pant in European affairs , his character and personality had been remade . The Jew did not slip unconsciously from medievalism into modernity ; he was catapulted into it headlong . Just as he passed from Palestine to the Diaspora in one decisive step , so he moved dizzily from the Middle Ages into the modern world within one or two fateful decades . The ghetto of 1750 may chronologically be assigned to the eighteenth century ; in spirit it lived in the fourteenth . For five hundred years the withdrawal of the Jew had been complete . A Renaissance had come and gone , a Protestant Reformation had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new science and a new philosophy had been conceived , but , except in isolated instances , none of these penetrated into the Judengasse . There time had stopped . For the half millennium prior to the French Revolution , the Jew was a chronological absurdity . And then time remembered that it had forgotten him . It seized him by the forelock and dragged him , willy-nilly , over a span of five hundred years in fifty . The general history of Europe closes the Middle Ages with the Renaissance or Reformation ; it allows three to four centuries for the transition to modern society . The Jewish historian turns one page ? dated July 14 , 1789 . Within twenty-five years from the fall of the Bastille , the Jew in every land in Western Europe had attained partial emancipation . For words are potent things ; they carry a dynamic logic of their own . When Europe had once subscribed to the slogans of the Revolution , ? Liberty , Fraternity , and Equality , ? not even inveterate prejudices could keep their implications from affecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revolutionary to mouth three ab stract nouns , always with the reservation ' except for the Jews . ' To ghetto masses all this was a bewildering but refreshing experience . They generally greeted their change of status enthusiastically ; they availed themselves of their new rights and privileges ; they learned , in an incredibly short time , to take them for granted . And then they reached for more , and their knuckles were rapped for their greed . In 1815 came the violent counter-revolution . The ragged survivors of the feudal order in solemn session at the Congress of Vienna voted to set back the clock . They resolved that every trace of the nightmare of the Revolution must be obliterated . Europe must return to normality , to the glory of ante-bellum days . The Jew was shocked and sobered . Once again he heard the order , Dog , to your ghetto ! ' Once more he timidly doffed his hat when a Gentile called , ' Jude , mach Mores . ' Thus did the world coquette cruelly with the Jew , thus did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he reached , withdrew . With each lunge he won an additional favor , from each effort he fell back dissatisfied . The history of the Jew in the nineteenth century is a recurrent succession of concessions and their denial . When the whole mad game was over , the Jew had won much , but not everything ; his hands were full , but it was of the ragtag odds and ends of freedom , of the semblance of emancipation but not its essential integrity . The ghetto was gone ; the life it sheltered went with it . Once the wild rush of liberating events was launched , degeneration proceeded with dizzy rapidity . Age-old habits of life disappeared , hoary ideas and ideals dissolved , a whole society vanished in a puff of historic smoke . That so solid a world should melt away seems incredible . Not even the change in external circumstance quite accounts for it . The secret of the velocity of decay is to be discovered in the peculiar conditions of mediaeval Jewish stability . Equilibrium , whether physical or social , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of inertia ? the secure quiet of a book flat on a table . On the other hand , it may describe the deceptive rest of a body in infinite motion . The stability of the ghetto was that of a spinning top ; it was the result of the interplay of social powers ; it gave the illusion of firmness because the resolution of forces balanced exactly . Emancipation disturbed the stabilizing dynamism , and the collapse of a society followed . The mediaeval Jew had long awaited his Messiah , but never dreamed that he would incarnate himself in the squat form of a Corsican upstart . He had listened patiently for the word of salvation , and , paradoxically , it was heard in revolutionary slogans spun out of the brains of rationalists and agnostics . He had hoped for an ultimate rest from his afflictions , and had achieved instead the breathlessness of a transforming pursuit . Iv The witches in Macbeth put the liver of a Jew into their boiling pot ; into its seething cauldron society plunged the whole of him . Freely it applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the elixir of a magical transformation . For a century and a half this mixture has boiled and bubbled effectively . Through the steaming vapors one can already see the older Jewish personality melting away , an ancient culture in dissolution . How the chemistry of modern history effected this metamorphosis in char- acter and social order is our next concern . Sooner or later it was inevitable that modern thought should intrude upon the Jewish mind and awaken it from its intellectual medievalism . The awakening unfortunately was a rude one . With emancipation the Jew became free to walk abroad in the world and his eyes were opened . It must be said of him that he was an apt student . In one generation he overtook the intellectual lead of Europe gained through five centuries . But in the course of this pursuit he discarded one invaluable possession ? his traditional theology , which was also his raison d'etre . He read modern philosophy , and it converted his God from a vivid personality , such as might conceivably have chosen an Abraham , into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nullity . The study of comparative religion revealed the fact that he had no monopoly on claims to revelation , and Biblical criticism shook his confidence in the divinity of his regimen of life . He applied the theory of evolution to his own history and discovered that his group life had been , not that of a mystic agent of God , but rather the struggle of an organism for survival . The Jewish religious skeptic now appeared . All groups have their share of doubters on issues divine . Among Jewish intellectuals they are both more numerous and more vehement than elsewhere . For , unlike Christian theology , Jewish religious speculation had no opportunity to make progressive adjustment to the development of modern thought . The inroad of scientific knowledge came as a surprise attack . In disproportionate numbers , Jews who came to know modern thought rejected religion entirely . Except in Russia , no intellectuals are as rabidly anticlerical as newly emanci- pated Jews . Their rabbis for centuries , they feel , have been misleading them ; they would have continued to do so had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , the Jewish assimilationist becomes comprehensible . Once the traditional atmosphere has been dissipated , the Jew can no longer claim for his group either election , divine guidance , or ultimate victory . These positions are either untenable completely or radically doubtful . But since these concepts historically have formed the rationale of his existence , he is no longer sure what the group is living for . He is compelled to cast about for a new apologia for Judaism , a new logic to justify it , and he fails to find one . He then considers the pain and frustration which the world inflicts on the Jew and the troublesome irritation which it suffers from him . The horrible conviction settles in his mind that the whole of Jewish agony , past and present , is some wanton , pointless jest . Shall a people , he asks , continue to suffer and weep for no reason and to no end ? Better that it lose itself , that the slate be wiped clean . In one other realm of the intellect did the new order affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarship . For untold centuries the Jew had found in his learning courage in his suffering , escape from a threatened insanity , and a compensation for his lot . He cherished and nurtured it with that intensity with which a mind threatened by degeneration clings to elements of lucidity . He trusted in its value ; he was assured that no system of thought was as accurate , no literature as rich , no culture as elevating , as was his . Then Western knowledge unfolded its ample page , rich with the spoils of time . The intellectual pride of the Jew turned to confusion . He grew ashamed because of his medievalism . He felt that he was the Rip Van Winkle of Europe , still clothed in the tattered rags of a style long obsolete . His culture had philosophy , science , and theology , but they were outmoded . He was without the art , music , and drama which made Gentile civilization graceful . Elemental intellectual honesty compelled the Jew to turn his efforts from his own outdated culture to the thought of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an author , or an artist , and to his new efforts he brought the same spirit of consecration with which once he approached the Hebrew tome . His love of learning has remained spectacular , his insistence on education emphatic . He crowds the professions to the point of suffocation . Modern life has changed the direction of the Jewish intellect ; it could not dissipate its intensity , developed through centuries . Blinded by a novel brilliance , the Jew to-day gives scant attention to the quiet light of his native culture . He assumes that its outmoded exterior reflects an essential irrelevance . He presents a strange paradox to the world ? a man who knows all histories except his own , all philosophies but that of his people , who reads books in all the seventy tongues but who can not generally construe a word of Hebrew . Concomitant with this dissipation of mental climate went the disintegration of Jewish practice . For the theology and ideology had been not merely avenues of mental escape ; they had been theories of sanction for routinized living , props @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world kicked these intellectual foundations out from under , the collapse of the superstructure was inevitable . Ancient group habits were now without a preservative rationale . Compelled to live with and among Gentiles , exposed to disintegrating alien influences , the Jew suddenly found the observances of his father burdensome . They kept him from his shops on Saturday , they broke into his normal day with innumerable and irrelevant interruptions , they erected a barrier of diet between him and his recently acquired Christian a 44ciriatac . The Jew cast about for some logical reason to justify all this troublesome inconvenience . He found none ; he yielded to the demands of his interests and compromised . And now the process of attrition , so long inhibited , began in earnest . There was generally nothing precipitate about the sloughing of Jewish habits . The automatisms of conduct rarely break sharply . They are worn away only gradually . But , once the first concessions are made , the landslide begins . With the passage of time the individual Jew yields more and more , conforms less and less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes on with accelerating momentum . Herein lies the explanation of the contemporary crazy quilt of Jewish practice . Some few Jews there are to-day who have made no concessions , remembering facilis desceneue Averni . Others there are who have yielded in some things but not in others . And there are those who , in more than a dietary sense , have gone ' the whole hog , ' whose lives are distinguished by not a single traditional form or practice . To Israel Zangwill we are indebted for the most apt characterization of this nonconformist chaos . He puts into the mouth of an Irish maid employed in a Jewish household this sage observation : ' To-night being yer Sabbath , you 'll be blowing out yer bedroom candle , though ye wo n't light it ; Mr. David 'll light his and blow it out too ; and the old misthress wo n't even touch the candleshtick . There 's three religions in this house , not wan . ' V If the history of the Jew of the Middle Ages be a tragic drama , then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For the essence of tragedy is the heroic theme , and there is little of heroism in recent Judaism . The act of renunciation may often be futile and unintelligent , but it is always dignified . Through his renunciation of the world the mediaeval Jew acquired an epic quality that obscured his physical squalor . But the modern Jew is done with the self-immolation of his fathers . He has eaten of the fruits of the tree of emancipation and has developed an insatiate appetite for his new diet . The world , however , is still a grudging giver ; it liberates the Jew only bit by bit . Even now it withholds much . As a result , the Jew finds himself a perpetual suppliant , constrained to wheedle and flatter for the residue of liberty and acceptance which has been withheld . His posture is neither dignified nor graceful . An Achilles sulking in a tent is a fitting theme for a Homeric poet ; an Achilles scrambling headlong after an ever-elusive tortoise is a theme only for a comedian ? or a philosopher . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude toward Gentile society undergoes a radical transformation . Compelled by circumstance to plead for equality , he acquires unconsciously a beggar 's psychology . Thus is born that sense of inferiority which perverts and degrades the Jewish personality , which drives so many Jews to imitate Gentiles blindly . The stupidity of undiscriminating imitation has infected every phase of contemporary Jewish life . No names are so immaculately Anglo-Saxon as those with which Jewish parents afflict their offspring . Jews eat food they do not like , engage in sports and games for which they have no aptitude , and train their children in amenities that appear inconsequential to them ? all because such is the fashion of the Gentile . The Jew who once refused to imitate the virtues of the non-Jew now sedulously copies even his vices . The very ritual of the synagogue is often appraised by the alien standards of the outer world . The Jew is a subtle person , and when he is accused of an indecent lack of self-respect he has his answer prepared ; he offers an ingenious defense of his parrot-like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world refuse unreserved recognition to Jews ? A plausible explanation is that Jews insist on being distinct personalities , on clinging to their otherness . The very logic of the situation demands a deliberate remaking of the Jew into a Gentile . The more emulation , the less social discrimination . This is the casuistic logic of contemporary Jewish mimicry , the rationalization of a programme of imitation . The Jewish social climber is the natural product of this servile psychology . Cursed by a sense of inferiority , overwhelmed by a presumption of the superiority of the non-Jewish world , the Jew determines to win acceptance from it . The more often he is rebuffed , the more desirable entrance into it becomes ; the more he insists , the more transparent and tawdry appear both his motives and his means . Gentile society is polite ; it never tells the unwanted Jew the unpleasant truth ; it even , in moments of weakness , gives him grounds for hope . Never discouraged , yet never successful , he eats out his heart in impotent rage , a despicable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ingratiation has now been in process for a century and a half . In each generation when the Jew awoke to the meanness of his pursuit , he placated his outraged self-respect by assuring himself that the end justified the means , that the game was worth the candle . But after he had played long enough he became oppressed with a sense of futility . The winning of Gentile recognition seemed discouragingly prolonged , like those ghastly nightmares in which one wanders through labyrinthine corridors hoping always to find a way out but never succeeding . At each stage the world held something back ; at each step it insisted , ' Thus far and no further . ' The ointment was never without some fly , minute as it might be . For a time , at each point , the Jew engaged in wishful thinking . He believed , because he wanted to believe it , that the whole evil would disappear if only certain trifling factors were modified . He pinned his hopes successively on the fall of some reactionary minister , on the correction of specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the universalization of popular education . The reactionary minister fell , the specific economic evils were mitigated , democracy became a pious reality , and literacy attained to a delightful universality ? and still salvation had not come , acceptance was not complete . The old flies in the ointment had been removed only to reveal the presence of others hitherto unsuspected . The upshot of the whole process was a progressive disillusionment . No game is worth the candle if the game can never be won . Out of perpetual frustration many a Jew turned to counsels of despair . If the Gordian knot could not be unraveled , it might perhaps be cut . The first of these avenues of wild escape was obviously religious conversion . HOW THE J During the first half of the nineteenth century in Western Europe , and the latter half in Eastern Europe , a strange travesty was enacted ? a parade of hypocrites to the baptismal font where Jews hoped to become as Christians , not in religion but in social advantage . In early emancipation days thousands of desperate Jews made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halted abruptly . The Jew discovered that the church offered no social salvation . The world suspected the Christianized Jew ; it doubted the efficacy of holy water to change his spots . The rise of the Jewish radical reflects in part a second counsel of despair . No apology need be given for the fact that a people has its rebels . Whether the Jewish group has more than its share of social revolutionaries is a moot point . In any event , certain factors in the contemporary Jewish scene logically incline the Jew toward programmes of fundamental correction in society . In the first place , he is heir to a great ethical tradition and a body of law which persistently stress the rights of man and the ideal of social justice . In the second , he is relatively a newcomer in European society . He regards the world with a fresh objectivity , with a critical appraisal undimmed by habituation . But , in large measure , the Jewish radical is a direct result of the vagaries of emancipation . When the Jew has lost his old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he rises in rebellion , he determines to shatter an inhospitable society to bits and remould it nearer to his heart 's desire . The world has raised its afflicting hand against him ; no wonder , then , that his hand strikes back against his oppressor . And if , by reason of either temperament or training , the Jew can not become a radical , he tends to be a cynic . What faith can he put in the // professions of the Western World , when his own lot demonstrates their insincerity ? From personal experience , he knows that the ideal of human brotherhood is a dishonest myth , equality a Sunday School aphorism , and the worship of democracy a lip service . Acutely conscious of the failure in practice of human ideals , he rejects all idealism as a conventional lie of civilization . The same history that created social climber , radical , and cynic has produced the Jewish chauvinist . The world does not genuinely want its Jews . Pride often leads the Jew to contempt of the world . The answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Jewish rebel cry is heard again , ' To your tents , 0 Israel ' ; and less audibly , for even the super-Jew fears Gentile censure , ' A plague on all your houses . ' Underneath this chaos of a society in decay and personality in transition runs , like some sombre undertone , a refrain of pain and restlessness . When an old world dies and a new world is not yet born , the soul of man is left homeless . It has been expelled from the quiet of the order that has perished . The new body in which it is to incarnate itself struggles toward birth but is not yet actualized . The modern Jew , then , is a man of sorrows , of split personality and divided loyalty . If he is normal , he loves the past of his people , he is possessed of an instinctive devotion to it . He surrenders it only grudgingly and hankers after it when it is gone . But , since he is human , he knows that his future and his interests lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asserted that the Jew is a neurotic . Certainly his conduct impresses observers as unbalanced and unstable . The explanation of this maladjustment is to be found in recent history and contemporary conditions . The Jew to-day stands astraddle of two worlds , with his feet planted on two different orders . One breaks under him whenever he rests his weight upon it , the other heaves in protest against him and seeks to shake him off . Only a people of acrobats could preserve a semblance of poise on a footing so unstable . VI At no time , during this entire process of disintegration , was the Jew unaware of what it was doing to his personality and group culture . Attentively he watched the liquefying of his fast-frozen civilization and its ever-quickening dissolution . With anxious apprehension , he observed the emergence from his own body politic of agnostics and assimilationists , of social climbers , imitators , radicals , and chauvinists . The great masses of Jewry unconsciously adopted a philosophy of same qui Nut . Impelled by the momentum of two thousand years and inspired by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wreck what he could . Despite the lack of a formulated programme , the undeliberate loyalist ( a phrase descriptive of a vast majority ) succeeded surprisingly . He preserves to this day great patches of traditional practice , deep wells of ancient loyalty , large fragments of ancestral culture . He has , by and large , avoided the alternative pitfalls of a surrender of self-respect and a recourse to counsels of desperation . For all his mental confusion , he represents the human strength of Judaism to-day , the material through which programmes of solution must find expression . On the other hand , from the very inception of the collapse the need for deliberate planning became apparent . Face to face with a cataclysmic emergency , theorizers of Jewish life proceeded to the formulation of philosophies of reconstruction which might be adequate to the problem . Early in the nineteenth century , the first attempt at a competent ideology was made , the philosophy known as ' reform Judaism ' was conceived . In the ghetto the Jew had been a Jew purely and simply . Now that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was bewildered as to his status ; he was at a loss to understand how he could be both a Jew and a citizen of his own country . The imps qce was traversed by redefining the nature of Jewish identity . The Jew , argued the theorizers of reform , is actually a German , Frenchman , or Briton in nationality , culture , and social identity . He is a Jew only in theology , religion , and tenets of belief . By this doctrine , Judaism was a religious communion and the Jew a member of a sect . Now traditional Judaism had , to be sure , included a credal atmosphere , but it had been much larger than that . These metaphysicians of Jewish life were not deterred . They proceeded to make Judaism conform to their Procrustean bed , to eliminate all aspects of the whole that could not be explained in credal terms . They reduced Judaism to a pallid religiosity ; by systematic emasculation they excised those virile qualities which alone could enlist the intense loyalty which the hour of stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has accelerated the centrifugal momentum ; intended to make survival possible , it has , at the worst , encouraged dejudaization , and , at the best , only retarded it . If the emancipation and its consequences shocked all Jews , the failure of reform to inhibit disintegration threw many into a blind panic and fear . One attempt had been made to come to terms with the world , only to end in frustration. , A return to medievalism followed close upon this recognition : the new orthodox Jew was born . The orthodoxy of the new orthodox Jew is not the undeliberate conformity of his fathers . It is conscious and calculating . It argues that any rapprochement with Gentile society must lead to ultimate group extinction . It demands a mental if not a physical return to the ghetto . Let the Jew close his eyes to the results of modern science and philosophy ; let him make a wild leap of faith and accept the divine origin of traditional Judaism . Then the process of compromise in conduct is nipped in the bud , the Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are to-day thousands of Jews who , in obedience to this solution , obey every tenet which mediaeval Jewry held sacred . The intent is laudably honorable , the programme none the less sadly futile . Their Judaism refuses to bend ; it must ultimately break . Only most recently has a fresh start been made toward the formulation of a theory of Jewish existence which shall be true to essential tradition and equal to the demands of contemporary conditions . A more adequate ideology is now being evolved . Its form is still not definitive , yet its larger outlines are sufficiently clear to make possible tentative statement . The protagonists of this philosophy make three presuppositions which they regard as axiomatic to any rationale of Judaism . The first of these is the impossibility of escape . Experience has demonstrated that complete acceptance by the world is impossible . A few Jews may achieve it ; the bulk of Jews must remain Jews , if for no other reason than that anti-Semitism will not allow anything else . The second postulate asserts that , even were assimilation readily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For all that much of Jewish tradition is obsolete and untenable , its essential character is still unique and unimpaired . The ancient way , representing four thousand years of wise experience , can still be , if not the best way , at least as good as any other . And if the Jew must , in any event , continue to suffer frustration and denial , he may as well derive all the satisfactions that unapologetic Jewish living affords . The final assumption underlying the new programme stresses the necessity for immediate action . At present , the Jewish group still possesses predominating numbers of individuals whose conduct and loyalty are largely traditional . Besides , it still can count on huge reserves of human material from Eastern Europe , where Jewry still lives under the ancient regime and the Jewish pattern is , by and large , undisturbed . In consequence , a sense of half-hysterical urgency drives the re-constructionist . The new programme must become operative before it is too late , before the tenuous allegiances of the West are completely dissipated , before the East withdraws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and culture will attain a point at which all effort becomes hopeless . Proceeding from these three premises , the new philosophy of Jewish existence spins forth its theoretic apologia pro vita sue . Judaism , it indicates , is the unique culture and civilization of the Jewish people , possessed of its own peculiar qualities , traits , and attitudes . Like any other civilization , it represents an organic nexus of a literature , language , folk ways , group hopes , and aspirations . In this living whole , religion is at once the driving motif and the ideal expression , but it is by no means the whole or even the largest part . This , in a nutshell , is the essence of the new ideology . Its authors already draw from its logic huge practical implications . They demand a rebirth of learning . They insist on a return to a modified and adapted practice , less on theological grounds than because these forms are the mores of the Jewish group . To the old fear of a divided social loyalty they respond by arguing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his land and that of his ancestry . The Jew is no less patriotic an American , Briton , or German because he is endowed with a second civilization . On the contrary , he can , if he is alert , make himself the medium of an intellectual leavening . The culture of his country will be enriched by the fructifying stimulation of another system of thought . Civilizations , like flowers , blossom bountifully only through the transference of pollen . More than thin-spun philosophical programmes , the dream of restoring a Jewish homeland in Palestine has breathed life into a moribund decadence . By its apparently impossible quixotism , Zionism infuses the drabness of Jewish existence with a spirit of adventure . It affords a dramatic purpose analogous to older dreams of a Messianic restoration . The Jew finds in it a programme of physical action , a release from eternally painful debate . It has made possible , at least in one land , a full , dynamic Jewish life , a revival of a complete civilization . That culture , free and untrammeled , need not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not overshadowed with the haggard threat of dissolution . Palestinian Jewry is culturally creative as no Diaspora community has been in two thousand years . It has evoked a renaissance of Hebrew literature , art , and music . Out of its vitality , revivifying impulses have passed to the dispersion . The Zionist can now tell himself that even if his deepest dreads are realized , even if Jewry of the Diaspora is doomed , even then , with the failing strength of death , he has built for himself one society where his incarnate spirit shall defy time and its corrosions . VII Our description of the contemporary Jewish scene is complete . Before our eyes has been unfolded the pageant of character in transition , of personality in contradiction , and of programmes in conflict . The decisive issue has now been joined . The powers of dissolution struggle chaotically with the newer reenforcements of a self-respecting survival . It is natural that one should undertake to read the future , that an attempt be made to foresee the final event on that deleted materialThe world from curiosity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Watchman , what of the night ? ' But the modern student , for all his personal loyalties , must simulate the indifferent manner of science and answer , ' I am no prophet ; neither am I a prophet 's son . '                     