@@494016

Eddies in National Power Policy : II WHEN Dr. Arthur E. Morgan , chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority , gets out of step with national power policy one can not call it a ripple , it is a real eddy . First , this is because Dr. Morgan is an engineer of widely recognized attainments , a creative educator and inspiring teacher , and a public-spirited citizen ; and second , because as a government official his function includes not only widespread planning but administrative execution on an important scale . Dr. Morgan both in speaking and writing has in recent months elaborated ideas as to the theory and practice of regulating private utilities not shared by the rank and file of those who , beginning about the time of President Theodore Roosevelt and under his active leadership , have struggled to put the government ? local , state and federal ? in command of the utility situation . Dr. Morgan , for instance , believes in pooled power where government and the private industry sit as equals on a board of control . He would dispose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is equivalent to preventing the sale of government energy except to private companies . In fixing the price to be paid by a municipality for a privately owned utility property , he would add promoter 's profits to fair value . And his concern for preserving the integrity of the private industry makes him at times an apologetic advocate of public rights . These points of view are those of the private interests ? not of the public . They are views quite generally held in the early nineties . Their adoption at this time would destroy much that has been gained . To understand fully Dr. Morgan 's present-day attitude toward public power , one must go back more than twenty-five years , to March 25 , 1913 , when high water on the Miami River caused the Dayton flood and the loss of many lives . A board of three prominent citizens was appointed to make engineering plans for controlling ' future floods , and Morgan , then head of the Morgan Engineering Company , was retained as chief engineer . If there were to be dams there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development could get through the **26;616;TOOLONG Ohio Legislature . So in recognition of this situation Dr. Morgan and his colleagues borrowed an English conservancy act as the basis for the Ohio statute . The three utility lawyers who collaborated in writing the law also obtained their convenient " conservancy " views from similar old English usage pertaining almost exclusively to the drainage of excess waters from swamps in England . There never was power of any kind ? mechanical or electrical ? in English conservancy . Water-power development , of which there is a minimum in level England , always requires special legislation . As might be expected under the Ohio act as passed , conservancy districts are not allowed to generate and purvey power . They probably have the right to lease out power sites , but even about this there is a difference of opinion . When it came to constructing dams on the Miami Dr. Morgan was " primarily responsible " ? to use his own words ? for having the court make a finding that " the dams should not be used for power development or for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his understanding of controlling Ohio opinion , so he put a granite block in each of the dams , reading , " The dams of the Miami Conservancy District are for flood-control purposes . Their use for power development or for storage would be a menace to the cities below . " As these five reservoirs of the Miami Conservancy District have never been 50-percent full , it is obvious that Dayton and down-stream on the Miami have received ample protection . Some of this protection , however , appears to have been at the expense of points beyond . In fact this project is an outstanding example of uncoordinated flood control . It has local , but not national significance . Many of the best informed engineers believe that if these gateless retarding dams had not been built , the crest at Cincinnati in 1933 would have been three or more feet lower . The greater part of the water in the Miami Valley would have run out into the Ohio and on to the Mississippi before the Scioto River water reached Cincinnati . It must be frankly admitted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River nearly twenty-five years ago , there were few engineers who believed in multiple-purpose dams . The following extract from a letter dated March 7 , 1935 , from Robert E. Horton , a distinguished consulting hydraulic engineer , expresses perhaps the best modern view : I believe firmly ? though I have no exact calculations before me ? that the power which could have been prpduced by the Miami projects built as storage reservoirs would have carried all or a large part of the harden of costs , which has , in effect , and there is no mistaking it , had to be carried by direct taxation and which has therefore been a total loss because there have been no floods down to date since these reservoirs were built which really required the use of reservoirs . ... Much has been learned in recent years about the economies and hydrology of operation of reservoirs in reservoir systems . Given a well worked out operating schedule , there is no reason why a system of reservoirs may not provide adequately for flood control or flood relief and at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not merely secondary power . In the twenty years between the completion of the Miami works and the beginning of the New Deal , Dr. Morgan divided his time between drainage and other types of engineering carried on by his firm , and educational work principally in Dayton and at Yellow Springs , Ohio . In the middle twenties he was a member of the advisory committee of the Pennsylvania Giant Power Survey , of which I was director . I recall his advocacy at that time of a school at which utility cost-finding would be taught . This was to have been in connection with Antioch College , of which he was president . He also expressed his grave doubts as to the desirability of public ownership . In one of the monthly leaflets sent out by Antioch not long before he took his post with the TVA , Dr. Morgan remarked that if all utilities were as honest and efficient as the American Telephone and Telegraph Company there would be no need of regulation . However that may be , it took an investigation and the expenditure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain this company two recent rate reductions on long-distance tolls representing a total saving to consumers of $20,000,000 annually . But in these two decades between 1913 and 1933 , during which the public-utility issue really developed and during which there was hard fighting all over the country for the preservation of public rights , Dr. Morgan took no active part . This is not said in criticism , for he was doubtless fully occupied elsewhere . But the fact that he escaped the experiences of those years partly accounts for his present point of view . Early in 1933 , before his appointment as chairman of the TVA Board , Dr. Morgan was in Washington with a delegation advocating a large allotment for flood-control works on the Muskingum River in Ohio . He suggested at that time that this was a much more promising scene than the Tennessee Valley for the non-power activities ? flood control , reforestation , soil conservation , recreation and the like ? which President Roosevelt had announced would be added to the river developments , including power , covered in the original Tennessee River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Works Authority money was allotted to the Muskingum Conservancy District ? a scheme including fifteen dams but no power . A census in 1880 had shown 253 waterpower plants ? most of them of course quite small ? in existence in the Muskingum area , In part through economic , but largely through privatepower-company pressure , and because American engineering has become obsessed as to the virtue of large-scale centralized generation , practically all these power plants disappeared . Quite in contrast , during the last ten to fifteen years Henry Ford has developed and is using for manufacturing automobile parts five small water-power sites on the River Rouge in Michigan , and he plans to develop others . A report on the water resources of the Muskingum drainage area by the Dayton-Morgan Engineering Company advising against present hydro developments in this area ends quaintly ( in view of the fact that under the same engineering advice fifteen powerless dams are now built ) by saying that " there exists the potential possibility of future power development that should not be overlooked . " Just prior to the White House conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgan presented to his fellow government conferees a memorandum covering the policies which he thought should control in making this inquiry into the possibility of a union of public and private interests in the Tennessee Valley along " grid " lines . This memorandum promptly found its way to the utilities and the press and therefore is not privileged . The most significant proposal in this document was to the effect that government and the private power interests should have equal status on the board to formulate power policy in the Tennessee Valley . Experience has shown that a liberal administration can not command the confidence of the power interests . Whenever a liberal administration consents to join forces with the power interests , it will forfeit its right to define the purpose of its struggle . To accept the power interests in a position of equal status with the government will mean that a national power policy can not he developed except on their terms . This memorandum further urged that in estimating the value of a utility property the fair value have added to it certain other items , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development . " These are promoters ' profits undisguised . This claim has often been urged by the private utility industry but never accepted by regulating bodies acting in the public interest . Allowances for promoters ' profits and write-ups of capital assets to reflect added value due to the initiating activity of " men of capacity " have been the usual way whereby promoters have been compensated for undertaking the " effort , financial expenditure and risk required in effort to create a great productive organization . " It is Dr. Morgan 's suggestion that the TVA should not sell current to any city which in buying the private-property plant does not include these promoters ' compensations ? in addition , mind you , to fair value Dr. Morgan has recently written a series of articles in The Survey , The New York Times , The Saturday Evening Post , The Atlantic Monthly and elsewhere principally devoted to the power aspects of the TVA project . These articles are quite revealing , and repeat many of the private-company slogans with which we have become familiar during the last quarter-century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history and techniques of regulation . He recommends , for instance , arbitration as a means of reaching fair value . This seemingly fair proposal has never to my knowledge actually gone through in an important situation . It is frequently advanced as a means of delay . Again , Dr. Morgan is an advocate of " severance damages , " which of all the intangible items of value associated with the reproduction-cost-new method of valuation is the most intangible . The item is supposed to cover loss in value resulting from the separation of one part of a plant from the balance . Some such loss , no doubt , is always present in any sale , but it is supposed to be covered in the purchase price . The effort sometimes made to determine it as an item by itself leads one into a maze of imaginary values . This contention reminds me of a boy on a New Hampshire roadside who offered peaches out of a partly filled basket at so much apiece . When I asked him what he would take for his entire supply he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain in business . Unfortunately there is no legally orthodox , satisfactory method of valuing public utilities at this time . The law of the land calls for the reproductioncost-new method , but I imagine that this line of reasoning i3 on the whole almost as distasteful at the moment to the private industry as it has been right along to the defenders of the public interests , who have been almost a unit in advocating Mr. Justice Brandeis ' prudent-investment method of valuation . Since the 1929 debacle something akin to the sporting instinct has kept those on the public side from pressing valuation on the reproduction-cost-new method . Had this rule been applied in the early thirties , practically every electric utility in the land would have been bankrupt -- or at least I have been so informed by those who should know . When a city votes to take over a service utility whose franchise has expired , the conference method of fixing the price to be paid is the only one available . Dr. Morgan calls this " confiscation . " On the contrary , it is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In determining the price to be paid in the purchase of a privately owned municipal electric system , proponents of the public interests are handicapped by the universal private-company practice of refinancing all bond issues , in contrast with the all but universal practice of public authorities in amortizing and paying off their utility borrowings in periods averaging perhaps twenty-five years . Operating under a twenty-to-thirty-year franchise , a private company ought reasonably to be expected to write off at least a substantial portion of its investment during the life of the franchise . Then there would be a minimum of trouble its reaching an agreement as to the price to be paid for the used and useful private-company property in case the citizens decided to own their own plant . In spite of the general practice of arriving at the end of the franchise period with inflated values , there are on the record almost no cases of actual " duplication of facilities , " and " confiscation " is impossible under our Constitution ! The TVA Board has over and over again given these assurances , but Messrs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuse to be comforted . Dr. Morgan deprecates " hidden subsidies " to public power projects such as he alleged were involved in the widely publicized rates charged by the publicly owned plant in Tupelo , Mississippi , which after an exhaustive investigation were recently approved by the Federal Power Commission . He always compliments state utility commissions " which pass on power rates and quality of services rendered , regulate the issuance of securities and often supervise capital expenditures . " Were these commissions just dozing during the late twenties ? In one place Dr. Morgan suggests that " power sold by the TVA to the private utilities be resold by them at rates agreed to by the government . " He then answers this suggestion by saying that " the utilities might prefer to generate their own power at a slightly higher cost , rather than submit to this increased degree of regulation . " Are you telling me ? Many of Dr. Morgan 's writings about utilities come out in just this fashion . He sets up an ideal line of action for this best of all possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private-company officials are less enlightened than they should be or because of " self-seeking persons in public life . " As a matter of fact , unless our Public Service Commissions are to be superseded , no federal agency would have the constitutional right to regulate intrastate rates in this manner . Dr. Morgan 's articles have become increasingly bitter in their comments on what he takes to be the attitude of the proponents of public power generally . and particularly as to what he takes to be the policies of the TVA Board , of which he admits he is a minority member . Dr. Morgan , by the original TVA set-up , was allocated duties other than power . From the start he has had very little to do with the formulation of TVA power policies . In resisting the demand of Commonwealth and Southern to have all TVA-generated power turned over to it , in meeting all private-company litigation man-fashion , in cooperating especially with some of the larger cities of the Valley in obtaining their own service with its lower rates , in cooperating with the REA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the majority members of the TVA Board have the full confidence of the public-power group . No one should quarrel with Dr. Morgan if he is insistent on expressing his own views . In these days , even strong convictions forcibly expressed should be at a premium . But there should be strenuous objection to anyone remaining in office and opposing national policy after that policy has been approved by the ballot , voted by the Congress , stated and restated by the President and affirmed and reaffirmed by the TVA Board . To permit of leadership opposing such instructions is the negation of the democratic process . In all fairness to Dr. Morgan it should be stressed that his record shows that he has never been on the public side in any line-up on power . He is not naive . He simply sees public power problems through the eyes of the private interests . His views are the views on power quite generally held only two or three decades ago . Dr. Morgan 's questioning of the acts and motives of his fellow board members , as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the difficulties of settlement of the issues between the TVA and the private companies . Instead of promoting adjustment he gives heart to the enemies of the project . For this reason his remaining as chairman of the TVA Board simply postpones the day when there can be wholesome and proper adjust . ment between the paramount public power interests in the Valley and the private interests which feel aggrieved and express it in litigation ad nauseam and propaganda galore . In the controversy between public and private power as it affects wider areas than urban centers such as Knoxville and Memphis , Portland and Seattle , there is of course one important point affecting the generation of power we should have in mind , especially as we get into our upstream-water and soil-conservation campaign . It has been well expressed by Horace M. Gray ( The American Economic Review , May , 1935 ) : It is obvious that single-purpose , privately owned , hydro-electric plants , which must recover all costs from the sale of electricity alone , can not compete with these multiple-purpose , publicly owned plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle . In these areas , therefore , where the combination of water resources , topography , population and industry is propitious for such development , private companies will eventually be displaced by this new and superior type of institution . It is not , as the proponents of private ownership would have the public believe , an issue of government " subsidy " or " unfair competition . " Rather it is the displacement of an institution by another which is economically and socially superior . As I heard the President speak recently at Bonneville and noted the very great progress toward pub . lic power made in the last four years , I realized once again that it has not been barren battling , and that perhaps we may be at the moment storming the last gates of the citadel of private-power privilege . Certain it is that I recognize in the background of each of these eddies the same private-utility techniques and influences which have always been in evidence since my first contacts twenty-five years ago with the problems of public power . A quotation from William Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Whether in laurels or in chains Liberty knows only victories . " This same assurance may be given as to Public Power ? all eddies to the contrary notwith. standing . 