@@491740

February N , ' OSP Noar.a F 27:ORLEY EffOral S EVENTEEN years ago radio broadcasting in the United States was a promotional side line for the sale of electrical gadgets . Today it is a 5150,000,000 industry . Seventeen years ago there were fewer than fifty broadcasting stations and not more than 50,000 receiving sets in the United States . Today there are 733 stations and 39,000,000 receiving sets  --  almost as many of both as in all the rest of the world . In 1037 , America 's broadcasters put some 5,000,000 programs on the air and collected a gross revenue of 5140,000,000 . You would not think that an industry with such a record would have the jitters . But radio has the jitters . Some other big businesses have them too . But radio has them worse , for a number of important reasons . As the figures indicate , broadcasting in the United States is a private economic enterprise . That is the most important distinguishing feature of what radio executives are pleased to call " the American system of broadcasting , " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are government monopolies . But radio is much more than a private economic enterprise . For good and ill , it . is a cultural and an educational enterprise . It is also an opinion-making agency . Because it is these things , its area of vulnerability is a large one . Moreover , the air waves which radio uses do not belong to the industry . They belong to the people . Their number is limited . The Government , on the people 's behalf , lends them , free of charge , to the station owners . But what the Government gives , the Government can take away , and every six months every station owner in the United States is obliged to present the Federal Communications Commission with a legally documented statement of his reasons for believing that the Government , in his particular case , should not take away . If the reasons are moderately good ones and if , meanwhile , no whisper of misbehavior has come in from other sources , the Government generally renews and the operator 's lease on life is good for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As a result of it , the techniques of good behavior  --  as the Government and , more particularly , the party in power define it  --  are more highly developed in radio than in any other American industry . And station owners , since they can never be sure that they are more than six months from the noose , are inclined to be on edge even in the best of times . This situation is not a creation of the New Deal . It is an inevitable result of the nature of the radio business . If there were no agency to assign frequencies and determine the power of stations , there would be  --  as , for a few months in 1026 , there was  --  anarchy on the air . The industry itself was the first to demand that it be policed and that the Government do the policing . It is also agreed that in order to prevent abuses of the broadcasting privilege , the Government 's power over radio must include not only technical control but authority to regulate in the public interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much talked about , can be only an aid to , and never a substitute for , regulation by the Government . The grant of so much power involved risks , as grants of power always do . In this case  --  broadcasting having become the potent instrument it is  --  the quotient of risk was a good many points above average . Unless the people of the United States were prepared to put an end to private radio and let the Government do their broadcasting , the risk had to be run . But it was a sure-fire guess that the temptation to lay political hands on radio would be too strong to be resisted . That time has evidently begun to arrive . At least the present Administration , while continuing the Government 's police powers over radio , is showing a lively and , to the industry , an ominous interest in its political possibilities . As yet , there is no legally established Government censorship . The Government has not moved to take over the present radio system or begun to build one of its own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being perfected . The precedents are being established and , in Washington , where some of Mr. Roosevelt 's young men look on radio with a highly covetous eye , the atmosphere is increasingly congenial . The industry , therefore , can hardly be said to be jittery without reason . The state of its nerves  --  in even the smallest matters which might conceivably bring it into political disfavor  --  is pretty well indicated by the recent action of one of the country 's largest stations . The station discovered that one of its announcers had a radio voice much like that of President Roosevelt . The unfortunate young man was given the choice of changing his voice or his job . Private broadcasting began to he a Government problem of serious proportions as far back as 1922 . At the beginning of that year there were some sixty privately owned stations operating on licenses issued by the Secretary of Commerce . In the summer of 1922 , WEAF , in New York City , put on the first broadcast for a commercial advertising account , and stations immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of 1922 there were nearly 600 of them . The number of receiving sets jumped from 50,000 to more than 600,000 . The Coolidge Administration , confronted by this undisciplined prodigy , asked Congress for a regulatory law . But Congress was not impressed , and the Secretary of Commerce , Mr. Hoover , continued to issue licenses and do what prevent the President from extending the reserved frequencies to such an extent that private broadcasting would be crippled disastrously . Likewise if , in the President 's opinion , there exists a " war or threat of war or a state of public peril or disaster or other national emergency , or in order to preserve the neutrality of the United States , " he can , " for such time as he may see fit , " shut down private broadcasting altogether , dismantle the broadcasting stations and dispose of their eq uipmen t .. Or , as an alternative , he can turn the operation of the business over " to any department of the Government under such regulations as he may prescribe , upon just compensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not need to go to Congress . All he needs to do is to make up his mind that one or the other of the above situations has or is about to come to pass . He then issues a presidential proclamation , private broadcasting folds up , and freedom of the air outside the White House ceases to exist . Washington Rules the Waues O FCOURSE , Mr. Roosevelt has not experimented with either of these provisions . Technically , the air is as free as it ever was . Mr. Roosevelt has made no public declarations against such freedom . Neither has he made any public statement in which , in so many words , he specifically stated his belief in private radio and freedom of the air . His Administration , however , has begun to move in . Free radio , as a result , is having its wings clipped . Political radio is going places . recordings or in script form to the local stations . The Department of the Interior estimates that in 1938 it had about 3000 local station programs  --  a 25 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agriculture 's important and nonpropagandist Farm Flashes are taken , six days a week , by 332 stations in forty-seven states . More than 250 local stations carry , in addition , a daily program for women . Department officials figure that at least 500 of its 935 county agents use the radio at least once a. week . Between 375 and 425 local stations use the transcribed programs of the Federal Housing Authority . Some 450 stations use the weekly radio recordings of the WPA . There is generally no direct pressure on the local station owner to put these programs on the air . The atmosphere being what it is , direct pressure is unnecessary . Without exception , the local station owners whom I have asked about Government broadcasts have replied , in effect : " We know what is expected of us . " To make doubly sure , the Government has its own agents in the field . An official of the Federal Communications Commission told me that the sales tactics of some of these agents left little to chance . Government programs , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straight take-themor-else basis . With the licensing problem always hanging over him , only the most incautious radio operator would choose to ignore such a sales approach . Virtually every department and bureau of the Government and a constantly increasing number of legislators and officials find some reason , in the course of the year , to have recourse to the radio . When little regulating was done until , in 1926 , a court decision deprived him of most of his powers . Radio , forthwith , went . haywire . Stations broadcast when , where , at . what power and on what wave lengths suited their fancies . Business , with the air a mumbo-jumbo , fell off . Late in 1926 , the industry got together long enough to appeal to Congress for regulation . The result was the Radio Act of 1927 . In 1934 , Congress revised the 1927 act , changed the name of the Radio Commission to the Federal Communications Commission and , the New Deal being then in full flower , extended its authority over the nation 's telephone and telegraph systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , leaves the President of the United States as radio 's Lord High Executioner . It is his responsibility to determine the frequencies which are reserved for the use of the Army , the Navy and other Government agencies which require radio communications , Private radio gets what is left . To date , it has been left enough to do very nicely . But there is nothing in the not to For a number of reasons , political radio is it New Deal natural . Mr. Roosevelt 's personal debt to the radio is incalculable . Since the honeymoon months of the first term , he has had a vigorously hostile press . That fact has led him into an anti-newspaper complex which is venomously shared by some of his most potent associates . The opposition newspapers and the fact that he is blessed with a top-flight radio personality greatly increased his dependence on and his debt to radio . Moreover , his program  --  more than that of any previous administration  --  has required nation-wide , high-pressure salesmanship for its success . Since many powerful newspapers declined the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the New Deal made political radio , it is likewise true that political radio made the New Deal . It would be practically impossible to find out the exact extent to which the New Deal has taken time on the air for its own propaganda purposes . Many of its most effective selling programs are not broadcast from Washington . They are sent as electrical Congress is in session , the Washington offices of the National Broadcasting Company alone receive from two to three requests every day from legislators who want time on the air . They are sometimes maneuvered out of the time . Although it is the policy of all the radio companies to keep some semblance of balance between the parties in allotted time on the air , it is no part of that policy , directly , to turn down requests from those in high political places . In 1937 , NBC ' put on 22 Presidential broadcasts , 118 for members of the House of Representatives , 149 for members of the Senate , 29 for Henry A. Wallace , 18 for James A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , high and low . Altogether in 1937 , NBC put on 746 broadcasts of this kind . Columbia and Mutual did their proportionate duty . The various agencies of the Government are no less radio-minded . The Farm and Home Hour of the Department of Agriculture goes on the air five days a week , on 100 stations of the National Broadcasting Company . The Office of Education in the Department of the Interior has three network- shows covering 189 stations on the air at present . Two new programs will be launched early in 1939 . To popularize Federal Housing , the FHA sponsored Master Builders  --  a weekly broadcast which was recently concluded . The Treasury Department bought space in the newspapers and magazines to promote the sale of its baby bonds . But it got free lime on the air for the same purpose . Tho Department of Commerce has just completed a series of fifty-five broadcasts and has a new series all set for 1939 . The WPA , in addition to its extensive use of electrical recordings , has a weekly network feature on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radio undertakings is the vast program which is developing under the co-ordinating wing of the National Emergency Council . Radio at the NEC is in the competent hands of Mr. Robert Berger . Berger directed broadcasting for the Democratic National Committee in 1936 . His 1032 predecessor in that job was rewarded with the secretaryship of what was then the Radio Commission . The position having been conveniently vacated , Berger , after the 1936 campaign , was in line for a similar elevation . The White House , however , had its own man for the job , and Berger , after some maneuvering , was landed at the NEC . The Voice of Government He has made good use of the few months of his incumbency . Considerably more than 100 stations in thirty-six states are already taking his regular weekly broadcasts . These cover the work of forty-three bureaus and departments of the Government which do not already have time on the air . They are planned in Washington , but adapted to the various regions of the country , and are participated in by regional representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is greatly increased by these regional adaptations . This , as Berger describes it , is a start toward the unification of all the Government 's radio activities . The NEC is particularly well set for such a job . It has it more or less authoritative finger in all the various activities of the Government in all the states . It is answerable only to the President . The President gets its regular and highly confidential reports on the current condition of the New Deal 's various ventures , the quality of its personnel and the state of public opinion . No other New Deal organization speaks with so much White House authority . Berger , with such backing , does not anticipate much trouble either with the radio officials in the Government or with the broadcasting companies . Ile has already demonstrated that he can , overnight , enlist the nation 's chief networks in the serviee of the Administration . Such an occasion arose when the hotly contested Wages and Hours Law recently went into effect . In one t wenty-four-hour period , Berger cleared the air for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law  --  one broadcast each for NBC , CBS and Mutual . Since both the number of frequencies and the amount of broadcasting time per day are limited , it is clear that there is a point beyond which private radio can not carry the increasing burdeu of Government programs . When that point is reached , the Government , presumably , will be obliged to curtail its radio activities or go into broadcasting on its own account . There is every indication that the Government 's invasion of the air will expand . The programs already on the air are only a small part of the programs under discussion or already in the works . In anticipation of this bigger and better future , the Department of the Interior has constructed complete and up-to-the-minute studios in the pen thouse of its new building . Although very little actual broadcasting has been done from them , the setup is perfect , the files of the department are loaded with usable radio material and , when I visited the place , nightly auditions were being held in order to obtain a unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All we lack , " said one of the officials , " is a station , " The first move in that direction was made last spring in a congressional bill which , if passed , would have authorized the Government to construct and operate a " radio-broadcasting - station designed to promote friendly relations among the nations of the Western Hemisphere . " The measure did not come to a vote . But in hearings the point was brought out that such a station would be an " easy approach to the creation of a publicly owned circuit " which would provide programs not . only for Latin-American consumption but For the United States as well . Radio resistance to the expansion of Government broadcasting on the present networks is kept ut a minimum because of the fear that , if the Administration 's programs are refused the air , it way will be found to put . the Government in the broadcasting business on its own account . Government programs being what they are , such move would not constitute serious competition with the commercial companies . It would , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the British system of government radio monopoly in the United States . But the development of political radio is not being held up pending the arrival of a Government-owned broadcasting system . It is going forward simultaneously on a number of fronts . In particular , it is going forward within the somewhat disorganized confines of the Federal Communications Conunission  --  one of the strangest and , potentially , most dangerous of Washington 's tluiving bureaucracies . The FCC has seven $10,000-a-year commissioners , a Washington staff of 40 ( 1 , and 175 field agents . Four of t he commiasioners are Democrats and three are Republicans . Two of the commissioners  --  Messrs . Brown and Walker  --  are wheel-horse politicians who , on the FCC , have entered into their reward . Commissioner Case , three times Republican governor of Rhode Island , is a moderating influence . Eugene 0 . Sykes . a Mississippi Democrat , is friendly to the industry . George Henry Payne , it onetime Bull Mooser , was appointed to the commission as a Republican . Unlike his stodgier associates , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sharply critical of both the commission and the industry , he contributes materially to the stew that they both are in . The only commissioner who knows much tech nically about radio is T. A. M. Craven . Tam Craven is a lieutenant commander of the United States Navy , resigned . For a number of years , until his appointment by Mr. Roosevelt to his present post , he was the commission 's chief engineer . Until he recently incurred the disfavor of Tommy Corcoran , Craven was reported to have been Mr. Roosevelt 's choice as the next commission chairman . Undoubtedly , the New Deal 's greatest single gilt to the FCC is the person of its present chairman , Frank R. McNineh , Mr. MeNinch is a small , wind-dried North Carolina politician , once the mayor of Charlotte . As the reform chairman of the Federal Power Commission , he has sometimes been regarded as Mr. Roosevelt 's trouble shooter . At any rate , a year and a half ago , when rumors about the FCC began to get too hot to handle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the President sent MeNinch in as chairman of the FCC , on what appeared to be a clean-up assignment . Mr. MeNinch , although be sometimes covertly asserts that he yearns for the relative peace of the Power Commission , takes to the reform of radio like a duck to water . He is a reformer by instinct and temperament , particularly when it seems to him that moral issues are involved . He is an ardent dry . In 1928 , he led the religiously embattled Democrats of North Carolina against Al Smith . On the moral side , he deals very rigidly with radio . When Mae West appeared on one of the networks in an unfortunate skit. entitled Adam and Eve , his wrath  --  despite the prompt and abject apology of the executives of the company involved  --  was well-nigh unbounded . He wound up his publicized letter of rebuke with an outright threat , at the licenses this company holds . Qualifying Politically Because of his moral qualifications , Mr. MeNinch was just the man to stave off a congressional inquiry which would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. MeNineh 's qualifications are no less useful . He is a New Dealer without taint . He is not one of the White House intimates . But he has frequent contact  --  usually telephonic  --  with those who are . Most of his presidential tip-offs are relayed in the more or less reliable and now widely familiar " I 'm speaking from the White House " style . It is said that Tommy Corcoran picked him for his present post in the first place . It is pretty certain that the choice would not have fallen on him if Tommy had had any objections , Just how much authority the commission has to base its decisions on anything other than technical considerations has never been settled definitely . The 1934 act declares that the business of broadcasting should be privately conducted . It also provides that there shall be no Government censorship and  --  save in the use of " obscene , indecent or profane language " ? lie infringement of the right of free speech . But the commission has the right not only to issue licenses but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Worse than that , the authors of the act , not quite sure that freedom of the air was Its good in fact as it Looked in print , inserted a large and troublesome loophole . The rulings of the commission , the act declares , must be determined by " public convenience or interest " or " necessity . " There is nothing technical about that . Neither is there anything very definite . The commission is left to do its own defining . Some of the commission 's decisions indicate that that phrase is broad enough to serve as an adequate offset to the act 's ao-censorship , free-speech provisions . The FCC is spoken of as a " quasi-judicial " body . In addition to its engineers , the commission has a staff of lawyers . The law department keeps a file of all complaints sent in from any source on any program subject . If , when the station owner makes his semiannual application for the right to continued existence , there are no technical difficulties and no complaints , the application is granted without a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the station turn up with letters from shocked or disgruntled listeners , the FCC asks the law department to make an investigation . When the law department 's agents return , the commission , acting as a grand jury , goes into session over the evidence , to determine whether it has a case . If the facts indicate that the station is addicted to profanity , or has violated the tenets of good taste , or that it has sold time on the air to advertisers of dubious repute , or lent . itself to the fomenting of religious or racial hatred , or infringed upon the principle of political nonpartisanship , or otherwise operated contrary to what the commissioners deem to be public convenience , interest or necessity , then the commission disbands as a grand jury and reconvenes as a court , with its law department handling the case for the prosecution . The Radio Act of 1934 gives the station the right of appeal from the decisions of the FCC to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia and thence , if still aggrieved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , because of radio 's policy of peace-atany-price , is very seldom invoked . In the course of a year , cam paratively few stations are cited for a hearing or obliged to go through this trial procedure . Most of those which are culled up are let off with a rebuke . But I he threat constitutes a large and disturbing bogy . The FCC is aware that pressure can have all the effectiveness , wit h none of the political backfire , of more direct action . In his letter to the president of the company which broadcast Mae West 's offensive program , Mr. McNinch declared that " the commission has no power of censorship . " But , said he , the right to continue operation under a license can he justified only so long as public convenience and necessity are served through programs broadcast to listeners . " To put teeth into this assertion of the power to censor where such power  --  in the previous sentence  --  was said to he lacking , Mr. slcNinch concluded : " Upon application for renewal of the licenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take into consideration this incident ? " Freedom With a String to It Threats of this sort have been on the increase . In fact , the New Deal was hardly under way before it became apparent that freedom of the air was going to mean a different kind of freedom from freedom of the press . When the N RA was launched , the newspapers of the country appraised it , pro and con , without benefit of any influence from Washington . Radio , however , was another story . Harold A. Lafount , then a member of the Radio Commission , made an extensive tour of inspection to see to it that radio was properly cooperating with the Government 's program , " Without a single exception , " he said upon his return , " the broadcasters stand ready and willing to do their part by making available their facilities to Government officials and their representatives , and to otherwise assist in making the National Recovery Administration a profound success . " Since Mr. McNinch , a technique for the enforcement of docility has been intensified . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Odets ' play , Waiting for Lefty . At least one listener complained to the FCC that the language of the play , in one spot , was dangerously strong and , worse , that it appeared to be Communist propaganda . The FCC forthwith prepared for the war , when , to its consternation , it discovered that the play was a production of the WPA 's Federal Theater Project . The ease was dropped like it hot potato . The National Broadcasting Company recently broadcast a series of Pulitzer prize plays  --  among them Eugene O'Neill 's Beyond the Horizon . The FCC , a few days later , received a letter of complaint against this network 's Minneapolis station , WTCN , alleging that the O'Neill language was not fit for the home . Again Mr. McNinch led his forces into action , and the station was called up for a hearing . Since this was the only incident of waywardness in the station 's record . and because this threat of censorship started a considerable uproar , WTCN was let off with considerable publicity and the promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welles broadcast of the War of the Worlds , all these threatening gestures were repeated . Radio 's Problem Children This sort of regulation serves the useful purpose of keeping the broadcasters Administration-conscious . The broadcasters get the idea that they 've got to please the Administration not only in the matter of language but in all other respects . Naturally this is of considerable political advantage to the Administration . Some weeks prior to the 1938 elections , the National Broadcasting Company began to be uncomfortable because its network was carrying weekly broadcasts by Miss Dorothy Thompson and Gen. Hugh Johnson . Some of the things that these two commentators were saying did not contribute to the pre-election interests of the party in power . In fact , General Johnson was so far from helpful that it was deemed necessary , in the following week , to invite someone to take over the General 's hour and give the New Deal answers . Although that was an appreciated gesture in a righteous direction , NBC decided that something more ought to be done . Consequently , the woods were scoured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who writes a newspaper column of New Deal fundamentalism , was found to be satisfactory to all concerned . He was forthwith put on the air once a week . NBC paid him for the salvage job . The New Deal 's radio policy has achieved its greatest successes , to date , in connection with commentators . The New Deal has been helped in this by the commentators themselves . For some time they have been radio 's problem children . Radio executives seem to agree that , once the most ordinary mortal develops what can be called a " radio following , " the temptation to go Olympian and admit to more than mortal knowledge of every imaginable subject is well-nigh irresistible . Looked to by the unseen and uncounted millions , the commentator tends to look Continued from Fag . 74 ) upon himself as an authority on everything under the sun and upon his employers as earth-bound liabilities whose counsel he should ignore . The program offices of radio do not mourn the prospeet of his passing . While some of the more Olympian commentators were embarrassing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly troublesome with respect to the sensitivities of the Administration . The assignment of the radio commentator has been similar to that of the newspaper columnist . It has long been known in Washington that , although the President and his associates were irritated with the press in general , their attitude toward some columnists was downright bitter . Cracks against them at the President 's press conferences have become a commonplace . Critical commentators , columnists of the air , incurred the same Presidential animosity . Newspapers do not operate on Government licenses . Radio stations do . The White House attitude on some of the radio commentators was no secret . In spite of the fact that the audience demand for commentators is probably now at an all-time high , according to some radio experts , commentators are on their way to extinction . The country 's largest broadcasters are turning away from commentators . As a substitute , the radio audience is being presented with broadcasts of the news , by an anonymous voice , with no opinions and as little as possible interpretation . This change of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in at least one notable instance , the Administration is credited with helping along . Up to a year and a half ago , the most widely followed commentator on the air was Boake Carter . The story of his decline and fall is interesting . The Carter Case Mr. Carter , at the time of his radio demise , had been on the air for nearly nine years  --  first for Philco Radio and , later , for General Foods . His program , in both eases , ' was broadcast by CBS . Although he was once friendly to the Roosevelt Administration , by the time of the 19311 election he had become the largest radio thorn in its side . There were some consultations in the Democratic high command at that time as to what could be done about him , but no kulomerang-proof plan was offered . After 1936 , and with the emergenve of the second New Deal , Carter 's pokes became even more painful to bear . When the American gunboat . Panay was sunk by the Japanese , he immediately launched a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whip up a pro-war psychology . Nothing he had ever undertaken aroused so much favorable response . The Administra lion  --  alarmed lest the peace sentiment of the country get out of band  --  began to close in . There was an extended conference at a luncheon club in New York City . Amending to a congressional resolution proposing an investigation of this meeting , it was attended by a number of highly placed officials of the State , Navy and War departments , including roving Ambassador Norman H. Davis . It was agreed that Carter and his broadcasts constituted an obstacle to a necessary preparedness program . Carter , who has kept a detailed record of his case against the day when , as he hopes , Congress will investigate , reports that trouble began to brew immediately . From Washington , he was tipped off that his citizenship papers were under investigation . Carter 's English parents , at the time of his birth , wore resident in Russia , where his father was a British consular officer . I This coincidence lent some slight plausibility to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Baku provided an opening for Congresswoman Virginia Jenckes  --  in the course of an attacic on him in the Congressional Record  --  to infer that he was a Russian and that the old Irish family name " Boake , " used for generations by his Irish forbears , might more nearly be the anglicizing of the Russian town " Baku . " War in the Air At about the same time , early in 1938 , rumors began to turn up in the offices of the papers which used Carter 's daily newspaper column , to the effect that a government investigation had disclosed his receipt of three checks for S5000 each from the Japanese Government . The source of these stories was never run to ground and no evidence to support them was ever produced . These and other incidents damaging to Carter came to a climax when Congressman Martin L. Sweeney introduced a resolution in the House to investigate the entire Boake Carter case . Meanwhile , Carter was ready to sign a renewal of contract with General Foods . A considerable block of the stock of General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Joe Davies , the American Ambassador to Belgium and one of Mr. Roosevelt 's heaviest campaign contributors . Mr. Davies , when he heard about the Car- 4 ter situation , immediately blew up . He vowed to the White House that he would see to it that the contract was not renewed , according to a story by the late Paul Y. Anderson in the St. Louis Star-Times . This move was abandoned at the insistence of Steve Early , of the White House secretariat , who pointed out to Mr. Davies that such action would probably make a martyr of Carter and might embarrass the Administration . A bout this time , Chairman McNinch , of the FCC , discussed news broadcasts with the Washington managers of the broadcasting companies and left no doubt of his official opinion that something should be done about keeping them impartial . McNinch mentioned Carter and Gen. Hugh Johnson as the worst examples of what he meant . The bad news immediately was passed .1 along to Boake Carter , along with reports of a new outbreak of animosity in the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far that it was only fear of drawing attention to him that kept the department from demanding regular time ou the air to answer his attacks on the Roosevelt foreign policy , Carter was informed . Carter says that he . was not without his defenders , for Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy suggested to Sumner Welles and Norman Davis that they write Carter to listen to their side of the story if they felt he was in error . He was not invited . Carter explains that , with these warnings , he came to the conclusion that there was nothing for him to do but pull his punches . " I pulled my punches , " says Carter , " and because of this , and contributing reasons , my radio rating , which had been at the top , began to drop . " His contract with General Foods was not renewed . The Columbia Broadcasting System officials announced that this was due entirely to the fact that there was no satisfactory time spot open on the air . Carter , of course , lays the blame entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that all the parties concerned , except Carter , were glad to see him go . Of course there are commentators irritating to the Administration still on the air , in spite of the trend . One of the untamed is William J. Cameron , who broadcasts on the Ford Sunday Evening Hour . But Mr. McNinch himself is keeping a frosty eye on him . Mr. MeNina has indicated to his associates in Washington that he considers Mr. Cameron 's social philosophy wrong , and that a way must be found to correct what McNinch implied was an abuse of the radio privilege . Whatever the eventual results of Mr. McNineh 's reforms , it is clear that radio is growing more and more submissive , that freedom of the air may mean less and less . One of Mr. McNinch 's favorite concerns is the social philosophy of radio . He frequently has discussed the significance of the extent of control of radio by the three major chains , and the financial interests behind them . There are other fronts on which political radio is advancing . Not content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission , Tommy Corcoran and his inner circle White House group have reached into the commission 's law department . In many respects , control of the law department is as important to the control of radio as control of the commissioners . It is the law department which is called upon to find justification for whatever action the commission may take , The Law and its Prophets Until recently , the head of the law department was Hampson Gary , an honest and unimaginative Texas lawyer with , unluckily for him , a fondness for Vice President Garner . Last fall , Mr. McNinch , recalling that he had been sent to the commission to do a clean-up job and irritated at Gary 's unresponsiveness , fired him . Apparently the last straw , so far as Gary was concerned , had to do with the now-pending application of Station WLW in Cincinnati for a renewal of its 500,000-kilowatt license . WLW is the station which , a year ago , hired Charlie Michelson to servo as its Washington expert on public relations  --  a job which , Charlie explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as director of publicity for the Democratic National Committee . Through retaining the able Michelson , a Ho udin i with words , the station obtained a powerful spokesman in the Administration 's inner councils . Unfortunately , however , Powel Crosley , Jr. , the owner of WLW , found himself , last year , in a dispute with Commissioner George Henry Payne . When the station 's application for a renewal came to the desk of Mr. Payne , he promptly set it down for a hearing . The commission as a whole was thrown into something of an uproar . W LW confidently challenged Payne 's legal right to call for a hearing . The law department was called on to take action . The issue was put up to Mr. Gary . Mr. Gary solemnly upheld Mr. Payne , Mr. Gary was abruptly lot out . Corcoran and Company moved in. j Tommy got the job of chief counsel for THE SRTURDAY one of his own men , able young William Dempsey . Dempsey , who had served his New Deal apprenticeship under Jerome Frank at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , like all the Corcoran janissaries , he is intelligent , personable and aware of what is expected of him . To get certain members of the commission to agree to Dempsey , Tommy hud to work his telephone overtime . He eventually succeeded , but not until at least one commissioner had incurred his deadly ill favor . Radio 's Way Out Even with Dempsey and McNinch at his call , Corcoran is not satisfied . He yearns to take over the entire law department . But the commission 's lawyers , with the exception of the head of the department , three assistants , and special counsel , come under the Civil Service . Their displacement , therefore , is difficult and likely to be embarrassing . When , therefore , Mr. McNinch was recently recuperating from an illness in a Washington hospital , Tommy is reported to have called to pay his respects . In the course of the call  --  so the story goes  --  he suggested to the chairman that the law department of the commission should be taken out of the Civil Service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea with gusto . Without presenting the matter to the commission , he wrote to the Civil Service authorities and made the request .. The unconsulted members of the FCC made an immediate protest and the Civil Service Commission turned down the proposal . At the dose of last year when the White House announced that Congress would be allowed to write its own law in future , Tommy Corcoran and his silent partner , Ben Cohen , were reported to be working on a new radio law . Acecirding to information leaking from their conferences , the tentative plan was to replace the present seven-man commission with a one-man commission . What will be done now is problematical . But such a law certainly would provide e painless way of getting rid of Commissioners Payne and Craven  --  whose heads are wanted by Corcoran . Up to the present , radio has been too unsure of itself and too conscious of its dependence upon the Government to combat the rise of political radio and the consequent danger to freedom of the air . It is possible that , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may bestir itself . More than 400 of the nation 's 733 stations are members of the National Association of Broadcasters . Until recently , the NAB was somewhat moribund . It can hardly be described as a fighting organization even yet , although , under the new leadership of Neville Miller , the flood mayor of Louisville , Kentucky , it is showing signs of life . Many broadcasting executives agree that radio 's only way out is to take to the air in its own behalf and build up , in support of a free radio , the same public opinion that supports the freedom of the press . At present , however , such declarations of independence are made only in private and after a promise not to bo quoted . Publicly , the political order of the day calls for obsequiousness . And radio in the United States is jittery because of the growing and well-substantiated fear that the Administration 's appetite is too expansive and has already been too well sharpened to be satisfied with bowing and scraping  --  however low the bow or loud the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             