@@255208

The sharp eye of President Roosevelt last week focused upon women 's high button shoes . Along with rubbers , corsets , kimonos , camisoles , stockings , dresses , cotton drawers , aprons , bloomers , lingerie , hairpins , princess slips and plug tobacco , he found button shoes listed as an item used by the Department of Labor in calculating its periodic Cost-of-Living index . The President needed no style expert to inform him that such footwear was now an anachronism even in the back-country districts . Suspecting that Madam Secretary Perkins ' statisticians were behind the times on other articles in daily use , he ordered a complete revision and modernization of all the hundreds of items which go into the computation . This order was prime news for all Federal employes whose salaries rise and fall in direct ratio to the fluctuation of the Department of Labor 's index . <P> A cold in the head and a touch of fever confined President Roosevelt to his bedroom and study in the White House . <P> A stubborn Republican who was resisting President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week in squat , bearded Federal Trade Commissioner William E. Humphrey . Appointed as a stand-patter by President Coolidge in 1925 , Commissioner Humphrey was reappointed by President Hoover in 1931 . President Roosevelt wrote him two months ago that his resignation would be acceptable in the make-over of the Government for the New Deal . Commissioner Humphrey replied that he had no idea of getting out , that no criticism had ever been made of his work , that the President had no right to tamper with independent government agencies . Even if he gets Commissioner Humphrey out , the President must by law appoint a Republican to the vacancy . Philip Fox La Follette , onetime Governor of Wisconsin . Insurgent young brother of Insurgent young Senator " Bob " ' La Follette , was supposed to be in line for the job . <P> President Roosevelt appointed William Walter McDowell , Montana politician and mine operator , to be Minister to the Irish Free State .                     