@@487784

IN the preceding section of this article an attempt was made to recount in some detail the numerous efforts of President Hoover and his officials to conjure up the genie of prosperity . Their magic formula varied from bold assertions that there was nothing wrong to cheerful promises that we would be out of the depression in thirty or sixty days . And when the genie proved unresponsive to these calls , there were lectures on the fortitude of Valley Forge and on rugged individualism . But as the depression deepened , it became more and more obvious that the magic had been bungled . The sagging business curve showed plainly that President Hoover and his publicity men did not know  --  or did not care to know  --  what they were talking about . Why this discredited optimism was continued long after it had lost all plausibility remains a mystery . Senator Fess has advanced the theory that this sort of magic would have worked had it not been for the nefarious tactics of the " bears " throughout the land . Persons high in Republican circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were beginning to believe that a concerted effort was on foot " to utilize the stock market as a method of discrediting the Administration . " This was pretty obvious , he observed , because " every time an Administration official gives out an optimistic statement about business conditions , the market immediately drops . " Other people , too , had observed this rather uncomplimentary reaction of the market to the White House promises , but no one else , so far as we know , has offered so ingenious an explanation . But have the " bears " likewise been driving down the standard of living  --  also to discredit the Administration ? For there has been a similarly strange discrepancy between the facts of unemployment and Mr. Hoover 's fancies . The information about wages and unemployment which has been published in Washington since the beginning of the depression has been of two different kinds : President Hoover and his Cabinet have been publishing one kind , and the cold-blooded statisticians of the Department of Labor have been publishing another . The Administration has reported endless upturns in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has managed to maintain wages . Meanwhile the government 's own statisticians have proceeded to report month by month fewer gainful workers and smaller pay rolls . From October , 1929 , through September , 1931 , their figures show a drop of more than 30 per cent in employment and of more than 40 per cent in pay rolls in the fifteen major industrial groups . President Hoover has curiously refrained from mentioning these declines , although it would seem that the information must be available for his use . In his message to Congress on December 3 , 1929 , the President foresaw no unemployment problem . The market crash , he said , had created " unwarranted pessimism and fear . " He was convinced that the voluntary measures of cooperation which he had instituted with the industrial leaders  --  among which was the pledge of wage maintenance ? had reestablished confidence . " Wages should remain stable , " he promised , and " a very large degree of industrial unemployment and suffering which would otherwise have occurred has been prevented . " One month later the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Francis I. Jones , cheerfully predicted to Secretary Davis that 1930 would " measure in volume of business with the preceding year . " Furthermore , he said , " the trend of industrial activity and employment will be gradually upward during the first quarter , and as the new year advances , the level of production and employment in the major industries should compare favorably with that maintained throughout the year just ended . " This promise seemed to be reaching fulfilment as President Hoover announced on January 21 that the " tide of employment has changed in the right direction , " and on January 27 that " the increase of employment is current in practically every industry . There are one or two minor spots which did not show an increase , but they are generally classified as small industries . " When Mr. Hoover 's first statement was questioned by Miss Frances Perkins , Labor Commissioner of New York State , the gain was reaffirmed by Secretary Davis . " There is developing an inclination in some quarters , " he remarked on January 24 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " As the year progressed Mr. Davis cited in great detail the figures on employment gains . Speaking over the radio on February 13 , he declared that " the week of January 6 showed an increase in number on the pay roll of 3.4 per cent , the following week an increase of 3.3 per cent , and the week of January 20 an increase of 0.5 , while the week of January 27 showed a slight increase of 0.3 . Let us be thankful that we are getting back on our feet again . " The denouement of this promising story came one week later when the Department of Labor published data showing that employment in January was actually 2.6 per cent less than in December for the eight major industrial groups . Similarly , it was shown that pay rolls had declined more than 5 per cent . " With the figures for current employment affording small comfort , therefore , the Administration spokesmen turned to the future . " Within the next sixty or ninety days the country will be on a normal employment basis , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February 13 . Relief should come " within the very near future , " was Mr. Davis 's opinion on March 4 . And on the following day President Hoover was hopeful that the unemployment situation would be " greatly remedied in the next sixty days . " Two days later the President issued his famous prediction that " the worst effects of the crash upon employment will have passed during the next sixty days . " In the same statement Mr. Hoover also reported that unemployment " amounting to distress " was " mainly concentrated in twelve States , " and that conditions in the remaining thirty-six were practically normal . Naturally the Washington correspondents were interested to learn the names of the twelve States to which the President referred . The Administration , however , refused to " single these out , " said the New York Times , because " it desired the unemployment problem to be considered as a national rather than a sectional problem . " Thus Mr. Hoover has somewhat altered his views on unemployment during the past year and a half . For now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a matter of purely local concern . We assume that this change arises from the fact that unemployment today " amounting to distress " is concentrated mainly in forty-eight States as against only twelve in 1930 . Obviously , this makes the problem local throughout ' the country . On March 7 Secretaries Davis and Lamont issued a joint statement purporting to show that employment in the manufacturing industries had increased 8 per cent since the beginning of the year . Shortly thereafter the statisticians in Mr. Davis 's own department revealed that the trend of employment in February had wavered slightly upward-0.1 per cent . Where , then , did these honorable gentlemen get their optimistic 8 per cent ? Undeterred by these discrepancies , Secretary Davis assured the country on March 18 that the President 's " sixty days " prediction would be borne out . Dr. Klein likewise saw conditions improving steadily . Speaking over the radio on May 3 , he referred to the " recent period of unemployment which , according to the best indicators , is being gradually left behind . " President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commerce of the United States on May 1 . " A telegraphic canvass of the governors and mayors , " he said , " brings with but one exception the unanimous report of the continuously decreasing unemployment each month and the assurance of further decreases in May . " Yet the statistics of the Department of Labor disclosed a continuous decline in employment each month from February through May ! A month later Mr. Hoover still refused to admit the seriousness of the unemployment situation . As related by Amos Pinchat in The Nation of January 14 , 1931 , a delegation of important business men visited the President to urge some drastic action by the government to relieve the growing distress . Mr. Hoover assured the delegation that existing relief agencies were adequate ; that the peak of unemployment had been reached and passed . " Gentlemen , " he said , " you have come six weeks too late . " Of equal interest in retrospect is the once popular Administration slogan " No wage cuts . " On May 21 , 1930 , Secretary Davis addressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover accomplishes nothing more in all of his service to the government , that one outstanding thing of his Administration  --  no reduction in wages  --  will be . ? . remembered forever . " President Hoover continued the good cheer in his address to the American Federation of Labor on October 6 . The 1929 pledges of industrial leaders to maintain wages , he said , " have been carried out in astonishing degree . " On October 29 Secretary Lamont sent a telegram of congratulation to the American Institute of Steel Construction . " 1 understand , " he telegraphed , " the structural-steel industries have not discharged men or reduced wages . This is a fine example . " In passing let us note that employment in this field , according to the Department of Labor index , had dropped nearly 20 per cent between October , 1929 , and October , 1930 ; pay rolls had decreased 25 per cent . In his report for the fiscal year 1930 , made public December 14 , Secretary Lamont declared it was a " noteworthy fact that practically no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of the recession in business . " The new Secretary of Labor , William Nuckles Doak , qualified as a Hoover official on January 4 of the present year with the observation that " in all the major industries today , standards of wages hold fast because of agreements brought about by the President . " Several months later , on April 24 , 1931 , Secretary Lamont reported that he had canvassed the principal industries and found " no movement to reduce the rates of wages . " On the contrary , he found " a desire to support the situation in every way . " If true , Mr. Lamont 's canvass would certainly indicate that the President 's campaign to stabilize wages had been a remarkable success . Unfortunately , it was not true . When the Secretary made his survey , the Labor Bureau , Inc. , had already published information on more than 1,500 manufacturing plants which had cut wages . There is , however , a more important defect in the Administration claim that it has been able to maintain wage rates : it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not mean that the actual earnings of workers  --  wage income ? have not been seriously reduced by the depression . For , obviously , even if wage rates are maintained 100 per cent , unemployment and part-time employment can greatly diminish the actual content of the pay envelope . This , of course , is exactly what has happened since October , 1929 . Despite the repeated assurances of no wage cuts by Secretaries Davis , Doak , and Lamont , wage income began to suffer immediately after the crash , and it has continued to shrink in almost every month since . In September , if not earlier , the absurdfiction that the President could control wages was finally exposed by the wholesale wage reductions by leading corporations in that month . On these , curiously , Mr. Hoover has not commented . On these , according to the papers , Mr. Hoover prefers to remain neutral ! Such , in part , is the record of discredited magic from Washington . Certainly it is not easy to explain , nor has the Administration tried to explain it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either the officials were woefully ignorant of the government 's own statistics , or they deliberately misrepresented the real conditions . Why , it may be asked , should men borrow so much trouble by false statements ? Perhaps a clue to their purpose may be found in 11,1r . Hoover 's profound antipathy toward legislative efforts to relieve the hardships of the depression . Does not this weekly brewing of " upturns in business , " " normal employment in thirty or sixty days , " and " no wage cuts " yield a potent antidote for such poisons in the body politic as unemployment insurance , increased income taxes , and social planning ? That is , if the magic works .                     