@@221325

Ah Wilderness ! ( Metro-Goldwyn- Mayer ) . The growing pains of a young generation , tossing uneasily on its antimacassars somewhere in New England , have been expertly woven into this adaptation of Eugene O'Neill 's play about an adolescent taking his first look at the grown-up world of 1906 . Ah Wilderness ! is notable also for one of those curiosities of billing that cinema contracts sometimes bring about . Wallace Beery , billed as the star , plays what amounts to an expanded bit-part . He is Uncle Sid , affable and alcoholic parasite who sponges a living in the family of Nat Miller , smalltown newspaper publisher . Nat Miller is played by Lionel Barrymore whose part , though written down considerably from the play , is still an important one and who gets second billing . The real lead ( Richard ) is Eric Linden , who gets no special billing at all , worked in the picture as a free lance , and was much rejoiced to get a contract out of it . <P> Richard is the boy who wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valedictory address , which is interrupted , amid great applause , at the end of a stereotyped preamble . A brilliant , poetic idealist , he gets into trouble with the father of his girl ( Cecilia Parker ) because he has given her verses by that renegade , Algernon Charles Swinburne . When he believes that she has spurned his love , Richard samples his first kisses and his first drinks in company with a fast-stepping lady from New Haven , who wears flounces , high-laced shoes , low-slung garters . <P> Playwright O'Neill , admittedly , was skylarking , insofar as it comports with the dignity of U. S. Playwright No. 1 to skylark , when he got period laughs out of his sentimental little comedy . Screenwriters Albert Hackett and Frances Goodrich have gone further , using the sound frame of O'Neill 's drama as the basis for a period pastiche . It is all there , for people who can think back 30 years : the band concert on the common ; the tandem bicycles , shirtwaist watches , lemonade and porch swings ; the crested brewery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourth of July ; the bombardment of firecrackers which on that date turned the streets of every U. S. city into miniature battlefields . But even those who do not know what a Stanley Steamer was and never said ' ' Twenty-three Skiddoo " will still take pleasure in Ah Wilderness ! <P> East of Java ( Universal ) . An ex-gangster named Red Bowers ( Charles Bickford ) becomes a leader of men when cast ashore on an island off East Africa together with the crew , passengers and cargo , mostly lions , of the tramp steamer Sea Dragon . East of Java was adapted from Gouverneur Morris ' Tiger Island by able Screenwriter James Creelman , and regardless of its minor sins against credulity it has a reckless tempo and a tendency for killing off its cast , unusual and charming as a contrast to the current prissy mode of photographing people who sit around on sofas talking imitation Philip Barry .                     