@@222813

The whirlpools of cooling , erupting gas on the sun , called sunspots , wax and wane in cycles of about eleven years , although some intervals have been as short as eight years , others as long as 16 . In 1933 sunspot activity suddenly turned upward after languishing near the bottom of a cycle ( TIME , Nov. 13 , 1933 ) . Since then sunspots have made much news , growing bigger and more frequent , disrupting transatlantic wireless communication and fostering brilliant displays of the aurora borealis . Astronomers looked forward to a peak of activity in 1938 or 1939 . <P> Since sunspot behavior is irregular , it is sometimes impossible to tell that a peak or a trough has been passed until many months afterward . At a summer meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Ottawa last week , Dr. Harlan True Stetson of Massachusetts Institute of Technology , reported that the peak of the current cycle had been reached and passed in July 1937 . The spots are now on the downgrade therefore , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to uninterrupted radio communication for four or five more years . <P> Dr. Stetson is the author of Sunspots and Their Effects ( TIME , Nov. 22 ) , in which he ventured the opinion that sunspots may affect human psychology through such channels as vitamin intake , electrical effects on nerve impulses , electrified particles in the air . Hence , since business activity is " fundamentally a curve of mass psychology , " sunspots may affect stockmarket prices and other indices of prosperity . From 1929 through the Depression bottom of 1932 to the highs of 1937 , the correspondence between active sunspots and booming business has been remarkably close . Last week it was also seen that the July 1937 sunspot peak preceded the August market break by only a few weeks . Thus Depression II may be linked to the current sunspot downgrade . But no temporary outburst of sunspots was reported to accompany last week 's ebullient stockmarket ( see p. 52 ) .                     