@@493767

Sanctions or Neutrality A VALUED contributor , Professor Frederick L. Schuman of the University of Chicago , writes to oppose The New Republic 's policy in regard to League sanctions and neutrality . ( His letter appears on page 200 of this issue . ) This is a problem of the utmost importance and the greatest complexity , the last word on which can not be pronounced for a long time to come . Since it involves all the uncertainty of the future , nobody can be completely sure he is right about it , and every intelligent addition to the debate is to he welcomed . Mr. Schuman and the others who share his views have not , however , convinced us , and we think a reply is specially pertinent in view of the international developments of the past two weeks -- developments that have occurred since the letter itself was written . Mr. Schuman begins by stating a conclusion with which we heartily agree ? that Japan , Germany and Italy , all fascist or semi-fascist Powers , are tremendous threats to peace and liberalism throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpreted as weakness by their rulers . He then proceeds to argue that the League today is not the League of Wilson , Poincare , Stresernann or Briand , but " has become a grand alliance of liberalism all ? 1 , communism for mutual defense against fascism . The " selfish " interests of its leading nations " happen to coincide for the present with the interests of all liberals and of all friends of peace . " This argument seems to us entirely too simple . The governments of France and Great Britain , the most powerful nations in the League except the Soviet Union , are conservative , capitalist governments . France for a long time has been trying to prevent the imposition of effective sanctions upon Italy . Laval has been influenced in this matter by a number of considerations , among which the most prominent are : pro-fascist tendencies of French industry and capital , a military understanding with Mussolini , a previous agreement with Mussolini consenting to imperialist aggression in Ethiopia , and uncertainty as to where Britain would stand if Prance should become involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , in words , supported League action much more strongly than has Laval ; but it was dilatory in forewarning Mussolini of the result of his aggression , it has refrained not only from proposing that the Suez Canal be closed to Italian troops and military supplies ? a measure that would have nipped the war in the bud ? but from urging embargoes upon oil , coal and iron . Its endorsement of the recent and notorious Hoare-Laval peace terms , which offered to Italy more than Italy was likely to win by the war , indicates clearly enough how little it is to be relied upon . Many Tories , while they do not want Mussolini to threaten the Empire , desire still less that he be overthrown . Many regard Hider as the great bulwark against Bolshevism . The oil companies and the " city " are influential with the Cabinet ; and in any case the government shrinks from taking action which might Precipitate the necessity for military sanctions ? that is , the necessity for war against Italy . All this Mr. Schuman would doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parties of the French left , plus the British Labor Party and Peace movement , are all engaged in pushing their respective governments into more determined and consistent action in support of the League . Why , then , is it not the part of Americans who share the ideals and purposes of these great forces to adopt the same policy in regard to their own government ? The League may be betrayed by the conservatives , it is true , but in that case a future war is nearly inevitable ; whereas if the popular movements throughout the world do succeed in strengthening the League sufficiently , there is a chance of averting a war of aggression . This is a sufficient justification for the pro-sanctions policy of the Soviet Union and its probable allies . If the threat of sanctions does not prevent German aggression , nations like the Soviet Union , Czechoslovakia , Rumania and the Baltic States will have to fight anyway , since they will be the immediate objects of the aggression . If France , Britain and the Scandinavian countries are loyal to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , they will , by the application of sanctions , give powerful help to those who are attacked . Therefore the nations immediately threatened have nothing to lose and everything to gain by a strong League , and their European sympathizers will naturally support it . For us in America , however , who are not threatened by invasion or immediate involvement in the war , the issues are different . There is , to be sure , a chance that a strong League , threatening certain and drastic sanctions against any aggressor , would prevent war . There is virtually no chance that the members of such a League could stay out of the war if it came , provided they lived up to their obligations . But there is a chance that the United States , by adopting the correct policy outside the League , could remain at peace . The best choice for this country depends therefore on one 's assessment of these chances . If one thinks that the League can , with American help , avert war , but that if war comes we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If he thinks that the League can not avert war , but that the United States can remain neutral , he will choose the neutral policy ? unless his primary aim is to join an armed crusade in behalf of the League powers . In order to suppose that a new war may be prevented through the League , one would have to assume ( 1 ) that the present rulers of Germany , with their prospective allies , would not start a war if they were certain the other League Powers would impose sanctions , and ( 2 ) , that those Powers will act in such a way as to produce that certainty . The first assumption seems to us extremely tenuous . It is tantamount to saying that Hitler , plus his counterparts in Japan , Poland , Austria , Hungary and possibly Italy as well , would not in their madness and desperation risk a war against the former Entente . The second assumption is even further from probability . The governments of France and Britain are at this moment negotiating with Germany . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how much more will they not hesitate to check Hitler , when he attacks Communist Russia ? Hitler well knows that the British labor and peace movement , while it favors sanctions , favors them as a means not of getting into war but of staying out . He has only to threaten convincingly at the last moment that he will not accept economic sanctions without military reprisal in order to bring popular support to a British government that did not want to fight him . On the other hand , the chance that the United States could keep out of a European war would be large if Congress , before its outbreak , adopted legislation forbidding loans and exports of munitions and essential war materials to all belligerents . As we have admitted , such a policy would cause heavy losses to powerful interests in this country and would be difficult to maintain . Nevertheless it is a cause about which American popular opinion may be rallied far more readily than about support of the League . There is a fighting chance of effectuating it . If it were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entering the struggle , not for some noble abstraction that can not ultimately be obtained by war , but purely for financial and commercial interests . What would be the effect of such a neutrality policy on the belligerents , in case the liberals and socialists of Europe forced their governments into a war upon aggressive fascism ? It would , to be sure , damage Britain , France and the Soviet Union , but , after all , these nations have access to other sources of supply . The first two would be in touch with the outside world , while the third is nearly self-sustaining . The policy would , however , be ruinous to Japan and would reinforce any blockade imposed by the British navy against Germany and her European allies . If Britain or France or both remained neutral , selling goods to Germany and Japan , a policy of non-intercourse on the part of the United States would be far more effective in stopping the war than would cooperation with a broken-down League that was doing nothing . If the neutrality policy we advocate were now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy than the League itself is doing . And in the event ? unlikely but still possible ? that France or Britain or both joined the anti-Soviet alliance by one subterfuge or another , we should be well out of it . It must be admitted that the danger of another world war in which this country will become embroiled is great , so long as the world is , in the main , a capitalist and imperialist one . But the deep popular instinct in this country to stay out of the mess is one of the fundamental forces in the situation . It may be put to use in the service of civilization ; it can be betrayed only at the risk of a terrible reaction . Liberals and other friends of peace can oppose it only at the peril of their cause . 