@@491835

FROM Roosevelt to Roosevelt . the Supreme Court , to most people , was a photograph of nine faces above black robes , and the Constitution a quaintly printed parchment under glass in the Library of Congress , principally referred to on the Fourth of July and Constitution Day . As justices died or resigned , well-known public figures , appointed to succeed them , melted into that background of sepia and , as a rule , disappeared from the public eye . The President . certainly had a right to be startled at . the hostile public reaction to his " horse-and-buggy " press conference , after the sick-chicken decision knocked out the NRA . But the old indifference seemed to be restored last fall when the Republican orators waved the Constitution like a bloody shirt , and the sluggish electorate , without batting an eye , voted for Franklin D , Roosevelt . Then , on February fifth , came the President 's message on the Supreme Court . The Nine Old Men suddenly stepped out of the frame and became living political figures whose ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breakfast . table . The Constitutional issue took longer to reach public attention , but the debate of the last two months , with the debaters lined up quite differently from the line-up of the last election , has gradually interested a growing number of voters . It really looks , irrespective of the fate of the President 's proposals , as if the first real debate of the Franklin Roosevelt Administration had begun . It was high time , and I am glad of this chance to contribute to it .. Almost since the beginning of the United States in 1789 we have had a Supreme Court issue . What is this present one ? The issue is not the delays of the Supreme Court in disposing of its business , The court now works too fast for many of the lawyers that practice before it . It is not the aged incompetence of the justices , for they are none of them incompetent , and the remedy proposed , in any event , gives only temporary relief for the difficulty of age . The issue is not the danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many people feel strongly about such a danger , I do not . The Question at Issue rr HE Supreme Court issue is the question : Have 1 Supreme Court decisions permitted the continuanee of injustice and wrong ? And if that is true or partly true , what shall we do about it ? Certainly , the fathers of the Constitution , themselves , realized that great document might not always insure justice to the citizen , because they provided for its amendment . The question whether any such change is necessary now , deserves our most sympathetic and careful consideration . I might as well begin with calamity howlers . They did not contribute to the debate in the last presidential campaign . and they do not contribute to this . Listen to one : If the Court should be broken down , and the places on the bench filled with ignorant or unprincipled men , violent partisans and desperate politicians , the strength and security of the Republic will be undermined , and the very first serious convulsion that occurs will endanger the very existence of the Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covers the ground . It is an editorial that appeared in the New York Daily Advertiser on March 19 , 1830 , after the Supreme Court had been bitterly attacked for its decisions declaring state laws unconstitutional . On the other side we have equally extreme statements like this one , from Heywood Broun , who wrote on Lincoln 's Birthday : If Mr. Roosevelt loses the fight for his Supreme Court proposals , his entire second term will be wrecked . . . Mr , Roosevelt is fighting for his life . This viewing with alarm is not much help . There is , nevertheless , a very fundamental issue , an issue which deserves the most thorough consideration . It is not an issue that is likely to be settled , once for all , by any action that may be taken in Washington at this session of Congress . It involves so many problems that it deserves , and will receive , a continuous debate before the people for many months . My first proposition is that the real issue , as now presented , has little or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President said in his message : The simple Fact is that today a new need for legislative action arises because the personnel of the Federal judiciary is insufficient to meet the business before thorn . It is indeed a simple fact that more judges are necessary , as well as greater flexibility in distributing the judges we have to those districts which are slow . But , when the President 's message was sent to Congress , there were nine va cancies in Federal districts and circuits , some of which , had continued for more than a year , even where business was seriously congested . This was because of political disputes about appointments , for which Democratic senators and congressmen shared the blame . There have been other examples of similar delays in the last four r years . Prompt Decisions SQO FAR as distribution is con-cerned , judges in smaller communities simply can not afford to serve in congested districts , in large cities away from home , on five dollars a day for expenses . A bill to increase this sum to ten dollars a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district courts are indeed congested . Those which are reported behind in their dockets by the Attorney General number 38 districts out of a total of 84 . This represents a tremendous improvement since the early ars , when prohibition first began to swamp the Federal courts . How has this improvement been brought about ? Not by the Executive , either Mr. Roosevelt or his predecessors . The Act of Congress of September 14 , 1922 , provided for the Judicial Conference , made up of the Senior Circuit judges and the Chief Justice of the United States . This group meets at Washington each year in October . The Attorney General keeps statistics of all eases filed in the Federal courts and their disposition , and reports on the state of the dockets in each district and circuit . In 1924 , this conference recommended additional judges for the congested districts and circuits . It recommended the transfer of the prohibition unit to the Department of Justice . It recommended speedier appeals , through amendment of the bankruptcy laws . Similar reports were made each October thereafter , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt was inaugurated . Congress has always been reluctant to carry out measures for judicial reform , and has been slow to carry out these recommendations of the Judicial Conference . There is no evidence that the President , in four years , has given any assistance in securing the adoption of any of them . He expresses concern for the cost of lawsuits to the ordinary citizen in the Federal courts , but he suggests no remedy at all to meet that problem . In fact , his proposals , as I shall show in a moment , will increase that cost . Surely , then , delays and cost in the lower Federal courts were not the real reason for this message . What about the Supreme Court ? The President . went on to say : Even at the present time the Supreme Court is laboring under a heavy burden . Its difficulties in this respect were superficially lightened some years age by authorizing the Court , in its discretion , to refuse to hear appeals in many classes of eases . . Can it be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sheer necessity of keeping up with its business to decline , without . even an explanation , to hear 87 per cent of the cases presented to it by private litigants ? It is difficult to understand where the President secured the evidence upon which he bases this statement . Prof. Felix Frankfurter , of the Hart-arid Law School , who has been generally credited with being the brains behind the Brain Trust , and who is certainly one of the President 's most ardent supporters , knows as much about the court as almost anyone . Collaborating with his associate , Prof. Henry M. Hart , Jr. , he wrote , a- little over a year ago : For the sixth consecutive year the Court at the last term kept abreast of its docket . It is not enough , however , for a court to dispose of a huge volume of litigation a with dispatch . Especially gratifying is it that tribunal with the Supremo Court 's scope of jurisdiction should do so with increasing attention to those details of administration which are the safeguards of its processes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of the Solicitor General , rendered as recently as last January , confirms this . He wrote : The work of the Supreme Court is current and cases are heard as soon after records have been printed as briefs can be prepared . Prompt hearings and decisions were had in all cases of large public interest . What , then , is the President driving at ? The situation requires a little explanation in order to give laymen a real understanding of what it is all about . The ordinary ease brought by a private individual is tiled in a . Federal District Court , where the judge hears it , either with or without a jury . The loser can take it on appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals , where every ease is given a full hearing and review , and the parties receive a decision from that court , with an opinion . ( Continued on Fog . 102 ) // camp . No savvy too much . What for you lot big fella master sergeant getum caught ? What for you no listen wild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Web ! You makum lubra laugh too much . Now you move , How does that compare with the usual situation in the states ? In 1912 , the Constitutional Convention of Ohio , which submitted modifications of the Ohio constitution , at that time considered liberal , if not radical , proposed that , in order to promote speedy justice , there should be , in the courts of Ohio , just one trial and one review . The convention then provided that , with certain limited exceptions , the Supreme Court of Ohio , after the single trial and single review , should have the duty of hearing and deciding only those eases in which important issues were involved that deserved a decision from the highest court in the state . That was a proposal of the liberals , mark you , which was opposed by many a lawyer before the people approved it at the polls . That is exactly what Federal procedure now provides for every litigant . If , after the trial in the District Court and review in the Circuit Court of Appeals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has a special case involving questions of great public interest , he has the right to file a request with the Supreme Court at Washington to hear his ease . The method of doing so is laid down with exact simplicity . He must send up the record of the testimony . He must file a supporting brief which tells exactly what his claim is and why it is important . These requests are what are called petitions for writs of certiorari . The Declined 87 Per Cent It is a fact which can not be questioned that in considering these requests every one of the nine judges reads every record mid every brief conscientiously . When these requests have thus been considered by each judge alone , they are discussed , briefly , to be sure , but nevertheless discussed , in conference ; the nine judges vote , and the favorable votes of four are sufficient to cause the granting of the request . It is true that the lawyers have no chance to argue in person . It is also true that the judges write no opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that full justice is achieved , in spite of the President 's opinion to the contrary . Besides the references already given , I quote Solicitor General Stanley Reed , whose annual survey of the work of the Court was attached to the report of the Attorney General to Congress , in January of this year : Many petitions for writs of certiorari are filed which in the light of settled practice must he regarded as entirely without merit . Mr. Reed goes on to point out that even in those cases which the court must hear , where it has no discretion , tho figures disclose that a very lam majority of the cases on the appellate docket do not possess sufficient merit to warrant consideration on the merits . ' fore I knock hell outum you . Feedum horse . Water um horse . Makum fire too quick . I tell you . Head tracker tell you . You run . . . So ! " And he planted a heavy kick on Sammy Boy 's naked stern . The walkabout was over . It is at least of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Supreme Court Reports and should go over the list of eases where the requests for a hearing were refused , he would find a very large proportion made up of ( 1 ) cases where defendants in criminal cases , safely incarcerated in Federal penitentiaries , were making a last effort to avoid punishment ; and ( 2 ) cases in which a corporation defendant which lost in the lower courts to some private individual was making a final effort to avoid paying the judgment . The President seems to suggest that the 87 per cent of eases in which requests for hearing are denied should be let in ; but if that were done , it would simply mean that people with lawsuits who won them below would have to stand the expense of another hearing . His remedy does not reduce costs ; it increases them . Preaching Speed , Practicing Delay This promptness in handling cases on the part of the Supreme Court is , relatively , a recent accomplishment . In the old days there were many cases which lay on the Supreme Court docket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warren 's history of the Supreme Court is full of examples . At the present time the court is treading on the heels of the lawyers . How has this improvement come about ? It is the result , as pointed out by the President , of a statute passed in 1925 . This was proposed and its enactment secured from Congress by my father , as Chief Justice . At the time when it went into effect there were 558 cases which went over from June to October on the Supreme Court docket for that year . By June , 1927 , this was reduced to 295 , and by June , 1929 , to 143 . In June , 1936 , it had been reduced , according to the Solicitor General , to just 90 eases , which means , as I have said , that the court had caught up with the lawyers and was waiting for them . The President recommends speedy hearings on constitutional questions . This is highly desirable , but for at least three years of Mr. Roosevelt 's Administration , the Attorney General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such decisions . It is interesting to note that , in this respect , the President had the precedent of similar conduct on the part of his great predecessor , Thomas Jefferson , when he was fighting the court . So much for the matter of delays ; my next proposition is that the Supreme Court issue is not the age of the justices . Age does not produce the delays , for only twenty-five out of 237 Federal judges are past seventy years of age , and only four of the judges in the thirty-eight congested districts are over seventy . The President says : It is well to remember that the mass of details involved in the average of law cases today is vastly greater and morecompiloted than even twenty years ago . ? ? ? A lowered mental or physical vigor leads men to avoid an examination of complicated and changed conditions . . Older men , assuming that the scene is the same as it was in the past , cease to explore or inquire into the present or the future . Of course such a statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Senator Borah with mixed feelings . It makes one wonder why Senator Walsh , at seventy-four , was appointed Attorney General . On the merits , however , I would again quote Professor Frankfurter , who says : Pressure of work has greatly stimulated the invention of procedural devices and accelerated the tempo in the dispatch of business by the Court . The voturne of litigation of which the Court now disposes at a single term , the smoothness of the administrative mechanism by which this is accomplished . the extent to which argument has become a . Socratic dialogue between Court and counsel . would startle the shades of Marshall and Taney even as they would have hampered the eloquence of Clay and Webster . That does n't sound decrepit to me . It shows how silly was the editorial of an Ohio paper supporting the President , which said : The Supreme Court , because of the advanced age of a majority of its members , is on the verge of a crisis for physical reasons alone . Is the Court to be permitted to break down under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that breakdown has not been observed in Washington . As Mr. Justice Story wrote in 1513 about similar attacks upon the judiciary , these are Mean and miserable insinuations . made to weaken the authority of its judgments . The Fallacy of Court Packing The increase in the number of judges does not relieve their labors . In the Constitutional Convention , Madison suggested that if business should increase , the numbers could be increased . Gouverneur Morris replied : Tho increase of business can not be provided for in the supreme tribunal in the way that has been mentioned . All the business of a certain description , whether fliers or less , must be done in that singlo tribunal . Additional labor alone in the judges can provide for additional business . This early statement , based on theory , is fully borne out by a letter from Mr. Justice Story of March 15 , 1835 . The court had been increased from 1 . seven to nine before that term . He said : We made very slow progress , and did less in the earne time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has most sensibly affected our facility as well as rapidity of doing business . . , . Wo found ourselves often involved in long and very tedious debates . I verily believe , if there wore twelve judges , we should do no business at all or at least very little . The President implies that many , if not all , of the 87 per cent of eases which are not admitted should be heard by the court . If his argument were correct , that increasing the number of judges increases the capacity for doing business , then he should recommend sixty or more judges in order to handle the Supreme Court business as he thinks it should be handled . This is the reductio ad absurdum . Sen. James Hamilton Lewis early sprang to the defense of these proposals , and stated that the President intended to have three courts of five judges each . Any person who stops to think must see that this is impossible , or , at least , that it would not help the situation . From the President 's standpoint , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Deal cases ? Or will all fifteen hear the more important eases ? If that is the case , as some states have provided , it means an extra hearing , because the court may not know which eases deserve such special treatment until one division of five has heard them . Thus it might mean one trial and three reviews , instead of one trial , one review ; and the court would be selecting a still more limited number of eases for the full bench to hear than it does now . The Real Problem of Old Age No , there must be one court which renders the final decision . It can not divide up . The only question is the best number . Nine was first fixed in 1837 , and as the court became used to that number after Story 's first complaint , and tried different numbers for brief periods , their experience would justify , on the whole , the belief that nine works well , and that fifteen would not . I am not discounting at all the very real problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been at least one judge on the Supreme Court who reached a point where he could not write an opinion with which his colleagues could agree . It should be generally understood that every judge on the Supreme Court must agree with every word of every opinion , or else say so . Nevertheless , I submit that any fair study of the history of the Federal bench since the 1899 law which first permitted resignation on full pay after seventy , would show that 90 per cent of the difficult situations have been eliminated . Under such circumstances , the colleagues of such men on the bench can , and do , bring a quiet and very effective pressure , without regard to political or social views of any kind . It may be of some interest to note what states and foreign countries have done . Some jurisdictions have provided compulsory retirement . A royal commission in England recommended that this take place at seventy-two , but Parliament has not acted . France retires at seventy-five . Some states say seventy , some seventy-five and a few eighty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retirement at seventy , but on that he changed his opinion after actual experience on the Supreme Court , at least as to the actual age limit . All states and the United States provide for impeachment , but sonic gii further . Many permit the removal of judges for cause by a majority vote of both houses of the state legislature . The " cause , " of course , is pretty much in the discretion of the legislature . Rhode Island , a few years ago , used that provision for a coup d ' &11.; In Massachusetts , the governor may remove an incompetent judge with the approval of his council . Compulsory retirement , of course , or any of these other remedies , would require a constitutional amendment . It seems to me that it should not operate before seventy-five . I do not think that I am disrespectful in saying that the President has been disingenuous in resting his pro- posal upon ago and delays , The Nation on this point said , quoting the Scotch jury , " Not guilty , but do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his motives are questioned . But that is obviously his own fault . Last June he wrote in his own platform that it these problems could not be effectively solved by legislation within the Constitution , he would seek clarifying amendments . " Clarifying " implies not something new , but the correction of wrong interpretation ; just what he claims to be aiming at now . Without any change in the situation , since June , he refuses to back the direct method and proposes the devious one . Ile would be in a much stronger position if he met the issue head on , as he did , in such splendid fashion , in the message on reorganization of the Executive departments . This Supreme Court proposal is likely to make it harder for him to get administrative reform . Perhaps it was not necessary for me to lay so much stress on my first two propositions  --  that neither delays in procedure nor the age of the justices was the real issue  --  for the President practically admitted it himself within two weeks of ter his message . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you come to the real issue , the question whether decisions of the Supreme Court have perpetuated injustice , and if so , what can be done about it . The discussion of that issue urgently requires a fair consideration of exactly what injustice is claimed . Bitter attacks on the President for seeking illegal power , bitter attacks on the court for alleged usurpation , are so much sound and fury . They do nothing but becloud the real issue . The Champion of Human Liberties The claim of injustice is not made on the basis of Supreme Court decisions protecting freedom of speech , freedom of the press and fair treatment of minorities . The court . has a tradition of defending human liberties from the excited passions of the crowd that every American ought to be proud of . It is not often in history that a government has existed which furnished that kind of protection . I believe it is safe to say it has never existed except where it was provided by an independent judiciary . After the Civil War , with Lincoln dead , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neck of the South . They feared what the Supreme Court might do to the Reconstruction Acts , especially because of the way it had struck down military tribunals outside of war areas ( Ex parte Milligan ) , and held invalid a state test oath ( Cummings vs . Missouri ) and an act of Congress ( Ex parte Garland ) that barred former Confederates and sympathizers from the professions of minister and lawyer . They feared President Johnson almost as much as the court , and they tried to pack the court by reducing the number from ten to seven , so that ho could not fill new vacancies as the old Democratic appointees died or resigned . The recent cases are equally interesting , though here it is a contest against hasty or coercive actions of states . The court in 1924 saved the parochial schools of Oregon from a compulsory-attendance law adopted by popular vote : The fundamental theory of liberty upon which all governments in this union repose excludes any general power of the state to standardize its children by forcing them to accept instruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we look across the Atlantic ? The court forces states in the South to give Negroes jurymen of their Own race , and goes back of the face of the statutes to the way in which they are administered , in order to seek out discrimination . Its decisions remind us , again and again , that , by virtue of the Bill of Rights , men are equal before the law , irrespective of race and religion . When a Communist sought protection last year from another Oregon statute , the court said , only a few months ago : The greater the importance of safeguarding from incitements to the overthrow of our institutions by force and violence , the more imperative is the need to preserve inviolate the constitutional rights of free speech , free press and free assembly in order to maintain the opportunity for free political discussion , to the end that government may be responsive to the will of the people and that changes , if desired , may be obtained by peaceful means . In the world of 1937 that means something vital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable complaint against the Supreme Court for its decisions sustaining the powers of the central government . Charles Warren wrote fifteen years ago : The Court 's actual decisions at critical periods have steadily enhanced the power of the National Government . So also the court has maintained the power of the Executive . It has held that the President can remove any appointee in the Executive departments , and that Congress can not limit that power , although it can control removal of a judicial officer like a Federal Trade Commissioner . It has given the President almost dictatorial authority over foreign affairs . It has permitted a wide delegation to him of legislative authority in connection with the flexible tariff , for instance . Its decisions in this field of governmental powers have gone so far that , if they could have been foreseen in 1787 , they would surely have prevented the adoption of the Constitution . It used to be the fashion , now revived , to charge the court with usurpation , for asserting the right to review the constitutionality of state and Federal laws . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave this answer in 1833 : The jurisdiction claimed for the Federal Judiciary is truly the only defensive armor of the Federal Government , or rather for the Constitution and laws of the United States . Strip it of that armor , and the door is wide open for nullification , anarchy and convulsion , unless twenty-four states now forty-eight , independent of the whole and of each other , should exhibit the miracle of a voluntary and unanimous performance of every injunction of the parchment compact . It is of interest . that the British Commonwealth of Nations has come to a somewhat similar practice , as seen in the recent decision of the highest court in England , throwing out the Canadian New Deal legislation . Often the decisions invalidating state laws are rendered because the laws are badly drawn , and when the job is well done later , the laws are sustained . That happened to workmen 's compensation and to laws for the relief of debtors in this depression . So far as Federal laws are concerneki the authors of The Nine Old Men , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writers , have attempted , by a show of historical learning , to establish the fact that this power of the court over Congress also was usurped . The answer was given by Prof. Thomas Reed Powell , of Harvard , a strong critic of the court , in reviewing that disgraceful book : It is not true that the constitutional convention rejected a proposal for judicial review as established by Marbury vs . Madison . . . . It is gross error to say that " . . . there was no doubt whatsoever in the minds of the founding fathers that the Supreme Court was given no power to pass upon the constitutionality of acts of Congress . " An act of Congress was held unconilitutional by a Federal court in 1791 . The power was acquiesced in by Fedralists and anti-Federalists alike ; and , even when the issue became critical at the beginning of the next century , most anti-Federalists supported the power of the court still . The only ones who denied it were the representatives from Virginia and Kentucky , who were afraid , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land-claimant statutes . The hitter complaint about Marbury vs . Madison in 1803 was entirely based on the fact that John Marshall went out of his way to criticize President Jefferson and Madison , the Secretary of State . There was no serious question raised about the power of the court to pass on the constitutionality of the Act of Congress involved . The Angie of Politics In the history of the Supreme Court he question of the power of the court to declare laws unconstitutional has always divided men almost solely on political tines , and the position of the parties has frequently changed with a change in the political situation . Before the controversy over Roosevelt legislation drew sharp political lines , there was a considerable body of liberal opinion that observed a trend in the court 's decisions away from more conservative views in passing upon reform legislation . In October , 1931 , for instance , there appeared in a liberal monthly a signed article bearing the title , Our Supreme Court Goes Liberal . There have been frequent . claims of injustice because the court has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare . " I do not know of any lawyer  --  or of anyone else , for that matter , who has really studied the English of the Constitution  --  who seriously contends that such a power was given in 1789 . Conservatives , beginning with John Marshall , have held that Congress could levy taxes only for some specific authorized purpose . But a year ago this court decided , in effect , that Congress can spend money for any purpose which it asserts to be national . Regulation of Trade Practices Close to the President 's heart since the days of NRA has been the question of the power of the Government . to regulate unfair trade practices . This court is ready to go a long way with him an that  --  apparently as far as anyone could ask  --  for only last fall it decided the Sugar Institute case , in which it reviewed , in detail , many of the arrangements between the sugar refiners in their association , and held many of them illegal . Congress can control fully this matter of trade practices tinder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not essentially a constitutional question , as to whether we should promote economic planning for business and industry , with its possible increase in the power of larger units and a tendency toward monopolistic practices , or whether we should adhere to what used to be the liberal view of the trust busters , that there should be a strict and thoroughgoing ' enforcement of laws against monopoly and monopolistic practices . During the current controversy there have been suggestions , at various times , that the President 's message was precipitated by the fact that the Wagner Labor Relations Act cases were about to be argued in the Supreme Court and that the decision was likely to go against the Government in at least some of them  --  those involving manufacturing plants , for instance . The labor leaders ' support of the President in the current controversy seemed to give weight to that view . What is the relation of a decision on the Wagner Labor Relations Act to the Supreme Court issue ? This question is one of the least understood , and to me. personally , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amalgamated Clothing Workers , Sidney Hillman 's union , in Cincinnati . I also represent some open-shop employers and some closed-shop employers , besides having served as a United States Department of Labor conciliator at Toledo in 1934 . Thus I have had the opportunity to observe the working of the Wagner Act and its predecessor in the NRA in considerable detail . The Wagner Act gives some additional force in practice to the powers of conciliation long exercised by the Department of Labor . Ralph Lind , the area representative of the Labor Relations Board , was my invaluable associate at Toledo . But the distinctive features of the act are its condemnation of " unfair labor practices " and its provisions for the conduct of elections . The act declares the duty of collective bargaining with the duly authorized representatives of employees , and makes a refusal to bargain an unfair labor practice . Labor leaders have given great emphasis to this declaration , and I do not doubt it has great moral value . Probably it will have even greater moral value when a Circuit Court of Appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representatives of his employees . However , the essential part of the act from the labor standpoint is its declaration in favor of the majority rule for union representation , and the provisions for supervision of elections that back it up . The Wagner Labor Act If these are the important features of the act , what was the Supremo Court 's attitude on the principles involved prior to the President 's message ? On the right to organize and bargain through " outsiders , " as many employers call any national union , the Supreme Court spoke sixteen years ago : A single employee was helpless in dealing with an employer . He was dependent ordinarily on his daily wage for maintenance of himself and family . If the employer refused to pay him the wages that lie thought fair , he was nevertheless unable to leave the employ and to resist arbitrary and unfair treatment . Union was essential to give laborers opportunity to deal on an equality with their employer . ? . . To reader this combination at all effective , employees must make their combination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as many as may be in the same trade in the same community united , because , in the competition between employers , they are bound to be affected by the standard of wages of their trade in the neighborhood . ' Taft , C. J. , in American Steel Foundries vs . Tri-Seato Central Trades Council ( 1921 ) 257 U. S. 184 , 209 . J That language gives little comfort to the employer who denies the right to ' outsiders " to speak for his men and insists that he will deal with his employees by themselves . On the other question , the majority rule , the court , in a more recent decision with relation to one of the railway brotherhoods , has given grounds for the definite prediction that they will sustain the majority rule as a basis for union representation , something which no Supreme Court of any state has even approached , and open-shop industry abhors . What is the trouble , then , which the President anticipated and which observers at the Supreme Court argument thought might give him a unanimous decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether manufacturing is interstate commerce . Before the President 's message , the answer of the court was , " No . " Apparently he was seeking to prevent a similar decision on the Wagner Aet . I am discussing the issue of injustice , and I can not refrain from saying that even if the act is wholly constitutional , it does not prevent unjust and costly economic conflict . Sometimes the union might choose to ignore the act , as in the Oeneral Motors strike . Sometimes the employer might be led to water  --  I mean the conference table  --  but might not agree . Unless we provide compulsory arbitration , which is unpopular , a strike or a lockout is the final arbiter for parties that will not settle . The Issue of Injustice The real issue of injustice , it seems to me , has to do with minimum wages and maximum hours , with social insurance , and with production control of natural resources . For many years it was assumed that Justice Holmes ' dissenting opinion in Lochner vs . New York represented the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and , by inference , minimum wages . It was a surprise and a shock when a contrary ruling was handed down after the war . I still think that my father 's dissenting opinion and the later dissent of Chief . Justice Hughes , in a similar case , state a sounder interpretation of the Constitution . I disagree heartily with the majority of the court in the Railroad Pension case , and it seems to me that Chief Justice Hughes ' opinion for the minority is unanswerable . In the case of production control of natural resources , the court is not nearly so subject to criticism . In the Appalachian Coals Case , the court went a long way in its recognition of the necessities of the coal situation , and it laid a groundwork upon which many lawyers believe a Federal statute regulating coal and other minerals could he drawn . The various Coffey bills made no effort in that direction at all , and were apparently passed with the principal objective of making the court unpopular for doing its duty . In the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt amounted to coercion on individuals , but its decision permits what amounts to coercion on the states to compel a uniform approach to the problem tinder Federal direction . If this is the issue , this question of injustice perpetuated by Supreme Court decision , how does the President 's remedy propose to meet it ? He is asking for a more limited power with reference to the Supreme Court than that which the President has had with reference to district and circuit judges since 1919 . The law of 1919 gives the President discretion to make an additional temporary appointment , if any judge is mentally or physically disabled ; whereas the new bill which he has submitted requires a permanent appointment if the elderly judges have not retired at the end of six months after they reach seventy . The difference is not substantial , so that this is really a Supreme Court proposal and thus aims at the source of whatever difficulty there is . But his method , if he is to cure injustice , must be to select as six new judges men who agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Defenders of the President 's proposal have been saying the court is not to be packed . I agree , because I believe packing impossible . No President can tell in advance how his appointees will vote , even on political matters . Neither can the Senate , for the liberals fought the confirmation of Stone and Hughes . Jefferson was 1 1 0 bitterly disappointed at the conduct of the judges he appointed , and a court largely constituted by Lincoln later denied the authority for the war powers he had previously insisted upon . The President may think he will correct injustice by adding now judges , but by the time he gets through with the geographical and political considerations involved in getting them confirmed by the Senate , there is no assurance at all for the victims of injustice . Furthermore , when he has completed the increase of the court to fifteen , he can make no more changes . Exactly the same situation may again develop in the future . Do Judges Stay Packed ? In case it should be thought that I have various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I refer to two opinions free from any charge of bias . Morris Ernst has been a vigorous critic of the court and a friend of the New Deal . On February seventh , he wrote in the Baltimore Sun : This proposal has only one merit , it throws the entire subject into the arena of public debate . In itself it is less than a direct attack . Conservative McReynolds was appointed by liberal Wilson , and Stone and Cardozo , on the left wing of the Bends , were appointed by conservative Coolidge and Hoover . . . . This attack has been tried before and brings no enduring results . . . . And would this attack be conceivable if legislation had been upheld , even though the judges were ten years older than God ? Do judges stay packed ? The other opinion is from The Nation , liberal weekly : There are basic objections to the President 's plan . It clearly does not meet the issue of the judicial power as an obstruction to democratic action . . . . I I can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal , and ultimately it may produce simply a benehful of younger reactionaries  --  just as blind and stubborn in their fifties as in their seventies . This must make it obvious that the only sound remedy for whatever injustice exists is the amendment of the Constitution . One wild-eyed suggestion early in the discussion was to ignore the Constitution . This writer claimed that Lincoln 's conduct in issuing the Emancipation Proclamation ignored the Supreme Court decisions . But the Emancipation Proclamation was issued as a war measure , and it did not apply to any states or portions of t:ites not in the control of the Conftileracy . Lincoln 's views were clearly expressed in the debates with Douglas . He disagreed with the Dred Scott decision , and proposed to work for its overruling . But , said Lincoln about the court : April 10,1937 We think its decisions on constitutional questions , when fully settled , should control not only the particular eases decided but the general policy of the country , subject to be disturbed only by Amendments of the Constitution as provided in that instrument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does the President now reject the idea of an amendment , which most of his followers prefer ? Some of the President 's earlier messages claimed that amendment took a long time . It is true that the child-labor amendment has been pending for many years . It is equally true that the prohibition amendment went through in ten months , and that the average for all amendments was a year and a half . Great changes should not come until the people know what it is all about . What is the emergency that requires action in less than a year and a half ? The claim is made that a liberal amendment would be obstructed in the state legislatures . There was exactly the same fear in the case of the prohibition amendment , and the situation was met by calling for conventions in the states instead of action by the legislatures . The election of delegates to such conventions would provide an ideal opportunity for all the important issues to be debated before the public , and would , at the same time , provide a real measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way of democracy . Federal Versus State Power The President has let it be understood that the problem of drafting an amendment is a difficult one . With that , every lawyer would agree , but surely the Administration can command the best talent in the country , of many shades of opinion , for the accomplishment of that task . He can not admit that obstacle to be insuperable . It might he pointed out in defense of the court that this is a problem of drawing a line between the field in which the Federal Government can properly operate and the field which should be left for local self-government . That is what makes it so hard . There is a principle which has the backing of the Catholic Church , with its long experience and its deep understanding of human nature , that no duty should be placed upon the larger unit which can he adequately performed by the smaller unit . This is not a reactionary principle . It is at the very foundation of democracy , for democracy is based upon the sharing by each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managing the affairs of the community . When government moves a hundred miles , or a thousand trades , or three thousand miles away , that is definitely a blow to democracy . otoSS A .... So . loosno .. 1 ) .1 .. ? some cases it is essential , but the wisdom of the founding fathers was shown in their decision to put the burden of proof on those who wanted to send any function of government any such distance from the citizen . Some of the proposed amendments aim at restricting the power of the court to declare laws unconstitutional . Feeling about that depends a good deal upon whose ox is gored . Mr. Roosevelt , at Albany , was glad enough when some legislative restrictions upon his power as governor were held unconstitutional by the New York Court of Appeals . So has it always been in our history . Georgia would nullify a Supreme Court decree invalidating its Cherokee laws in 1832 , but twenty-five years later it was glad enough to have Northern laws against catching fugitive slaves treated the same way by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision of the court by a two-thirds vote of Congress has some merit , but the trouble is that the responsibility of Congress for remaining within constitutional limitations , comparable to the responsibility which the British Parliament assumes in that respect , has gone so long without use that it is practically nonexistent . Before responsibility developed , we might see a great many unfortunate acts of Congress . I do not fear the result as much as some , but it should be clearly understood that it makes Congress supreme over the Executive as well as over the court . Alternative Proposals The proposal to limit the power of the court by requiring a two-thirds vote on constitutional questions has some vigorous supporters . Apart from the very real injustice to people with a lawsuit , I am quite sure that any unbiased study of how it has worked in , the states that have tried it would show it to be undesirable . We have had it in Ohio since 1912 , and I venture to say that ninety-nine out of a hundred lawyers , liberal and conservative alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to add enough to the powers of the Federal Government , and specifically of Congress , to meet the situation . There are three ways to do that . The child-labor amendment is the narrow , simple way . I favor the adoption of the amendment , but I think it is an unfortunate method that should not be repeated . The second method is the broad , indefinite grant , like that proposed by my friend , Lloyd Garrison , of the Wisconsin Law School . He wants to give Congress power to promote the economic welfare of the United States by such laws as , in its judgment , are appropriate for that purpose . This would indeed be difficult to adopt , even in conventions , and it runs the risk of new regulations which might cut down substantially the sphere of those civil liberties which the court has so actively protected . A type of amendment which uses general language , as it should , but is aimed directly at specific objectives , is the one sponsored by Dean Clark , of Yale . The objectives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and working conditions , and production control of natural resources . The reason why the court has held Congress to be without power in these fields is mainly because it asserts that interstate commerce does not include production of minerals or foods , and does not include manufacture of raw materials into finished products . In other April 10 , 193r words , mining or farming is not interstate commerce , and interstate commerce does not begin until the coal or wheat begins to move , consigned to another state . So , also , even though a factory uses materials from many other states and ships its goods to other states , the process of manuface I turing is not interstate commerce but remains in the control of the state . Dean Clark suggests , therefore , that we give a new definition to interstate commerce and include both these situations , covering , in addition , any production or distribution solely wi:hin one state which competes with products in interstate commerce . So far as both Federal and state action in these and similar fields is concerned , Dean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be removed by redefining it to mean only that there must be a proper procedure and a fair opportunity to be heard by an impartial court , if any individual feels aggrieved by the operation of the laws . Fears are often expressed that the court will emasculate such new definitions . Anyone can guess about that , but I submit that any fair study of the men and their decisions would remove that fear . This redefinition , it seems to me , is the way to tackle the problem . I would be inclined to support such an amendment , especially if it were to be debated in forty-eight states between candidates for conventions in those states to pass upon the amendment . The debate and discussion are the important thing . Before Congress should . have such power , all its implications should be explored in a vigorous and . country-wide presentation of the issues , The President 's proposal , because it is indirect , leads to equally indirect debate and promotes charges of bad faith and predictions of revolution . Neither helps us to decide the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handicapped today in approaching such a debate , because none of our political leaders have the background of those men who made the Constitution . It is fashionable today to show how closely the members of the Convention were tied up with the mercantile interests or the landholding aristocracy , and to seek to demonstrate how the Constitution reflects that bias . But the fathers of the Constitution were no such willing tools of economic interest . They were an amazing combination of the practical politician and the political philosopher . They were students of Plato 's Republic and Aristotle 's Politics , of Thucydides and of Plutarch , of John Locke and Rousseau . and of Montesquieu . What they learned there , they reviewed against the background of current history and their own active political experience . The least we can do is to supply , in place of that learning , a real pubho debate of all the implications of Constitutional change . When this debate comes  --  and I predict that it will come , irrespective of congressional action on the President 's proposal  --  the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Lee , of Virginia  --  Light Ho Harry  --  wrote to Patrick Henry May 28 , 1789 . It has a special appli tion today : It must never bo forgotten , however , that the liberties of the peopfo are not so silo under the gracious manner of govern meat as by limitation of power .                     