@@431004

 | The Unfinished Business of Education Condensed from The Redbook Magazine ( January , ' 30 ) John Erskine Educator and novelist ; author of " The Private Life of Helen of Troy , " " Galahad , " etc . IF your child goes up from kindergarten to college , you observe that he is constantly introduced to subjects which are abandoned almost as soon as begun . In our system , something must be dropped . If the student is not industrious , the school drops him . If he makes progress , he drops the subject . When children begin their education in any good school , they are developed in all their talents , encouraged to realize their possibilities in all directions . They are stimulated and to some extent trained in the arts and crafts ; the education of their bodies is correlated with the development of their minds ; and their curiosity is excited over their relation to their fellows and their opportunities and responsibilities as individuals in a society . In other words , they are encouraged to believe that man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are proper and important . The moment , however , they take a step upward in their educational career , their studies become narrower and the results of them less evident . When they enter the high school , they must drop many of the subjects that stimulated them in the grades ; when they enter college , they must drop some of the fruitful subjects of high school , and almost everything that interested them in kindergarten ; when they reach the graduate school , they drop everything except the pursuit of the subject which is supposed to be good for their profession . The implication is forced upon them that their arts and crafts and their social curiosity are after all less important as a preparation for life than the traditional subject-matter . There could be no reasonable objection , of course , to specialization for a career , but the narrowing process leaves some of us at present with the suspicion that the subjects dropped are more important than those retained , and that the student as he advances in our educational system retires from a good education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which fits him to live in peace and harmony with himself . And whether the ability to follow a profession is more valuable than the ability to live happily , at least we observe a break rather than a connection  | between early and later studies . Children seem to be , on the average , happier in the kindergarten years than in high school or college . As they grow up , their zest for learning dies , or is taken away from them . The success of the early period is at least partly explained by the fact that the subjects there pursued appeal naturally to the average child . They would also appeal , however , to the average adult . But by the time the student has reached his senior year of college , an immense effort has been made to trasnfer his interest from a direct concern in life to an indirect preoccupation with it . We ask him to be critical and reflective where before we asked him to be creative . We invite him to live less that he may think more , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should we not educate by developing continuously the subjects begun in kindergarten ? Imagine a system in which the arts the children practice , the plays they write and act , the songs they compose and sing , the stories and verses they make up , were really the basis of their later studies . High-school and college literature , for example , could then be studied from the point of view of life , of the experience , immediate and esthetic , which the works express , from the point of view of human beings who are them- selves creative and trained to live in the imagination . In kindergarten we realize that life supplies the most insistent matter for study . Why not continue with this theory ? It may be said that it is all very well for children to practice the arts in their idle years , but that when they are of age to do serious study , they must master history , philosophy , and literature ; and that the reading of these books takes a great deal of time . As a person who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is implied by such a curriculum - that to understand literature you must read all the great writers , that to understand history you must then and there , while in school , make a survey of the history of all countries . Is it not more sensible to hold that if once we give the student an intelligent love of reading , he may continue to read for the rest of his life ? Why must he cover the entire field before he is 21 ? Too many of our students finish their college course with less interest in reading than they had in elementary school . Let us examine another peculiarity of the educational system : We teach boys separately and girls separately , and we also teach boys and girls together . Nobody knows which way is best , or whether there is any real  | difference , but there is a general unwillingness to inquire , because to do so would raise the question of sex which American education officially ignores . Our colleges used to follow the monastic ideal . Dean Van Amringe said once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a pretty girl in the classroom , or if you could under those circumstances , he was n't worth teaching . Perhaps the remark implied some truths we have n't yet reckoned with . Coeducation has come to stay ; yet we are strangely reluctant to observe the consequences . Older educators who regret the passing of the monastic ideal complain that the young people now have an obsession on sex . In the monastic ideal there was also an obsession on sex , but under an inverted rather than a natural form . The interest in sex is no greater than it has been for centuries , but certainly the education of the sexes together has produced a new condition to which we have not yet adjusted . While we resolutely ignore sex , we require young people to fill their minds with the greater secular literature of the world . We upbraid them for their petting parties , we are scandalized by their emotional adventures ; yet we expect them to read " Romeo and Juliet , " " The Iliad , " the songs of Burns . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we make heroic efforts to believe that all is well . Should these young people quite openly get married , however , we dismiss them from college . Fortunately there begin to be many institutions where marriage is no longer considered a desecration of the monastery ; but in most places still the undergraduate who marries is expected to abandon his studies at once . In other words , we are not yet prepared for the effect of the education we give . If you attend a college prom you will see young people extremely busy falling in love . I do n't know how deep some of them fall . I am sure , however , that they could go no further than did the heroes and heroines of the books they are asked to read in literature classes . Some wise people would remedy the inconsistency by banning the classics . This advice is in effect a suggestion that we restore the monasteries . Perhaps we should either restore them completely or begin to understand that into the old monastic shell a new life has crept , very secular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pagan . This new life is nothing more or less than the modern world , and in spite of our pretense to be scientific , to be sympathetic to our environment , the gravest insufficiency of our education , in the upper stages of it , is our  | failure to carry out resolutely the training in social observation and responsibility to our fellows which we began in kindergarten . The question which ought to concern the educator is not the wild behavior of occasional youth , but the persistent blindness of our tradition to the forces which make them wild . The young people in college are at an age when Nature sees to it that they fall in love . The experience may be infinitely sacred , or infinitely shabby , and in either case it will probably have more influence upon their character and upon the outward circumstance of their character , than all their studies ; but American educa-tion so far considers this matter outside its province . It refuses to step across the threshold of the monastery and teach life . You may say that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that they are the victims of a passing mood . In seriousness , and with much sadness , one may ask what reason is there to believe they will choose more wisely later , if meanwhile we withhold from them what little wisdom there is in the world on this vast subject ? The conditions of human happiness in all the social relations ought to be worthy of study , and those serious men and women who try to make available for the young the experience of their elders , bought often at a heavy price , ought to be welcome . The fact is , however , that those scientific men and women who have tried to clear the ground for some wisdom in this field , writers of the stature of Havelock Ellis , for example , have been in most academic circles frowned on , as though they were rendering the ideal of marriage less noble by studying the conditions in which it can be happy . Just because these pressing social problems are not adequately treated in the curriculum of high school and college , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ digress from their proper fields and discuss these more urgent matters . Sometimes the digressions seem justified by the results . In most cases , however , they produce little besides irritation , on the part of either the students or their parents , or of the authorities in charge of the school or college . The teacher is criticized for not sticking to the subject he was engaged to impart . On the other hand , he has passed , by quite natural steps , from that subject matter to the theme which clamors for treatment by somebody . Every such controversy between teacher and institution indicates some fester in our intellectual life which our educational system is trying to conceal , instead of lancing it boldly and effecting a return to health .                     