@@431131

AST month the Easy Chair examined the case of Kitty Smith of the Longfellow School , in relation to a virtuous if simple question , Are American teachers free ? We found that the question was unrealistic because it was too simple , the problem of freedom and Kitty Smith comprehending more relationships and contingencies than a forthright Yes or No could resolve . The finding will serve to get us into the problem of the primary schools themselves . It is a problem of first importance to American democracy , of such importance that the future course of democracy may well depend on what is done about it . The events of the last year have shifted democracy in the United States from the defensive to the offensive . As recently as a year ago those who believed in the democratic way of doing things were under a cross-fire from both right and left , and the drunkards of absolutism seemed more self-confident than they were . Much has happened abroad and much more at home to reverse the situation , turn a rear-guard action into an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it has been for a long , long time . The reelection of Mr. Roosevelt , for instance , meant many things , but among them it meant a victory for the point of view that sees the problems of society as multiple and interrelated rather than as homologous and independent . Simple solutions , absolute solutions , perfect solutions , and uniform solutions have been at least temporarily discountenanced , and democracy is seen to be a pluralistic process of moving toward a resolution of forces , rather than a generalized and single process of moving to a goal . The nation is committed to multiplicity and prepared to be realistic about it . No institution is more important to our democracy than the system of public education , and of that system easily the most important part is the primary schools . Over a period of years they have drifted into a condition now best described as chronic crisis . That condition is a serious danger at the present time and an ominous one for the future . If the public really desires to be more realistic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the best instruments of realism is the recognition that multiplicity is a condition of the problem ? that any attempt to solve it for x alone must leave y and many other variables to run wild destructively . Social problems are usually insoluble because usually stated in too simple terms ; they can not be solved because they must be resolved . The problem of the primary schools , certainly , is of this order , and it can not be grappled with at all except in the understanding that many forces operate on it and that the relationship among them limits what can be done about any of them . Let us state this month a few , a very few , of the forces involved . Kitty Smith herself is a problem , or rather a whole series of problems . She is a woman and there is reason to be dis- turbed by the fact that an overwhelming majority of our primary teachers are women , that only a small fraction of our citizens are ever taught by men . And she is a young woman . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more do not . Usually teaching is a woman 's temporary way of making a living while she remains unmarried . Kitty teaches until she gets married , then she quits ? on the average at about the time she has learned how to do her job . She thus creates a turnover so large that one of the governing conditions of our primary schools is that they shall be staffed in great part by apprentices . Finally , neither the conditions of the job nor the salary it pays can attract enough competent and satisfactorily trained teachers . However humble your standards for teaching in the primary schools , you will find that a large number of the teachers and of the institutions at which they are trained fall below them . And it must be recognized that only a limited improvement is possible . The cost of generally raising the level of competence would be more than society can pay . Again , the public schools , being so central in the social organization , have created a number of vested interests , none of which , probably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with politics , and it is concerned with spending money . Both of those facts imply graft , and though society can tolerate a certain amount of graft and probably requires it in order to operate efficiently , the school graft has unquestionably passed the tolerable maximum in many places and approaches it in many more . Teachers ' organizations combat at least the part of the graft that produces terrorism , and sporadic attacks are made on it by educational leaders , civic organizations , and associations of taxpayers and parents . But there is no steady opposition to it , little occasional opposition of any strength , and no such thing as a concerted effort to put a stop to it . No such effort could wholly succeed , but until one is made it is essential , in any consideration of the schools , to accept corruption as one of the constant conditions . But graft is not the most dangerous of the vested interests . What is called the science of education has created one more widespread and far more securely entrenched . It probably handicaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the sale of textbooks and supplies or such vicious ones as the pressure of political machines or the propaganda of corporations . Our reformers bellow horribly when a public utility is permitted to condition young minds against public ownership , but have watched with blithe indifference the capture of the whole school system by colleges of education . Laudably designed to make teaching more effective , the system riveted on the American schools not only is open to the gravest doubts of its theory and philosophy , but has created a stupid and brutal tyranny . The tyranny most oppressive to Kitty Smith , and most dangerous to society and to your children and mine , is not the one that forbids her to smoke a cigarette in public or to picket during a strike , but the one that enforces on her a " methodology " in great part meaningless , a set of principles and practices in great part erroneous , and a set of opinions and beliefs derived from theories of education in great part absurd . Glance at the " credits in education " required by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certified , and the ones she is forced to add to them from year to year , and you will be looking straight at one of the most dangerous menaces to the American schools . The system is now so strong that it can not be uprooted , but it could be weakened and confined . Attack on it must be made simultaneously in three places , among the schools themselves , among the legislatures , and among the colleges of education . Even more alarming is what seems to be an inexorable tendency of society to lower the intellectual standards of primary education in order to use the schools for other social ends . In response to needs which other social mech- anisms have so far been unable to serve , our metropolitan schools ( and to a smaller degree our other schools ) have become agencies of public health departments , of police departments , and of juvenile courts . The services thus performed are indispensable , but that the schools can best or most economically perform them is open to the most serious doubt . And whether or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been to make them asylums and detention homes in which many children are kept not to be educated but merely to be protected from the streets . This force has joined with others to produce an assumption not only that a child is entitled to be maintained in school while he is of school age but also to be automatically advanced . It is now widely true that at the end of the school year teachers must pass on to the next grade all but a microscopic fraction of their pupils . If they neglect to , their principals and superintendents force them to , and those officials in turn are yielding to pressure that comes straight from society itself . Society demands that the child be passed through the educational process whether or not he is capable of learning from it . This insistence on teaching children who can not be taught , and on keeping them on an equal basis with those who can be taught , has resulted in stiffening class divisions , increasing the cleavage between public and private education , and multiplying the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West and the Far West , a child who was sent to a private school was either the child of the richest man in town or else a defective . Now many parents who want their children to go to college , or even to reach maturity decently equipped for it , have to send them to private schools because the public schools can not prepare them . Moreover , experimentation has gone beyond the capacity of society and the individual to adjust to it . In our own generation we have seen " experimental " secondary schools develop because " experimental " primary schools had too solicitously protected their charges from natural selection , and " experimental " colleges develop to take care of what the secondary schools had produced and to extend the protection as far as possible . There is no such thing as an experimental world , and the graduate of such a college must therefore go back and teach at his alma mater , adjust under severe handicaps to a world for which he has not been prepared , or solve his problem head-on with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic education is as grotesquely ironical as it was unpredicted . Operating in all these phenomena is one of the liveliest sentiments of democracy , the feeling that everyone is entitled to as much education as he wants . How vigorous it is may be gauged by the vilification heaped on every suggestion that the democratic privilege ought to be limited by the individual 's ability to learn . The sentiment has no rational support , and the rational autocracies make short shrift of it . Russia , for instance , has a highly intelligent system of gradations which progressively screen out educable young people and carry them upward through the schools and universities as far as their capacities justify the advance ? but only as those capacities are demonstrated by a series of realistic tests . Russia considers that wasted education is social waste and acts accordingly . Note , however , that one democracy reaches the same end in a less mechanical way : it is probably easier in England than anywhere else in the world for a genuinely gifted person to utilize all the opportunities of the educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it also achieves the same end by a democratic process . Such sentiments as this one are stronger and probably more important than the rational principles with which they conflict . They are social energy at its highest potential . This one was incalculably valuable for the nation during the term of its expansion , but the costs of education were much lower then and there was  | a wider margin to cover them than we shall ever have again . It is less valuable to a matured nation and the costs have astronomically increased . Society can no longer afford that enormous expenditure and must require education to serve a less confused function . Much of that enormous sum is wasted ? because many of the pupils forced through the system can not profit from it , and because the system is required to do things that can be more cheaply and effectively done by other agencies . To continue the waste will be ruinous ? will end by destroying democratic education , and probably democracy along with it . It can not be continued and increased ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phrased : the state must educate all its citizens so far as they can be educated , and must facilitate and support the education of the best even more than it now does . But it must require them to prove that they deserve and can assimilate what they are getting and it must refuse them advancement when they have reached their limits . A practical working maximum must be determined . Some analyses have found that the generality of our people can not be educated beyond the fifth grade . The maximum may be higher than that , or lower , but it must be found ; and , once found , it must be respected . If it is the fifth grade , then universal education must stop short there . Instead of forcing everyone beyond it , we must permit to go farther only those who prove their fitness , and we must require additional proof at every succeeding step . Furthermore , the schools must not be held responsible for anyone who is not being educated . Haphazardly , even accidentally , they have been assigned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the unhealthy , and the merely idle elements of our childhood population . They deal with them badly at best and the attempt to deal with them at all frustrates the principal function of the schools . Such accessory services are indispensable but they must be turned over to more efficient and less costly agencies . The outcome is easily phrased , too easily . The process of achieving it is difficult and complex beyond all conceiving , but the urgency of our educational crisis is equally complex and dark . The sentiment that everyone must be given as much education as he can be forced to submit to , quite without regard to his capacity for absorbing it , is as old as the nation and has been one of the principal sources of our strength . An attempt to modify any such sentiment is dangerous and unpredictable , but this one has moved dangerously out of accord with the facts . Fortunately the one kind of force that can modify such a sentiment is a financial interest , and the obviously insupportable waste of money on our schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asking democracy to obey the inhuman logic that guides and must eventually destroy the dictatorships , but we must require it to submit to the laws of self-preservation . And the only promising way to attack one of its central problems is to attack at the center of the problem .  |                     