@@166815

Other European nations planned to forego Armistice Day exercises this week . Italy last week celebrated her World War victory over Austria-Hungary in her own Armistice Day ( Nov. 4 ) ceremonies . The Prince of Piedmont , heir to the throne , representing the House of Savoy , and Premier Benito Mussolini , representing the Fascist Party , saluted and knelt together before the tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the foot of the huge Vittorio Emanuele II monument in Rome . <P> Another date which official Italy chose to forget was the second anniversary ( Nov. 6 ) of the now defunct anti-Comintern Pact . The Government exchanged no congratulatory notes with Co-signers Japan , Germany , Spain , Hungary , Manchukuo . <P> Meanwhile , in the U. S. S. R. Bolshevists staged a bang-up three-day celebration of the 22nd anniversary of the Communist revolution . The Communist Third International blasted forth with a strident manifesto which called upon workers of the world to unite and " go against those who favor continuation of imperialistic war . " Nothing wrong was found with Nazi Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U. S. , which " repeals the embargo on the export of arms to secure huge profits to the kings of the munitions industry " ; Britain and France , for " keeping half the world in the chains of colonial slavery " ; the Italian bourgeois , which " waits only for a convenient moment to throw himself on the oppressed and have his share of the spoils " ; the international bankers , who " will preserve the worst reactionary regimes in Europe . " <P> As if this were not enough wordage for one day , Premier-Foreign Commissar Viacheslav Molotov elaborated on the same theses in an address in the Moscow opera house . He specially re-emphasized Russian neutrality , U. S. S. R. 's " policy of peace . " Meantime , Finland , further tightening her defenses , clapped on mail censorship , cut off foreign telephones , waited to see if peaceful Russia would be as good as her protestations ( see below ) .                     