@@486435

I WANT to part company with most of my colleagues in this series by confining my discussion to one problem , alluring as the temptation is to write , a kind of table of contents to one 's thinking about the whole round of political , social , economic , and educational dilemmas that harass our time . The single issue I shall discuss is the manifest crisis confronting Western capitalism . I want , first , to state the problem , and , second , to state with the utmost brevity the manner in which I think I would approach its solution . I do not want to join the oversimplifiers , and bring a false clarity to a situation that is admittedly complex . The cause of the depression that has swept the whole Western , world can not be captured in a phrase or its cure distilled in an epigram . It is not a simple sickness that has fallen upon us , and it will not yield to any simple and single remedy . A lush variety of causes lies at the root of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world around . Mounting armaments . Speculative mania . Abortive governmental attempts to stabilize certain commodity prices . The fall in the price of silver . Provincialism of policy in the fields of foreign trade , tariffs , and the exploitation of the world supply of natural resources . The direct impact of war-debt payments upon Europe and the indirect impact upon the United States . The gravitation of an undue amount of the world supply of gold into French and American hands . And so on to the end of a list I need not rehearse . Even a casual diagnosis of the confusion and arrest that have fallen upon Western affairs compels us to consider all of these factors in addition to the obvious issues of wages , hours , prices , technology , and management , as well as the deeper human factors of security , leisure , and selfrespect for the toiling millions . . To all these issues , and more , we must bring a clearheaded and courageous statesmanship before we can expect the Banquo 's ghost of depression to absent itself permanently from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more decently long intervals . I do not , let me repeat , want to join the oversimplifiers . But in any situation , however complex , there may be one factor more fundamental than the rest , so fundamental , indeed , that the presence of all other factors can not compensate for its absence . Is there any single factor thus fundamental to the economic recovery of the United States in particular , and of the Western world in general ? I think there is . A long series of causes lay back of this economic relapse , but one thing seems to me sun-clear : the leadership that has determined our policies for using goods and distributing wealth has proved inferior to the leadership that has developed our processes for making goods and producing wealth . The production of goods has halted because the distribution of goods has halted . And the halt in the distribution of goods is due to a fault in the distribution of wealth . The depression through which the United States is passing is , in essence , ? The fifth of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in early issues.  - -  EraTcut THE NATrox. an indictment , not of the machine order , but of the economic order . The machine order is ready to produce goods . The economic order ig not ready to produce customers . Our machine economy is today sinking us in a sea of surplus production , or surplus productive capacity , that could , were we statesman-like enough , be used to our advantage and-to the good of the world at large . I speak of surplus production with some reluctance , for it is , in my judgment , a false surplus that is today choking the economic West . It would mark a definite gain in economic realism if we should reserve the term surplus production for goods not really needed , instead of using it , as we do , for goods that are simply difficult to sell at the moment . In the light of the social function of industry , business leadership has no right to regard as a surplus the goods for which an authentic human heed obviously exists . Unmovable goods , unless they are at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that business leadership has been too zealous in producing goods , but a sign that it has not been zealous enough in building buying power among the masses . I can not concur with the observers who contend that we have been producing too much . There are 123,000,000 of us in the United States . As late as 1928 , a year of prosperity , 8,000,000 Americans were living below the poverty line , and some 12,000,000 Americans living at a bare subsistence level . And today millions of our population have far from satisfied the legitimate demands of a healthy and civilized folk . There is a whole world outside our frontiers in which millions upon millions of men and women and children , outside the ranks of the dire poor , are living far below the consumption level that we have known and that health and civilized values dictate . To say that we are now or shall be for a long stretch of decades to come at the point where humanity is surfeited with goods and services it does not need for better living is , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the time other less fundamental factors in the rise and fall of prosperity , there are two ways to deal with this disturbed balance between production and consumption : ( 1 ) we can slow down production by deliberate policy , or ( 2 ) we can speed up consumption by deliberate policy . I shall not disguise my conviction that to throw the brakes on our productive capacity as a policy for the future , before we have fully explored the possibility of building a buying power adequate to absorb , to sound social advantage , our potential output of consumer goods , would be a coward 's policy and a social retreat . I am not at all interested in a shallow and sinister doctrine of ' consumptionism that would make it possible for the millions to buy prodigally only that business might grow bigger and the nation be swept into a kind of St. Vitus dance of industrial activity . An intelligent people will never trump up business just for the sake of doing business . I am concerned , however , that we shall not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the magic of the new gospel of national planning rush pell-mell into a restriction of production , thus allowing to lie even partially unused the matchless instrument of social emancipation which our genius has forged in the machine economy . Restriction of production is the line of least resistance . It has its appeal in a phase of sluggish inventory . It is implicit in much of the current agitation for national planning . It occupies the councils of most of our great trade associations . But until legitimate human need is served and saturated , a wholesale restriction of production is a confession that our capacity for economic statesmanship has gone bankrupt . What will be the judgment of future generations upon our genius if , after succeeding in elaborating a machine economy capable of putting an end to drudgery and poverty and insecurity , we say : " Now that we have sharpened this tool , we must dull its edge ; now that we have perfected this swift efficiency , we must throw on the brakes " ? After the war some of the more farsighted leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reached in the evolution of our machine economy at which they must concern themselves with the purchasing capacity of the masses as well as with the producing capacity of their manufacturing plants . They adopted , in consequence , a new credo in which they asserted that stable prosperity and healthy industrial development require high wages , short hours , and low prices . This ran contrary to the business thinking of earlier days when business leadership generally thought that low wages , long hours , and high prices made for maximum profit . But outstanding industries throughout the United States proved by their balance sheets that high wages , short hours , and low prices were not only good for the masses but good for the manufacturers as well . The simple fact is that a machine economy must , along with the making of commodities , see to it that the consuming millions have money with which to buy and leisure in which to enjoy the products the machine economy creates in increasing volume and with increasing rapidity . Unless we can bring millions upon millions of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western industrialism , even our existing investment in its marvelous productive facilities will become , in large part , a permanently frozen asset . When the market collapse and economic retardation befell the United States , it was basically at the place toward which the dreams of prophets and seers have pointed through the centuries . As we reread the literature of Utopian thought and list the things that the social seers have , with striking unanimity , set down as elementary requirements of an ideal society , we find that the United States was in position to provide them all in the closing months of 1929 . Its technical genius had invented machines enough to free its people from drudgery . Its organizational genius had achieved a manufacturing efficiency that made possible the production of . everything its people needed without their slaving from dawn ' It to dusk . Leisure in which its people might laugh and love and adventure among things of the mind and spirit was within the nation 's grasp . It was at such a moment that the United States found the shadow of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinister spirit had been seeking to brew an exquisite irony , this turn of fortune could not have been timed with more devilish aptness . The machine ' economy has brought us to the threshold of a social millennium , but we have lacked the wit to unlock the door . And my contention is that , instead of planning to adjust ourselves to the half-hearted and insecure existence that marks the current economic order , with its alternate swings between panic and plenty , we should be searching for the key that will unlock the door into this social millennium of prosperity , leisure , and security which science and the machine have made possible . I think we know what the key is . The only question is whether we shall have the courage and statesmanship to use it . The key is a wider annual distribution of the national income . The radical agitator has long pleaded for a wider distribution of wealth on the ground of social justice . In the past this plea has been regarded by many as a peril to the capitalistic industrialism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a wider distribution of wealth is essential to the solvency and success of capitalistic industrialism itself , on the simple ground that it is self-defeating for industrialism to get itself in a position to produce vast quantities of goods unless at the same time it sees to it that there are vast masses of consumers ready with money to buy , and leisure in which to enjoy , the goods that the high-powered industrial machine produces . A too great concentration of wealth means money in the hands of those who will invest it in producer goods . A wide distribution of wealth means money in the hands of those who will invest it in consumer goods . And it is the absence of an adequate and dependable market for consumer goods that is stalling the economic machine of the West . It has thus come about that the capitalist has an even greater stake than the proletarian in the widest feasible distribution of the nation 's annual income , not in the superficial sense of dividing up by decree existing wealth , but in the statesman-like sense of so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits , and so on that , in the very process of producing wealth , industry will be making its market while it is making its goods . There is , in my judgment , no dodging the conclusion that the stability and success of the machine economy will ultimately depend upon higher wages than we have yet paid , shorter hours than we have yet set , and lower prices than we have yet fixed . I am not naive enough to assume that the imposition of higher wages , shorter hours , and lower prices upon all industries by legislation would suddenly produce a stable and prosperous economic life . It would , on the contrary , probably drive industry after industry into quick bankruptcy . High wages , short hours , and low prices must come as the triple fruit of a farsighted and statesman-like application of the principles of mass production and mass distribution to every phase of industry to which these two principles of economic modernism are logically applicable . Business and industrial America is , as I write , in a phase of wage-cutting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time be readjusted in the light of other factors in the economic scene . The merely formal maintenance of a wage scale may be meaningless . A wage scale may be rigidly maintained while other factors in the economic process shrink or swell the purchasing power of the worker 's dollar . Overtime or part time may double or halve the worker 's actual income . I do not suggest that a reduction of a formal wage scale is always and inevitably a social backsliding . To say that would be the economics of infantilism . But we must not , in the rush of readjustment , fall into the easy error of assuming that wages are simply a charge on industry , and that every dollar subtracted from wages by reducing the scale of payment or lengthening the hours of labor means a dollar added to profits , for the contrary may be true . The working millions are not only industry 's servants but industry 's customers as well . Unless other factors exist as an offset , if industry puts 25 per cent less into the pockets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 per cent less to come out of the pockets of labor in the form of purchases of the goods industry produces . We can not eat our cake and have it ! I am not arguing against an intelligent balancing of all the factors in the industrial process . I am arguing only against the ancient fallacy that industry can grind labor and gain by it . What industry pays in wages is an investment in industry 's market just as definitely as what industry pays for advertising is an investment in industry 's market . Three possible roads of economic destiny stretch before us , each having as its goal a wider distribution of wealth : ( 1 ) the road along which economic leadership may seek to effect a wider distribution of national income by the way it administers wages , hours , prices , profits , and the other factors of business and industry ; ( 2 ) the road along which political leadership , in the event that economic leadership goes renegade to its responsibility , may seek to effect a wider distribution of the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and ( 3 ) the road along which social leadership , in the event that both economic and political leadership fail or refuse to effect a wider distribution of- the national income , will seek to effect a revolutionary overturn . I hope America may travel the first road promptly . I think it is a better road than the second . I hope America may never have to travel the third road . It lies entirely with politico-economic leadership to say whether or not the road of revolution shall ever be taken . There is no reason why America should resort either to political radicalism or social revolution , for the wider distribution of the national income , which is the major key to economic recovery , is a policy of enlightened self-interest for industry . We need neither a Stalin nor a Mussolini if enough of our big-business men are really big business men , and if they will think socially and act nationally respecting this central problem of the wider distribution of buying power , which , while imperative in the interest of social justice and social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance policy for capitalism and the best business policy for capitalists . With these beliefs at the center of my socio-economic outlook , if I were dictator I should approach the problem of economic recovery and stabilization from two angles . If the first approach succeeded , I should not need to resort to the second . First , I should decree the creation of an integrated national organization in each distinctive field of economic enterprise , with the elaboration of the machinery and methods of responsible self-government as the goal of these organizations . I should undertake by persuasion , with appropriate threats lurking in the background of my appeal , to lodge the leadership of these national organizations of economic enterprise in the hands of the few really farsighted and statesman-like business leaders existing in the respective fields . I should notify the leaders of these functional associations that , in the name of the nation and in the interest of its future , I was committing to them the problem of organizing in their respective fields , on a mass-production and mass-distribution basis , every phase of enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the end that as much as possible of the nation 's economic life might be on the basis that makes high wages , short hours , low prices , and large total profits a practical business possibility . I should emphasize the fact that mass production and mass distribution are not simply large-scale industry , which may , despite its scale , be inefficient and antisocial . I should remind these leaders that the private profit and social advantage that mass production and mass distribution make possible depend upon very great business statesmanship . I should tell them that the nation expected them to see to it that each functional field of enterprise was organized in a manner that would put the planning and managerial genius of the whole field at the service of the whole field . I should try to get them to see that it is to the benefit of every industrial enterprise in a given field that the whole field be ably organized and ably managed . I should , for a time , leave it to these leaders to figure out what such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of a recasting of our traditional notions of individualism . And I should serve notice that the dictatorship would not tolerate any wholesale attempt upon the part of these national organizations to go in for a **25;146;TOOLONG policy until an adequate expansion-of-consumption policy had been elaborated and put into operation . I generalize roughly here . I do not mean that production should- be reckless and unplanned in total disregard of available markets . I mean only that I should definitely block any attempt to settle down to satisfaction with getting less than the full social advantage out of our machine economy . Second , if this approach did not bring a prompt and hopeful response , after I had guaranteed the leadership of economic America against undue governmental interference ' with a business and industrial system that could guarantee the nation against social loss by effecting its own socially sound and economically efficient self-government , I should tackle the problem of providing the machine economy with an adequate market by the following method . I should call a congress of the leaders of the nation 's great businesses and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposing upon the income of you and your enterprises an unprecedentedly high tax . I shall not insult your intelligence by trying to prove to you that the government needs all the money this tax will produce . It does not . At least , it does not for meeting the normal expenditures that a government must make . Save in times of grave unemployment crises , my colleagues and I would have difficulty in finding wise ways to spend the money this tax will presumably produce . I hope that you will do your best to prevent my government from getting more from this tax than an intelligently economical governmental program needs . I hope you will deliberately trick the government out of a large part of this tax by rapidly shifting the organization of your enterprise to a thoroughly modernized basis that will permit your distributing larger and larger amounts through higher wages , shorter hours , and lower prices . In short , this is not a tax for needed revenue , but a club to enforce farsighted business policy . " If the business leaders took my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their attempt to cheat the government had resulted not in reducing their income but in increasing their income ; for high wages , short hours , and low prices ? granted , of course , that they had reorganized their businesses so that these were economically feasible  --  would mean that the masses would have money with which to buy and leisure in which to enjoy an unprecedented amount of goods and services . Business would boom , and although the profit per article would be low , the total profit would be great . And then , with the lesson learned , I should reduce the tax as drastically as I had raised it . Something like this happened some years ago when vast sums were poured into advertising as an alternative to having these sums taken by government in excess-profits taxes . The excess then went into larger advertising appropriations rather than into larger wages . But there has been in the meantime so much education of the business mind on the " good business " of high wages , when they are economically possible , that the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in absorbing money that would otherwise be absorbed by taxes .                     