@@165838

The years 1935-36-37 will be marked in U. S. educational history as a notable centennial season . Celebrated last year was the 30th anniversary of the first U. S. high school , Boston Latin , which was founded in 1635 . Celebrated all last summer was the 300th birthday of Harvard , first U. S. college ( TIME , Sept. 28 ) . At Antioch College in Yellow Springs , Ohio , last week began the year-long observance of the Centenary of the great U. S. educator , Horace Mann . <P> To Yellow Springs , to pull the trigger of the opening gun of the Mann Centenary , went Columbia 's old Philosopher John Dewey , President Karl Taylor Compton of Massachusetts Institute of Technology , onetime U. S. Commissioner of Education George Frederick Zook , 370 other schoolmen . The Centenary will spread to the U. S. public schools to which Horace Mann contributed more than any other individual and on which his fame securely rests . <P> The event of July 1 , 1837 which the Centenary commemorates was to all appearances an unremarkable one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past 41 who had done an honest but unexciting turn in Massachusetts politics , resigned the presidency of the Massachusetts Senate to become Secretary of the Common wealth 's first Board of Education . That Mann should abandon a profitable law practice for a newly created job paying $1,500 a year surprised his acquaintances . Lanky , jut-jawed Lawyer Mann , however , was known to be a man of individual and tenacious opinions . He believed in phrenology . He despised smoking , drinking , ballet dancing . He was proud of being a self-made man , who had been schooled intermittently in his youth , braiding straw in his father 's farmhouse in Franklin , Mass , to earn his books , working his way through Brown University and Litchfield ( Conn . ) Law School . In 1832 , when his wife Charlotte Messer , daughter of Brown 's president , had died , Lawyer Mann 's hair supposedly turned white in a single night and he became more reclusive and contemplative than ever . <P> In 1837 Massachusetts ' public schools , although almost two centuries old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third of the Commonwealth 's children had no educational opportunities whatever . The Secretary of the new Board of Education began his work with little authority , less encouragement . Tirelessly he set about raising money , delivering speeches , holding Town meetings to spread the gospel of universal education . Without fanfare he established a Normal school in Lexington , first in the U. S. He set up and enforced a minimum school year of six months . In the next decade Massachusetts spent more than $2,000,000 on school buildings and equipment , established 50 new public high schools . Gradually Mann 's influence spread to other states through his famed annual reports . In 1830 only three states ( Massachusetts , Maine , New Hampshire ) supported free elementary schools . By 1848 when the Massachusetts Secretary was ready to give up his job to return to politics , the public school movement was awakening over the land and Horace Mann was a national figure .                     