@@256680

The Spanish Earth ( Contemporary Historians , Inc . ) . Last winter Writers John Dos Passos , Archibald MacLeish and Ernest Hemingway ( see p. 66 ) decided that one way they might intelligently serve the Spanish Leftists was by producing a film showing the Leftists ' version of the origin and progress of the revolution . Finding that little of the source material available in the U. S. could adequately supply them with the dramatic and pictorial qualities they had in mind , Messrs . Dos Passos and MacLeish formed Contemporary Historians , Inc. , decided to send their own experts to Spain . There Dutch Director Joris Ivens and Author Hemingway , who followed him , spent several months on various fronts , two weeks in the village of Fuentiduea , 60 kilometers from Madrid . This week the film they made , previously seen by a number of sympathetic groups in its formative stages ( TIME , June 21 ) , will be generally released for the first time in Manhattan . Long awaited , it was conceded by preview audiences to be well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if The Spanish Earth had not turned out as well as it did . Everyone connected with it , largely liberal artists eager to contribute their talents to the cause of Spanish democracy , has a record of high achievement . Besides Author Hemingway , who wrote and recites the infrequent but unforgettably eloquent narrative lines , there were five other unusually meritorious contributors . Director Ivens and his photographer , John Ferno , won the National Board of Review 's second award for a foreign film* last year with their filming of the damming of the Zuyder Zee . The sonorous Hispanic melodies that play in and out of The Spanish Earth were arranged by two of the most imaginative modern musicians in the U. S.-Virgil Thomson ( Four Saints in Three Acts , The Plow That Broke the Plains ) and Marc Blitzstein ( The . Cradle Witt Rock ) . <P> Between them , these collaborators tell the story of the Spanish revolution in terms of people rather than in terms of action . Not since the silent French film , The Passion of Joan of Arc , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As face after face looks out from the screen the picture becomes a sort of portfolio of portraits of the human soul in the presence of disaster and distress . There are the earnest faces of speakers at meetings and in the village talking war , exhorting the defense . There are faces of old women moved from their homes in Madrid for safety 's sake , staring at a bleak , uncertain future , faces in terror after a bombing ( see cut ) , faces of men going into battle and the faces of men who will never return from battle , faces full of grief and determination and fear .                     