@@487359

London , November 18 4 NGLAND is again the center of the earth . Her re- cuperation from the economic depression has pro- ceeded farther than that of any other great capitalist country . There remain , however , almost 2,000,000 unemployed and not only large derelict districts but large derelict industries . Great Britain has passed the zenith of her development . She seeks to rest on her laurels and live on her reserves . These fundamental shortcomings have encouraged certain powers to undertake assaults on British positions which England and the world were wont to regard as impregnable . The enhanced self-confidence engendered by economic recovery and the feeling that , of late , there has been too much twisting of the lion 's tail make for a desire to reassert England 's might . A virile Britain helped Italy to establish colonies on the Red Sea . Today Britain opposes the intrenchment of a strident Italy in the same area . In this respect the ItaloEthiopian situation , highly important in itself , reflects epochal mutations whose significance transcends it . Why is England so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Japan occupied Manchuria in September , 1931 . Captain Eden 's recent attempted justification of this act in the House of Commons on the ground that " the two great neighboring states the United States and the Soviet Union were not members of the League of Nations " does not bear analysis , for America in Geneva and London was urgently demanding steps against the aggressor , and Russia would have been pleased to cooperate in them . England facilitated Japanese expansion in China  --  by not hindering it  --  because there was sympathy for Japan in some British quarters , because Japan 's forward policy seemed to be directed against the Soviet Union , and because Downing Street refused to understand that after Manchuria would come North China and then perhaps Shanghai . The subsequent realization that an aggressive power acquires momentum once it embarks on the warpath contributed to Britain 's determination to stop Italy before she got too far . It was dangerous to allow the world to believe that the lion had become a smaller feline . Prime Minister Baldwin stated on October 23 , apropos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaknesses of a democracy , a system of which I am trying to make the best , is that until it is right up against it , it will never face the truth . " This is a wise definition as far as British democracy in 1935 is concerned . Italy put England right up against it . If England was still a mighty empire she had to prove it . Otherwise her decline would be a documented fact . The truth which Mr Baldwin 's democracy failed to face in time was that Italy was challenging the British Empire . Fascism converted Italy into a tremendous military force . Mussolini paid special attention to the air arm . Bombers from the giant hangars at Augusta , Sicily , only ninety-five miles from Malta , could easily rob that island fortress of itseffectiveness and shut England off from the eastern Mediterranean . When , to boot , the Italian garrison in Libya was reinforced and Italians began showing a suspicious interest in Egypt , where an Italophile king and the widespread anti-British Wafd sentiment already made the situation delicate , London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of almost 300,000 troops in East Africa . The heart of the British Empire lies somewhere near the Nile . England is extremely sensitive to anything which happens in that area . In 1898 England and France almost went to war over the Fashoda affair in the Sudan . An Italy established in Abyssinia could cut the Cape to Cairo tie and intersect the lines of communication with India . General Smuts 's warning of the possible reaction on Britain 's black subjects added to Downing Street 's mental perturbation . The British Empire is a colored empire , and 37,000,000 British Africans are keenly watching Ethiopia . If Mussolini smashed the last independent African state , England . would be blamed for allowing it . But if the King of Kings checked the Roman legions or repulsed them , white prestige might be undermined . It was bad either way , and it would therefore be better to buy Mussolini off . Nevertheless , the British government procrastinated . Final plans for Italy 's Ethiopian adventure were laid in the autumn of 1934 . In the early months of 1935 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Eritrea . Surely the British knew at least as much . Mussolini had stated publicly that he informed the British Cabinet of his intentions in Abyssinia on January 29 , 1935 . His agreement with Laval , which cleared the way for the invasion of Abyssinia , was reached early in January , and a well-informed Downing Street could not have been ignorant of the fact . Apparently the British did make representations , for I learn that on March 17 the Italian government assured the British government , in writing , that no armed solution of the Ethiopian problem would be attempted . Mussolini , however , did not discontinue the military preparations for just such a solution . The central date in the history of Europe for 1935 is March 16 , when Hitler scrapped the Treaty of Versailles and announced the reintroduction of military conscription . Europe shivered with fright . - On April 11 France , England , and Italy met at the little town of Stresa to take counsel together . Mussolini was there , and Laval , Ramsay MacDonald , then Prime Minister , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this opportunity to tell England 's Abyssinian specialists at Stresa that the Duce had again decided to resort to force in Abyssinia . He was obviously relying on England 's preoccupation with the fresh German menace . He was wise to do so , for although the specialists immediately carried the message to Sir John , neither he nor MacDonald ever mentioned the subject to an Italian delegate . Lloyd George extracted this admission from Eden in the Commons debate which preceded the dissolution of the last Parliament . Eden explained that " it was hardly to be supposed that one of the three powers which had just declared by condemning Hitler 's action that their joint policy was the collective maintenance of peace within the framework of the League of Nations would take any action in any other continent which would jeopardize that framework . " How naive ! Mussolini regarded Sir John Simon 's and Mac-Donald 's silence on Abyssinia at Stresa as carte blanche to go ahead . Were the British scared out of their wits by Germany or did . they think that Italy would be paralyzed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria ? Perhaps both . And they failed to recognize the blind forces that were propelling Italy into a war . England startled the world on June 18 , 1935 , by signing a naval agreement with Germany which many Foreign Office officials here now decry . Having thus mended her German fence , having ascertained , moreover , that Germany was not yet quite ready for a war while Italy was actually on the verge of waging one , Great Britain could concentrate her energy and attention on Ethiopia . Then she became firm . The official version that Eden went to Rome on June 24 for prolonged conversations with Mussolini about the Anglo-German naval pact meant in effect that Eden implied or said that the pact relieved England and would stiffen her attitude toward Italian aggression . To avoid the impression of a threat , Eden suggested some territorial and economic concessions to Italy at Ethiopia 's expense , provided Ethiopia 's dependence on England were increased by the grant of the British Red Sea port of Zeila and a narrow corridor to it through British Somaliland . Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small ones . " I am no collector of deserts , " was his argument . The British government now knew that Mussolini meant business . Italy probably underestimated British strength and put her trust in the vacillation which had become characteristic of post-war British diplomacy . This was Rome 's crowning error . By virtue of the Ualual border incident and of Emperor Haile Selassie 's appeal to Geneva , the Abyssinian problem was already in the lap of the League of Nations , and London shrewdly decided to keep it there . This would win the Baldwin government support at home , where the huge peace ballot had showed how deep  --  and simple  --  is the British people 's devotion to collective security . It would also win international support for British imperial needs from nations which feared that another case of successful-aggression would be Europe 's toboggan to a second world war . If a bargain were struck behind the League 's back at Paris or elsewhere , however , Geneva might subsequently be persuaded to use its rubber stamp . And a British naval demonstration could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 230,000 tons in the Mediterranean on August 5 , 1935 , was quickly raised to 500,000 tons and is being maintained at that level . Britain had not taken such decisive action since 1918 . It was naturally followed by the League 's arms embargo , financial embargo , and economic sanctions in September and October . The remarkable speed and practical unanimity with which sanctions were adopted by League and non-League nations reflect Italy 's moral isolation and material weakness , and England 's determination . A more powerful aggressor in a field affecting a less influential nation would perhaps have Less trouble with Geneva . Be that as it may , sanctions are a delicate device with many virtues . Though slow , they are remorseless , yet too universal to invite real reprisals . They can not end a war immediately , but they accentuate the normal wear and tear of war and thus hasten the crisis . During the last month , in Geneva , Paris , and London , I have heard innumerable discussions as to whether sanctions would be allowed to continue if Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became precarious . Sanctions can easily and quickly be withdrawn . The one big question in sanctions as in the entire Italo-Ethiopian conflict is : How far does England intend to go ? One hears rumors every day about " dirty deals " at the expense of Ethiopia . Whenever the British Ambassador in Rome sees the Duce , whenever Laval conducts a conversation on the Abyssinian question , stories circulate about a projected settlement which would give some satisfaction to Italy . Did not Sir Samuel Hoare say as late as August 1 , " We are not unsympathetic to the Italian need for expansion " ? He also favors a redistribution of world raw materials  --  although how that could be done he has kept secret . Why this uncertainty regarding England 's policy ? There are numerous reasons . All fit closely into a pattern and some overlap . Powerful British circles would not want Mussolini to fall ; they are thinking of the future of European capitalism . England may yet need Italy 's assistance against Germany or France . An Italy made more tractable by sanctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Empire and its yearning to civilize large parts of Africa . A few territorial acquisitions by Italy would then represent no danger to Great Britain , might indeed dispel some Italian animosity for Great Britain . Suppose , on the other hand , that Italy , desperate and frantic from prolonged British intransigence , should tear down the pillars and throw all of Europe into a war by bringing Germany in on her side ? That would be undesirable . Mussolini must never be allowed to think that no escape through compromise is left . British advocates of big armaments may maintain that Mussolini 's airplanes could work havoc with the British fleet . Nevertheless , England , with the League behind her , is more than a match for Italy . England 's difficulty , however , is that she has three fronts  --  the Far East , the Mediterranean , and the North Sea or Central Europe . She really needs three navies , and British anti-armament propagandists are neither many nor popular . While London mobilizes forces for the Mediterranean front , one of the other fronts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element in Britain 's fundamental weakness , and it peers through to mock every demonstration of British power . Nothing would help Mussolini so much as the diversion of British strength to cope with new Japanese encroachments in China or with a fresh German crisis . That is why in the very midst of the Italo-Ethiopian dispute the British government naturally thinks of a far-reaching agreement with Germany and France , at the cost , some say , of the League of Nations . The alternative to such an arrangement might be an Anglo-French military alliance , which is once again the object of serious consideration . Conflicts like the present one set everything in motion . Before and after the Fashoda incident , which today 's East African complication inevitably calls to mind , Joseph Chamberlain , the British Colonial Minister , wanted an alliance with Germany . Germany turned it down . In the spring of 1899 , just prior to the Franco-British settlement over the Sudan , France offered Germany an alliance . Germany turned it down . Soon England and France entered an en-tente against Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result from the Anglo-Italian antagonism . Nothing would he too fantastic . The colonial war in Africa is setting the stage for the next act in the drama of Europe . This too is clear : British isolation , whether splendid or sordid , is at an end . Only a very strong Britain can stand alone . The choice between empire and Europe has become purest nonsense . There can be no empire without British influence on the Continent . Every disputed frontier , every potential powder magazine , is Britain 's business , and the new Conservative Cabinet can be expected to mind it . England needs friends , and in politics friends demand compensation in the shape of commitments . England will also construct a larger air fleet and a. better navy . Before she has these , she must avoid appearances of weakness . Lovers of peace submit that there is protection in collective security ; the League could reduce England 's armaments budget . Downing Street knows the value of Geneva . It knows , too , that in the present uncertain world situation ultimate protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entanglements in Europe are just beginning . This is the first of a series of articles by Louis Fischer surveying the world crisis from various- European capitals.                     