@@493545

Town Melange R. JAMES REYNOLDS , at the Hackett Galleries , has an exhibition of work to which he has given the strangely unforgettable title of " Drawings from Homer . " There are fourteen of these . Hera and Zeus ; Polyxena , who was sacrificed on Achilles ' grave ; Demeter , the gods ' mother ; Medea of Colchis ; the Delphic Pythia ; Diokles , with the black armor of Ethiopia ; Antiope ; Diomedes ; Endymion , asleep in the summer night , his flocks grazing about him ; and Diana , Pallas , Achilles and Bellerophon . These drawings , gray , sanguine , black , as they happen to be in the diverse pieces , are evocative not so much of Homer and epics as of an old decoration that came down from the memory of these early gods and heroes . They are full of a curious freedom and plenty as to the talent behind them , of modern exoticism and modern archaism . They are at the same time both grave and erotic ; they are subtly and beautifully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Antinous ' legend , faces with some thing Asiatic in those heavy drowsing brow and eyes that passionate memory , gave to the images of this Bitbynian youth . The drawings have also a great chic , like that so often found in the archaic art of Greece , and they have a modern chic as well . And finally this whole combinatioa of qualities brings these drawings into a decorative value most unusual . Miss Martha Graham , in her first recital of the season , offered to a packed and applauding house a program very rich and intense , new compositions like the " Dithyrambics , " with its far-going modern forms , sometimes fine and astonishing , sometimes confusing and of an uncertain fluency and accent , to such repeated numbers as the " Primitive Mysteries . " To those who have seen Miss Graham 's art such comment as I am about to make might be worth while , otherwise it can mean little . The old classical dancing had its terms , laws and points ; and critics writing of it , like the critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reliable ground on which to speak . Modern dancing , carried as far as Miss Graham carries her art , still waits for a full and exact critical method to deal with it . The comment is this there has come something lately , perhaps gradually all along , who knows ? into Miss Martha Graham 's work , a certain freedom and relaxation , you could almost say spiritual generosity or flowering , a fresh happiness or discovery , something which no one can describe , but which is like some inner possibility of light and the way ahead . I have seen few things ever in the theatre more beautiful than the first number in the mysteries as it went this year , the Indian forms , solid in drawing and in composition as Diego Rivera at his best , the figure in white of the chief dancer , the motives of those groups and salutations , the foot above the shielding hands , the motives of worship and celebration . If this is of little value as dance criticism , because , as I said , of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words and pure bluff , it is at least worth while as a means of letting the artist herself see ? and in print ? the record of her opening progress . Miss Helen Hayes in the Molnar piece , " The Good Fairy , " at the Henry Miller Theatre , shows a definite growth in her comedy method , not to speak of her looks , which bear the touch of that Hollywood skill in means and methods of pulchritude that leaves Broadway so far behind . Miss Hayes , whose hard work shows in her growing ease and skill with the points to be made and the tone to be kept , astonished also this year by the wholeness and sustained flow of her performance . Her playing still has moments of unneeded archness , appearing also even in her diction now and then ? the way she will execute the 1 in such a word as " eleven , " for example ? which only diminishes the chance for chic in her comedy speech . But all her cue sense is remarkable , and she has arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comic shading that has only one rival on our stage , and that is Miss Ruth Gordon ? we leave out Miss Fontanne , whose enlarging these latter seasons into such powers of serious tragedy , farce methods , pathos and a growing variety of styles has left us all amazed and asking ourselves just where in her art she may be headed , to what scope and heights . Miss Gordon and Miss Hayes might provide an opportunity for one of those comparisons among artists by which stage discussion prospers and by which criticism exhibits its principles . This is not the moment for so long an argument as we could have . But it is worth mentioning the fact that both these actresses , no longer mere Broad-way babes in arms and never such young ladies as rose to favor on chance , arrant blondness or the celebrated It , have grown solidly into their technique , and that with such growing maturity they have perceived the shortsightedness of their mannerisms , once useful enough in a world of tiny individualisms and the casual tripe of the vaunted so-called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their directness in their effects much more . It can be said of Miss Ruth Gordon that of the two she is far wittier , taking her performance as a whole ; in her work the mind with a livelier insight-sees the whole composition in which the role in hand consists ; she can give to the whole performance a kind of bath of wit , within which the details and motives are seen and by which they get their comic shine . Of the two actresses Miss Hayes has still the larger scope ; she could play a greater variety of roles with a degree of success . If you go ? to the village of Anticoli , on a hill thirty miles from Rome , you will find the marks of many artists who have lived there , among them our great painter Maurice Sterne . Among the old houses where the studios have been established , you will come on the house where - Mario Toppi lives . On the ground floor is the whitewashed room , with its green vines here and there and the huge kitchen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman , will be , busy or sitting with friends who have dropped in on their way past . On the third floor is the painter 's studio , with a cot where he sleeps , with flowers or leaves wherever they will stand , and with the walls all covered with his paintings , painting done straight on to the hard plaster as if on parchment . The painter is unschooled and his technique has'been built from the influences of artists he has known or admired and from the frescoes in the churches and chapels scattered over the country near , in the village sometimes , sometimes along the roads . Some of his work has about it no little of the pseudo , in effect at least , as if he had imitated , almost reproduced , those frescoed surfaces from which the paint has scaled long ago and only the lines of the composition and the faint remainder of old colors preserve the artist 's thought . The drawing in these decorations of Mario Toppi 's studio is primitive and delicate , sometimes patently sophisticated despite its na @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything but lovely ; the whole harmony is captivating , and , now with real emotion , now with disarming shrewdness , persuasive . There are also smaller pictures . They are painted on wrapping paper , whose surface has the same hardness that old-fashioned plastering shows and that parchment provides , so that in them the drawing lines and the thin paint take with the same lovely harmony as in the painting on the studio walls . The ideas in this painting are in the exact key with the method . They are sometimes really naive , sometimes sophisticated ; they are religious and entirely reminiscent of the local primitives , or are peasant life seen with this primitive line and color composition ; or are fancies like that , for example , of the satyrs stealing the nymphs ' Clothing while the nymphs bathe in the stream beneath a willow ; or are eclogues , small pictures tender and faint , as if the pipes of shepherds and herdsmen with their slender voices had painted them . And yet we must remember that these subjects are not so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up or reminiscent , as they are natural to the painter , native to the country he has known all his life , and true and immediate so far as concerns the people , the ceremonies , feasts , harvests and religion that he knows . A gallery-full of these paintings by Mario Toppi are being shown now at the New Art Circle , 9 East Fifty-seventh Street , until the end of December . The subjects comprise many themes , the Madonna and Child , shepherd boys with their sheep , festivals , preparations for festivals , saints alone or in company with saints , nativities , and so on . Looking at the room of them , I am reminded of what Mario Toppi himself said to me one evening crossing the rough and open little piazza of his town . In a Roman exhibition , once , he said , where there were hundreds of modern pictures shown , room after room , with all their schools , their efforts to strike the attention , their colors and designs , he came into a room filled with pictures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , he had suddenly come on to peace , all profound , all harmony . Those were his exact words , and they show now when you see his Paintings something of what he has at the back of his mind . Taken more or less superficially , these pictures are above all decorative , they fulfill that obligation remarkably . As to their content , it is almost impossible , seeing them thus in this town , not to believe them wholly sophisticated , not so delicate and naive as they may seem to pretend . As a matter of fact , you can not say where their knowledge and their naivet ? begins and ends , for their roots belong in their own and so different land ; but you can see their lovely and almost shy fine taste , and you can think of owning them with far more pleasure than many of the resounding ambitions that the painters will exhibit during the season . 