@@468974

MY FRIENDS and I have re- cently been discussing a troublesome problem as we considered the future of our children , some of them about to enter school at the age of four , others approaching adolescence . We are of the generation which might loosely be called the war generation . We have had much freedom of social movement . We have been taught that on the whole our children will be better citizens and healthier persons if given freedom of movement and of decision . Yet as we see the growing looseness of the social fabric , we can not but begin to wonder what our own freedom of contacts , our own unwillingness to be bored by any set group of friends may destroy in the way of a rich background of human associations upon which our children should be nourished for life . My husband plays an unspeakable game of bridge and I dislike cards ; but we have finally decided to make desperate efforts to learn because so many of the people we like most find a non-bridge-playing couple difficult rather than charming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does small-talk about clothes ; but we find that the willingness to indulge in the give-and-take of chit-chat is essential to being a part of any group available to us that seems worthwhile to us as parents . Some people are born clubwomen . I 'm not . Community activities of all sorts irritate me . Yet I realize that I must play some part in the gathering of the female clams or I shall have no right to expect a place for my family in the tolerance or affection of our kind . This anti-committee feeling of mine , which is undoubtedly a reaction from a too collegiate college career , makes me reluctant to shoulder the social responsibilities such activities bring with them ; but this seems to be one step towards stabilizing my family in the social background we desire . We are interested mainly in books , the theater , and other arts , although we are not completely absorbed in them . Among our friends and acquaintances are numbered many radically-minded men and women , although our own liberalism has only in the past two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then we veered only mildly from my husband 's inherent republicanism . At the moment we find among our friends and business associates many charming and intelligent people who would fit rather badly into our inherited New England setting . In the larger gatherings in our home the only social requisite is that we enjoy the company of the people to whom we issue invitations . On the other hand , some of the most conservative business and professional people in our community are our A SOCIAL BACKGROUND FOR OUR CHILDREN 479 close friends . Therefore , as we face this problem of which I am writing , we find ourselves in the midst of a highly varied group of friends , all of whom we like , most of whom we admire and respect , and yet within this large group we are practically without what might be called an intimate circle . Never having considered ourselves " highbrow , " and certainly not " bohemian , " we discover , to our dismay , that unless we speedily change our ways , we are likely to become isolated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We will be individuals , " we said when we were first married . " Look at Mr. and Mrs. Caldwell . Their dinners are entertaining and varied . They seem to have no set group of friends . While the Richmondswhat a dreadful life they must live , going out constantly and always in a certain rotation . I dine you one night , you dine me the next , and on and on ad infinitum to a complete and exquisite boredom . " However , now that our children are old enough to be reckoned with , we stop to consider the Caldwells ' married daughter . She selected a husband whom even the most liberal-minded of parents could not consider a suitable son-in-law . Her friends are ill-assorted and most of them are unknown to her parents . She has practically dropped from their lives , except for an occasional awkward reunion at Christmas or Thanksgiving . This is a great unhappiness to the Caldwells , and I know that they are a lonely , saddened couple . Mrs. Caldwell does n't realize that there is any possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's , but I think there is . The Richmonds present a very different picture . Their sons are well adjusted , having adopted much the same social background as their parents without seeming to deny their individual inclinations , and as a family give a very satisfactory effect . Social pressure is an irksome thing to the man or woman of independent mind ; but I am becoming fearful that submission to it may be the part of wisdom , if not of actual necessity . The problem presents itself to my husband and myself in an exaggerated form , perhaps , because of our individualism and because we live in a big city where special difficulties beset us in the establishment of a social background . Yet I wonder if it is not a serious problem to thousands of other parents whose tastes and surroundings are quite different . All over the United States , since the War , the social fabric has been breaking down , reassorting , rearranging . The breakdown has been most conspicuous in the cities and particularly among the growing ranks of the apartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant moving from one apartment to another , the restricted size of apartments , and the virtual disappearance of the guest-room have all tended to weaken the family as a social unit and to disrupt the settled pattern of society . Yet in lesser degree the same disintegration has taken place elsewhere . The automobile , the motion picture , the dance hall , prohibition , the radio , and a dozen other modern phenomena have changed the habits and morals of the countryside . Many towns which once had a separate life of their own have become , in effect , little more than suburbs of the nearest city within motoring distance . There is much more movement from place to place , much less isolation ; many more young people go away to school and college . All this tends to unsettle and mix social groups . Children go to school at an earlier age than in the past , either because their mothers are working or because the home is too small . They get less and less religious education . Their social horizon becomes almost as wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so rapidly ? athletics and games , dancing classes , playgrounds , clubs , camps , movies , and other entertainments ? that by the time the child is adolescent it is likely that the parents see him only at meal times and know little of what he is doing or thinking , or with whom he is spending his time . He seldom brings his friends home and he seldom goes to his friends ' houses . His time is cared for by the various organizations which have taken him away from his family . This seems to be the average story of childhood to-day , according to F. Stuart Chapin , Floyd Al1port , and other articulate sociologists . What chance have parents , in this state of affairs , to retain the full confidence and friendship of their children ? Their influence is lost when the children most need it . Their sons and daughters are placed in a social setting with which the parents have little contact , unless they are willing , as Mr. Al1port says , to become social workers with their own offspring as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations which have taken over the conduct of their lives . The effect on the children of this decentralized and artificial situation is readily seen in the widening gulf between the generations , the almost inevitable estrangement of parent and child , and a social unrest that too often culminates in the tragic disasters we read about in the headlines . Wherever you live and whatever your personal inclinations may be , I am convinced that if you have children this problem of the social background is your problem too . Youspend a lot of time guarding your child 's health , planning his education , buying his clothes , teaching him manners , but do you do anything about his social background ? Do you know who his friends are and why he chooses them ? Does he bring them home and does he talk to you about them ? Does he know well any of your friends ? What are his social standards ? When a child becomes associated with a group of friends with whom the parents have no contact , the situation is as false and hazardous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles . Yet this is the situation in multitudes of American families where parents do not recognize that part of their job is to provide their children with social standards . What are social standards ? It is difficult to decide in these chaotic days . Even in the group which claims to be the aristocracy of the land there is the same break-up of the settled social pattern that I notice particularly in those about me . For instance , only the other day in New York City , Mrs. Stanton told me that her son saw none of the children of her old friends , friends chiefly from the old guard of New York 's Four Hundred , but was forming associations entirely outside her particular social pattern . Moreover , it is a fact that the guests at many New York debutante parties are invited in wholesale lots and dictated by certain powerful social secretaries who cardindex young eligibles and dish them out on silver platters to the town 's ambitious hostesses . I heard a young Englishman recently turn to his dinner partner and say , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home I have A SOCIAL BACKGROUND FOR OUR CHILDREN 481 some idea where people belong . Here I simply can not tell at all . Some of the people I meet are obviously well bred and wealthy , and yet I do n't find their names in the Social Register . Some of the people I meet are obviously vulgar and wealthy , yet I do find their names in the Social Register . " I mention this incident to dispose quickly of Society with a capital S. Perhaps it is only because I see it chiefly from the sidelines but it seems to me that there is no longer any such thing as a real aristocracy of wealth or of breeding in America . Even such strongholds as Boston and Charleston are giving way before the encroachments of the new rich . The social groupings dictated by religious affiliations are dissolving . An orthodox Jewish mother of our acquaintance bewails the tendency of her children to consort with the goy . Mixed marriages in the Roman Catholic church are increasingly frequent , and the Episcopal church is a haven of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suburbs of Long Island have as many separate sets as America itself , and each New York suburb has its own special brand of snobbishness . The same is true of Boston , Philadelphia , Chicago , San Francisco , and so on . Many of our oldest families are completely outworn and some of our new-made aristocratic families seem to be able to wear themselves out in a half century . I dare say that within these circles and sets and snobberies the problem I am outlining is as real as it is among those of us who believe that we are passionate anti-snobs . The matter of social standards would be relatively simple if one could bring oneself to say , " My child 's friends must be chosen from among those who belong to such and such a club , have such and such anincome , use the family crest on their note paper , or worship their God in such and such a fashion . " Most of us can not do this ; we see all too clearly the artificiality and absurdity of such criteria . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the fact that the social distinctions which have broken down represented , after a fashion , the desire to stabilize and perpetuate certain standards of behavior , of decorum , and of taste ; and that as the distinctions disappear the standards are weakened . Since social standards are no longer fixed , and yet the need for them has not yet been destroyed , we must face ourselves and our futures honestly and plan with our friends and our ideals the subtle circle in which our children must inevitably find themselves as they awaken to the complexities and the needs of a social life . We must decide what our own definition of " social standard " is In the past we have patronized and criticized those of our friends who seemed always to foregather with people who were their intellectual inferiors or even their intellectual equals . We swore bravely that we would spend most of our time with those who could give us something new to think about , and with whom we would have to struggle to maintain an intellectual companionship . Now we wonder if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertaking , as parents , to build up a social background that will sustain our children . It would be a mistake to turn over to them our cult of tolerance before giving them enough knowledge of social standards to know what they are tolerating . We have arrived at a broadmindedness which allows us to accept as friends people whose standards we ca n't accept as fit for our children . But children will know us by the company that we keep . An exaggerated instance of the complexities of modern life was told me by a clergyman not long ago . One of his parishioners came to him with a tragic face , saying that his son , having met the family bootlegger in the house , had been drawn into that gentleman 's gay night club set and had become something of a racketeer on his own account . The young man had been introduced to the bootlegger by his own father ? which is only one of the ironic situations in which people often find themselves these days . It is all very well to let your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own friends and live his own life , but first you owe him some standards to work by . It is quite evident that complete freedom of choice by the child in these matters is not possible . Children do n't choose their parents or their parents ' friends , the community in which they live , or the house they must occupy . It is we who give them , consciously or unconsciously , some center from which their social life will radiate , some sense of the fit or the unfit , with which they will choose their own associates . Perhaps my husband and I feel this problem with particular keenness because our own personal backgrounds show a dearth of social guidance that we know was a real handicap . Our experiences are commonplace enough to be duplicated among thousands of other American couples . It so happens that , although both of us came from what might be called upper-middle-class families , neither of us , through the accidents of life , was given any social training or any real roots from which our own social life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , ever remembers having a party given for us in our own home , and in both our cases it so happened that to bring a group of our friends home was frowned upon as disturbing and unnecessary . To the many adults who are out of touch with their own childhood this may sound unimportant , but I believe it to be a disastrous attitude for the parent to take . I received no practice in the art of being a hostess and was supposed to have small need for social contacts outside the schoolroom . Social poise was supposed to fall upon me fullfledged as soon as my diploma proclaimed me no longer a school girl . Most of my enduring friendships were made at summer camp and college , and my husband 's at school and college , and are far removed from any connection with our family backgrounds . Our childhood days were pre-war , and our parents did not have the excuse of social chaos that modern parents can fall back on . We feel that their failure to recognize our need for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dithering days of adolescence and delayed that rich maturity which social stability gives a man or woman . It may be illuminating to list some of the worst present-day offenders in this matter . We find among them people who could do a great deal for their children , but who fail because of ignorance or laziness . There is Mrs. Kenton , who insists on living in the suburbs , for the children 's sake . But Mr. and Mrs. Kenton 's close friends all live in town , and the Kentons know nothing and care nothing about their children 's friends . They move in a different orbit and are doing nothing to co-operate with their children in the matter of family friends and social background . They are riding for a fall . There are Mr. and Mrs. Thomas , who delight in bohemian friends , A SOCIAL BACKGROUND FOR OUR CHILDREN 483 friends who drink too much and are the life of the party , charming people whom you ca n't trust , men of unsavory reputation who , nevertheless . are desirable dinner guests . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Mrs. Thomas wonders why her son goes around with such hoodlums . There are Mr. and Mrs. Yarnell . She is a writer of note . He is a business man . They travel a good deal . Their son spends much of his time visiting his grandparents . So far as we can observe , he has precisely no friends of his own age who have ever seen his father and mother . He is being checked like a parcel . There are the Vanes , who live in a different apartment every year , whose children have tried several schools , and who never spend two summers in the same place . The Fosters travel constantly and never take their children with them . The children 's whole life is spent in schools and camps . One of my friends says of this problem , " Why not simply allow our children 's contacts to create both our own and their social backgrounds ? " Some such thing happened in the case of Mr. and Mrs. Bacon , who moved from the East to the Middle West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those of business . They chose a respectable suburb near the large city where Mr. Bacon 's new job was situated . They sent their children to a good but modest private school . It was the parents of their children 's friends at school who finally formed their social group . Sometimes a completely fresh start like this is an excellent way to get rid of the wrong kind of social background and to build another . This was not a hit-or-miss performance , for these parents had chosen their school wisely , where there wouldnot be the tight patterns of an " exclusive " school or the extreme heterogeneity of the public school . However , it should be noted here that some of the best schools in the country are suburban public schools . There are the Jones children , who have gone for many years to the excellent public schools in a somewhat restricted suburb of New York City . Their mother tells me they have become so involved in the social life of the community that they are far busier than she is , with committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally they sent the boy to Andover to rescue him from a case of overwhelming social pressure at too early an age . Apropos of the school question , you have all heard the father who goes on in this fashion , " I went to public school and what was good enough for me is good enough for my children . I want my children to rub elbows with children from all walks of life so that they will know what the world is like . " This kind of whole-hog democrat seldom makes good on his theory in practice . His son is n't encouraged to bring home a nice little colored boy or the loud-mouthed young hooligan who is the star basket-ball player of the class . The son is puzzled by his father 's attitude , and very naturally . This kind of father expects his child to make the proper social contacts without any help or guidance from the family circle . In towns and small cities public schools may be the ideal place for children , where the family influence is kept vital and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas and ideals with those of his parents . In a big city , people of the upper middle class find it impossible to entrust their children to public schools . The group there is so polyglot and so undisciplined that the child 's standard of conduct is bound to deteriorate . The selection of schools is obviously important . In a large city the school problem seems well-nigh insoluble to us . The best schools are largely frequented by the children of the very wealthy , and to the family of moderate income , even if the actual tuition is within their reach , the resulting sense of inferiority and discontent aroused in the child is not pleasant to contemplate . In our own case , living the year round in the suburbs is impossible . In the case of many city-dwellers , however , we feel strongly that the choice of the right suburb is almost the only answer to the troublesome problem ? regardless of the fact that they may " hate the suburbs . " IV Having decided on the kind of social background we should like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about it ? Can we build something around them that will give them a stability with which to face future social crises ? Many parents who recognize the need find it hard to formulate a plan that will bring about the desired result . Before I tell you our plan I want to relate an instance in which a community , working together , solved this problem for themselves . Over a period of the past ten years I have watched this group , which started as a reckless bohemian colony , change and develop . Even the liberal and radicallyminded become forced into awareness of the need of a satisfactory social background when they are faced with the problem of their own children . They , too , either consciously or unconsciously , find themselves looking for a social standard . I imagine this community is typical of many others , and it illustrates the point of this article excellently . Incidentally , its members are much criticized by fellow-radicals for their decided bourgeois tendencies . Certainly ! With growing children , these radical parents face a world in which society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom of choice for their own offspring , conscious perhaps , as we are , of certain lacks in their own upbringing , they must furnish a background from which their growing boys and girls can have freedom of choice . One of them said to me recently , " I am radically minded , yes ? but the last thing in the world I wish to do is to impose my radicalism on my son . In doing that I should become as much a prejudiced fanatic as the monk of the Middle Ages . My own radicalism developed from conservatism . It was not imposed upon me . " Ten years ago , when I first knew it , the community of L ? was a collection of charming bohemians . It was known with some justice as a " free love " colony ; it was composed of artists , authors , actors , and some of the prominent editors and leaders in the radical movement . Most of the group were young , and their life was carefree and casual . The homes were informal and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were played helter skelter all over the place . To-day this community is made up of happily married , domestic couples , most of them with fairly large families . They have a well-run modern school , one of the best in the countryside . Many of them have prospered by this stability and take an active part in the affairs of the larger community in which they are located . They used to be decidedly frowned on by the local authorities ; now they are respected and drawn into the community activities whenever possible . They have built new homes , improved old , built gardens A SOCIAL BACKGROUND FOR OUR CHILDREN 485 and roads . One of this number has become a thriving real-estate operator and is looking around for clients . I notice that the type of person he seeks is the type that , while liberal in ideas , is not in practice likely to disturb the very pleasant family balance which now has become established in that community . I suspect that this development has been more conscious than the individual members of the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went on a picnic with some twenty of these colonists we spent a day so thoroughly and quietly domestic that it was almost boring , notwithstanding the fact that included in the picnic crowd was the best-known and most recalcitrant of the red leaders . This example of a wide change in social standards in a whole community in a short space of time shows what can be done . Here is the spectacle of a whole community rearranging itself to meet the needs of its children . The selection and development of a " social standard " is not easy and it is usually an individual problem . The background to be sought should in general be one easily within reach , one which should involve " social arrangement " and need not smack of social striving or climbing . That in itself would defeat the whole purpose . You may be saying to yourself , " What this woman needs is simply a sense of humor . If she stops rationalizing and goes ahead living her life , these things will adjust themselves . " This is partly true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful . But I maintain that in our day , as life goes at a constantly speeded-up pace , and distance becomes as nothing , making all the world your neighbor ( which means you have no neighbors at all ) , social questions can not be solved without planning . V My husband and I , then , realize that we must find a way to adjust this problem for ourselves . W e realize , too , that for the sake of a well-balanced family life and the happiness which such stability brings we owe our children a social background as we define it . We want to equip our own children to live in the world as they will find it . We want to give them our measuring stick so that they will be able to choose their friends wisely and will have the same standards of taste that we have ? or better ones . We do n't want to wake up some day and find our children strangers to us ? and not very pleasant strangers at that . Fortunately , our children are young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ w e have time to do something about it . What specifically to do is the question on which we put our heads together . We live in a large city , in an apartment , and we have never seen the people across the hall . We know they have a dog and a radio but that 's all . Our children go out with their nursemaid to the park , and play with different children every day , the nursemaid being their social mentor . In order to make it possible for them to play with the children of our friends , social engagements must be made in advance . When they get to school , they will become part of a group about which we shall know very little unless we make it our business to be informed , to invite the other children to our home , to make friends with the children 's parents . We have concluded that the best antidote will be to use our summers in providing the children with roots which are so hard to grow in cities . We have selected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there regularly every year , hoping eventually to buy a house there . Here at least the children will meet the same group year after year , and a stable background of friends will be built up . Here families will know one another and see one another at informal gatherings . Both home and country club will be social centers . We ourselves may sometimes be bored , used as we are to the stimulation of a diverse group of interesting people . But we are prepared to play bridge when we do n't want to , and to be bored occasionally , for the sake of the stability which membership in such a community gives to the family . The choice of this community has not been easy ; it has been as difficult , in fact , as the choice of a suburb by the city dweller . We made three tries before we found the place which at present writing seems ideal , a community in which wealth is tempered by breeding , where there are many small homes and a good sprinkling of beginners in business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one 's neighbors has not vanished , and where the inhabitants of the " old town " as well as the " summer people " and the " commuters " belong to the clubs . A summer rendez-vous can be of untold help to the apartment-dweller . To a country house the children can bring their guests from school , camp , or college . In a home where guests are the rule rather than the exception , entertaining is easy and there is little change made in the family schedule . Even fear of servant trouble should not be allowed to interfere with hospitality . Do you remember striking up a friendship , that seemed to have enduring qualities , with a boy at school and inviting him home , only to receive a shock when you saw him against the family background ? You had expected him to fit ? and he did n't . Not that he simply failed to conform to a specified type or that there was anything snobbish about your family 's attitude . But if your friend did notfit , at least you knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you could tell whether the characteristics you admired were genuine or not ? you had measured him with your own yardstick . If children are denied this way of learning to judge others they can learn only by bitter experience . The question is squarely up to the parents , and I am now thinking of the hundreds of thousands of well-to-do middle-class parents who could do something about giving their children a social background . Many of these parents do not begin early enough to plan . They think that adolescence is plenty of time , when in reality it is far too late . Many of them fail to recognize the need until their son joins the gang or their daughter begins to meet her beau on the street corner . By that time home is only a convenience , and the golden opportunity is gone . I am writing this article largely as a feeler . I am puzzled , many of my friends are puzzled , and I feel that opening the discussion may throw some light on the subject . It seems to us to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I reiterate that we are puzzled by it . but with hard work and thought we hope to solve it for ourselves . Fortunately we are not alone in tackling it , for as we began to think and talk about it we found ourselves drawn toward several couples among our assorted groups of friends who were talking and thinking as we were . Here perhaps lies the whole secret , the nucleus of this subtle thing so much to be desired , a social background for our children . In this same way , I fancy , although other parents may not find our solution the proper one for them , they can , too , find this nucleus of people who are thinking as they are thinking , and starting with such a group can broaden and enrich it until the desired social unit is achieved . 