@@255415

Maybe It 's Love ( Warner ) . That famous cinema college , dear old Upton , faces a crisis in this football story . At the moment when it is the fourth down and one minute to play the crisis is successfully dealt with . Besides such picture-people as Joan Bennett and James Hall , the cast is distinguished by the presence of an " All-American " football team of 1929 , including Racehorse Russell Saunders of the University of Southern California . It contains some fairly funny gags and is in general light-hearted enough to make a pleasant program show Best shot : the All-Americans practicing . <P> Billy the Kid ( Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ) . Undoubtedly the new vogue of westerns has been stimulated by critics who arraigned the cinema for losing its integrity in dull photographs of stage plays . Now King Wallis Vidor , Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 's ace director , with the help of the company 's best dialog writers , Laurence Stallings and Charles MacArthur , has deliberately turned back to the old westerns as models in an attempt to reproduce the virtues that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outmoded-speed , action , outdoor settings , and the suspense of the greatest and simplest of all plots : flight and pursuit . They have arranged this show from episodes taken from the life of Billy the Kid , famed oldtime western Robin Hood . The sheriff who idolizes the man he is chasing , the pure and lovely young girl who sticks to Billy through his dangers , the villains who are nasty simply because it is their nature to be so , are all properly represented . Their activities are photographed on a big screen which is supposed to add the elusive " third dimension " for which producers have been experimenting so eagerly , but which is simply a big screen . Some of the sequences in which John Mack Brown drawls through the role of Billy are effective , many of them are absurd , and in general Billy the Kid lacks the gusto it tries so hard to borrow from its models . It is a stiff , ornamental , unsuccessful imitation of a picture form which , since it made no concessions to realism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace Beery smoking the starving outlaw out of his cave by cooking bacon where he can smell it . <P> The Santa Fe Trail ( Paramount ) . This is another western , beautifully photographed , nicely acted , but static and thoroughly dull as entertainment . Taken from Hal G. Evart 's Saturday Evening Post serial , Spanish Acres , it is in effect a long argument as to whether some sheep owned by a U. S. boy are to be grazed on land owned by a gullible Spanish rancher . Richard Arlen is the hero , Rosita Moreno is the rancher 's daughter . One element of comic relief is the occasional intrusion of a young boy and girl who have the fearful coyness inevitable in camera-trained children under twelve .                     