@@487318

SENATOR HULL has the distinction of being one of the very few members of Congress with any real understanding of the causes of the present crisis . Quite as important as this , he has the courage to say that the crisis can not be surmounted by devising irrelevant stimulants , but only by removing the continuing causes . His has been almost the sole voice in Congress steadily and insistently calling for the reduction of tariffs . In his latest statement on the subject he remarks that as the United States led the way toward unprecedentedly high tariffs , it should now " lead in the opposite direction of sanity and sound business recovery . " As a first step he urges that a world economic conference recommend a horizontal 10 per cent reduction in the permanent tariffs of all nations , with a liberalizing of exchange and other restrictions . Some such step as this is , of course , of crucial importance , but it will have to be much more drastic than that indicated by Senator Hull . As applied to all ad valorem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be without at least an immediate psychological effect , and it would have , as well , some long-range effect in stimulating trade ; but a 10 per cent reduction on specific duties would not begin to meet the situation . One of the most serious elements in the tariff situation is that , even if there had been no world tariff war in recent years , specific duties would have become constantly more obstructive as a result of the collapse of commodity prices . As the increasing obstructiveness ofthe tariff has often led to a further fall in prices , the tariff barriers have set up a vicious circle . Thus , to take the example of our greatest single import , sugar , the specific tariff of 1.76 cents a pound in 1928 was the equivalent of an ad valorem tariff of 72 per cent ; in May of this year the specific tariff of 2 cents a pound was the equivalent of an ad valorem tariff of 350 per cent . " A s A MATTER OF FACT , " said the Troy Record in a recent editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The term has been invented and the groups have been brought together by Communist organizers for the specific purpose of making trouble . " Could more misleading and dangerous propaganda be conceived ? Of course the Communists have been taking partisan advantage of the hunger and misery to be found on every hand in the United States today . But does this mean that there is no distress or starvation ? Would the editor of the Record have us believe that the destitute are being adequately cared for and so have no reason for joining the hunger marchers ? Or should the hungry slink off shamefacedly to die in some quiet corner as did Ignatz Wlosinski ? The Record can hardly plead ignorance of the Wlosinski case , for it was from its news columns that we obtained the report of this man 's death . Wlosinski 's body was found in a barn on an estate near Troy , where he had to all appearances crawled in to die . " The victim was emaciated , " the Record 's account said . " His stomach and digestive tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physician said the man had apparently been on a starvation diet for about three weeks . " What a truly frightful picture of the human struggle for existence in this supposedly civilized country ! But the fate of Ignatz Wlosinski is by no means exceptional . Similar stories are being recorded almost daily in newspapers , relief-agency reports , and hospital records throughout the country . Why not hunger marches ? When will the government provide enough relief to stop this terrible suffering ? GOVERNOR ROOSEVELT 'S DECISION to cut out all the usual flummery of the inaugural ceremonies and to restrict the military display to the regulars garrisoned in and about Washington is doubly to be praised . There should not be a single cent wasted when there is such suffering in the land , and it is high time that some headway was made against the growing tendency to make the Presidency as showy and as regal an office'as possible . In this respect we count a great deal upon Mrs. Roosevelt . A woman of great ability , admirable common sense , and good taste , she has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the wife of an American citizen who has been temporarily chosen by his fellow-citizens to serve them in public office . We venture to prophesy that all the business of being the " first lady of the land " will appeal to her not at all , that she will wish to go on with her own useful life , and that she will use all her influence in the direction of cutting down the display and ceremonial at the White House which has developed so under the Coolidges and Hoovers that the President now appears at ceremonial gatherings in the White House attended by numerous aides and heralded ' by a trumpeter . Even in private gatherings he is expected to enter and leave the room first and to take his seat before the ladies ! The White House ' has long needed an Andrew Jackson or Thomas Jefferson to bring it back to the exquisite simplicity and good breeding of older days . ONE NATURALLY HOPES that Franklin D. Roose- velt 's attitude toward Soviet Russia will be more liberal than that of Herbert Hoover , although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate precisely what position he will take . He was silent during the campaign on the question of recognition , saying only that he found the question interesting and would study it . Since his election to the Presidency , however , persons upon whose advice he will largely depend in this matter have broadly suggested that Mr. Roosevelt will take positive measures toward improving American relations with Russia . Senator Swanson of Virginia , who will be the chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , not only hinted at recognition , but said that the United States would probably negotiate a commercial treaty with the Soviet Union soon after Mr. Roosevelt took office . Senator Walsh of Montana , who has been very close to Mr. Roosevelt , has declared that he will urge prompt and unqualified recognition of the Soviet Government . While the suggestion that the change in administrations in Washington will mean a change in American policy toward Russia has been received somewhat skeptically in Moscow , a " prominent Bolshevik " shortly after the election was quoted by Walter Duranty in a dispatch to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to meet Mr. Roosevelt " halfway and in a friendly spirit in any overtures that may tend to improve relations , but the Soviet Union will wait for the United States to take the first step . " PRESIDENT-ELECT ROOSEVELT contemplates , ac-cording to reports from his cottage at Warm Springs , Georgia , a reduction of $100,000,000 a year in the Navy Department budget . This proposal we indorse most warmly and without reservation , for it is precisely with the army and navy expenditures that the government must begin its economizing . As was to have been expected , the suggestion of the President-elect brought roars of pain and anguish from naval officers and the ' big-navy clique in Congress . Let Mr. Roosevelt not be disturbed by the bulldozing tactics of the militarists . If they were given the biggest army and fleet in the world , with the costliest and most elaborate equipment , they would still demand more . For example , it is generally agreed that our land forces are large enough to provide whatever defensive strength we may need in the foreseeable future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of efficiency as well as economy . Nevertheless , Major General Douglas MacArthur , the Chief of Staff , has the audacity to ask in his annual report that the size of the army be increased . Mr. Roosevelt 's suggestion renews our hope that his Administration will not allow the disarmament negotiations at Geneva to collapse for lack of support from the United States . A recent dispatch from Washington frankly declared that the statesmen at Geneva are talking of abandoning the disarmament conference . They would , this dispatch said , write into a treaty all of the agreements that have been reached to date , leaving the remaining questions to ' be settled through diplomatic channels . This would be utter stupidity . No agreements of any consequence have yet been reached , so what could possibly be written into the projected treaty ? THE CONTINUED PRESENCE of the entire Ameri- can fleet in Pacific waters is proving a source of great irritation to the Japanese . The Navy Department has formally explained ' that the fleet is being kept in the Pacific Ocean solely for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well with the Japanese . The more moderate elements in Japan suspect , and surely not altogether without justification , that the real motive behind the naval maneuvers is to guard against a surprise attack by Japan . This the moderate Japanese resent , for they take it to mean that the United States does not trust their country . The nationalistic press and many outstanding patriots have gone farther and declared that the United States is really preparing for war . That interpretation has no basis in fact , at least in so far as the American public is aware , but it is out of just such fears and suspicions that wars often arise . The tension between the two countries is already so great that we can not possibly afford to let it increase . It is imperative that the Atlantic fleet be returned to its home station . Only thus can one of the principal causes of the growing of the Japanese toward America be removed . We doubt very much that any considerable sum is saved by keeping the Atlantic and Pacific fleets together . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a surprise attack upon our western shores , for no fleet can hope to operate successfully at such a great distance from its coaling stations , repair depots , and normal sources of supply . SO GENERAL VON SCHLEICHER , who has so long been in power behind the arras in German politics , becomes the first military Chancellor of the German Republic . He has made and unmade Cabinets ; he has concentrated in ' himself the too great authority and power of the Reichswehr , with which he has been able to drive ministers from office and play the Warwick ; and now he steps out into the open to grasp the power . His selection is certainly far better than would ? have been that of Hitler , but it probably presages a long period of presidential government beyond the constitution and at times in defiance of it . Von Schleicher is a remarkably able man . Some who have known him all his life think that he has in him not only the possibilities of a ruthless dictator , but even of a Napoleon . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men whom Von Papen had collected in his Cabinet . Von Schleicher at least knows that things have changed in Germany . For example , he has made friendly advances to the labor unions , into whose councils he has freely gone . In other words , he is distinctly more pliable than the average German reactionary . None the less , his selection is ominous for the republic , especially if it is true that Von Hindenburg is rapidly failing under the strain not only of the office of President , but of the successive parliamentary turmoils , elections , and stalemates . While Von Schleicher was only a staff captain in the World War , he is one of the old military school and has emphatically declared that Germany will rearm , and promptly . Thus do we see again how well it pays to go to war to make a people democratic and establish democracy throughout the world . P ERSIA HAS APPARENTLY DECIDED to throw off the yoke of British economic imperialism . No other interpretation can be placed upon the action of the government at Teheran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Anglo-Persian Oil Company . Whether the Persians will succeed is another question . Their country has long been regarded ' by Great Britain as one of its principal " spheres of influence " in the Middle East . For one thing , Persia stands on the road to India , and so is generally regarded as a part of the British system of inter-imperial communications . Moreover , its extensive oil deposits are highly prized by the British , as much for their strategic value as for their commercial importance . According to a rather frank dispatch from London , " the British have been quick to realize that this is not an ordinary business dispute , but an outburst of Persian nationalism which will not yield easily to ordinary methods of treatment . " In other - words , Great Britain intends to use whatever pressure it can to cure the Shah 's government of its sudden desire for economic independence , perhaps even to the point of resorting to military occupation , if that is deemed necessary . The same dispatch reported that " the Shah 's government was on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobile and rubber trades " to American interests " over the heads of British competitors . " This plan , if carried through , will sooner or later lead to trouble . It is hard to believe that the British would tolerate an American invasion of one of their spheres of influence . The American companies would do well to stay out of the Persian quarrel . WHEN THE NEWSPAPERS published the protests ' by the Woman Patriot Corporation against the admission of Dr. Einstein to the United States , on the ground that he was a Communist and thus a danger to the country , the good professor did the only thing that a philosopher could do under the circumstances . He ironically complimented the patriotic ladies by recalling the occasion when mighty Rome was saved by " the cackling of her faithful geese " and insisted that he ' ad never in his life been rebuffed by so many of the " beautiful sex " all at once . Thus be attempted to dispose of ' both the ladies and the incident in one amiable jest , properly assuming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unfortunately his confidence in the intelligence of United States government officials was misplaced . The protest of the Woman Patriot Corporation had been solemnly forwarded to American consular , offices in Europe , and when Dr. Einstein called at the consulate in Berlin for a visa , in anticipation of his visit to America to lecture at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton , his visa was held up while he was subjected to a cross-examination on his views about communism , pacifism , and anarchism . Could a great nation possibly devise a more effective method of making a fool of itself in the eyes of the civilized world ? Dr. Einstein is not a Communist or an anarchist , but he is a confirmed pacifist . He is also one of the world 's greatest scientists and most appealing personalities . He has been the recipient of honors of all sorts from the United States , including a message of congratulation from President Hoover . We hope he will meet this fantastic indignity with his usual tolerance and good humor and will prove his infinite superiority to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to America and forgiving us our trespasses . Al Smith , Statesman A L SMITH , on December 1 , made the most worthwhile and constructive suggestions for a reorganization of the municipal government of the city of New York yet given to the legislative committee of inquiry of which Mr. Seabury is the counsel . It caused his friends greatly to rejoice , because it showed again Mr. Smith 's unusual grasp of governmental problems , his honest , constructive thinking , and his clear , straightforward statement of his position without ifs , buts , compromises , or the usual cloud of words in which the average politician conceals his real thoughts . It caused consternation in Tammany Hall , for Mr. Smith , its most distinguished member , deliberately urged . the dropping of 100 elective officials , the abolition of the costly and complicated borough system under which the city is subdivided into five autonomous districts , the combination of numerous departments , and the regrouping of others so as to make enormous savings and to increase efficiency . He even went so far in his treasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken out of politics by having them appointed for life  --  by the governor in the higher courts and by the mayor in the lower . No wonder that Tammany squealed ! Of course , if all the changes which Mr. Smith recommends were to take place , the city of New York would be a different place to live in . There would be far greater concentration of responsibility ; the mayor would have greater executive power ; and the present Board of Estimate and Apportionment would be transformed into an upper legislative chamber while the Board of Aldermen would be cut down to twenty-three members . Mr. Smith favored the taking over of all the transit lines by the city . He also urged the immediate construction of model housing for the poor by the use of loans from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , besides making five other specific recommendations for immediate relief . All his suggestions are particularly valuable at this time , when the city is in dire financial jeopardy  --  at this writing face to face with the possibility that its relief funds will be exhausted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able either to pay the vast amount of short-term notes coming due or to meet all the demands of its pay roll for December . Mr. Smith even presented in well-drafted form the three constitutional amendments which would be required to put certain phases of his scheme into effect . If he devotes ' himself to pushing his plan through he ought to be able to accomplish a great deal . We do not wish , however , to give the impression that it is our belief that if Mr. Smith accomplishes what he asks there will be a model government in New York . To achieve that there would have to be much greater municipal socialization , and the complete control by the city of those special privileges , such as the sale of franchises , pier privileges , and the like , which are now the greatest source of corruption , ' both on the part of the men who have the favors to sell and of those who wish to buy them . Proportional representation the city will still need badly , and probably a city manager , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York on the road to becoming a decently organized and managed muncipality , with a judiciary beyond suspicion .                     