@@469301

WHEN the banking structure of the II. , Tnited States collapsed last March there was suddenly created a singularly favorable opportunity to rebuild , out of the debris of the forty-nine assorted systems which had broken down , a genuinely national commercial banking system . With the shock of the moratorium fresh in the minds of the people and of their representatives in the special session of Congress , it would have been comparatively easy to accomplish reforms in banking legislation which have been urgently needed for over a generation . But the opportunities inherent in the dramatic circumstances of the time were lost . Emergency measures of inspiring boldness were taken by the President and approved by Congress to patch up temporarily the forty-nine broken-down systems ( the national system and the forty-eight State systems ) ; but then , instead of passing the laws necessary for the development of a single system adequate for the needs of the Nation , Congress again resorted to patchwork . The Glass bill , for all the revolutionary implications of its provision for the insurance of bank deposits , leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same as before . It does indeed strike a lusty blow at some of the most spectacular abuses which have occurred in the employment of bank credit for speculation and in the prostitution of some of our great metropolitan institutions from well conducted banks into vociferous peddlers of securities . Moreover , it greatly enhances the effective power of the federal government to supervise the operation of banks , and it even provides for the creation of conditions whereby all banks may be expected eventually to come under federal regulation and control . But the rank and file of the thousands of institutions throughout the country , of the kind which have been mainly responsible for our banking difficulties , have been left structurally and functionally about the same as before the moratorium was declared or the Glass bill was passed . We still have in operation some twelve to fifteen thousand banks ( the exact number depending upon how those in the hands of conservators , or otherwise restricted in their transactions , are classified ) , and from seventy to ninety per cent of them are located in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a size adequate for safe operation . Facts and figures to prove this assertion are plentiful in our actual experience of the past twelve years or so , and some of them will be presented a little further on . In each of the forty-eight States the State system is in competition with the national system , and there is little uniformity among the different States as to banking legislation ? except that nearly everywhere the standards are uniformly low . This fact has not only prevented our national banking standards from being improved but has resulted in their being seriously impaired . Banks not willing to submit to federal laws and federal supervision have been able , almost over night , to leave the national system and become State institutions . Even membership in the Federal Reserve System has been entirely voluntary ; for national banks have been able to withdraw merely by giving up their national charters and becoming State institutions , while State banks have joined or remained in the System only when they have chosen to do so of their own accord . Consequently , neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been able to exercise more than a limited degree of control over the conduct of banking institutions . To exercise stringent control would simply have meant to lose banks from the national system . Commercial banks , in full compliance with the law , have commonly engaged in business outside their proper scope of operations . This is particularly true in their use of funds which have been assembled as deposits payable on demand or short notice , to make long-term capital loans . The old prohibition in the national system against loans secured by real estate mortgages has been abandoned , to enable national banks to meet the competition of state-chartered institutions . With the principle of longterm loans sanctioned by federal legislation , the banks in fact have gone far beyond the intention of the law , making ever larger amounts of long-term loans in the guise of short-term advances which by prearrangement are renewed over and over indefinitely . Undoubtedly the Glass bill , while it does nothing to curb such practices among the smaller banks , is designed to correct some of the most flagrant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It attempts , among other things , to accomplish the complete divorce from commercial banking of the business of dealing and speculating in securities . Effective one year from the date of its approval by the President , all securities affiliates of member banks of the Federal Reserve System must be given up ; and even private bankers engaged in underwriting and selling securities will no longer be allowed to accept deposits . Moreover , private bankers accepting deposits in any case will have to submit to the same sort of national or State banking supervision as incorporated institutions . To curb the use of commercial bank credit for speculation in securities , the bill also endows the Federal Reserve Board with substantial powers to limit the amount of credit which can be extended by member banks against stock exchange collateral . But the most important changes which are calculated to result from the Glass bill are in connection with its provision for the insurance of bank deposits . Briefly stated , the plan which has been enacted into law is to place the assets of all the banks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The insurance applies to all deposit accounts in member banks of the Federal Reserve System ( and temporarily to those in all other institutions entitled to the benefits of the Act ) , as follows : amounts up to $10,000 , to the extent of 100 per cent ; any excess over $10,000 , up to $50,000 , to the extent of 75 per cent ; any excess over $50,000 , without limit , to the extent of 50 per cent . The plan becomes effective July 1 , 1934 , but an interim plan for the insurance in full of all deposits not exceeding $2,500 takes effect as of January 1 , 1934 . All member banks of the Federal Reserve System are required to join the insurance system , which is to be administered by a corporation acting as a federal agency . Non-member banks are permitted to join on the same basis as member banks , for a period ending July I , 1936 , after which date they must become Federal Reserve members or renounce their right to insurance . Funds to meet the cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur , are to be obtained from assessments on all participating banks , in successive levies of one-fourth of one per cent of their total deposit liabilities , sufficient to raise any sums which may be required . Thus every bank in the insurance system must operate with a contingent liability for the safety of every other bank in the system . Now to a casual observer this arrangement , based on the principle of mutual insurance , would appear to be altogether admirable . It appears somewhat less admirable , however , when one recalls that the basic weaknesses in the banking structure which have been chiefly responsible for the failures of the past are to remain substantially the same as before , and that the well managed banks will be unable to exercise any effective control over the conduct of those institutions which are incompetently or recklessly or even dishonestly managed . Bankers , especially those responsible for the thousands of institutions too small to operate with earnings adequate to meet their expenses , will continue to be under strong pressure to seek larger profits through unsound practices . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meanwhile the insurance system will remove what should be the strongest deterrent against recklessness ? the fear of loss of the depositors ' money . The soundly managed banks , while unable to discipline the unsoundly managed banks , will be forced to stand behind them . Under such circumstances , is it unreasonable to suspect that many bankers will conduct their institutions with even less prudence than they have done in the past ? It is true that , so far as lies within the supervisory power of the federal government , the insurance system is accompanied by measures to guard against these dangers . The Comptroller of the Currency , for national banks , and the Federal Reserve Board , for State member banks , are authorized in their discretion to remove officers and directors of institutions which engage in unsound practices . Moreover , after the insurance system becomes effective and all insured banks have become members of the Federal Reserve System , no insured institution can escape federal supervision by becoming a State bank . But it is extremely doubtful whether any kind of supervision of thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adhere to sound practices . Only sound management in the last resort can insure sound banking ; and unless the federal agency charged with administering the insurance system is prepared to step in and itself take over the management of a multitude of institutions , it is difficult to see how sound management of substantially all banks can be counted upon . Obviously the corporation provided for in the Glass bill is not designed to assume any such responsibility ; although , if the deposit insurance provisions of the law are to remain indefinitely in force , it may be obliged eventually to go into business on a huge scale as a great national branch operating bank . The most reassuring aspect of the Glass bill is that through the insurance plan it holds out the hope of eventual unification of all commercial banking under federal control . Possibly this will provide an opportunity for the gradual development of a genuinely national system . It would be the part of wisdom , however , not to wait until the course of events ? perhaps another complete collapse ? forces a drastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan now the kind of system which will be required and to pass the necessary legislation to bring it into being . II For although a unique opportunity has been lost to rush such legislation through Congress along with the rest of the emergency program of the special session , fundamental banking reform must still somehow be accomplished . We shall have to go on using the banks now in operation , since we can not do without them ; but out of them we shall have to construct something which for the first time in our national existence can be properly described as a banking system . There is reason to believe , moreover , that it must be a system essentially new ? not only new to the United States but in some respects new to the world . For not only must it he adapted to the conditions of our own economic organization , but since that organization itself is in process of being profoundly changed , it must be adaptable to the economic society of the future . And while the exact form of that society can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past is sufficient to make clear in broad outline what the commercial banking system must be and what it must do . Its primary function must be to create ( through short-term loans ) and to safeguard the principal medium of exchange of the country , namely , deposit currency . Even now this is the primary function of commercial banks , although in this country they have been so preoccupied with other activitics that they have performed it very badly . Deposit currency , it should be understood , is simply deposits subject to check . When checks are drawn the currency circulates , just as cash money circulates when it is being spent , but not otherwise . The total amount in existence at a given time is the total amount of deposits subject to check at that time ; just as the total amount of cash money available is the amount commonly referred to as in circulation ( although , of course , it is not in actual circulation if it is being hoarded in a vault ) . Banks create deposit currency on a large scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to customers , who rarely carry away with them the actual cash but leave the amounts borrowed on deposit , to be withdrawn by check at their convenience . Their checks , when paid over to others , are usually again deposited in banks . Their deposits , meanwhile , permit the banks to make other loans , creating other deposits to be used for still other loans , and so on . ( Essentially the same thing occurs when the banks buy securities and pay for them by crediting the sellers ' deposit accounts . ) The only theoretical limit to the process is the amount of cash that must be kept on hand , or ( in the United States ) on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks , to meet current demands . The amount of cash considered necessary for this purpose is known as the reserve requirement . In this country it is prescribed by law , in terms of a percentage of deposits , and it serves as a definite limit upon the amount of loans the banks can make . As fixed in the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about ten times as much as the amount of their actual cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks ( the familiar fact of ten dollars of credit for every dollar of cash ) . By a recent amendment to the law , however , the Federal Reserve Board is authorized in an emergency to raise or lower the reserve requirement against member bank deposits , in order to control directly their lending power . Thus , if the reserve requirement should be increased , the power of the banks to extend credit would be decreased in much greater proportions , and vice versa . Similarly , any development , or any action of the Federal Reserve System such as the purchase from or the sale to member banks of government bonds , which brought about an increase or a decrease in their reserves would serve automatically to increase or decrease their lending power . When a bank loan is repaid , that particular amount of deposit currency is wiped out of existence , and presumably also the transaction for which the loan was made has been completed . But new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , in theory at least , a sufficient amount of deposit currency is always available to meet the country 's needs for circulating media . ' In the United States checks are used in normal times for the settlement of something like ninety per cent of the dollar value of all transactions involving money payments , while the deposits against which the checks are drawn have themselves been created in somewhat similar proportions by bank loans . Thus the banks are charged not only with safeguarding the principal circulating media of the country , Deposits created by the process of making loans or investments are sometimes referred to as " credit currency . " When this expression is used , it should be understood that the total amount of credit currency outstanding at a given time is included in the total amount of deposit currency . Also , the term credit currency is sometimes used in connection with the selling of goods or services on credit , without reference to the banking system . In this case , of course , the amount of it outstanding is not included in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practioe the banks are usually called upon to make loans to the sellers while they are waiting for bills to fall due and be paid , thus creating deposit currency.but with actually creating the greater part of it . There is now no essential difference between the role played by deposit currency and actual cash money , except that the volume in use of the former is about ten times as large as that of the latter . Such being the case , it is vitally important that the commercial banks should not be allowed to fail and thus destroy the deposit currency in their keeping ; even more important , in fact , than that the integrity of the institutions charged with the issue of cash money itself should be preserved . The commercial banks exercise a national function of the utmost significance , and anything which may prevent them from exercising this function soundly endangers the whole national economy . III A commercial banking system responsible for the soundness of the greater part of the money we use must be limited in the interest of safety to the performance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These , unless carried out on a large scale , do not yield enough profit to pay operating expenses ; and consequently , only those institutions which are of substantial size and are at the same time advantageously located can hope to continue in business . If smaller institutions persist in trying to do so they are forced to resort to practices outside the scope of their proper functions , or to take undue risks in their ordinary operations , in order to be self-supporting . The results are manifest in their frequent failure . This fact is strikingly illustrated by the actual experience of the banks of the United States in recent years . According to figures compiled by a special investigating committee of the Federal Reserve System for the five years 1926-1930 , over 47 per cent of all national banks operating with not more than $5,000,000 of loans and investments ( corresponding to banks with from $400,000 to $600,000 of capital stock ) operated with net earnings ( after deduction of losses ) of less than 6 per cent on the investment of their stockholders . That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banking operations which led to their frequent failure , nearly half of all the smaller national banks in the country were running during this prosperous era with net earnings manifestly inadequate to build up reserves for periods of depression . During this same fiveyear period , on the other hand , only 29 per cent of the national banks operating with more than $5,000,000 of loans and investments ? as against 47 per cent of the smaller ones ? earned less than 6 per cent net on the investment of their stockholders . Comprehensive figures on the same basis for State banks are not available , but the evidence at hand indicates that the contrast between the earning power of small and comparatively large institutions is fully as great among State banks as among national banks . Let us see , now , how the generally inadequate earnings of small banks have forced them into practices which have impaired their safety . During the eleven years 1921-1931 , over 98 per cent of all the State and national bank failures in the United States were of institutions operating with not more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , are partly explained by the fact that the vast majority of all the banks in the country fell in this class . But that this is not the whole explanation is shown by the fact that the ratio of failures was much higher for the smaller than for the larger institutions . During the period 1921-1931 , 31 per cent of these smaller banks failed , whereasonly 11 per cent of the larger ones failed . These data are sufficient to show unmistakably the proneness of small banks to fail . It is true , of course , that large numbers of them have managed to survive , and that an appalling percentage of the larger institutions have failed . The small banks have their vigorous defenders . Not long ago a prominent member of Congress , who has been largely instrumental in banking legislation , assailed the writer of this article with the following indignant retort : " Why , dammit man ! I know personally any number of little crossroads banks that are so much better run than the Blank Blank Bank of New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressman was stating a fact . But what he and some of his colleagues have not taken into account is the much more important fact that in the modern economic organization of society we can not afford to have any bank failures at all . The large banks , most assuredly , must be made to mend their ways ; but the small ones , even though some of them have been well and safely managed , can not be allowed to continue in business if their very smallness makes it certain that substantial numbers are going to fail . This would perhaps not be so if they were grocery stores or butcher shops , where failure would be disastrous to only a few people at most ; but bank failures paralyze the economic life of whole communities , not only through the loss of money accumulations but by the destruction of the deposit currency which is the principal medium of exchange in all business activity . An indispensable condition for a sound commercial banking system , then , is that it be composed of institutions of substantially large size . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the experience of this country in recent years ( not to mention the experience of Canada ) would indicate that a minimum capitalization of from $300,000 to $500,000 would be desirable . This , of course , would necessitate the elimination as independent units of from 85 to 95 per cent of all the banks now operating in the United States , these smaller units being transformed into branches of larger institutions . A system composed only of large banks , however , will not of itself be sufficient to insure immunity from failure . This is amply demonstrated by the record of failures in recent years among large institutions . The Congressman quoted above was well within his rights in implying that many of our large metropolitan banks have been badly managed ; so badly managed indeed , that in all probability many of those which have escaped failure would have succumbed had they been obliged to meet the conditions which the small crossroads banks have had to contend with . But the large hanks which got into difficulties and failed , or barely escaped failure , did so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They deliberately extended their activities beyond the proper function of commercial banking , not because they were driven to do so by the necessity of obtaining adequate earnings but because of the inordinate greed of their managers for profits . They used the funds of their depositors for speculation , whether in the form of purchasing high-yield but low-grade securities , or of making long-term loans against real estate mortgages or lending too freely to their own officers and directors , or of trafficking in stocks and bonds through their own securities affiliates . A second indispensable condition for a sound commercial banking system , therefore , is that its functions he rigorously defined and adhered to . Inother countries , notably Canada and England , this has been largely attained through the operation of large banks over long periods in accordance with firmly established traditions . In this country , however , no such traditions have been established . There are honorable exceptions scattered about here and there , not only in the large cities but in the smaller centers ; but unquestionably the overwhelming majority of our banks not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but through their legislative lobbies are constantly endeavoring to have the restrictions of the law relaxed . Under such conditions the functions of our commercial banking system will have to be defined and enforced by law . Manifestly , moreover , it will have to be federal law and made applicable to every commercial banking institution in the United States . Our experience with forty-eight separate State systems , each competing in laxity with the national system , has made it clear beyond question that all commercial banking must be brought under federal control . For , quite apart from the fact that many of the States would undoubtedly continue to offer inducements for the operation of banks under their own laws rather than those of the federal government , the commercial banking system , with its responsibility for the trustworthiness of our principal medium of exchange , must be , above all other economic agencies , an instrument of the nation as a whole . IV A commercial bank should be defined by federal law as any institution which accepts money from the public in the form of deposits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such ; nor should they be permitted to use the word " bank " in a corporate or firm name . Thus a bank should always be understood to mean a commercial bank . All deposits should be legally on the same basis , and subjected to reserve requirements in proportion to their actual rate of turnover rather than to any classification the banks might wish to make as to those which are payable on demand or after notice . The banks should be allowed to pay interest on deposits only to the extent necessary to procure the funds needed for their legitimate operations , and the Federal Reserve Board should be vested with authority to impose limitations on the rate paid . ( For reasons that will become clear later on , the Board should also be empowered to limit the interest rate charged for loans . ) The guiding principle of all banking legislation should arise out of the fact that the banks are the custodians and the creators of deposit currency . Everything necessary for the proper performance of this function they should be permitted to do . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this role should be prohibited . This means in practical application that they should operate as strictly commercial banks . Unfortunately , the word " commercial " as applied to banking can not be rigorously defined . In a general way every hanker knows what it means ; that is , he knows that a commercial bank is an institution which accepts funds from the public in the form of deposits and invests those funds in short-term loans for commercial purposes . But over such questions as exactly how long a short-term loan may be and precisely what kind of transactions are commercial there may be endless disagreement . The Federal Reserve Board has attempted to settle these questions by its definition of the requirements of paper eligible for rediscount ? that is , the notes and othercredit instruments which may be turned over by member banks to the Federal Reserve Banks in exchange for cash . And its definition has been based squarely upon the suitability of the paper in question as collateral for the issue of Federal Reserve notes , which for all practical purposes are exactly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States apparently believe that they should be permitted to invest a portion of the funds entrusted to them in securities , on the theory that these can always be readily sold for cash and will , therefore , constitute what is called a " secondary reserve . " But the secondary reserve theory , so far as the banks of the United States are concerned , has been thoroughly discredited during the past few years . When it has become necessary for banks to realize on their securities , their precipitate action in trying to sell them in large volume has demoralized the market . Bank assets have thus suffered such severe declines in value that many institutions have been rendered insolvent and forced to close their doors . No doubt this is to a considerable extent explained by the fact that their holdings have been made up of too large a proportion of low-grade or speculative securities . But absolutely all long-term securities are to some extent speculative . So also , of course , are short-term commercial notes , but clearly the element of speculation here is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Consequently , in accordance with strict commercial banking principles , the banks should not be allowed to own as investments any long-term securities whatever . In this country an exception will no doubt have to be made in the case of government securities , so long as our national debt remains so large as it is and continues to increase . This will be necessary in order to find a market for government bonds . It may even be desirable , in order to enable the Federal Reserve System to maintain flexibility in the credit structure , by buying or selling government bonds in order to increase or decrease the lending power of member banks . But the fact should be frankly recognized that this class of business is in violation of the basic principles of commercial banking and is to be engaged in only with the utmost circumspection . Moreover , if the banks are to buy government bonds , they should be absolutely guaranteed against loss when forced to make use of them before maturity . And since there is no other practicable way to do this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury , the banks should be given the right in times of emergency to pledge them as security for loans from the Federal Reserve Banks , up to their par value . ( This is even now permitted , temporarily , under the GlassSteagall Act of 1932 . ) Short-term loans on securities , or call loans , should perhaps be prohibited on economic and social grounds , in order to curb the practice of margin trading in the stock market . They need not be prohibited in the interest of safety , however , if the amounts outstanding are kept within reasonable limits . Generally they are about the safest loans a bank can make , provided the securities in question arc listed on an organized exchange . As already pointed out , the Glass bill contains a provision whereby the amount of such loans by member banks can be limited by the Federal Reserve Board . But so long as they are permitted at all ? inasmuch as they do in fact constitute deposit currency ? there would seem to be no sufficient reason why they should not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the full extent that the member banks are permitted to make them . Long-term loans against the security of real estate or other capital values , however , should be absolutely prohibited . And to make sure that the banks do not make them in the guise of shortterm advances , they should be forbidden to renew any note more than twice , or any number of times which would extend the entire term of the indebtedness for a period of more than one year . The sole test of what a bank 's assets should consist of is whether they constitute a proper basis for the issue of deposit currency . The types of paper eligible for rediscount at the Federal Reserve Banks now include notes of customers for loans used in commercial transactions or in industrial or agricultural production , of not more than three months ' maturity , although an exception is made in the case of loans for agricultural purposes extending the maturity to nine months . Included also are such classes of obligations as commercial paper and bankers ' acceptances , which are themselves evidences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found by experience to be suitable as a basis for the issue of note currency . And since deposit currency ought to possess exactly the same qualities of absolute soundness , it follows that the characteristics of the assets securing it should be the same . As already suggested , it may become feasible or desirable that the eligibility requirements of the Federal Reserve Banks should be somewhat broadened to include certain classes of loans not now eligible . Power to make such changes as may prove to be necessary should be vested , with adequate safeguards , in the Federal Reserve Board . But the banking law should leave no doubt that the banks arc forbidden to invest any of the funds they have assembled as deposits in anything whatever which can not be converted , through the facilities of the Federal Reserve Banks , immediately into cash . Banks of adequate size operating under such conditions , if managed with a reasonable degree of intelligence and skill , could not possibly fail . They would be able at alI times to meet every dollar of their deposit liabilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them would have exactly the same characteristics of trustworthiness as Federal Reserve notes , and our deposit currency would be beyond question sound . V Now it is to be expected that the average banker in America , or even the average citizen , envisaging a banking system limited by law to the functions described above , will begin furiously to ask questions . How , the banker will want to know , is a bank to find the means to invest all the funds likely to be at its disposal , and how in blazes is it going to make any money ? What agencies , the citizen may inquire , will assemble the savings of the country and attend to their investment ? Who will make the real estate and other capital loans and who will buy the bonds ? And , finally , who will carry on all the manifold functions of the trust companies which have been so widely taken over by the banks ? To the bankers the answers to their questions will not perhaps be universally pleasing . As already emphasized , they should seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the extent that they require them for their legitimate business . If additional funds are entrusted to them for safe keeping , they should collect from depositors such monthly or quarterly fees as are required to pay the expenses involved . They should do this in any case where the earningsrealized from a particular deposit balance are not sufficient to cover the expense of keeping the account . In alI probability , under such conditions , the banks will not be burdened with more funds than they can use for commercial purposes ; but if they should be , they will be in a position to reimburse themselves for the trouble and expense of storing the money and carrying on the bookkeeping operations required . Banks as custodians and creators of deposit currency must be operated in the public interest , rather than for the purpose of making money for their owners or managers . They should earn the proper and necessary expenses of the efficient operation of the system , but no more ; and their charges for interest on loans and for other services should be publicly regulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in keeping with the ability , training , and skill required of them ; and they should enjoy the benefits of generous pensions upon retirement , based on the length and value of their services ; but they should never be allowed to expect to become rich . As for the stockholders ? if the banks are to be privately owned ? they should receive a modest but sure return on their investment . Banks of adequate size , managed with skill and judgment , may be counted upon to operate as strictly commercial institutions with earnings sufficient for all these requirements . By building up reserves in times of prosperity , they should be able not only to maintain salaries throughout periods of depression but to continue their dividends as well . As for the non-commercial banking operations now commonly carried on by banks , these , with the possible exception of trust functions , should be transferred to other institutions . Savings should not be assembled in the form of deposits , but only against the issue of some kind of certificates , with or without maturity dates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market or pledged as collateral for loans , but which would never be repaid by the issuer before maturity . Mutual savings institutions , for example , should be allowed to continue in operation much as at present , except that they should no longer be referred to as banks and they should receive funds only against the issue of certificates of convenient maturity . If there is need for such institutions in regions where they do not now exist , it is perhaps to be expected that they will be organized . Building and loan associations , also , may be expected to continue as at present and greatly to expand the extent of their operations . They should be compelled by law , however , to stop the practice which has become common in some states of accepting deposits , or of selling their shares in all sorts of small amounts redeemable on demand , in such a way that they compete with the banks . Another class of institution which may be expected to play an increasingly important role in the assembly and investment of savings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be brought under much more rigorous regulation and control than in the past ; but it is the logical agency for the assembly and investment of funds in somewhat larger individual amounts than those commonly accepted by the mutual savings institutions and the building and loan associations . All these non-banking institutions , as well as the life insurance companies and perhaps others not mentioned or not yet in existence , are the proper agencies for the assembly of savings . They are also the proper agencies for making real estate and other capital loans , as well as for buying stocks andbonds ? those which are not bought by individuals or other investors . Doubtless all of them should be subjected to a more thoroughgoing supervision in the public interest , and in order to obtain uniformity in their legal regulation , they should probably all be required to operate under federal law . This question , however , is beyond the scope of the present discussion , which mentions these nonbanking institutions only in order to show that they might be counted upon to take over all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has but little to do with banking . It has become allied with banking , partly because the banks have wished to obtain the profits of it , and partly because the public has become accustomed to go to the bank to attend to any kind of business involving finance . The functions of trust companies , however , are more closely related to those of savings institutions than to those of banks . Logically , therefore , they should perhaps be allowed to combine with savings institutions . There would be no great disadvantage , however , in allowing them , for the time being at least , to continue in alliance with commercial banks . There is no evidence that their operations have been to any considerable extent responsible for the practices which have led to bank failures . VI Inasmuch as a good many of the foregoing assertions have been made somewhat emphatically , it is necessary to take account of a school of thought , sometimes referred to as the " New Economics , " which challenges the whole theory of allowing banks to perform currency functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few paragraphs of rather highly technical discussion of monetary theory . Professor Frederick Soddy , winner of the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1921 , has recently written two of the most brilliant books on the subject of money which have appeared in a generation ( Wealth , Virtual Wealth , and Debt and Money Versus Man ) . He argues convincingly that the power to make or destroy money with a stroke of the pen , as the banks do by the creation of deposits arising out of loans and the subsequent collections of the loans , is a power which can not safely be left to the discretion of private interests animated by the desire to obtain profits for themselves . Banks , lie contends , should be allowed to lend only real money , not to create it ; while the issue of money should be a function of the economic community as a whole . Now it is possible to agree with Professor Soddy 's main thesis , and still maintain that a properly regulated banking system is the best mechanism obtainable whereby a national monetary system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lending activities of the banks are limited to operations arising out of the production of goods and services and to those facilitating current trading transactions , then the purchasing power created by the banks will correspond exactly to the needs of the economic community . Professor Soddy makes much of the fact that if a sudden increase should occur in the volume of credit extended for purposes of production , the money involved would almost immediately be distributed in the form of payments for raw materials , wages , rents , interest , and the like , and become effective purchasing power ; whereas the goods in production would not be ready for sale until a later date . The time-lag here involved would indeed result theoretically in a rise of prices , which might not be desired . But this could occur in practice only on the doublebarreled assumption that the entireoutput of goods and services had been consumed up to date , and that the holders of the new money which had been put into their hands would immediately rush off to buy goods and services with it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter part of the assumption might prove to be true ; but even during such periods as the present the stocks of goods on hand and the services potentially available at a moment 's notice are likely to be ample to meet any sudden increase in effective demand . It is true that an uncontrolled inflation of bank credit would in all probability be accompanied by a rise in prices ? if not of commodities , then of securities . But even in this eventuality the inflation itself would be caused not by any unusual willingness on the part of the banks to lend , but by the over-optimistic desire of the borrowers to borrow . Striking proof of the inability of banks to cause a rise in prices by their readiness to extend credit , is furnished by the experience of this country during the past four years . Ever since the autumn of 1929 our banks have been eager to lend large amounts at low rates of interest : yet until March of this year , prices , with a few slight variations , dropped low and lower . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insult of injury , the stubborn price level began to rise , while for month after month the total volume of bank credit outstanding in the country refused to increase or actually decreased . The rise occurred , of course , because the purchasing power in circulation began to circulate faster , under the stimulus of speculation , which was intensified after April 19 by our departure from the gold standard and the fall in the foreign exchange value of the dollar . Another phase of Professor Soddy 's argument is more difficult to answer . He points out that when banks for any reason refuse proper credit demands or require the premature repayment of loans , the result is certain to be a slowing down in the processes of production , accompanied by unemployment and probably a disastrous fall of prices . This is undoubtedly true . But it is equally true that intelligently opcrated banks practically never ? except in order to counteract what appears to be dangerous inflation ? begin the process of refusing credit and calling loans until a fall in prices has already occurred . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can when some force wholly beyond their control ? usually the lack of such a distribution of the purchasing power in the hands of the public as will maintain effective demand for goods and services ? provokes an alarming fall in prices against their will . Then , unfortunately , they do sometimes become unduly frightened and call loans needlessly , thus making the ensuing depression much worse . No doubt adequate regulation of banking in the public interest might do much to counteract this , although it should not be expected that the banks alone will ever be able to cope with the powerful forces of economic maladjustment which bring about depressions . All that any public agency charged with the administration of a trustworthy monetary system could do , however , the banks can do , through the action of the central banking authorities in pursuance of sound public policy . Any other arrangement than the commercial banking system for providing the modern economic community with a circulating medium flexible enough to be responsive to its needs , would require the invention of a new and elaborate organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Admittedly , this would be an insufficient reason for not trying toinvent it if the traditional system could not with certainty be made satisfactory . But there is excellent reason to believe that , even out of the present lack of system in this country , a banking structure can be created which will function with as complete satisfaction as could reasonably be demanded of any institution operated by human beings . Moreover , if properly regulated in the public interest , it may be expected to function with less cost to the economic community than any new arrangement that could be devised . VII The exact form of the legislation required to permit , and to compel , the development of the kind of banking system which has been sketched in the foregoing pages , will depend upon whether it is to be privately owned and operated , as at present , or owned and operated as a federal agency . Let us assume , for the sake of convenience , that it is to be privately owned and operated . If , nevertheless , public ownership should be deemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suitably modified to take account of the different structural organization , could be made to apply . In the first place , as a condition precedent for all genuine banking reform , federal legislation should be enacted to compel all banks to operate under national charter , or at least to join the Federal Reserve System under such conditions that the federal government could regulate their organization and operation quite as effectively as if they were national banks . That Congress has the power to do this , under either the currency clause or the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution , is made clear in a recent opinion of the General Counsel of the Federal Reserve Board ( see Federal Reserve Bulletin , March , 1933 ) . Possibly , as a practical matter , it might be preferable to obtain the desired result through the taxing power of the federal government , rather than by direct action . A prohibitive tax , effective two years from the passage of the law , might be levied on the checks of banks not operating under national charter or as members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were rendered unable to continue the issue of currency notes shortly after the establishment of the national banking system in 1863 . In the second place , a minimum capital requirement of , say , $500,000 , should be established for all national and State member banks in operation after two years from the date of passage of the law . In the third place , national and State member banks should be immediately authorized , with the approval in each case of the appropriate federal authorities , to establish and operate branches both within and beyond the limits of the towns or cities where their head offices are located . This will be indispensable in view of the future minimum capital requirement , and it should be made effective at once in order to permit the larger banks to begin building up their branch organizations . At the same time it will make possible the elimination of group banking by holding companies , which in some instances in the past has been an obstacle to effective banking supervision . Provision should be made , however , to insure that before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local banks already there as are not of sufficient size to continue in operation under the new law , must first be acquired and transformed into branches . If it be considered necessary to guard against the banking power of the country coming too much under the control of the chief financial centers , the operation of branches by any one bank might be limited to prescribed areas , defined perhaps by a radius of one hundred or two hundred miles from the head office , but without reference to State lines . Probably it would be better to limit the spread of branch operation in another way , namely , by allowing banks to operate branches within Federal Reserve districts . This would tend to cause the development of several additional banking centers throughout the country , which would take away some of the financial power now concentrated in New York and Chicago . Finally , the National Bank Act and the Federal Reserve Act , prescribing the conditions of organization and the functions of banks , should be drastically revised . The changes required need not be detailed here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All the provisions of the Glass bill for the separation of the investment business from commercial banking should he retained and strengthened . The law should then be rewritten as a single comprehensive code , with the primary purpose in view of providing for a unified banking system which will be in effect a national monetary system , absolutely safe as far as depositors are concerned and at all times responsive to the needs of the country for a circulating medium . With such a system in operation , all such measures as the guarantee or the insurance of bank deposits , or other efforts to patch up an inherently defective mechanism , would become unnecessary and irrelevant .                     