@@487883

THE American Federation of Labor has elected to cling to its rutted conservatism for yet another year . By deciding to continue to support the principle of craft unionism it has said in effect that what was good enough for Samuel Gompers and the rebels of the Cigar Makers ' Union fifty years ago is still good enough for the labor movement of today . And it adheres to this policy despite the fact that the working class in general and the A. F. of L. in particular would be immeasurably strengthened if the craft union were scrapped in favor of the industrial union . For those of The Nation 's readers who are not acquainted with the terminology of the labor movement , let it be said that craft unionism divides the organized workers according to their special trades or crafts . Thus a bricklayer , a carpenter , and a plumber , though all three are working on the same construction job , belong to different unions . Industrial unionism , on the other hand , puts all the workers in a given industry into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as the horizontal union and the latter as the vertical union . While the fight between craft and industrial unionism has taken on new importance and has perhaps for the first time found real public interest as a result of the National Industrial Recovery Act , the fight itself is by no means new . Indeed , the federation was born largely in consequence of the struggle between these two opposing schools of thought . The Knights of Labor believed in and fought for the industrial union . The A. F. of L. , composed primarily of autonomous craft unions that had broken away from the Noble Order of the Knights of Labor , naturally supported horizontal unionism . The skilled workers , who at best were never very enthusiastic over , as one student has put it , " a program calling for the ' uplift ' of the great mass of unskilled laborers , " were won over to the A. F. of L. , leaving the Knights of Labor with no foundation upon which to build . But it must not be supposed that all the local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. of L. are autonomous craft unions . Some are so-called " federal " unions , whose affairs are completely under the control of the federation ; others are mixed-craft unions ; and still others almost pure industrial unions . In the latter category belongs the United Mine Workers of America , the fastest-growing and one of the largest unions in the country today . Nevertheless , the A. F. of L. has always stood faithfully by the principle of craft unionism . Though there has been a strong minority within the organization which has long advocated the reorganization of labor along industrial or vertical lines , this element has invariably been voted down . What has craft unionism meant for the labor movement ? It has departmentalized the movement , broken it up into cliques working at cross-purposes . It has resulted in almost complete failure to organize the semi-skilled and unskilled workers . With the need for skilled mechanics becoming relatively less as industry is rationalized and labor-saving machinery is introduced , the base upon which organized- labor stands has inevitably become smaller in proportion to the working class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the A. F. of L. quite as much as has its stupid leadership . But organized labor has been hurt in other ways as well . For example , the steel strike of 1919 was lost largely because of the selfishness and narrowness of the interested craft unions . They competed with one another to organize the strikers instead of working together as they would have done had they been trying to establish a vertical union in the steel industry . In 1926 a plan was drawn up to organize the automobile workers . The seventeen craft unions involved , each of which claimed the right to organize one section or another of these workers , agreed to waive their jurisdictional privileges for the period of the campaign . But they insisted that once the automobile workers were organized they should be transferred to the respective craft unions . As- a result of this petty jealousy the campaign was not even started . Jurisdictional strikes , another product of craft unionism , have likewise proved costly to organized labor . They have dissipated the strength of the labor movement and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the members of a union strike not against the employers but against rival unions . There have been several such cases in connection with the government building program in Washington in the last few weeks . For example , more than a thousand workers were forced into idleness because the carpenters and iron workers took to quarreling over who should instal radiator covers in the Labor Department and Interstate Commerce buildings . The work to be done involved a total of no more than $800 in wages , but because of the strike other workers whose total pay roll amounted to more than $40,000 ? a week were laid off for a fortnight or longer . Another quarrel in the national capital involved the boiler-makers and iron workers . They could not agree on who should put up the smokestacks at the central heating plant , and in consequence work on this project was all but suspended . A third dispute concerned the bricklayers and asbestos workers , who argued for days over the question of which union should do the caulking around the window frames of one of the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions have become strike-breaking organizations by siding with and doing " scab " work for employers engaged in disputes with rival unions . Quite apart from the huge waste involved in these senseless jurisdictional strikes , it would seem especially necessary just now for organized labor to drop its craft unionism and swing to the vertical union because of the changed relationships among employers brought about by the NRA . Under the recovery laws the employers are being not only encouraged but actually compelled to form industry-wide trade associations . Thus all the employers in a given industry can and will present a solid front to labor . The workers , on the other hand , so long as craft unionism obtains , will be divided . Thus in negotiating with the workers the united employers can , as they have done in the past , play off one craft against 1 another . Only through the industrial union , only by organizing all the workers in a single industry into a single union , can labor confront the solid front of the employers with a united front of its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn that the A. F. of L. at its Washington convention again saw fit to reject the principle of industrial unionism . The attitude- of the federation officials can perhaps be explained . The skilled worker is interested more in his own day-to-day struggle than in the economic status of the working class as a whole . Just as in the seventies and eighties of the last century , he is still an individualist who sees in organization a means of improving his individual lot rather than a method of moving toward some remote workers ' paradise . And when he decides to join a union he naturally prefers to be associated with members of his own craft . Another obstacle to industrial unionism is the salaried-bureaucracy of the national and international unions . These officials feel , and certainly not without justification , that if the workers should be organized on industrial lines , the semiskilled and unskilled laborers , through their overwhelming superiority in numbers , would capture control of the unions . These workers of lesser rank would inevitably tend to be more radical and would surely be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials . Industrial unionism would almost certainly smash the bureaucracy which now rules organized labor with an iron hand . More than that , it would be a means of preparing the whole working class to take over industry if and when the opportune moment should arrive . In short , it would be paving the way toward peaceful revolution . If industry should collapse under present conditions , with 90 per cent of the workers unorganized , only chaos and civil warfare or a tyrannical dictatorship could result . Illness and Idleness I T has been stated at several times and places , upon various authority , that the health of the American people has improved since the industrial depression and the large amount of unemployment associated with it . Although it would be easy to misinterpret statistics so as to reach that conclusion , the conclusion is not improbable . When , however , the conclusion is twisted  --  as it has been  --  to imply that health is better because of unemployment , or that it has improved among the unemployed , the conclusion becomes so improbable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be produced in its support . So far nothing of the kind has appeared , but unfortunately there has been little contrary material with which definitely to refute the theory . A study has just been made in New York City , however , by the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor which , although it covers only a small area , shows convincingly in so far as it goes that health suffers rather than benefits from unemployment when income depends upon having a job . Bailey B. Burritt , general director of the association , says in a foreword to the report : Much current discussion about health during the depression suffers from the fact , first , that it is based very - largely on mortality data instead of morbidity data and , second , that it is based on data of the whole population , thus affording no opportunity to compare the health conditions of the unemployed part of the population with the employed part . There is every reason to believe that thehealth of the employed part of the population , or that part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , is , on the whole , better during a depression period . The reason- for this probability is obvious . Health , generally speaking , suffers more from the excesses of life than the restraints of life . Health is temporarily or permanently injured more by excessive eating , excessive drinking , unreasonable hours of sleep and rest than by restraints in these particulars . There has been some danger that the argument of the beneficial effects of a depression period upon families still having incomes , though perhaps impaired , would by implication be applied to families deprived of both employment and income . The district studied is that served by the Mulberry Health Center , lying between Broadway and the Bowery and Bleecker and Canal streets . The population is one of low-paid industrial workers , dependent upon work for their livelihood . It is almost wholly of Italian stock , and thus presents an unusually homogeneous group in regard to susceptibility to disease . A survey of the district was made as far back as April , 1922 . Another was made in November , 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A comparison and interpretation of all the information has now been published . There has been a great deal of unemployment in the district since the depression . The proportion of wage-earners who were unemployed was 11 per cent in April , 1922 , 31 per cent in November , 1930 , and 48 per cent in April , 1932 . Also there was a definite increase in the amount of sickness in the district from the beginning of the depression to the spring of last year . In the autumn of 1930 sickness was reported in 24 per cent of the households , and in the spring of 1932 in 39 per cent of them . But the findings go farther than merely to discover that there has been a striking decrease in employment and an increase in illness since the beginning of the depression . A direct relation between the two is also indicated . In nearly 2,000 households with one wage-earner in November , 1930 , 14 per cent reported illness where the worker was employed as usual , 25- per cent where he was working less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idle . It was found also that sickness was more prevalent in homes where the occupants had got behind in the rent  --  indicative of economic distress  --  than in those where payments were maintained . Thus in April , 1932 , the sickness rate was 98 per thousand in households not in arrears with rent against 166 per thousand in homes where payments had fallen behind . There are some exceptions to the general tendencies shown . Infectious diseases do not seem to have been influenced by the economic situation , and there is no conclusive evidence that the severity of sickness is increased by inadequate family support . Not all age groups are equally affected by employment status . The outstanding exception is the child between two and six years of age , which seems to be largely immune to the economic situation in the home . As for the rest , the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor says : " The evidence seems conclusive that in both April , 1932 , and November , 1930 , the unemployed portion of Mulberry 's population suffered more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases in which illness is the cause of idleness are eliminated from consideration . " The findings should be a sufficient answer to the nonsense that unemployment , is conducive to health . The Case of Mr. McKee Broadway Looks Up T HE sudden tide for Joseph V. McKee for Mayor of New York City , which apparently reached a high mark at the end of the first week in October , was due to the rush of Tammany district leaders in the Bronx and Brooklyn to the " recovery " party . The performance could not fail to elicit sarcastic comment . The New York Herald Tribune politely referred to the deserting district bosses as " rodents . " Langdon Post , independent Democrat on the fusion ticket , remarked more forthrightly : " The rats are leaving the sinking ship , but they are still the same rats . " The reaction of the public within forty-eight hours was logical  --  that there was little to choose between the two Tammany factions . Mr. McKee 's record strengthens that growing belief . Except for the thirty September days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some drastic economies , his performance for six years was one of unvarying subservience to the Tammany machine . Even much of what Mr. McKee did in the month that he was a headline hero was greatly exaggerated by the daily press . He was credited with cutting his own salary $15,000 . What actually happened was that a week after his assumption of the duties of Acting Mayor , he was informed by Tammany 's complaisant corporation counsel that he was entitled to draw the Mayor 's full salary , $40,000 a year . He declared : " My salary will be $25,000 , representing a cut of $15,000 , beginning now . " Actually he continued to draw the $25,000 salary he had been receiving , a salary which two years before , when the depression was well under way , he had voted to increase from $15,000 ! No sacrifice here . Had he reduced his salary and others to their pre-depression figure , that would have lent some color to his present promises to " eliminate every dollar of unnecessary expense and every unnecessary job . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of city affairs , pictures the public record of Mr. McKee . Space lacks to detail all the extravagance which he countenanced . In addition to his salary boost , and in contrast with the one car which sufficed Mr. LaGuardia when he was President of the Board of Aldermen in 1919 , Mr. McKee by 1930 had at his disposal four Cadillacs and a Packard , all owned by the city and maintained , as we should remember , at the public 's expense . As for Mr. McKee 's alleged anti-Semitism , this should not be allowed to confuse the basic issue , namely , the salvaging of the city of New York . Let it be noted that " A Serious Problem " was written eighteen years ago when Mr. McKee was twenty-six years old . Doubtless he has since regretted writing as he did . One is led to believe that by his own denial of any intent to asperse the Jews , by the protestations from the McKee camp , and by the difficulty of finding a copy of the article in any of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself is either missing or , if present , minus the pages containing the article . Mr. McKee accuses his opponents of " tearing passages and sentences from their context for the deliberate purpose of producing a false impression " ? a charge which a reading of the whole essay scarcely substantiates . T 0 the great surprise of all concerned and unconcerned , the Broadway theatrical season has enjoyed an almost phenomenally successful beginning . Last year was , of course , disastrous , and there has seldom been a September which found the managers in a more gloomy frame of mind than did the one just past . The early openings were few and trivial . Even promises  --  with which the producers are generally so free  --  were conspicuously absent , and for a time it looked as though these dispirited gentlemen had simply decided not to open at all the plays which they felt sure would only close again . Then , suddenly , Earl Carroll 's " Murder at the Vanities " was a great success  --  though no one could tell exactly why . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacking in the lavishness which , at least , one expected from Mr. Carroll . What is more , it was almost universally " panned " with more than usual vehemence by the critics of the daily press . Nevertheless , before the week was out it was playing to near capacity . Next came the melodrama called " The Double Door , " which received moderately favorable notices but soon was doing excellent business , and this in turn was followed by the Joe Cook revue , which began almost immediately to draw nearly capacity houses despite the fact that it , also , received only a tepid reception from the critics . By this time bewildered managers had begun to take manuscripts out of the desks where they were reposing , and the theatrical pages of the Sunday papers began to carry lengthening lists of productions about to open . Nor has there been any sign so far that this is only a false dawn . " As Thousands Cheer , " the first musical show to win enthusiastic reviews , was selling standing room almost from the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won places in the list of hits . " Men in White , " the Group Theater 's vivid play of hospital life , climbed to capacity during its second week ; " Sailor , Beware ! " a more or less Rabelaisian tale of sailors in love , drew excellent business immediately following a very favorable press reception ; and the O'Neill comedy at the Guild Theater showed every sign of being destined for high public favor . It was noted that out of one group of seven openings five seemed almost certainly established for a profitable run , and one can realize how extraordinary that is only by remembering that even in the most prosperous seasons approximately eight out of every ten productions are financial failures . No satisfactory explanation of the cheery phenomenon has yet been offered . The fact that a number of the new plays are above the average in interest may have something to do with it . But it is evident , on the other hand , that a public which flocked to see one or two of the earliest of the season 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theater not to be too choosy . Optimistic observers may conclude that good business in the theater is the first sign of returning prosperity and proof of the success of the NRA . The more melancholy may maintain , if they like , that a populace grown used to the depression has decided to enjoy itself while it can . In any event , the fact is clear . The theater is flourishing again .                     