@@487367

REPORTS FROM MADRID INDICATE THAT THE rebels have little chance of capturing the city without addi tional foreign troops . The Moors and foreign legion , who have borne the brunt of the fighting , have suffered such heavy losses that they are believed incapable of further attack . Faced with the danger of annihilation if the Loyalists should attack their exposed flank with sufficient force , the rebels have been forced to look abroad for reinforcements . Neutral reports from various sources mdicate that several thousand German and Italian troops are already in Spain , and more will be needed if the rebels are to break into Madrid . Legally and morally these troops are in a sharply different category from the inter national brigade serving with the Loyalists . The in- ternational brigade is composed entirely of volunteers -- Frenchmen , anti-fascist Germans and Italians , and a scattering from the various democratic countries . In most instances they have made their way to Spain in defiance of the wishes of their governments . The rebel mercenaries , on the other hand , consist of regular troops which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight against the government of Spain . This involves nothing short of an act of war against Spain and properly comes under the jurisdiction of the League . Meanwhile , neither France nor England can afford to sit back and permit Spain to be occupied by German and Italian soldiers . THE LACK OF REALISM WHICH HAS AFFLICTED the democratic countries since the outbreak of the Spanish revolt has never been better illustrated than in the British-French proposal for a plebiscite to settle the Spanish conflict . Thus far General Franco has ignored the proposal , and he is unlikely to change his mind . But even if he agreed to a plebiscite , is there any reason to suppose that he would accept its result more willingly than he accepted that of the election of last February ? On that occasion , it will be recalled , the republican victory was gained despite wholesale terrorism and corruption on the part of the incumbent reactionary government . In any case a fair plebiscite could not be held without the presence of large bodies of foreign troops . General Franco would doubtless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and Italy , a demand that could hardly be acceded to without laying the basis for an immediate world war . It is true that the Saar plebiscite was carried ' off much more smoothly than was anticipated , but this was because the vote was overwhelmingly one-sided . No one would suggest that the results in Spain would be nearly as decisive . The most unfortunate aspect of the proposal is the fact that it has served , as was possibly intended , to distract attention from the Spanish plea at Geneva . While there has never been much hope that the League would act under Article XI to prevent fascist intervention in Spain , the airing of the situation at Geneva might , under more favorable circumstances , have served to rally world opinion to the side of the legitimate government . * THE PEACE PLAN OF THE INTER-AMERICAN Conference represents about the only possible compromise between the principle of collective security as espoused by the Latin American countries and the isolationist neutrality proposals of the United States . Under the compromise formula the twenty-one American republics have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether by inter-American controversies , attack from without , or a general world conflagration . In addition , a protocol has been introduced  --  aimed primarily at the United States  --  outlawing intervention in the affairs of any American republic by any other . The proposal to set up a permanent commission composed of the foreign ministers of each country was lost , but the more general consultative machinery is expected to have the same result . The advantage of the projected , accord over the neutrality pact suggested by the American delegation lies in the fact that it is more flexible and less likely to align the American countries against any collective action taken by the League . Consultation offers no assurance against war , but it may lead to a peaceful solution of difficulties in many instances where war is threatened . This may be set down as a definite achievement , although a very minor one in view of the gravity of the international situation . In sabotaging all efforts to establish collective security on the American continent , the United States has rejected the positive elements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . * HARRY BRIDGES , OF WEST COAST FAME , HAS come to New York by airplane . It is reported that he will try to get the help of Eastern longshoremen , who are not on strike , in preventing the sailing of ships bound for West Coast ports . He is also scheduled to speak at a mass-meeting of seamen engaged in a strike outlawed by Joseph P. Ryan , his superior officer in the International Longshoremen 's Association , and by the A. F. of L. He has come , in a word , to challenge Ryan in Ryan 's own territory . Mr. Bridges officially opened the campaign some weeks ago in an open letter to Mr. Ryan . Writing in the name of the Pacific Coast District of the I. L. A. , Mr. Bridges said that it was " regrettable and nauseating " to the longshoremen of the West to see longshoremen in the East and in the Gulf working struck ships . He further reproached Mr. Ryan for attacking the picket lines of " seamen who , are on strike against miserable wages , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is more than a seaman earns in an entire year . " In the East the rank and file has been making genuine headway in discrediting the self-perpetuating officialdom which has ruled over it in the past . Bridges 's open attack on Ryan , followed by his public appearance in New York as a champion of the " outlaw " strikers , marks an important development in the movement for a National Maritime Federation . It reflects the strength of the Pacific rank and file , which has shown amazing solidarity and discipline in a massive and long-drawn-out strike . Finally it is definitely connected with the split in the labor movement sustained at Tampa . The C. I. 0 . obviously offers to the Maritime Federation , which is essentially an industrial union , more congenial associates than it could find among the crotchety craft-union diehards of the A. F. of L. * THE SUBSTANCE OF ALBERT VITON 'S ARTICLE in this issue is also the substance of the stormy hearings in progress in Palestine under the auspices of the British Royal Commission sent out to study the background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Arab leaders are boycotting the commission but their views were well known in advance . Primarily they want an end to Jewish immigration and the sale of land to Jewish settlers  --  a demand that really implies the end of Zionism itself . The representatives of the Jewish Agency have presented a mass of statistics and opinions designed to combat these views . They emphasize the progress Zionism has brought to Palestine , especially in the form of economic improvement shared by Jews and Arabs alike ; they demand that Jewish immigrants be accepted to the full absorptive capacity of the country , and that its saturation point be raised by large-scale reclamation projects . But behind this clear-cut conflict lies a whole maze of complexities , including the imperial policy of Great Britain in the Near East , the ravages of anti-Semitism in Germany and Eastern Europe , and the mounting flood of pan-Arab nationalism  --  deep-seated impulses desperately at odds . Other royal commissions have gone to Palestine and reported on the same problems ; but the problems have persisted . They will continue as long as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as race and religious prejudice are organized into movements by aspiring politicians . But meanwhile this particular commission is confronted by a definite set of circumstances . It must find an immediate solution so that life may somehow go on in Palestine . In the article published this week , and in others to follow by Mr. Viton and Rabbi Bernstein , we hope to present facts and opinions which will help to clarify the issues . On the basis of this material we shall reexamine and restate The Nation 's position on the whole problem of Palestine . * THE FINAL OFFICIAL RETURNS FROM THE Presidential election show a distressingly low vote for the candidates of the minor parties . Norman Thomas December 19 , 1936 - received only 187,000 votes as against 885,000 in 1932 , a loss of nearly 80 per cent . Earl Browder , the Communist nominee , did slightly better with 80,000 as compared with Foster 's 102,000 four years ago . Lemke , for all his ballyhoo , got almost exactly the number of votes that Thomas polled in 1932 . It would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of independent political action . The chances are that the improvement in economic conditions had little to do with the result . President Roosevelt undoubtedly obtained many votes from persons who would normally support a minor-party ticket because of the widespread but mistaken assumption that it was to be a close election . The 300,000 votes cast for the President on the American Labor Party ticket in New York indicated a healthy desire to break away from the old-party labels where such action could be taken without seeming to aid the tories . The same might be said of the success of the La Follette Progressives in Wisconsin , the Farmer-Labor Party in Wisconsin , and Senator Norris 's remarkable victory on a non-partisan ticket in Nebraska . But no one will deny that the independent progressives now face a long , uphill fight . A MILLION TONS OF WHEAT IS THE AMOUNT , as announced by General Goring at the Peasant Congress at Goslar , by which the German crop this year falls short of German needs . The rye crop is short by the same amount . Overconfident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two record crops of 1932 and 1933 accounts in part for the discrepancy between the actual harvest and what was hoped for ; in part the shortage is due to a similar shortage in meat and fats which has resulted in an increased consumption of bread . But whatever the reason , grain will have to be imported ; money to pay for it will have to be diverted from the amount spent for buying munitions . In other words , the Day  --  when the confident Nazis will set forth on their great adventure in international pillage  --  will have to be postponed a little . A nation which can not find enough for its citizens to eat can not risk the dangers of blockade . Goring also reported that peasants were withholding grain from the market in the hope of a higher price or simply to feed it to stock , and he uttered the usual Nazi threats for this failure of patriotism . But threats will not make bread . It is evident that Hitler 's Four-Year Plan , which was to make Germany economically independent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not running on schedule . INDUSTRIAL MOBILIZATION IN THE EVENT OF war is the high-sounding objective of legislation which has been drafted by the War Department in cooperation with the Navy Department for presentation to the next Congress . The Nye committee revealed that this plan , as it existed at the time of the munitions investigation , contemplated the establishment of a military dictatorship over the country in the event of war . The original plan 719 called for the conscription of industrial workers . The present draft does not contain this section , but it provides the machinery and the justification for putting such a decree into effect . " The objective of any warring nation is victory , immediate and complete , " states the document ; it confers on the President and the War Resources Administration , which it contemplates , vast powers over the industrial life of the country . The price-control feature of the plan , designed to " take the profits out of war , " has been put into the forefront , although experience in the World War shows that attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man will find much more realistic the provision that in the event of a superwar  --  and it will be a super-war ? " an additional operating function " according to the Times , " will be that of supervision over the industrial education and mechanical training of labor required by industry for necessary expansion or in replacement of men taken into the armed forces . " THE REAL REASON THAT CARDINAL PACELLI came to America no one has quite been able to figure out . Among the many ingenious suggestions advanced have been that he came to curb Coughlin , to gather funds to relieve the Vatican 's supposed financial embarrassment , to obtain American cooperation in the three-cornered drive against communism led by Hitler , Mussolini , and Pope Pius , or to establish diplomatic relations between the Vatican and Washington . To these explanations must be added the one offered by the French weekly , L'Eurofre Nouvelle . The Pope is old and ill and his throne will soon be vacant . Leading candidates who at present appear to have equal chances are Cardinal Pacelli and Cardinal Della @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the College of Cardinals which elects his successor meets almost immediately and thus a candidate must be forehanded in vote-gathering . In the majority of twenty-five necessary to elect , the seven votes of the Americas ( United States four , Canada one , Latin America two ) are not to be neglected . So occupied were we at the time of the Cardinal 's visit with our own election campaign that it escaped our notice that His Eminence , who had previously visited the Argentine and Brazil , might be doing some astute campaigning of his own . JAPAN 'S THREATENED CABINET CRISIS HAS died down but not out . The fall of the government as a result of Foreign Minister Arita 's proffered resignation appears to have been staved off for the moment . But a sorry record of diplomatic failure has been revealed . The pact with Germany directed against Moscow will probably cost Japan invaluable fishing rights as well as the Sakhalin oil concessions from Soviet Russia and may push the Russians into closer cooperation with China . It has seriously alienated England , and gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and ridicule abroad as a result of Arita 's foolish invitation to the democratic countries to join the 720 pact . As for the negotiations with Italy , there Japan jumped into the water while Mussolini ran away with its clothes . It recognized the conquest of Ethiopia and unaccountably came away without Italian recognition of Manchoukuo . Moreover , the withdrawal of the demands on China , mentioned on another page , is an admission of diplomatic defeat more humiliating than any Japan has suffered since it was forced to give up Port Arthur after the Russo-Japanese war .                     