@@221713

In the recent resurgence of labor no new union has had more spectacular success than the United Automobile Workers of America , no labor leader of the past year has achieved more fame than the Auto Workers ' brisk and boyish president , Homer Martin . Eight months ago , armed with contracts from General Motors and Chrysler , a membership of 375,000 , an overflowing treasury and the enthusiasm of youth , the U. A. W. prepared to shift into high and charge the unconquered Ford fortress . Last week the sound of grinding gears could still be heard . <P> Throughout the country , elections of local union officers were being completed . Though re-elected without opposition at the union 's faction-torn convention last August , President Martin is by no means an unchallenged leader . The current local elections have little to do with local issues ; they have become a judgment of the Martin administration . In each local auto workers were usually confronted with two slates : Progressive and Unity . ( Both factions accuse each other of being false to their names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand-picked assistant president , Richard Frankensteen . The Unity group is a combination of opposition forces led by Vice Presidents Ed Hall and Wyndham Mortimer and by the daring young tacticians of the sit-down strikes , Robert Travis , George Edwards , John Anderson and the fabulous Reuther Brothers , Walter , Roy and Victor . <P> With most returns in , it appeared certain last week that Progressive candidates had lost often enough to weaken Homer Martin 's prestige considerably . In Flint , Mich. , focal point of the General Motors empire , with 30.000 union members , the Martin forces won their only important victory . Martin and Frankensteen took the stump personally , and their ticket was returned by nearly 2-to-1 . But Detroit 's bustling West Side local , with another 30,000 members , re-elected Unity Leader Walter Reuther by 4-to-1 . Roland J. Thomas , president of the Chrysler local , a vice president of the international union and an intimate Martin-Frankensteen aide , was defeated by a Unity candidate . The net results in the country as a whole indicated that Unity had gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of declining confidence in Homer Martin 's leadership was a variety of reasons . Recession has meant long layoffs or drastic reductions in hours for thousands of auto workers . Unemployment is always a severe test of the loyalty of union members , particularly so for U. A. W. members , most of whom are new to unionism. * With it came a drop in dues payments so sharp that the international union took all its organizers off the payroll , asked them to serve on a volunteer basis temporarily . Despite claims of increasing enrollment of Ford workers , the union is now less specific than it was last summer about the date it expects a Ford signature on the bottom of a collective agreement . In renewing the supplementary agreement with General Motors on the settlement of grievances several weeks ago , Martin found it necessary to make concessions .                     