@@470220

ROBERT MAYNARD HUTCHINS has brought nothing new to philosophy and education except a good profile and a bad rhetoric . And the fact that the President of the University of Chicago is thought to be an innovator is evidence that he is right when he says that the present is unacquainted with the past . The young man 's profile can not be argued . But his way of saying what he means involves such violence and hyperbole that the effect on most people ranges from flat misunderstanding to gaseous confusion . Simple and direct , his language nevertheless requires translation in an age which is hearing a philosophical barker for the first time . The pillars of his philosophy are two . He is arguing ( 1 ) that man is a rational animal and ( 2 ) that philosophy is knowledge . There is nothing new in that position ; it was argued by Socrates and the Sophists . To say that man is a rational animal is to say that man can think ; that , so far as we know , he is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is the only animal whose irrationality can be held against him . To say that philosophy is knowledge is to say that the rational animal can generalize from his experiences ; and that from such generalizations arise principles of action by which the individual can guide his life and judge his fellowmen . Hutchins proceeds to suggest that education should develop the student 's re/.son and pay some attention to the principles of human conduct . At this point the young man 's idea of an educational system begins to take form . The first object of Hutchins ' proposed higher education is the development of the rational powers , and this is achieved through the cultivation of the liberal arts of reading , writing , and speaking . ( This is what the bad rhetorician means when he talks about " grammar , rhetoric , and logic . " ) The special object of Hutchins ' proposed college ? a unit composed of the last two years of the present high school and the first two years of college ? is the transmission of the accumulated wisdom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire adolescent population , and this is achieved through the study of human experience as it has been examined and recorded from age to age . The special object of his proposed threeyear university ? open to those who have shown capacity to proceed to specialization ? is the study and development of the natural sciences , the social sciences , literature , and the arts , the students and workers in each field to see the relation of that field to the others in the light of philosophy . The prospective physician , for instance , would emerge from medical school ( at the same age he does now ) knowing not only how to save other people 's lives but what to do with his own . This emphasis on man 's rationality and the obligation of education to develop man 's rational faculties has aroused the complaint on a wide front that Hutchins would have education devoted wholly to the intellect , to the neglect of the " whole man . " To the " whole man " school the reply must be made that Hutchins has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partly animal . " The question , " says Hutchins , " is a question of emphasis . " He has made this point in every speech and in every paper , but his opponents are still producing tracts under such titles as Intelligence Is Not Enough . If we are talking about emphasis , and not about exclusion , it is obvious that the " whole man " needs to be educated . It is also obvious that he is not being educated under the present program . " I ask you , " says Hutchins , " how many colleges and universities are there to which you could say in good conscience , ' What you need is a larger and more expensive athletic program , more and gayer fraternities and sororities , and a larger proportion of schools and courses of a directly vocational kind ' ? " " Whole men " would seem to be men who had acquired ? among other things ? the capacity to think and to think about serious matters . There are numerous institutions which educate the young physically and socially . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do need to emphasize that aspect of education which no other institution emphasizes ? the training of the mind . It may be pertinent to suggest that the President of the University of Chicago is flagrantly intellectual and philosophical , and at the same time gets along with his wife and his friends , balances budgets and juggles donors , manages a large corporation , drinks and eats with satisfaction , tells very funny stories , and conducts himself firmly and successfully in practical and political affairs . Hutchins is a " whole man " and will wrestle anyone in the house for a quarter . " But , " says one of his critics , " we are not all Hutchinses . " This raises the question : how many young people are competent to master the books roundwhich the Hutchins college program is built ? Hutchins points out that ordinary children mastered them at the University of Paris in the 13th century and in New England and Virginia in the 18th . The classics ? an odious word in the 20th century ? are the heart of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Hutchins is board chairman , and an unselected group of Maryland boys is not only mastering them but enjoying them . Good books are not too hard for American adolescents , but an incompetent profession which has not read them does not know how to teach them ; before they were given up altogether they were so stupidly taught that children turned truant to escape their terrors . Of course Bacon does not have the same natural fascination for the adolescent as does baseball , but the present tendency toward a childcentered curriculum presupposes that a child of six or even of sixteen knows what he ought to learn . What will happen to the child when he has to face the problems which did n't interest him in school ? Those who would reduce education to the average instead of raising the average arc only a few steps removed from those who see salvation not in the training of the mind but in the regulation of the emotions . The opposition at this level is of two kinds . Some psychologists ? amateur rather than professional ? argue that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wasted on neurotic children ; it is neurotics , seeking security , who fall for demagogues ; if education will only resolve the emotional difficulties of its charges , then everybody will be safe from Hitler . Closely related to this school are those who maintain that the answer to our Weltschmcrz is the substitution of good emotions for bad ones , a position which overlooks the fact that there is no emotion so good as that derived from burning down the house across the street . The contention that neurotics succumb to demagogues is half the truth ; neurotics and ignoramuses succumb to demagogues , and the mind is the only known enemy of ignorance . The world did not acquire its present horrors from devotion to the intellect . The man who has not been educated in the tradition of spiritual and intellectual independence , the man who does not know what men have sacrificed for freedom and why , the man who has not been trained to analyze what he reads and hears ? this man is the meat upon which our Caesars feed . " Fascism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war on intellectualism , " and it is not because intellectualism produces fascists . One of Hutchins ' opponents finds that the best students in any university are maladjusted , " brilliant but wretched . " Aside from the fact that this is the historic argument advanced against all educated men by those who oppose all education , may it not he true that young people who have actually acquired an understanding of men 's long struggle for freedom and dignity ought to be " wretched " in a wretched world ? Jesus declined to do as the Romans did and was notoriously maladjusted . Hutchins ventures to suggest that " there are some things in every environment to which no honest man should ever adjust himself . " The child or adult who is actually tied in emotional knots can not be expected to act rationally . But most children , whatever their emotional difficulties , are able to absorb the kind of education we give them to-day ; most teachers , whatever their emotional difficulties , are able to transmit that kind of education . Hutchins simply wants the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of education . The maladjusted child or youth is suffering from an affliction for which science is trying to find a therapy . But what can the schools do about it ? Emotional difficulties are the problem , and the proper problem , for psychotherapy . After the maladjusted child has been adjusted ? then what ? He still has to be educated . He still has to learn to think and to think about serious things . He still has to facefundamental problems . Freedom from emotional difficulties , like any freedom , is not an end in itself , but a means to a higher end . The mind of man , as De Tocqueville observed , runs naturally to practical things . Modern science has given us the practical things we see all about us , and science is the new religion . Colleges and universities seek ? and get ? endowments on the basis of their " useful " research . Philosophy pulls no teeth and ships no wheat , and the nature of justice may have to be studied with funds stolen from the student lunchroom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who hold that philosophy is so much verbalism . Although language has been abused in the name of philosophy , language remains our only tool for communicating things which can not be seen or felt . That men utter philosophical concepts unctuously and emptily proves something about the men but nothing about philosophy . But that men who are held to be learned do deny the existence of philosophic knowledge or its parity with science is a fact , and it is a fact that , like all other facts , has to be explained . There are two reasons why philosophy , as it flourished from the Greeks to the pre-War Russell , is , so to speak , in the doghouse . First , it never recovered from the hairsplitting and logic-chopping practiced by the corrupt scholastics of the Renaissance in the name of Aristotle . Blind to the naturalism that underlay the thinking of the Greeks , the scholastics of the 15th and 16th centuries were literally verbalists and just as literally indifferent to experience and reality . Aristotle must have spun in his grave while his Renaissance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its heyday committed the same gluttony as theology did and as science does to-day : it refused to delimit its field . Aristotle , Augustine , Berkeley , Hegel , Spencer ? al/ of them " answered " questions philosophically which ? it developed later ? could be answered only by science . The scientists reacted naturally , claiming jurisdiction over wider and wider areas as their influence increased ; and the philosophers , weakening under the attack , turned antiphilosophical and , by and large , accepted the humble task of developing a philosophy of the scientific method , the currently dominant empiricism . " Science , " says one of Hutchins ' opponents triumphantly , " has a laboratory ; metaphysics has none . " But when we carry the fundamental problems of man and society into the laboratory we do not get the answers . If we deplore current developments in Europe and Asia it is not because we can prove them bad by any objective test , but because , however vehemently we may deny it , we are all philosophers , inveterate if rudimentary , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science , says Hutchins , tells us how to get wherever we 're going ; it does not tell us where to go . " Men may employ science for good or evil purposes ; but it is the men who have the purposes , and they do not learn them from their scientific studies . " If airplanes are good in themselves , and there are no goods above them , then we are doomed to live , or , more certainly , to dic , in a world of Addis Ababas , Nankings , and Barcelonas . The philosophical President of the University of Chicago is not as lonely as he was ten ? even five ? years ago . There are others who are beginning to discover that the " mastery of nature " is only a faithful servant , equally faithful in the service of liberators and of tyrants . No less a scientist than Birkhoff of Harvard , the retiring president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science , put the question to his fellow-scientists at their last convention : " Does it clarify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of the reactions between the protons and electrons in the brain ? " II An educator who talks about the accumulated wisdom of the race , an educator who would have the college student study books that were written before the invention of the Ford , is suspected of advocating a retreat to the past . What do we want with the past , anyway ? At a low level the argument runs : the past was a bad place , dark and savage , full of tyranny and war and outside toilets ; thank God it 's gone . Hutchins ' opponents at a higher level maintain that the thinking of the past may have been all right in its time and place , but conditions have changed , and " philosophy needs to be remade into consistency with the situation . " Some of his critics hold that the fact that Hutchins cites Aristotle proves something about Hutchins ' philosophy . It is not that Aristotle said something but what he said that matters . If we are looking for knowledge we must look for it wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to pagan Greece or the feudal Middle Ages . Whether or not it is knowledge is the only argument . If we insist on judging thinking by its dates instead of by its arguments we must expect our descendants to despise the thinking of Freud and Dewey because that thinking was found in a dark and savage world full of tyranny and war and the slaughter of women and children . The popular notion that we do n't need the past because we have incorporated the best of it in the present is based on the fallacy that only the best survives . We have only to look about us to see that the best of justice , temperance , fortitude , and prudence is forgotten . These virtues are the same to-day as yesterday , and if the Greeks were also subject to human vices , we can scarcely congratulate ourselves for having preserved and advanced those vices . Every moral problem that might face any man in any age is found in the plays of Aeschylus , Sophocles , Euripides , and Aristophanes . " The ancients , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoughts from us . " In The Nation of last October 8th Archibald MacLeish substituted the Czechs for the Melians , the Nazis for the Athenians , the British for the Lacedxmonians , Prague for Melos ? and 1938 for 416 B.C. ? and published verbatim a section from Thucydides ' Peloponnesian War . These ancient problems are modern problems because men have not changed fundamentally . Since we have to face these problems when we leave college , why should n't we begin , in college , by finding out how men have faced them before , and with what results ? At the height of the 1935 Red Scare Hutchins made a stirring statement : " Socrates was accused of corrupting the youth . Some people talk as though they would like to visit upon the educators of America the fate which Socrates suffered . Such people should be reminded that the Athenians missed Socrates when he was gone . " Hutchins ' opponents in education rose to a man to cheer ; they did not seem surprised , at the time , that Mr. Hearst and Colonel McCormick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when the past was still thought to have something to say to men who lived in the present and planned for the future . A few months ago Mr. Walter Lippmann picked up an obscure book on the education of the Founding Fathers and learned , " to my immense surprise , " that the men who wrote the Declaration of Independence and led the American Revolution " had followed essentially a course of studies which comes down through the Middle Ages from the schools of ancient Greece . " The books that Hutchins wants the American college student to study come closer to the list that Jefferson handed to young Peter Carr than any reading course in America to-day . Hutchins does not want to go back to Plato ; he wants us to go forward , as practical men , toward Plato 's ideals . Those ideals were no more realities in Plato 's time than the realities of to day are ideal . The general education Hutchins proposes utilizes the past for the sake of the present and the future . Its proponent is not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Latin are taught or how manyparts Gaul was divided into or whether Ulysses had a bag of wind . The children who in the last half century rebelled at being stuffed with dead heroics and dead declensions and drove the classics from education were righteous rebels deprived by incompetent teachers of the contemporary wisdom that lay untouched in the books they read . Hutchins holds with every educator that education should be preparation for life . But the present is , and the future will be , built upon the past . The flux and variety and multiplicity of current phenomena defy understanding as the trees obscure the forest . It is impossible to duplicate in college all the singular experiences that the student will confront as a man and a citizen . But the kinds of experience the student will meet , and the processes involved in understanding and profiting by experience ? these can be considered and developed in the few years that precede the practical pressures of later life . Education , under the present circumstances , can not produce the good society , but it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society : it can prepare the student to discriminate between a good society and a bad society , regardless of circumstances . Hutchins is accused of wanting to regiment American education . Now we know that man is a social animal , and we know , from tragic experience , that if men can not unite on common understanding they will unite on common ignorance or prejudice . It was not Hutchins , but Samuel Eliot Morison , who , in his Three Centuries of Harvard , asserts that Eliot , in establishing the elective system , committed the educational crime of the century . We have seen specialization and vocationalism run wild . We have seen boys and girls , who find no difficulty mastering enough " pipe " courses to get a degree , devoting their own time and their parents ' money almost exclusively to " college life . " The elective system denies that there is such a thing as common understanding among men and common problems in society . It produces practitioners of trades , jolly good fellows , and doctoral dissertations on the bacteriological content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have , but the world needs common understanding , and it will not get it from the colleges until the colleges abandon the false democracy that holds one subject matter as good as another . It is , or should be , obvious that there is no regimentation in an education that includes Plato and Machiavelli , Dante and Milton , Marx and Adam Smith , and all the great minds that opposed one another , and oppose one another to-day , in fundamental problems of man and sodety . It should be just as obvious that there is no regimentation in a university unified by the search for philosophic truth when philosophy itself is not unified . Great minds have always disagreed as to the truth in both theory and action ; but they disagreed as to matters that they all held important and they carried on the controversy with common tools . The few who were educated in ages past had learned how to learn ; the many who are educated to-day shed the pretense of learning with their cap and gown . The few who were educated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the many who are educated in " cathedrals of learning " are not . III The complaint that all education was " unrealistic " and a waste of time was prevalent during the rise of higher education in this country . The colleges answered the complaint by devoting themselves to " realistic " education and demonstrating that their graduates were practical men who landed in the big money . Though we see all about us the tragedy into which practical men have led themselves and the world , education continues to devote itself to these popular ideals . Real life certainly demands a minimum of material goods that is now denied a large proportion of the population . MAGAZINE Hutchins does not suggest that we work and pray and live on hay , for he knows that starving men can not he expected to practice the virtues . The question is , in life as in education , one of emphasis and ends . Education should prepare the young for jobs by making them intelligent men and women , not by stimulating the love of money . Freedom from hunger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but in man it is freedom to pursue higher ends . If we want to improve society , says Hutchins , we need some conception of a good society in order to decide what improvement is . If we can know nothing , if we can only have opinions , then what constitutes a good society can be determined only by force . If there is only scientific knowledge , tentative and technical , if there are no values good for all men in all times and places , how can we improve society and avoid merely changing it ? Henry Hazlitt , discussing Dewey 's " insistence upon the importance of knowing where to put our feet for the next ten steps , " asks the critical question : " Unless we know where we want to go , or whether it is worth while going there , what is the point in moving at all ? " A democratic community must have common action on common problems . Since these common problems are difficult they can not be understood by men whose reading ability is limited to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memoranda , and whose achievements in reasoning begin and end with business matters and bridge . Common understanding of difficult problems is not the hope of democracies alone but of the democratic spirit throughout the world . If the " reasonable man " in law has no existence outside the opinion of a jury we can not quarrel with the decisions of German juries as to what " reasonable men " may or may not do to Jewish storekeepers . Hutchins holds that man is a rational animal and that philosophy is knowledge . If there is such a thing as reason , and if men are capable of rational activity , then men are fit to govern themselves . If there is no reason , men , like other animals , are irrational and must be controlled by force . If , further , there is such a thing as philosophy its very existence depends on a society in which men 's minds are free ; for philosophy is nothing more than an appeal to reason and it can not be imposed on men without ceasing to be philosophy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a character that rests on something more secure than platitudes , early habits , or fear of punishment . If , as fascism holds , man exists for the state , then we need not bother with the character of the individual . But if , as Hutchins holds , the state exists for man , we can not make good states out of bad men . Iv To say that Hutchins ' rhetoric is bad is to say that he does not succeed in making himself understood . Perhaps it is because he does not try hard enough . Perhaps it is because he can not find common terms to express uncommon notions . Perhaps it is because he will not " talk down " to his audience . At any rate , he does not succeed in making himself understood . Hutchins is talking about emphasis , but educators who play largely by ear insist he is talking about exclusion . Dewey refers to " President Hutchins ' complete neglect of the natural sciences in his educational scheme . " But St. John 's College in Maryland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only liberal arts college in the country where four years of laboratory science are compulsory , and in Hutchins ' theoretical university the natural sciences are one-third of the curriculum . Another of his opponents ? a member of his own faculty ? says that Hutchins " insists that facts be completely excluded from college and university curricula , " though Hutchins has said repeatedly that facts , while subordinate to ideas , are indispensable to education and research . The worst rhetoric in the whole argument is a definition that Hutchins snapped up from Aristotle : " Metaphysics is the science of first principles . " Fifty years ago Thomas Huxley clamored for the study of first principles of metaphysics . Whitehead has been deploring the neglect of " basic ideas " for forty years . For thirty years Nicholas Murray Butler has been saying that " the great thinkers of Greece and Rome and the Middle Ages sounded the depths of almost every problem which human nature has to offer . " Coming from Hutchins , these modest notions aroused the wrath of the educational world . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Middle Ages " suddenly matured into fighting words . Why ? Because Hutchins was a university president who threatened to do something about it all . John Dewey became so excited that he accused Hutchins of saying that " fixed and eternal authoritative principles are not to be questioned , " though Hutchins had never used those interesting adjectives and had indeed written that " the development , elaboration , and refinement of principles together with the collection and use of empirical materials to aid in these processes is one of the highest activities of a university and one in which all its professors should be engaged . " Whence come these " first principles " ? From Hutchins ? From Aristotle ? From the current majority on the Supreme Court ? First principles come from human experience interpreted by reason . They do not come from something called " pure reason . " St. Thomas Aquinas ( of whom Hutchins is correctly suspected of holding a high opinion ) says that " a human concept is not true by reason of itself .. . an opinion is true or false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dewey had remembered his Aristotle ( of whom Hutchins is correctly suspected of holding a very high opinion ) , he would not have accused Aristotle 's local sales manager of " divorcing intellect and experience , " for Aristotle says : " Those who dwell in intimate association with nature and its phenomena grow more and more able to formulate , as the foundation of their theories , principles such as to admit of wide and coherent development ; while those whom devotion to abstract discussions has rendered unobservant of the facts are too ready to dogmatize on the basis of a few observations . " Since wise men , from Aristotle to Dewey , have been observing phenomena for several thousand years , the race should have by this time been able to formulate a few principles of universal applicability ? their " firstness " lies in their universality ? which might properly be used as starting points in the search for further speculative and practical knowledge . Every exact science presupposes the existence of metaphysical principles of possibility and actuality , whole and part , substance and accident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least tentatively accepted , the natural sciences could not engage in experimentation . Without the first principles of change , there would be no physics ; without axioms , no geometry . The principles that science employs , metaphysics examines . The conclusions of science can be disputed only by science . Neither Hutchins nor Aristotle nor Roosevelt can decree a first principle or by legislative fiat make it true or false . Aristotle concluded that the first principle of law ? and most 20th century lawyers at least pay it lip service ? is that good shall be sought and evil avoided . Taken together with what is universal and enduring in the philosophical analysis of good and evil , this principle is violated by the Nuremberg Laws . The principle helps rational men decide where they should stand on the Nuremberg Laws , and the purpose of Hutchins ' educational program is to make rational men more rational . May we , 0 Hutchins , have any new principles ? We may . Are we likely to find any ? In a new discipline , yes . In an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs principles , after five thousand years , are likely to be pretty well established . May we look for new first principles ? We may , though the philosopher , like the geometer whose student wanted to look for new axioms , suggests that we study the old ones first . Does the consideration of the first principles prevent change or growth ? We can answer that one ourselves if we take , for example , the first principle of political science : man is a social animal seeking the common good . V Even more disastrous to Hutchins than the rhetoric of words is what might be called the rhetoric of circumstances . Hutchins wants to revive philosophy . Philosophy has been known to lead to theology . Does Hutchins ' philosophy lead to theology ? And if it does ? to what theology ? " We are a faithless generation , " says Hutchins , " and we take no stock in revelation . To look to theology to unify the modern university is futile and vain . If we omit from theology faith and revelation , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since theology unified the Catholic universities of the Middle Ages and metaphysics unified Greek thought , Hutchins would seem to be more of a pagan than a Christian . But few of his critics have made this inference ? the exceptions being Catholic educators and the Christian Century , which laments the fact that he does not propose to organize education " around the supreme reality of religious faith . " Most of his opponents are afraid that he proposes to do just that , and inasmuch as medieval philosophy plays a significant role in Hutchins ' thinking , his opponents , opposed as they are to the predominant political behavior of the Church Temporal , see the shadow of the Inquisition and a good man heading for Franco . This intimation , though it seldom reaches print , is a favorite in academic gossip . It is motivated in some notorious instances by oldfashioned Kluxism , but it can not be completely disposed of as conscious bigotry . In the first place , Mother Church is aggressive and has always been the bogey of non-sectarian education in America . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a philosopher and explicator of Aristotle has attracted the favorable attention of many Catholic educators and philosophers ; and third , the man who is accused of " selling " St. Thomas to Hutchins is a full-blown Thomist philosopher and is widely ? and falsely ? believed to have been converted to Catholicism . Mortimer Adler , like his friend Hutchins , is a political liberal and a " whole " man ? and a devastating dialectician on the side . Hutchins found him at Columbia and brought him to Chicago , and , after some distress in the philosophy department , he landed in the law school , where the few men who know him admire him . Since he occupies no position of public prominence , since he is indifferent to admiration , since he is even harder-working than Hutchins and is never seen in university society , it has become fashionable , particularly among ladies who swoon at the mere thought of Hutchins ' profile , to blame the latter 's shortcomings on that strange little man Adler . One of Hutchins ' friends told him one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomism stuff is fascism . " Hutchins asked if his friend knew how the " fellows " came to associate the two phenomena . He did n't , so Hutchins explained . St. Thomas was a Catholic ; a majority of Catholics are supporting fascism in Spain ; therefore Thomism is fascism . " I see , " said the friend . " No , you do n't , " said Hutchins ; " there 's another syllogism you must hear . St. Thomas was a philosopher ; the greatest living Thomist philosopher , Jacques Maritain , who happens to be a Catholic , denounces fascism and fascism in Spain in particular ; therefore Thomism is against fascism . " When the friend had laid the two syllogisms side by side , he said to Hutchins : " Why did n't you tell me that before ? " Hutchins replied : " For the same reason I 've nevertold you I was n't a snake-charmer ; you never asked me . " Hutchins holds , simply , that the fascism of some Catholic prelates in Spain or of some Catholic communicants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or any other philosophy . If you want to argue philosophy you will have to argue philosophy , and you do not argue philosophy by calling a Catholic a fascist any more than you argue democracy by calling a Jew a communist ; what you succeed in doing is adding bigotry to a world ' that has just about enough . AI Smith was a Catholic when he reformed the State of New York and a Catholic when he joined the Liberty League . Hutchins says , privately , that it is not his fault if some Catholics or all Catholics or no Catholics abandon the Catholic intellectual tradition . Half the modern books that Hutchins wants every child to read are distinguished by their presence on the Ecclesiastical Index . Hutchins teaches not only Aristotle and St. Thomas , but Plato and Darwin ? and Dewey . You would never know it , however , to hear his critics . The notion that St. Thomas is a dangerous bird is held by almost everyone who has never read his works , a category which includes almost the entire adult population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? says that Aquinas was one of the most important philosophers of all time , but he is not studied in non-sectarian education and he is not studied philosophically in Catholic education . When Hutchins and Adler ordered twenty copies of a volume of the Summa Theologira for the honors course they teach in the history of ideas the university bookstore reported , a week later , that only eighteen copies were available . St. Thomas was a theologian and a philosopher who held that philosophy and theology were separate and independent . He horrified his fellow-theologians by studying the writings of the Jew Maimonides and by going to the infidel Moslems for their opinions , and his reply to the attacks that were made upon him within the Church was that he was seeking " the truth , wherever found . " As a Thomist , Maritain holds that capitalism and Christianity are incompatible , and three of Adler 's graduate students , two of them Catholics and all of them radicals , are engaged in trying to reconcile St. Thomas and Marx . Hutchins is a Christian . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to church . He tries to practice Christianity on week-days . It is possible that the world would be no worse off if public figures generally tried to practice Christianity . Religion , like philosophy , has fallen to low estate , and for the same reason : its name has been forged on bad checks . Lincoln Steffens observed that the less knowledge men had , the more religion ; but he should have added : the more religion they said they had . If churchgoers whose dividends are produced by children inhaling lint and spitting blood in textile mills are gladdened by the rumor that the president of a great university is trying to interest the citizens in God , they should be reminded that he is also trying to interest the citizens in the Child Labor Amendment . It can be argued , and not altogether irrelevantly , that in the four centuries of modern Europe , religion , which was once central to what little civilization there was , has become a suffered institution in what little civilization there is . It can be argued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period has been great and the spread of morality small . It can be argued , finally , that men must have a religion , and if they can not have a good one they will take a had one . Faith that an automobile going eighty miles an hour will not throw a wheel may be a religion . Faith in communism or fascism or a million dollars may be a religion . Science , failing to answer certain sub . ' unary questions that rational animals have asked , leads to philosophy . Philosophy , failing to answer certain eternal questions that rational animals have asked , leads to the consideration of man 's last end . If a dynamic figure in American life should be found guilty of speaking with the voice of God , it might be well to remember , in fixing his punishment , that it is the voice of Caesar that deafens the world to-day .                     