@@493814

Civilized History WE DO not know if Western society is now in the midst of its death rattle or its birth throes . But we do know that an old dream is dying , and that a new dream , a new picture of human possibilities and fresh motives for human action , is taking shape . And meanwhile , since the new dream does not yet govern men 's actions and exists concretely only in the most fragmentary forms , we realize that our civilization as a whole faces a severe threat . The forces of destruction , embodied in the modern national state , swing from the exalted pretensions of paranoia to the vindictive isolation of dementia pracox : the first is accompanied by arrogant pretensions and widespread suspicions : the second may relapse , indeed now shows signs of relapsing , into a maniacal impulse toward destruction . " Nothing is so savage , " Aristotle observes , " as injustice in arms , " and injustice in arms is the very essence of the class suppressions and the imperialistic conquests that are being waged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And whereas the barbarian who brought an end to Roman civilization had a conviction of strength but no strength of conviction , fascism has been preceded by an intellectual advance guard of fantasies and rationalizations and dogmas ? a specious system of social psychology , like Pareto 's ; a Prussian drillmaster 's version of history , like Spengler 's . Partial demonstrations of intellectual strength ( for no one need deny the abilities of Pareto or Spengler ) have systematically prepared the way for neurotic simplifications of human conduct , silly collective ambitions and perfectly childlike forms of communal savagery . No intelligent person can in the present situation forget the parallel between our own state and that of Roman society at the end of the fourth century . But that lesson may be read in two ways ; and the final outcome need not necessarily he a sense of futility and defeat . Every known civilization has faced , at some period of its existence , the specter of Necropolis . Sometimes this specter occurs at the end of a cycle of striking cultural activity and achievement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honorably lived . Sometimes it occurs in the midst of such a cycle , as a result of some terrestrial misfortune or social catastrophe . In Provence , after the Albigensian crusade , or in Rome , during the period when papal power shifted to Avignon , or indeed throughout Western civilization when the Black Plague struck its ugly blow in the fourteenth century , such a relapse temporarily took place . But the corpus of civilization , though left with a shat-tered limb , permanent scars and splinters of steel too deeply imbedded to be removed , neverthelessrecovered . Spengler , when he speaks gloatingly of the final phase of paralysis and brutality and death , targets that this " final " phase often occurs in the " springtime " of civilization ? and need not prove fatal . But if one wishes to make the parallel between Roman civilization and our own a nightmare , one need only read Gibbon and then turn one 's eyes from the pages of the book to the street outside . As Rome 's civilizing energy went downhill , power came more and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but on the force of arms and brutality . Already we of the Western world have seen the spectacle of a handful of gangsters , armed with machine guns , terrorizing and exacting tribute from a whole industry , in broad daylight and in the midst of populous cities ? whose officers the gangsters themselves partly control . So , too , we have seen political parties , organized on gangster principles , paralyzing a modern state in a fashion that recalls the early work of the Vandals : again we have seen these parties attempting to terrorize by swagger and promise of unlimited brutality the somewhat more civil polities in Western Europe that surround them . These are all plainly the phenomena of decay : brutality , physical power and fear become the sole binding forces of a society when it loses the last remnants of a more human religion and more rational collective goals . But against these forces we have powerful energies at work that move in the opposite direction : energy and intelligence for which one can find no counterpart in the Rome of the fifth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheer biological vitality ; for another we have a body of socialized knowledge and able technical practice , and all that further skill in social cooperation for which our scientific and industrial achievements have set a pattern , whilst the Romans , to the end , were hopeless empirics , who attempted to run a vast empire with a system of accountancy whose mathematics were so clumsy they could not be applied to the management of a country store . Finally , we have the beginnings of a new religion , a system of values and beliefs capable of uniting men in political action and giving them a rational goal for their efforts . No such vision stirred the Roman proletariat till Christianity offered the transcendental enjoyments of a gaudy but infinitely remote hereafter . Whereas the rise of Christianity meant the defeat of Roman power , the rise of communism constitutes a vital fulfilment of Western civilization , and marks the passage from a crude faith in mechanical toys as objects of worship to a belief in machines as subordinate instruments of social aims and rational purposes . That faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives a value to the future equal to that which more static and less confident societies assigned solely to the past . So while the present situation is highly dangerous , neither the facts nor the arguments , still less the hopes and ambitions and energies , are all on the side of the fascists . On the contrary , the building up of an ideology favorable to a more humane scheme of living now proceeds with greater energy than ever , nerved no doubt by the sense of the present crisis and its forthcoming difficulties . One of the best , and certainly the most ambitious of these efforts is that of J. Arnold Toynbee in his thirteen-volume " A Study of History , " 1 the first three volumes of which appeared this last year . Rumor of the existence of this work has not yet reached the dinner tables that quivered masochistically before the splenetic dogmatisms of Spengler or parroted the fascist apologies of Pareto . For all that , the appearance of Toynbee 's opus is intellectual news of the first order ; and the change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : narked by his work may prove as important as that marked by Einstein in physics . The basic proposition in Toynbee 's study of history is the belief that today " the dominant note in the corporate consciousness of communities is the sense of hieing parts of some larger universe . " The age of the atomic individual , the atomic state , Ivith their fake isolation and their fake internal unity , is now coming to an end ; and all the categories of the past , the nation , the national state , national sovereignty , the mechanical division of labor , the absolutism of physical science , the reduction of thought and feeling to purely quantitative measurement ? this whole metaphysical framework of political thinking is doomed to the rubbish heap . For Toynbee the unit of history is a society or a civilization ; this corresponds roughly to what Spengler calls a culture . Societies transcend cities and nations in both time and space ; and people who create such larger units are distinguished from the non-historic civilizations on a primitive level , for the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-one distinct societies in the history of the race ; and in addition he calls attention to certain inchoate societies , such as those that partly emerged from their centers in Ireland and Scandinavia during the Dark Ages . Each society seems to have a characteristic life-cycle : it begins with a period of integration and growth : it goes through a Time of Troubles : it passes into a Universal State marked by the existence of an Internal Proletariat , and when this proletariat , having no stake in past institutions , rebels against its hopeless lot , it creates , through the medium of a Universal Church , a new religion which enables the A Study of history , by J. Arnold Toynhee . New York : The Oxford University Press . N'ois. 1411. 1,479 pages . $17.50. // society to rehabilitate itself . For faller proof of this life-cycle and its characteristic institutions We will have to await two later volumes in Toynbee 's series . But it is plain that all these institutions occupy a different place in Toynbee 's scheme from the one they occupy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoing of the work of the proud men of blood ( i.e. , barbarians ) by the enlightened intellectuals and pacifists and their deluded " nerveless " followers , adherents of Buddhism or Christianity , for Toynbee the humane forces have a vital and regenerative character . But how do civilizations . develop ? Beyond all the special factors that enter into the process of change , Toynbee is conscious of the possibility of some inner rhythm that may abet the process : rest and motion , God and Devil , Love and Hate , Yin and Yang ? these are some of the names various societies have given to the primordial go of things . In granting the possibility of such a rhythm Toynbee is on the side of Marx and against most of the empirical historians for whom , lost in their welter of documents and incoherent derivative facts , history is little better than a dream told by an idiot , half-forgotten in the waking . Surprisingly , Toynbee does not mention Hegel , Marx or Engels , or for that matter Emerson , in connection with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminology from Marx . But the fact is that Marx , far more than Lord Acton or Henry Adams , is Toynbee 's true spiritual progenitor ; for who better than Marx recognized the warping effect of current economic institutions upon " neutral " thought , who was more conscious of the weakness of the division-of-labor method not only in history hut in the social sciences , and who more acutely than Marx and Engels pointed out the need for treating history as an organically interrelated and therefore rational process ? To the specific process of social development Toynbee gives the name Challenge-and-Response. ' hat kind of challenge , what order of response , stimulates the growth of a civilization ? On the first question , Toynbee 's answer is exhaustive ; on the second he remains , for reasons that I will presently return to , unsatisfactory . Volume Two deals with various kinds of stimuli : hard countries , new ground , migration overseas , blows from without , pressure from other civiliza-tions , penalizations such as caste and slavery . The upshot is that extremes of difficulty or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toynhce recog-nizes the fact , doubtless overstressed by Adler , that negative conditions may , up to a point , provide posi-tive materials for growth : a conclusion that has the systematic effort of Western sobearing upon ciety during the past few centuries to enthrone comfort at whatever sacrifice of animation and intelligence and sensibility . Attempting in Volume Three to understand the growth and differentiation of civilizations , Toynbee approaches the problem from the hindside : he deals first with arrested civilizations , such as those of pastoral nomads , the Eskimos , the Spartans . Perhaps one of his most magnificent chapters , in the light of our present Time of Troubles , is his detailed discussion of the spurious success of the Spartan state . This was one of the most stubborn efforts that has ever been made to freeze the position of the dominant class by systematically assaulting and maiming the lower orders and their sympathizers : a stultifying forerunner of modern Nazism . Toynbee observes that the real disaster to the Spartan state came not through its failure but through its " success . " Like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal conflict , therefore without reintegration , therefore without the power to transcend its own limitations and contradictions : therefore without the means of cultural growth , and so , in conception and in final destiny , sterile and lifeless . In opposition to that fascist ideal Toynbee re ? nforces Whitman 's dictum : " It is provided in the essence of things that from any fruition of success , no matter what , shall come forth something to make a greater struggle necessary . " So much for the mode of growth : but what is the criterion of a society 's successful development ? Perhaps the most usual answer today would be : command over environment ; and Toynbee does a neat job in demolishing this na ? ve reply . In the sense of geographic expansion in space , subduing the wilderness and conquering other communities , expansion may result in retardations of growth ; so much so that Toynbee remarks that " we are almost warranted in regarding geographical expansion as a social disease . . . . A declining society is apt to hasten the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vital energy in material performances on an excessive scale . " As for command over the physical forces of nature by the perfection Of our technical instruments , the evidence is equally clear , and equally disconcerting to the believer in technical achievement by itself . Not merely do many arrested civilizations show a refined technics ; but technical advances along certain lines , as in warfare , have been accompanied , not by growth but by reversion and disintegration . In his final definition of social growth , Toynbee indeed reaches a point just the opposite of that maintained by the popular American school that regards the conquest of the environment as an automatic evidence of progressive civilization . We may he says perhaps persist in the view that a given series of responses to successful challenge is to be interpreted as a manifestation of growth if , as the series proceeds , the action tends to shift from the field of the external environment ? whether physical or human ? to the for inblrieur of the growing personality or the civilization . . .. Growth means that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its own challege and its own field ofaction , In other words , the criterion of growth is progress toward self-determination . Now , there is a vital kernel of truth in this culminating definition . Unfortunately , as in his study of the process of withdrawal-and-return , the i truth is weakened by Toynbee 's failure to grasp the processes of life and civilization in their concrete unity : an underlying dualism prevents him from presenting the process as an organic whole in which mind and body , inner and outer , are as inseparable as the two faces of a coin . This failure , in turn , calls attention to another curious hiatus in Toynbee 's scholarship ? the failure to recognize the important pioneer work on parallel lines of the late Sir Patrick Geddes . For the biological key to an adequate conception of challenge and response was put by Patrick Geddes in a brief but effective formula which called attention to the fact that the interaction works both ways , now in a limitation of the organism by the environment , now by an insurgence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domination over the environment . The shift is not simply , as Toynbee implies , from an outer world to an inner world , or from matter to spirit : the outer environment , reformed by man 's art and technics and ideals , taking shape in landscape and cities , becomes itself a spiritual source and a higher kind of challenge , while man , absorbing nature , becomes naturalized by his intelligence in a way that brings him into far closer harmony with nature than the savage primi- tive , with his fantastic codes and taboos . Because of his partial dualistic statement of the process of growth Toynbee never arrives at a theory of the city , such as Geddes brilliantly developed : which means , ultimately , that he attempts to describe civilization without reference to the physical organs it has created for storing and transmitting and increasing the social heritage . But the fact is that cities , arising out of a stable system of agriculture and permanent settlement and the invention of the dwelling house and its subordinate utilities , are the body and form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the style of its architecture , and the economic functions and social groupings it shelters and encourages , one can derive most of the essen- tial elements of a civilization . For all his effort to break away from the idols of the industrial age and the national state , Toynbee unfortunately takes refuge mainly in a political and economic explanation of the rise of civilizations . That is , he gives primacy to the physical conditions of life and to struggles for power and security , whereas these matters are no more fundamental than the institutions of marriage , the modes of religious and cultural organization and the expressions of literature , painting , sculpture and the industrial arts . Had his eyes been focused on the city , he should perhaps have recognized the one-sided character of his explanation . By the same token , Toynbee is driven back on a series of individual biographies to explain the process whereby an individual by withdrawing himself temporarily from society may come back to enrich it with new goals and destinations not taken from his immediate environment . This process is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a permanent institution of the city which recurrently makes possible a break from routine and a creative renewal . These weaknesses are , I fear , not unimportant ; they are more serious than Toynhee 's prolix style , his overuse of illustrative data , his annoying habit of annotating familiar biblical quotations with chapter and verse , or that touch of T. S. Eliotosis which tempts him to quote the Koran in Arabic . But when all is said and done , this is a masterly and important work : one of those foundation books whose premises and categories help to determine the character of a whole epoch 's thought and so eventuallyinfluence the actions of men , In its complete relativity , in its humane Study of History " stands a whole stratosphere above its nearest rival , " The Decline of the West . " Toynbec 's study parallels in a way the funeral oration Thucydides put into the mouth of Pericles : Athens ' answer to the truculent Spartans . " A Study of History " is the work of an entirely civilized man , writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental belief , I take it , is the belief that life and reason and love are allies , while hate and systematic stupidity and savage imbecile power , so far from being the natural rulers of the world , are but the advancing outposts of disintegration and death , 