@@302771

The Sit-Down Strike , suddenly boomed by the General Motors trouble last December as a new phenomenon in U. S. labor warfare , seemed last week to descend from its peak of the week before ( TIME , March 1 ) almost as rapidly as it had risen . The Sit-Down Strike , as an instrument of Labor policy , was impressively sat upon in many places . It had lost its surprise value as police and employers learned more about combatting it . It was being tried on hard-boiled firms which were not so utterly dependent on public sympathy as General Motors and which could afford to take a sterner course with workers who seized company property . <P> At Groton , Conn. , 107 of 1,900 workmen in the plant of Electric Boat Co. , manufacturers of submarines for the U. S. Navy , sat down . They passed one day in pleasant converse , whiled away the evening listening to the music of banjo and guitar . Shortly after midnight the plant superintendent appeared at the door and announced : ' ' All you fellows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police who arrested all the strikers under warrants for trespassing . The strikers got up with good humor , took their banjo and guitar and marched through the deserted streets to police court . There at 2 a. m. a sleepy police judge released them without bail for appearance later in town court . Next day the strikers picketed , the plant operated peacefully . <P> At Santa Monica , Calif. 345 of 5,600 employes of Douglas Aircraft Co. on the third day of a sit-down were indicted for " forcible entry and occupancy " but refused to retreat . Police and sheriff 's deputies , 350 strong , surrounded the plant , brought up machine guns , ominously set up a dressing station for expected casualties with a Red Cross flag prominently displayed . The sit-downers retaliated by arming themselves with wrenches , rolling airplanes to the windows so that their propellers could be used to blow tear gas out of the plant . They distributed drums of paint with which they threatened to fire the building . Undeterred , police called for the fire department and prepared to storm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that tense moment Dr. Towne Nylander , regional director of the National Labor Relations Board , went in and announced that the Labor Board would hold hearings on charges that Douglas Aircraft had discriminated against union employes and refused to bargain collectively , urged the strikers to give up . Believing that they would be licked in a fight , the 345 sit-downers marched out , were carted off to Los Angeles County jail in police wagons and busses , all but three score of them later released without bail . At Northrop Corp. , subsidiary of Douglas , 200 sit-downers then walked out rather than risk indictment .                     