@@470280

PUBLIC opinion in the three great r democracies remains in three separate compartments . In spite of the alignment of the world into dictatorships and democracies , the latter , while proclaiming the virtues of free speech and a free press , have signally failed to use these to understand one another . Public figures in Britain , France , and the United States who make speeches about the solidarity of their three countries in defense of democracy give the impression that this implies mutual understanding . This , I believe , is a false impression . It is a commonplace that British and French leaders are forever striving to enlarge their political alliance into a spiritual entente , with marked lack of success . But it is not generally realized that public opinion in Britain and France misunderstands the United States . British and French , I shall seek to show , are constantly deceived about a matter of the greatest importance to themselves ? American foreign policy . Will the United States enter another world war on our side ? This question the average Englishman or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assert that they are wrong . On the contrary , I hazard a guess that they are right . But the average Englishman or Frenchman , I believe , is not allowed to realize how long a course , how marked by back-trackings and hesitations , the United States is pursuing away from isolation . In short , a time-lag exists ? with dangerous possibilities . American opinion , Congressional action , and ? at times ? Presidential policy tend to remain considerably behind the present rapidly moving procession of European events . In case the " white war " continues , this time-lag may widen with increasing distrust of America in the European democracies . But should a real world war begin and the United States fail to participate from the start , the time-lag may produce such a rude shock that Anglo-American and Franco-American understanding may suffer serious damage . I believe I obtained some foreknowledge of such a shock last September when I was covering the crisis in London for an American paper . Almost every day I used to take the temperature of opinion in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I studied did not conform to the scientific system employed by American public opinion students . But it included several representative layers of British society , and the reactions I gathered checked quite well with those obtained by other American correspondents . I talked to the following : my hotel proprietor , the hotel servants , guests in the hotel ( including a clergyman , two widows of British colonial civil servants , and a retired army officer ) , two medical students living in neighboring Cleveland Square , a City broker and his wife , the proprietor of a sweet-shop , a newspaper vender , a tobacconist , a garage proprietor , and a half dozen navvies working on a gas main . Opinions differed , but not widely , on most matters connected with the crisis . There was , however , practical unanimity on one , namely , that the United States would come in on the side of Britain on the outbreak of war . Two of the navvies , it is true , were uncertain about this ; but then they seemed to lack definite opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The little old lady who ran the sweet-shop asked me , with charming assumption of American intervention , what branch of the service I should enter . This confidence in America 's readiness to help Britain seemed to increase as the crisis became more acute in the first two weeks of September . Ambassador Kennedy had denounced dictatorships in a speech in Scotland . Ambassador Bullitt over in France had been talking of the ties of France and the United States . Meanwhile on September 12 , London papers announced that the new U. S. cruiser Nashville would visit the British base at Portsmouth and would be followed by the U. S. cruiser Honolulu . A number of people in Bayswater , I discovered , interpreted these visits as a sign that the jolly tars of the two nations would collaborate in " stopping that fellow . " Somewhat cruelly perhaps , I tried a little deflation . I told the garage owner what the American Embassy had told American newspaper men in London : that these cruisers were present in European waters to take American women and children hack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's surprise and disquiet were so evident that I did not mention another and more important piece of news . President Roosevelt , who had been assailing dictatorships and extolling democracies for almost a year , suddenly on September 10th told newspaper men that there was no " moral unity " between the United States and European democracies and that anyone who placed this interpretation on American foreign policy was " 100 per cent wrong . " In these few sweeping phrases he made clear thathe was opposed to American intervention in a European war . Certainly a statement likely to upset British expectation about American aid . Yet neither men-in-the-street in Bayswater nor British newspaper men in Fleet Street seemed to have heard of it . Englishmen , in short , were walking up to the cannon 's mouth of Berchtesgaden in the calm conviction that America would jump in on their side immediately war broke out . On September 13th , when bloody incidents were occurring in the Sudetenland and the King was hastening back to London , I telephoned the editor of a London publication . This editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in case of war , seemed rather hysterical about the turn of European events . But when I told him of the President 's backdown he exclaimed bitterly , " America will intervene only when London is in flames ! " A day later Chamberlain 's flight relaxed matters . I had time to reflect about the state of mind of the garage man and the editor . If war had occurred and these folk had discovered that neither the President nor Congress was disposed to join up right away , disquiet might have turned into panic and bitterness might have spread to all layers of the population . The United States would have become the target of intense recriminations with " renegers " as the mildest of epithets . Anglo-American understanding would have proved a very collapsible matter . It might have been too late then , but it is not too late now to ask the questions ? how has this deception arisen , and whose is the responsi-bility ? II The expectation of Britishers that the United States will aid their country in a war springs from necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a big conflict . That is the basis for the political attitude of Britain toward the United States . Britishers of course differ as to the way of wooing the United States . Some demand outright alliance as an objective . Others , like F. A. Voigt , diplomatic editor of the Manchester Guardian , want a more discreet policy . Voigt says in his book Unto Cesar , " Britain must in all circumstances have for a friend the United States ( as indeed she can , if she does not try to convert that friendship into an alliance , or expect the United States to take risks and make sacrifices equal to hers in defending interests that are much more hers than theirs ) . " The attitude of Britain toward the United States has differed fundamentally from that of the United States toward Britain . The " understanding " so often advocated between the two countries has always started from Britain on a political base . In America ( until recently ) it has had a cultural base . Thus when a British public figure landed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aimed at " cementing AngloAmerican understanding , " i.e. political relations . When an American public figure landed in Southampton he more often than not headed directly for Stratford-on-Avon or some town from which his ancestors came . British propaganda in the United States utilizes this cultural link . The organization most prominent in this task is the English-Speaking Union , whose stated aim is " to draw together in the bond of comradeship the English-speaking peoples of the world . Its activities are based on the belief . . . that the future peace and security of the world depends on close co-operation between the English-speaking democracies and that this co-operation can only be achieved by knowledge and mutual understanding . " The utterances of its founder Sir Evelyn Wrench are typical . He was quoted by the London Times as follows , " He said that if Britain and America came together , peace would be established throughout the rest of the world . " Significantly , the American English-Speaking Union has more members than the Union in England and the Dominions . The Union is rather quick on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , England Expects Every American Ta Da His Duty , was published they held a discussion luncheon in London , inviting the corps of American correspondents . The Union has no official link with the British Government . British propaganda about the United States in Britain , on the other hand , stems directly from the British Government . The influence and pressure which the British Government can bring on the British press is well-known . This being so , it was only natural that the British Government in the trying situation last September should seek to utilize this influence to exploit whatever angle of Anglo-American relations suited its purpose . The method by which the Government accomplished this purpose is perhaps not widely known in the United States , but most American newspaper men in London were aware of it . During the crisis the British Foreign Office held three separate press conferences : one for the British press , another for the American press , a third for all other foreign journalists . To the Americans , the press attach ? mentioned the United States in one discreet sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador fully informed of developments . " Full stop . But to British and other foreign journalists the press attach ? would dwell on " the sympathy and understanding between His Majesty 's Government and the United States , etc. , etc. " into some hundreds of words . The British and other foreign correspondents got the idea and allowed it full play in their stories . On September 12th , when the first peak of the crisis was approaching , I talked to a celebrated American newspaper correspondent . I said I thought the almost daily photographs prominently displayed in the British press of Ambassador Kennedy entering Downing Street on his almost daily visit there constituted a sort of propaganda . My friend agreed and proceeded to dwell on " the soft-soaping the British are giving us these days ? the way they are building up the alleged sympathy of the United States in the press . " As an example he turned to the Times of that day and pointed to the following sentences in the report of the Diplomatic Correspondent , " It is stated in official circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valued highly at this difficult moment and that relations between the two countries are at their most cordial . Mr. Kennedy has been kept informed throughout the discussions . " " Do you know , " asked my friend , " who actually said that ? Not the press attach ? . Nor the Foreign Secretary . It was none other than Mr. Neville Chamberlain himself who spoke those words to a group of journalists . " With such a lead given , it is little wonder that the press played up " American sympathy " and played down news from America which might spoil such a picture . As a matter of fact , the basis for such a press attitude had been well laid , not only by Governmental influence but by the special peculiarities of the British press in its coverage of American news . Since news in British papers from America is an important element in AngloAmerican understanding , let us examine carefully this aspect of the British press . Most Americans residing or traveling in Britain believe that the British press gives very little American news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Englishmen concur in this , judging from a recent controversy raging in the letter columns of the nation 's press . ) In May , 1939 , a publication called Planning , published by an organization called " Political and Economic Planning " devoted a whole number to a detailed and documented study of American news in the British press . Its conclusions are interesting . In the first place , it discovered the surprising fact that , on the basis of space , American news received better treatment than that from other countries . It showed that American news got more space than news from continental countries in such serious organs as the Daily Telegraph and the Times and that even in " the Daily Mail and Daily Express , the two big popular papers , there was a heavy preponderance of American over French and German news together . Thus American news was by no means badly treated over space allowance compared with European news , especially in the popular journals . " But qualitatively , Planning found , American news fared less well . Listing space according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) as compared with " human interest " ( crime , sex , etc. ) the publication found that on the whole " human interest " news from America far outranked " serious news . " It sums up , " In view of the acute limitations of space in most British newspapers , especially compared with most American newspapers , American news appears to be given fairly adequate quantitative treatment in the national daily press in Great Britain . There seems , however , to be more basis for the allegation that American news in the British press consists too much of human interest news , of eccentricities and so forth , and not enough of cultural , political , economic , and other serious news . " In short , Hollywood scandals crowd out Washington political developments . The reason for this state of affairs can be summarized from Planning 's findings : ( 1 ) The editors of the " popular " press insist that in giving their readers American " human interest " news they are giving them what they want ; ( 2 ) only two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States ; ( 3 ) only two have men in both New York and Washington ? all the rest have their full-time men in New York ; ( 4 ) one large London daily , the Daily Herald , has no correspondent at all in the United States ; ( 5 ) Reuters , the big British news agency , has 23 men in New York , only five of whom are covering general news ; ( 6 ) news from America goes through some rather partial editing in London offices ; ( 7 ) New York news , which breaks after 7 p.m. , often only makes the next day 's British evening papers , so that morning papers treat it briefly on the ground that it is old . Thus the technical background of British presentation of American news . Planning also reveals something of the political background , " It has been widely felt that in the past few months events , speeches , and newspaper comment , suggesting that the United States might help or fight for Great Britain in a European war have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the isolationist movement has been underestimated . " We are getting to the root of the matter . If Planning had supported this statement with details they could have drawn on some rich documentation . The most striking example of this political treatment of American news is the coverage on September 12th of Mr. Roosevelt 's statement , at Hyde Park . Mr. Roosevelt denied that there was a " moral unity " between the three democracies ( after certainly giving this impression in his speeches over the past year ) and that anyone who said so was " 100 per cent wrong . " This was an important statement and big news . It was so reported in the American press . It is beside the point that months later Mr. Roosevelt apparently switched hack again . It should have been well reported and even featured in an impartial foreign press . On the contrary , the London Times , on September 12th gave this garbled account , crowded in the bottom of a dispatch from their Washington correspondent , " Meanwhile President Roosevelt was speeding toward the bedside of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him yesterday 's assurance that this country was not morally aligned with any nation in what was called the Hitler movement . " This obviously makes no sense . The Daily Telegraph gave a more intelligible account of the matter , but under the misleading headline , " Roosevelt 's Anxiety Over Situation . " This account ended with a reference to another article on " American Defense Speed-up , " and was flanked by a picture of Ambassador Kennedy entering the door of 10 Downing Street , preceded by the Prime Minister 's cat . A very pretty piece of news deception . The rest of the big daily press ? News Chronicle , Daily Herald , Daily Mail , and Daily Express either ignored the matter or played it down . No wonder that the man in the street remained unaware of this important event . Another case . In October , 1938 , the people of the United States and the Government felt keen disillusion with Munich and the policy of the British and French Governments . Isolation was gaining strength . On October 20th the United Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York Herald Tribune , " America 's foreign policy has definitely swung from its old east-west course to a line running north and south , a high member of President Roosevelt 's official family said to-day . The Administration leader revealed that the future foreign policy of the United States would be based on an All-American Axis and interest , but not active participation in European affairs . . . . U. S. will be , he inferred , more or less in the role of a spectator . " This represented an important shift ( however temporary it later proved ) in American policy . It came from a " high member of Mr. Roosevelt 's official family " who was unofficially said to be Mr. Hull himself . It should have been news for the British public . Yet only the News Chronicle covered it adequately . The Daily Express played it down and the Daily Herald gave it a few lines . The Times , the Daily Telegraph , and the Daily Mail completely ignored it . Again , the British press in April , 1939 , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind , Mr. Chamberlain 's apparent shift in policy , the seizure of Albania , etc. ? a true crisis month . On April 14th Reuters sent a dispatch to London reporting a stormy day in the U. S. Senate with Senator George delivering a personal rebuke to the President for his " alarmist " statements on foreign affairs and Senators Reynolds , Bone ( a New Dealer ) , and Vandenberg joining in criticism of the Administration 's foreign policy . It rated a prominent place on the first page of the New York Times . The six big London dailies all but ignored the story ; only two mentioned it at all and those with short accounts well played down . One London news-behind-the-news weekly , of small circulation , called attention to this . On April 16th I noticed a line of newspaper posters on a railing . They ran , " Neutrality Ends , " " American Isolation Ends , " " America Rejects Isolation . " I discovered that these scareheads referred to President Roosevelt 's speech to the board of the Pan-American Union , devoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great stretching of the interpretation could not justify such headlines . At this time American neutrality hearings were proceeding before the Congressional Committee . The tenor of the London press obviously led the average reader to believe that the neutrality law was all but repealed . About the same time at a news-reel theater I saw a shot of Mr. Stimson making a plea for American intervention in European affairs . There were no shots of the isolationists who also appeared before the committee . Other sins of commission and omission : Reports of the penetration of the Axis into South America arc often given considerable play in British papers , on the implicit theory that every such victory draws America out of isolation . After Munich one would never guess from reading the British press that Mr. Chamberlain 's appeasement policy was unpopular in the United States . The reports of the various results of the Gallup poll attract little notice in the British press ( as Planning pointed out ) , except when results seem to indicate a drift away from isolation . Only one paper printed the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the United States favored Republican Spain against Franco ( most papers were , like Chamberlain , noninterventionist ) . London papers usually report only the American press comments on world events from New York papers , although the Washington Post ( strongly interventionist ) has recently been getting much attention . In justice to the British press , there arc some exceptions . The New York correspondent of the Manchester Guardian does send good , impartial news and a well-rounded picture of the American scene . The New York correspondent of the Sunday Times ( London ) has frequently warned Sunday Times readers that American opinion travels slowly away from isolation . The intellectual weeklies , New Statesman and The Spectator , have published some excellent analyses of these questions from Americans in the United States . But these papers and magazines reach only a small class . Even this class ? the intellectuals ? displays a surprising ignorance of the character of American isolationist sentiment . For instance , most British intellectuals with whom I have talked know nothing of the economic philosophy supporting isolation of such prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Jerome Frank . One well-informed British writer who has visited the States expressed great surprise when I told him that numbers of American intellectuals , mentioning Charles Beard among others , were isolationists . This type of person believes American isolationists are either demagogic politicians or unenlightened peasants from the Middle West . In short , from top to botton , Englishmen are conditioned to minimize the isolationist strength in the United States and to expect that the United States will come in on their side on the outbreak of war . A word about the situation across the Channel . Here too the French Government gives the lead and the press eagerly follows . The coverage of American news in the French press is less satisfactory than in the British , from every point of view . Not only is this coverage scant and the news angled , but the French papers lack a certain tact evident in the British press . No British paper , for instance , would print the following headline as the ParisMidi did , " An American Broadcasting Station Invites French Propaganda ? Give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paris Does Not Reply . " If the American station did get " propaganda " finally , I wonder how able it was ; for a year ago American newspaper circles in Paris were saying that the French Government had put up 300,000 francs as subsidy for a magazine to be circulated both in France and the United States . The magazine was so blatantly propagandist that even French papers criticized it . The French agents went to America to arrange for mass distribution , but met with a firm refusal to handle from a large American newsstand distribution company . But the very lack of finesse which spoils the game with Americans makes its impression on Frenchmen . During the critical days of early September , 1938 , the French press neglected no opportunity to suggest that the United States would line up with France in case of war . In a speech at Pointe de Grave on September 5th Ambassador Bullitt said , " As I said on February 22 , 1937 , ' If war breaks out in Europe no one can say whether or not the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That evening Cc Soir ( Left paper ) featured this speech with the following headlines , " M. Bullitt Celebrates the Entente of the Democracies . " Next morning both Right wing and Left wing papers joined in the chorus . Le Jour ( Right ) said , " Americawill not wait two years , nor even two months to come to our aid . " Figaro ( Right ) : " American opinion sooner or later will take fire at a single shot , if war breaks out , on the theme of liberty of conscience or on the theme of racisme . " L'Epuque ( Right ) : " From young America to old Europe and even from ancestral China comes a wind of heroism and arises a fierce determination which nothing can break . " L'Humanit ? ( Communist ) : " Hiller , if he makes war would have against him the United States of America , with their formidable economic armament potential and their immense reserves . " A Catholic paper , Le Temps Present , said , " As for the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are with us morally , as M. Bullitt underlined , it may well be that they will intervene . " On September 10th , that excellent correspondent Roussy de Sales ( pseudonym ? Jacques Fransal6s ) of the ParisSoir and Paris-Midi interrupted this chorus with the news of Roosevelt 's backdown , which was printed in the Paris-Soir . This newspaper , however , essayed to interpret the news for its readers , thus : " We must not take a black view of Roosevelt 's words . That statement is no doubt necessary for domestic politics . The president 's effort to clarify public opinion is measured , prudent . . . . There is no ideological crusade . There are the interests and essential aims of the United States , France , and England . On that base rests the union which will necessarily carry the united action of the three countries . " The itore ( Left ) printed the Havas Agency 's dispatch on the matter with these words in big type : " Include the United States in a front of France and England against Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor their substance , but turned a truncated story into the following , " Useful Clarification ? American Policy Remains Faithful to the Principles Enunciated by M. Cordell Huff " It would have taken an unusually well-informed and critical reader to perceive cause for alarm in such dispatches . Since the September crisis the same deception has been going on ? with variations . It is commonly believed in press circles in Paris that Havas ordered its correspondents following Munich not to send any news tending to give the impression that America disapproved of Munich , nor any news emphasizing the strength of isolation . True or not , this impression is certainly borne out by newspaper coverage of American events . The French press on these matters followed much the same line as the British ? with one exception . Roosevelt 's alleged remark , " America 's frontier is on the Rhine , " was played down in the big popular press which is Right wing . ( The Left press , on the other hand , played it up . ) Why ? The shapers of French foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . A statement that would have served French policy in September did not appear so useful in February . But to-day France has returned to an anti-German policy . Accordingly , the press again features every detail which might conceivably give the impression ? " Amhique avec nous . " The average Frenchman , like any other newspaper reader , gets a net impression from a news story and overlooks significant omissions . Thus on Memorial Day this year at a ceremony at Garches , Ambassador Bullitt confined himself to lauding members of the Lafayette Escadrille , saying among other things that Norman Prince and other leaders of the Escadrille were " three years ahead of the majority of their countrymen " Reading this in connection with another speech by Dr. Gros , American representing the Escadrille , who said , " the sentiments of duty toward humanity . . . unite France and the United States in a sacred alliance against aggression and injustice . ? to-day America is much more prepared than it was in 1914 to express its friendship in terms of immediate aid . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he wanted to draw from these statements ? There is no Institute of Public Opinion in France , and American observers in France believe that any attempt to sample French public opinion and draw conclusions therefrom would be dangerous . It would be difficult , they feel , to take into account , mathematically , the individuality of the French , certain temperamental characteristics , and their complicated politics . It is impossible , therefore , to chart a graph of public opinion . But extensive conversations with French people of various classes give me the impression that they believe the United States will enter a war on the side of France , and immediately . This impression , I find , is shared by other correspondents in France . Apparently , the press and the politicians have done their work well . IV The United States is by no means an innocent victim of this British and French propaganda . The United States Government bears at least a part of the responsibility . For the present Administration in Washington itself has engaged in propaganda . Since October , 1937 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Administration has definitely entered the field of foreign propaganda . He has had a new foreign policy to sell , not only to his own people , but to foreign peoples . This foreign policy may or may not serve the best interests of America . Be that as it may . But from the President 's point of view these interests , as he sees them , will be best furthered if Britain and France take a strong stand against the aggressive policies of Germany , Italy , and Japan . Why not , therefore , ginger up Britain and France ? Viewed from this angle , what are the speeches of Messrs . Roosevelt , Hull , Ickes , Woodring , Kennedy , and Bullitt but propaganda for the new foreign policy of the United States ? Certainly the speeches of Ambassadors Kennedy and Bullitt , delivered on the spot , constitute extremely potent propaganda for the " Roosevelt line " within these countries . In fact , the President himself seems to have employed some real technical knowledge of British press conditions to exploit his point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least has grasped the time factor on publicity in Europe , for advances of his big speeches are almost invariably issued in time to reach London by 6 p.m. which gives ample time for the morning papers to handle the news properly . This has undoubtedly played a great part in securing such excellent publicity for Mr. Roosevelt 's recent speeches in the British press . " Has this barrage succeeded ? It is difficult to tell . It is possible that Mr. Roosevelt 's propaganda has had an effect contrary to what he seems to want . For , overconfidence in America 's assistance in case of war may have prevented Britain and France from taking diplomatic and military steps which would have strengthened their position vis- ? - vis Germany and Italy . In this case he may have played into the hands of the Tories who prefer the deliberate " Wait-and-See " policy . On the other hand , he seems to have strengthened the morale of the forces within Britain and France which demand a strong policy . But since these forces in Britain are the Liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy may have merely convinced the already convinced . In any case , few politicians in Britain and France to whom I have talked appear to be under any illusions about the game which Mr. Roosevelt has been playing . The greater part of the American press , whether consciously or not , has played in with this Rooseveltian propaganda . For the American press gives support to this line in general , however much many papers may oppose active American participation in European affairs . This is popular , for apparently American opinion dislikes the dictatorships as much as Mr. Roosevelt does . No one can avoid noticing that the American press tends to emphasize news from Europe indicating that Germany and Italy are breaking down internally . It also tends to overemphasize the strength of the forces in Britain and France which are alleged to want a strong stand against the dictatorships . On arrival in New York last December , I was surprised at the space devoted to Mr. Anthony Eden , then visiting in the States . It seemed out of all proportion to what European observers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dell , veteran correspondent of the Manchester Guardian , then in New York , was similarly surprised , so much so that he wrote an article in The Nation in an attempt to puncture what he considered the Eden legend in America . In short , the greater part of the American people want the British and French to take a strong line against Hitler and Mussolini and welcome news which tends to show that they are doing so . And naturally , American papers tend to tell their readers what the latter would like to hear . Thus we have a very confusing picture of mutual understanding among the three democracies . British and French propaganda in the United States . British and French propaganda about the United States in Britain and France . American propaganda about America in Britain and France . American propaganda about Britain and France in America . Wo n't these conflicting winds one day , under some extraordinary barometric conditions , produce some very bad weather ? If all three countries were totalitarian states with the press regimented , they would run little danger from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some intelligence of one another 's actual policies must sooner or later be acknowledged with consequent disillusioning effects on public opinion . While the United States may go to the aid of the European democracies in case of war , this may not come to pass as soon as the British and French people expect . It should be remembered that it took two months in 1917 , after breaking relations with the Central Powers , for the United States to declare war . After all , the present Neutrality Act , hailed as virtually repealed in London in April , remains on the statute books at present writing . Here lies the dangerous time-lag . One has only to recall the recriminations of the British and French against the United States during the last war because they clung to neutrality for two and one-half years . One can imagine how much greater recriminations would follow if America stayed aloof , even for a short time , in view of the impressions regarding American participation broadcast in Britain and France . Even if the United States responded promptly and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterness following such a conflict . Britain and France stand to lose much more in man power and wealth from such a war . America may place a high value on her sacrifices . But Britain and France , bled white , would be inclined to minimize America 's sacrifices and emphasize her profits . The whole history of the debts question and the " Who won the War " controversy in the twenties foreshadows this . Conversely , suppose Britain and France continue to appease , or participate in some climactic European appeasement settlement . Then the United States , with its hope of an Anglo-French strong stand , will react in disillusion . It will need no straw votes to tell the story of American bitterness towards democracies which fail to defend democracy . The attitude of American opinion after Munich makes this evident . The future , then , of understanding among the democracies looks dark . But is there , then , no hope ? . Hardly from the Governments ; for the politicians ' intricate game knows no code . But the Fourth Estate , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are those of the best standards of the democracy so often invoked in the political maneuverings . The press of the three countries has here an opportunity to fulfill its best mission . There are plenty of new developments that would make a new and honest policy in the press easy . Transatlantic air mail should allow quick and cheap transmission of thorough background articles in a press now overburdened by the cost of cable tolls . The new technic of sampling public opinion offers an easy and accurate method of succinctly describing the reactions of at least the American people . Also , what with the comings and goings across the Atlantic of propagandists , why not an exchange of editorial staffs between British and American papers ( a suggestion which Planning makes ) ? But all this would remain superfluous unless newspapers courageously defy Government influence ( several British papers have ) and an even greater influence , i.e. ? " what the public wants . " Putting behind them all wishful thinking , newspapers in the democracies can present a clear and impartial picture of what each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , doing . They would , thereby , go far toward converting the politicians ' shibboleth of democracy into an actuality.                     