@@220680

In Maestro Giorgio Polacco the Chicago Civic Opera had from 1920 until last year an able musical director . But many a Chicagoan believed that the Company 's activities-the long-delayed premiere of Hamilton Forrest 's Camille , for example-were hampered by Maestro Polacco 's domestic difficulties with his wife . Edith Mason , an excellent soprano . Married twice before , Soprano Mason became his wife in 1919 , divorced him in 1928 charging cruelty . " This , " he said , " is certainly a dreadful blow to me . " Then she married Dr. Maurice A. Bernstein . Chicago surgeon . Last October it was made known she would sing no more with the Company and Maestro Polacco resigned in December because of ill health . Last month , divorced once more , Soprano Mason remarried him , and Dr. Bernstein said that " being married to Miss Mason had been like being married to him as well . " <P> " Vice president in charge of opera " is the title of the company 's newest executive , oldtime Basso Herbert Witherspoon , 57 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Samuel Insull . Clearly indicated was a trend away from " impresarioism " and temperament . In 1916 Harold Fowler McCormick , then president , appointed Herbert Morris Johnson as business manager . Yet despite his vigilance there followed such disastrous seasons as that of 1921-22 when , with Mary Garden as general director , the company performed brilliantly but turned in a whopping deficit . Maestro Polacco is an alien . Said Samuel Insull last week : " What I regard as a most important qualification of Mr. Witherspoon is that he is an American and has a fundamental understanding of the desires and hopes of the people of Chicago in regard to opera , and that all his life he has been a good citizen , interested in all the affairs of the country as well as in music . " <P> Tall , imposing as a board chairman of the old school , is Basso Witherspoon . His gallant mustachios have greyed in later years , lost something of the grand sweep which might have enabled him in his Wagnerian days at the Metropolitan Opera ( 1908-17 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Die Walkre ) and Hagen ( Die Gtterdmmerung ) with little extra adornment . Buffalo-born , great-grandson of a signer of the Declaration of Independence . Yale graduate ( 1895 ) , he studied architecture before becoming a famed singer . After leaving the Metropolitan he did Wartime Red Cross work , then taught singing for eight years . He became president of Chicago Musical College in 1925 , resigned in 1929 to establish his own studio . He is founder of the Bohemians ( Chicago musicians club ) and president of the Chicago Concert Band Association . In his new job he will see to personnel , production , choice of operas ( but selection of next year 's repertoire has already been made ) . Business Manager Johnson , elevated to be vice president in charge of business ( only ) , will manage finances and the post season tours , until this year administered by Clark A. Shaw .                     