@@487431

The Shape of Things WHY DID HITLER ORDER THE SCUTTLING OF the Graf Spee ? It is true the action is in accordance with a rather petulant German tradition notably illustrated at Scapa Flow , but it hardly measures up to the Nazi conception of the heroic life . Are Wotan 's halls open to those who disdain battle when the odds are heavily against them ? The incident might be easier to explain by reference to Hitlerian psychology rather than Hitlerian philosophy . For the latter was a pretty badly damaged craft last August when Hitler decided to scuttle it and seek safety first via the Russian pact . From the angle of domestic propaganda , the Graf Spee 's suicide may be less awkward to handle than its internment or its sinking in battle . The Germans are a literal people , and had the pocket cruiser gone down fighting , however gloriously , it would have been difficult to convince them that the German navy had not suffered defeat . But the scuttle can perhaps be pictured as a cunning maneuver to rob the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be said that Uruguayan insistence on the ship 's departure deprived her of a fair chance . So far as Winston Churchill is concerned , we have no doubt he is well satisfied . His main object , which was to put a dangerous commerce raider out of the way , has been accomplished fairly economically . If the Graf Spee had put up another fight , the end would no doubt have been the same , but more valuable lives might have been lost and valuable ships damaged . ANGLO - FRENCH ECONOMIC COOPERATION has been greatly strengthened by the new agreement for the pooling of financial resources and the stabilizing of currencies . Until six months after the peace treaty the rate of exchange is to be pegged at 176% francs to the pound , which means that francs can be freely used throughout the British Empire , and sterling throughout the French Empire , without any exchange risk . It is , in effect , a monetary union of the world 's two largest empires which should do much to assist the most economical use of Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any foreign loans which may become available and for constant consultation on the employment of gold and dollar resources . This may lead to steps to bring the official and unofficial exchange rates between the dollar and the Allied currencies into a closer relation . At present there is a gap of about 10 cents between the Bank of England 's quotation for dollars and the market rate in New York  --  a discrepancy which is a definite hindrance to trade . An important feature of the new Anglo-French agreement is an undertaking not to impose fresh restrictions on each other 's imports either for protective or exchange reasons . Since the economies of the two countries are complementary to a considerable extent , there is much to be said for a mutual abolition of import duties . Such ' a move would certainly be a great help in holding down the cost of living in both countries , and by bringing price levels into a closer relationship , would make the maintenance of the pegged exchange rate easier . However , the war strain will probably have to increase a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . THE PROMISE TO OPEN THE YANGTZE RIVER is clearly a stage play on the part of the Japanese to persuade the United States not to impose an embargo at the expiration of the trade treaty next month . In itself it is a meaningless gesture since all trade in the occupied areas of China moves through Japanese-controlled monopolies which have the full backing of the Japanese military forces . Foreign exchange also is under the complete control of the Japanese authorities . During the next few weeks we may expect a certain amount of trade to develop for reasons of political exigency . But as long as the military occupation continues , such trade will be entirely on the sufferance of the Japanese and can be cut off at any moment . In commenting on the renewed conversations between Ambassador Grew and Foreign Minister Nomura the Japanese press continues to stress the possibility of settling outstanding incidents between the United States and Japan but contains no hint of a fundamental change in policy which would serve as a safeguard ' against future incidents . Recent dispatches from Shanghai anticipate early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tientsin , long under international administration , and suggest that new incidents are almost inevitable . The Chinese victories at Kaifeng , Nanchang , and in the vicinity of Nanning may do more to soften Japanese policy than any spontaneous change of heart at Tokyo . Published weekly and copyright , 1939 , In the U. S. A. by The Nation , Inc 65 Fifth Avenue . New York , N.Y . Entered as second-class matter , - December 18 , 1897 , at the Post Office of New York , N. Y. under the act of March 3 , 1897. 694 THE PLIGHT OF THE SPANISH REFUGEES IN France has been rendered graver than ever by the French government 's action in raiding the S. E. R. E. , the official Spanish agency for aiding the refugees to emigrate to foreign countries . This leaves them dependent on immediate foreign aid if any appreciable number are to escape the Franco terror . Already 360,000 of the 500,000 persons who fled before Franco last spring have been forced back into Spain . Others are being returned daily . Most of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , women , and children . But nearly all of the remaining 140,000 are former militiamen who on return must face a Franco firing squad or a slower death in a concentration camp . It is estimated that at least one-third of them will meet immediate execution . Among the few children who remain are some score who were injured when their frantic mothers threw them through the windows of a moving train rather than see them returned to Spain . To make matters worse for those still in France , the French government has seized some of the equipment and supplies sent the refugees from abroad . It has forced Spaniards who had settled in villages throughout France back into concentration camps , where few have adequate clothes for winter . Blankets are non-existent in some of these camps . Food is universally bad . Meanwhile , across the border the terror continues. - The press of the provincial towns regularly publishes lengthy lists of the executed . In welcome contrast to the usual news we learn from Rome that the death sentences of two Basque priests have been commuted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports that fifty priests are being held in a single prison  --  the Carmona Prison in Andalucia . Thus is Franco preserving Christianity in Spain . * SO FAR THE LINE FOR 1940 IS FORMING definitely on the right ? Dewey , Vandenberg , Taft , Willkie , McNutt , and now Garner . Mr. Garner announced ? last week-end , with the modesty becoming a Texas Coolidge , that he would accept the nomination for President . At the same time he said he would " make no effort to control any delegates . The people should decide . " This is good homespun talk which will not of course keep Mr. Garner from trying to control as many delegates as possible to the end that the people should decide on a conservative Democrat , preferably from Texas , with the " common sense " to dismantle the New Deal . * " DIRTY BUSINESS " WAS JUSTICE HOLMES 'S term for wire-tapping by prosecuting agencies . Two new decisions by the Supreme Court make it harder than ever for the government to indulge in this kind of lawlessness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roberts , forbid even the indirect use of evidence obtained ' y wireThe NATION tapping . The case involved in the first decision has an interesting history . In 1937 the Supreme Court , speaking through Justice Roberts , ordered a new trial for a group of alleged Puget Sound liquor smugglers on the ground that evidence obtained from tapped wires had been used for conviction . The same men appealed to the courts again on the ground that in the new trial conviction was obtained by the indirect use of evidence secured by wire-tapping . Justice Frankfurter , for the court , ordered a new trial in which the government must prove that the evidence in question was obtained independently . - To permit indirect-use of evidence illegally obtained , Justice Frankfurter said , would be to " stultify " the law . Justice McReynolds , last of the " rugged individualists " on the court , dissented . He was of the majority in the five-tofour decision in 1928 which permitted wire-tapping . Justice McReynolds is probably better prepared than we are to explain how one can be ruggedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government invasion of the privacy of telephone and telegraph wires . * THURMAN ARNOLD AND MAYOR LAGUARDIA should be interested in the Supreme Court 's order affirming the decision of the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in the Zirkin case . An A. F. of L. union obtained an injunction forbidding a C. I. 0 . union to picket a concern with which the former had a contract . But the higher courts agreed in voiding the injunction on the ground that a jurisdictional strike is a " labor dispute " within the meaning of the Norris-LaGuardia Anti-Injunction Act . Mayor LaGuardia has denied that such strikes are protected by the act he sponsored . The language of the act , quoted in last week 's Nation , seemed clear enough to the Supreme Court , as it does to us . The decision should also give pause to Thurman Arnold , for in his Indianapolis letter he included jurisdictional strikes among the labor-union practices which have " no reasonable connections " with the legitimate objectives of labor unions . He proposes to use the anti-trust laws against these practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtain injunctions under the anti-trust laws against jurisdictional strikes , and the court 's reasoning will make it more difficult to use the anti-trust laws in any form against them . Finally there is a moral here for the A. F. of L. How can it consistently fight the menace of the labor injunction and at the same time try to use that weapon against the C. I. 0 . ? Had the A. F. of L. succeeded in the Zirkin case , the precedent would have been a boomerang. * IN RELEASING J. B. MATTHEWS 'S " EXPOSE " of the consumer movement , Martin Dies enabled his pet investigator to fight a private feud on public time . But that is n't the whole story of the disgraceful episode . December 23 , 1939 There is increasing evidence that in their foray against honest and legitimate consumer groups Dies and Matthews are acting as " transmission belts " for ' William Randolph Hearst and a number of leading American advertising and commercial interests . Last August the Federal Trade Commission issued a thirteen-page complaint against Mr. Hearst 's Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute , " which places its seal of approval on advertisements appearing in the magazine , is something less than scientific . It enumerated a host of advertisements approved by the institute which were a blend of half-truths and whole lies . J. B. Matthews 's report , issued while the FTC hearings were in progress , specifically cited the prosecution of Good Housekeeping as part of the " Communist " attempt to undermine the sacred institution of advertising and thereby wreck the profit system . The Hearst Daily Mirror boasted of its part in " helping Mr. Dies to uncover communism " in the consumer movement . All this is on the public record . Far more significant is the charge made over the air by Drew Pearson and confirmed in Space and Time , a news letter for advertising men , that on November 30 Richard Berlin , general manager of Hearst publications , George Sokolsky , F. J. Schlink , and representatives of two leading national advertisers , meeting privately , heard J. B. Matthews read his report on consumer organization . They greeted it enthusiastically , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the session emphasized that ad- , vertising interests should bring pressure on " recalcitrant " sections of the press to insure sympathetic publicity for the " expose . " The subsequent press coverage of the report is now history . Who owns Martin Dies ? THE LA FOLLETTE COMMITTEE 'S HEARINGS on California 's migratory labor situation have been ignored in the press in a way that contrasts sharply with the space given the Dies and the NLRB hearings . Yet of the three the La Follette committee has produced the most substantial and most sensational testimony . It has been established that as a result of the activities of the Associated Farmers , there have been far more violence and more extensive infringement of civil liberties in California than in any other agricultural region in the country . This is of particular significance in view of the fact that the Associated . Farmers voted at their recent convention to extend their organization throughout the country . An Associated Farmers of Minnesota has already been formed , and plans have been announced for organizing in twelve other states . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the University of California , presented to the committee a masterly analysis of the agricultural-labor problem in California and other parts of the country . He demon-695 strated statistically that the problem was not one of the relationship between a typical farmer and his hired men . Recent years have seen the development of a group of " farm operators " who are not farmers in the traditional sense of the word . They are rather farm employers who have introduced large-scale production in agriculture at the expense of a submerged class of migratory workers . Although California has gone farther than any other state in this direction , there is abundant evidence that it is merely providing a preview of events that may soon rock the entire country . EARL BROWDER 'S ARREST ON CHARGES OF using a false passport now seems to have been the signal for launching a widespread attack aagainst the Communist Party rather than the isolated prosecution of an individual who happens also to be head of a political movement . Jack Stachel , Communist trade-union leader , is being sought as a passport-fraud witness ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party , has been arrested on charges of conspiracy after a melodramatic cross-country chase ; and Harry Gannes , foreign-affairs expert of the Daily Worker , has been indicted for using a false passport . The case against Stachel and Dozenberg is yet to be revealed , but that against Gannes is not impressive . He is accused of obtaining a passport fraudulently in 1938 , the fraud consisting in the fact that his application failed to mention a passport he obtained in his own name in 1926 and one he obtained for China in 1932 under - the name of Jacobs . The statute of limitations , of course , bars prosecution of the 1932 offense . In the case of Gannes as in that of Browder the failure to admit use of a false passport is being used to circumvent the statute of limitations . A more basic question is whether these prosecutions may not also become a means of circumscribing political liberty for Communists or those suspected of sympathy with them  --  possibly a very large number , as the Dies committee 's generous use of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WORKING , AND health conditions in the mining area of Missouri , Oklahoma , and Kansas , recently published by the Tri-State Survey Committee , shows that one does not have to go to the Dust Bowl or the valleys of California to find men and women living on a " Grapes of Wrath " standard . Workers in the area are largely descendants of English and Scotch-Irish pioneers with roots deep in the country . The housing conditions of theseAmericans is incredibly bad . Out of 4,867 dwellings investigated , no fewer than .3,541 were classified as unfit for human habitation . Many are mere tar-paper shacks of two or three rooms . Inside plumbing and central heat are almost non-exist- 696 ent . Sanitary facilities are seriously deficient ' both in the homes and in the mines . As a result of such conditions , ill health is widespread . The most serious problem is the prevalence of tuberculosis , which originates as silicosis contracted in the lead and zinc mines . The tuberculosis death rate is about three times the national average . Although the mine operators have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation shows that their efforts have been too narrow in scope . Public-health education and facilities are hopelessly inadequate . Several previous investigations in this area have disclosed the same appalling conditions . How long will action be confined lo reports ? CHARGES MADE BY JOHN L. SPIVAK AGAINST Father Coughlin in a series of articles in the New Masses warrant thorough investigation by the Department of Justice . Spivak accuses Coughlin of diverting tax-exempt funds to political uses , of collecting money through the mail under false pretenses , and of filing false statements with the postal authorities about the circulation of his Social Justice . Documents purporting to support these charges have not only been incorporated in the articles but have been submitted to the Department of Justice . Thus far the department has made no response . But Social Justice itself has responded with a hysterical and inflammatory attack on the New Masses editors , carefully avoiding any discussion of the evidence . This may satisfy the Father 's frenzied followers , but it should not satisfy the Federal Bureau of Investigation , which in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General 's silence is no tribute to the political integrity of his department . Irony at Geneva P ROCEEDINGS at Geneva last week were steeped in the spirit of irony . The League of Nations , waked from a long sleep by the Russian invasion of Finland , took more rapid and decisive action against a breach of the Covenant than it had ever previously attempted . For the first time it exercised its power of expulsion and against a state whose representative had argued eloquently year after year for effective measures to halt aggression . Now these rhetorical grenades were picked up by countries which on former occasions , when League aid was invoked , had been content to stall and compromise , and flung back in Moscow 's face . For all that , the verdict of the League was a just one . Russia 's aggression against Finland is as inexcusable as Italy 's rape of Ethiopia ; indeed , more inexcusable because of the ideals the Soviets once championed and still claim to represent . In one of its earliest proclamations , on The NATION November 7 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace - without annexations , which it defined as follows : By annexation or seizure of foreign territory the government . . . understands any incorporation of a small and weak nationality by a large and " powerful state without a clear , definite , and voluntary expression of agreement and desire by the weak nationality , regardless of the time when such forcible incorporation took place . . . . If any nation whatsoever is detained by force within the boundaries of a certain state and . . . is not given the right to determine the form of its state life by free voting and completely free from the presence of troops of the annexing or stronger state and without the least pressure , then the adjoining of that nation by the stronger state , is annexation . Stalin can not forget that he once subscribed to such a policy , and his consciousness of guilt is betrayed by his attempts to cover an imperialist adventure with such ragged shifts as the Terijoki " people 's government . " Soviet hypocrisy does not make League hypocrisy any more palatable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . An active part in the condemnation of Russia was played by states which have not hitherto been conspicuously active in promoting League principles and in any case are far enough removed from Russia to make moral courage cheap . The pitiable nervousness of the small states neighboring either Russia or Germany was proof of the demoralization of ' Europe and the belatedness of the League 's effort to take a stand for the rights of small nations . Between these two groups the representatives of Britain and France , the only two great powers remaining at Geneva , steered an uneasy course but finally agreed to support the resolution calling for expulsion . However , a curious procedure was adopted to safeguard the chins of those countries within Russian reach , and the report drafted by the Committee of Thirteen , - with several members abstaining , was adopted in the Assembly , not by a roll-call vote , but by the failure of any delegate to rise in opposition . The actual position as regards assistance to Finland is little altered by the League 's action . The resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , and non-members as well , to render what aid they could to the Finns . It will be interesting to see how much Argentina , Portugal , and other states which were especially vociferous in condemning Russia will do toward implementing this pledge of help . Meanwhile , there are signs that the invasion of Finland may provide a cue for yet another peace offensive by Berlin . A Nazi plea to halt the war in order to stem the red tide would undoubtedly meet a response in varied quarters . In the Allied countries , and still more in the neutral states , there are men of property who would forgive Hitler everything if he turned his back on Stalin . 