@@153274

BEING LITTLE IN CAMBRIDGE WHEN EVERYONE ELSE WAS BIG-Eleanor Hallowell Abbott-Appleton-Century ( $2.50 ) . <P> Contemporary reminiscences of childhood , appearing in more autobiographical novels than most readers would care to study , usually present a grim picture of the years of innocence , attach dubious value to fabled and Freudian childish joys . Last week a quaint book written in the mood of a less self-conscious age gave a lively account of a happy girlhood in one of the most repressed and inhibited environments in the U. S-the household of a Cambridge clergyman in the 1870 's . Eleanor Abbott 's grandfather was the prolific author of the Rollo books . Her father was first a Congregationalist and later an Episcopal minister . " Before I knew him he had been a Congregationalist , " writes his daughter . In the Abbott household conversations turned largely on pious and literary matters , with the three children reduced to boredom when they were not afraid of saying something wrong . Largely a record of the wrong things that Eleanor said , Being Little in Cambridge begins with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her birth , cheerfully described it to some ecclesiastical visitors . It proceeds lightly to a few glimpses of Cambridge neighbors , including James Russell Lowell , Long fellow , Howells , Ole Bull , who played at a fair the Abbott children gave , recounts an abundance of childish pranks and fears with great relish . <P> Eleanor 's father would occasionally observe that it would be nice to be struck by lightning while reading the Bible . He said he would rather bury someone than marry him . Frightened and distressed at this cheery conversation , Eleanor and her sister were even more put out when their father , desiring to warn them against sin , would remark dolefully that he would rather see them in their grave than doing any one of a great number of things- using rouge , receiving the attentions of boys , kissing , being bad generally . Finally they came to believe that their father would rather see them in their grave than doing anything . They studied books calculated to deepen their " modesty of mien and deportment . " Learning that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " if such modesty was departed from , Eleanor could only picture a raging beast in terms of a dog she had once seen go mad , was consequently very modest lest she send the baker 's boy into a similar convulsion . <P> Not entirely given over to such pleasantries , Being Little in Cambridge When Everyone Else Was Big also touches on the death of the Abbott children 's mother , their father 's second marriage and their struggles with their stepmother . Occasionally , like Clarence Day 's Life With Father , it suggests that domestic repression and tyrannies created harrowing situations scarcely compatible with the light , affectionate tone in which they are described . When a boy walked home from school with Eleanor it was classified as an " attention " and one of the things her father would rather see her in her grave than see her receive . Eleanor was so concerned she decided to run away , become a missionary and eat cannibals.                     