@@431098

 | The America of the Intellectuals Condensed from The Saturday Evening Post Gilbert Seldes F OR TWENTY YEARS the American intellectual has sabotaged his country and for twenty years his country has praised him and paid him as if he were a great public benefactor . Today that sabotage takes anew and unpleasant turn . The object is no longer to make America a colony of Europe in the arts and the " soul , " but to compel America to take the political and economic medicine with which Europe is desperately trying to cure her desperate ills . The complaining critic who sneered at America in the 1920 's because we had no culture is now hacking at America because we still have a democracy . I am not going to rehearse the details of the bill of complaint against America . In general , we have heard from our novelists , poets and dramatists that life in America is utterly materialistic , careless of " the finer things , " lacking in color and variety and the picturesque , ugly and dull and devoted to money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the H. L. Mencken of Americana , and the Eugene O'Neill of Marco Polo ; it covers the 30 young intellectuals who repudiated America around 1922 ; it covers Ludwig Lewisohn 's lamentations and Theodore Dreiser 's rumblings , and a score of belittling biographers.  | The critics ignore the fact that Europe 's culture results from a thousand years of life which differs in every essential respect from the 300 years of American life , and that it would be unnatural for us to be what Europe is . It was in the 19th century that the United States as we know it today was shaped and colored , was colonized to its western frontier and exploited , was given its experience of civil war , came through it , and entered on its first phase as a world power . The critics forget that in the years between i82o and 1931 , while America was not creating sonatas and mural decorations and cathedrals , we were absorbing a foreign-born population of nearly so , ooo , ooo souls , greater than the entire population of all France - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neglecting our contributions to world literature a little , we were hacking our way through wilderness to conquer in a single century six times as much territory as France and England and Germany and Italy together had brought under cultivation in a thousand years . And while these two colossal enterprises were proceeding , we were not only carrying forth an experiment in political democracy and creating a comparatively high standard of living , but were withstanding the convulsive shocks of the change from farming and crafts to large-scale agriculture and industry . All these magnificent and terrifying events took place in the one hundred decisive years of our history . It is true that in the confusion we were a little cavalier to culture and the arts . The critic again forgets that nearly everything he admires in Europe is the product of past centuries . The lovely inns of England and the quaint alleys of Paris are survivals . The cathedrals , the palaces , the chateaux , the manor halls , the thatched cottages , are all largely the creation of political and economic systems hateful to Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the expense of the many . The dark and unsanitary cottages which excite raptures in tourists are visible evidences of the hard , bitter lives of the oppressed . Americans are the first people on earth to be allowed infinite hope . It remains fixed in the American mind that an overwhelming majority of the population must have the kind of prosperity which means money to spend freely . A new conception of the way to wealth has gradually arisen in America . Fifty years ago , the yacht of a rich man might represent extortionate rents and subhuman wages ; in i928 , the yacht of the rich man represented profit , possibly , on 20,000 out-  | board motors per month , all bought by the moderately prosperous . The old-style piratical malefactor of great wealth still existed , a hang-over from the past , but the characteristic of the new wealth in America was that it came from mass sales , which meant , in turn , that it depended upon mass incomes . This new idea demands the well-being of the great majority of the citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this idea the critics of America were for the most part totally unconscious . They wanted America to fulfill a destiny more agreeable to the sensitive few . They turned aside from the spectacle of America in the process of being created . They could n't take it . Something too grubby and chaotic , too rude and unsubtle , too vulgar and difficult to suit the artistic temperament was happening : the destruction of a virgin wilderness and the construction of a nation . And the moment America found herself in an economic disaster , these critics raised the cry that America must not solve its own problems in its own way , but must accept from Europe the solution of European problems and impose them on her own . To make sure that we would not escape the malady of Europe , our intellectuals imported all the forms of damnation which Europe had invented . There was the misery preached by Freud , that we were damned generations before we were born ; and there was the fatality preached by Marx , that we were inevitably damned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophies more hostile to the American aspiration . Blindly and childishly , perhaps , Americans stuck to the idea that no one cares what your grandfather was - whether he had fifty million dollars or fifty complexes - and equally to the idea that nothing , except death and taxes , was inevitable . It was against America 's way of producing goods that the critics raised their loudest cry . From the motor industry came two principles : the manufacture of cars on the assembly belt and the payment of wages above the scale , so that workers would have sufficient money to buy the products of industry . The belt system was the principal object of attack from the intellectuals . They made the belt a symbol of human exploitation and satisfied one of their own deep desires - to imagine an American proletariat . The second innovation , being even more significant , escaped the critics entirely . It was , of course , the first time in industry that the inexorable law of supply and demand was thrown out of the window . Five days after Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the  | next street , brought only $2.50 , he had at his command unlimited labor , the supply exceeded the demand , yet the price - the wage - remained at the high level he had announced . The old economics was standing on its head . No one perceived in this revolutionary act the germ of a new idea which linked wages , not to production but to consumption . It was paying a man not merely because he did a certain amount of work but because he had to be provided with money so that he could buy the goods which industry created . It was an attack , r 5 years ahead of time , on the failure of buying power , that dreaded undertow which pulls nations into depressions . The intellectuals , complaining about the ugliness of the old Fords , saw nothing of all this . There you have the profoundest change in American life in generations , and there you have the typical intellectual attitude toward it . The critics also attacked the movies at their most American points . We were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which we fled from the misery of our daily lives . It never occurred to the critics that Americans liked one of Cecil de Mille 's golden bathtubs because they had porcelain tubs themselves and that the public which saw quick and sure success in the pictures was not " compensating " itself for failure , but verifying its own moderate experience of success in life . Nowhere were the critics more oblique to America than in their attack on the happy ending . The happy ending is not an American invention but it does correspond to an aspiration more reasonably held in America than anywhere else . Thwarted and deceived as they have been , as human beings always have been , Americans have passionately clung to belief in it because they never resigned themselves to misery . As an English novelist has said , " People welcome even the most preposterously happy ending not because it is in contrast to the truth as known in their own lives , but because it is true to their unconscious certainty that life is ultimately good . " That life is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nowhere , except in America , has it been universally accepted . Mr. Mencken sneered at American aspirations because he saw " car conductors trying desperately to save up $Soo and start a garage , " not thinking that French or German or English conductors dare not dream of saving $soo and have little chance of starting anything of their own . So American aspirations have been sneered at by the critics . What you do , you do badly ; what you hope , you hope foolishly -  | that is the brief verdict passed on the American people by a jury of its superiors . And by undermining America 's faith in the democratic process , the critics have made the way easier for the advocates of those other European inventions , Communism and Fascism . Europe is a pathological case . The idea that we must take its medicine , not our own , is not sound . It is the Communists ' plea that they can snatch Europe from the edge of death , and there are moments when , observing Europe , one thinks that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America into the same system is n't exactly a proved necessity . Communism , like Fascism , is a violent reaction against the whole history of Europe , and both bear the old face of Europe , masked and modified . They are dictatorial , antiliberal , undemocratic , officially restricting power to a small aristocracy ; even their ultimate promise of a classless society or a corporate state answers the cry of centuries of men who have suffered from a class system . They are Europe 's revolt against Europe 's history and Europe 's cure for Europe 's mortal illness . The battle against America still goes on , but it is interesting to note that the literary intellectuals have given ground . Sinclair Lewis writes Work of Art , a defense of the American business man . The leader of the 30 intellectuals , Harold E. Stearns , returns , after a long exile , from Europe , entranced with the brightness and liveliness of America . Joseph Wood Krutch , asking whether Europe was a success , suggests that the cathedrals and art museums may be its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost in human happiness as to make them inadmissible in evidence , thus giving " the creative life " an unexpected black eye . Even Ludwig Lewisohn has a kind word to say , while Eugene O'Neill writes an American comedy in which you can not discover a trace of a sneer at America . Perhaps , in spite of the world upheaval , we may be able to rediscover the essential lines of America 's development and project them into the future . We have to correct the abuses of capitalism . We have to find out how much liberty we can preserve and how much organization we really need . We must set about the business of making the wage slave vanish from America by reducing the hours of labor and increasing the powers and liberties of every man . We must go forward , in short , to the America of the future and not to the Europe of the past .                     