@@469603

IN THE sense that we have known it in 1 the past , American agriculture is a dying industry . The nation 's largest single business still remaining in the hands of private citizens is in the midst of a scientific revolution , and the farm as an individual production unit ? the final refuge from a mechanized and goose-stepped civilization ? is seeing its last days . For chemistry and technology are bringing agriculture under control . In broad terms , one may say that the farm is being wrecked by a series of three major frontal attacks , any one of which is deadly enough to have caused a serious crisis : 1 . Intensive farming on the soil , with the use of synthetic fertilizers , mechanization , and other control factors , is progressing to such an extent that with even a fifty per cent efficiency in the best farming practices a mere fraction of the present cultivated farm Iand would suffice to produce all foodstuffs and taiments we need in this country . 2 . The whole aim and direction of the chemical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cultivation all staple products of nature and to manufacture them synthetically by automatic processes in factories , thus achieving a uniformity of product unobtainable in name and eliminating fortuitous elements of chance . 3 . The world tendency toward national self-sufficiency is cutting the heart out of world agricultural tradepermanently . Foreign markets for agricultural products in any material degree are gone forever . The chemical age gives every highly technical nation a choice between self-sufficiency and trade on whatever barter or bargaining basis it desires , thus upsetting time-honored geographical alignments of monopolies of certain natural products and altering the whole concept of imperialism . This is an entirely new situation for agriculture . For centuries the threat of eventual scarcity of food and land hung over the world . Within a few decades the march of science has brought about a complete reversal . On the one hand the chemist and the technologist have made possible the production of greater and greater quantities of products on less and less land , resulting in enormous surpluses of acreage , crops , and labor . At the same time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another from the soil into the laboratory , throwing still more land out of cultivation and further reducing the amount of labor needed . What has already happened to American agriculture is clearly shown in the statistics of our farm population and production . In 1790 , we have carefully estimated from reliable figures , 90 per cent of the population was engaged in agriculture . In 1930 this ratio had fallen to 20 per cent . ( The half-way mark , when half the population was engaged in agriculture , occurred in the decade 1870-1880 . ) But if anyone thinks that 20 per cent of the population is needed to produce the 1930 production of foodstuffs and raiments , let him not be misled ; for the Department of Agriculture in one of its unheralded but significant reports has told the true story without actually saying so . This report shows that 85 per cent of all agricultural products entering trade are produced by half the farmers of the country . Considering the present inefficient stage of agriculture , this means that half of our farm population , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple matter ) , could produce 100 per cent of all agricultural products now entering trade . We often think of America as still predominantly agricultural , but 10 per cent of the population hardly connotes dominance . The experts know that if the present knowledge of farm operation were properly applied , it would be relatively easy to produce the 1930 crops with only five per cent of the population . Aside from the inroads of the chemical revolution , several other factors are playing leading roles in this historic transition . One is the decline in the growth of population in the United States , pointing toward a levelling off in half a century or less , and making unnecessary any considerable expansion of enterprise . Mechanization of agriculture and transportation has released from farm labor hundreds of thousands of workers who made meager livelihoods as farm hands . Many of these persons , with no property ties and too inefficient for industry , have become wholly dependent on government relief and odd jobs . Mechanization has not only affected the labor market , but mechanical equipment such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from cultivation of food consumed byhorses . It is estimated that the elimination of the horse reduced the consumption of food as sharply as if forty million persons had stopped eating . Sociological factors have also played their part . The substitution of motor transportation for walking is estimated to have so reduced the energy requirements of the population that the consumption of meat decreased by 15 per cent during the decade 1920-30 . The ten million head of cattle that this reduction represented would have consumed as much food as fifty million persons . The demand for farm products as a whole declined 17 per cent during that decade . All of these factors contribute to the immediate crisis , as well as form an integral part of the long-term problem . On all sides it is becoming more apparent that agriculture is in the midst of fundamental changes . William J. Hale , a chemist who has portrayed the invasion of chemistry in agriculture in his book , The Farm Chemurgic , estimates that chemical research has rendered economically futile twenty-five per cent of the population of Europe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. 0 . M. Willcox , agrobiologist who is concerned solely with intensive agriculture , states in his Reshaping Agriculture that it would be relatively easy to eliminate four out of five farmers and four out of five acres in cultivation if the best-known practices of farming were adopted to-day . II The idea that the farmer is a subservient caretaker of God 's handiwork , and thus is quite helpless to alter the age-old cycle of the rain , wind , and sun , has persisted through the centuries up into modern times . Only in recent years have there been signs of fundamental changes . Instead of praying for rain , the more progressive of the farmers have decided that it is more practical to control the water supply by storing water for periods of drought . And instead of constantly moving to fresh lands when the old soil is played out , some are discovering that it is more economical to restore fertility by scientific methods . The agricultural chemist has been the principal disturber of the rustic scene . What is a farm , after all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that uses an inordinate amount of space and lies idle a good many months out of the year ; or , to put it another way , a simple and extremely inefficient chemical laboratory which converts certain organic elements that man ca n't use into those elements he can use ? The farming that has been generally practiced is distinctly savage . The fanner sticks some seeds in the ground , disturbs the soil a little , and does little or nothing until the plants grow up . The whole business has largely been left to God . Lacking pests , droughts , floods , tornadoes , hailstorms , and other acts of nature , the farmer has harvested his crops once a year . But within the past century , and chiefly since the turn of the present century , the chemist has come upon the scene . He discovered what plants are made of , and he found that the soil itself contributes nothing to the growing processes except to act as a reservoir and retainer for the plant , moisture , and the necessary chemical elements that contribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and began his laboratory attempts to duplicate each plant in test tubes by using its chemical components . The chemist has thus made two vital contributions . By seeking out the secrets of plant composition and growth , he not only learned to " make two blades of grass grow where one grew before , " but he learned to duplicate that grass synthetically in numerous forms and varieties in a factory . On these two fronts fundamental changes have taken place . Production on an acre of land has doubled and trebled ; and meanwhile millions of acres of land have gone out of cultivation with the rise of synthetics . Natural dyes , for example , have disappeared over the world with the complete absorption of the industry by synthetic dyes . Manufactured synthetic perfumes eliminated vast areas under cultivation for flowers . An entirely new synthetic fiber , rayon , has transformed the textile world of silk , cotton , and wool . With twelve million dollars a year being poured into chemical research ? half of this into synthetics alone ? it is not difficult to foresee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agriculture . To simplify the revolutionary trends in the entire agricultural enterprise , we have divided the development of farming into four stages . These stages are not chronological ; indeed , the revolution has in some instances advanced so swiftly that the fourth and synthetic stage was reached without recourse to the second and third . They are : I. Primitive stage , still practiced over wide areas of the earth , in which seeds are planted in straight rows in the soil and the whole business is left to nature . A little fertilization is used but mostly unscientifically. 2 . Intensive stage , gradually coming into use , in which large quantities of synthetically produced fertilizers are applied to the soil to reap enormous yields . This stage is so perfected that it is known with precision that a specified quantity of the organic chemical matter will yield a specified quantity of crop . 3 . Control stage , which eliminates the soil as being unnecessary to plant growth . Plants are grown in a solution of necessary organic substances in trays or cabinets , with a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farm into factories or kitchens and places it under strict man-made control . 4 . Synthetic stage , in which the chemist transfers the whole agricultural enterprise to the factory , eliminating seeds , plant , sun , soil , winds , and rain . He finds out what a plant is made of , duplicates or imitates it , and provides unlimited production of uniform product by automatic processes . The chemical phase of the agricultural revolution has an analogy in the industrial revolution . Both are identical in effecting ever greater productivity with less and less need for labor . Coupled with this in agriculture is less and less need for land . It was the perfection of the steam engine in the latter part of the eighteenth century that finally culminated in the first installation of automatic mass-production machinery in 1920 . Not until the comparatively recent arrival of automatic machinery with straightline production methods did the industrial revolution begin to force a real crisis in the problem of absorbing displaced workers in new fields . The chemical revolution began much later than the industrial but has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perfection in Germany in 1913 of the Haber-Bosch process of nitrate fixation is analogous to the invention of the steam engine . Indeed , the implications of the nitrogen-fixation process are greater than of the steam engine , for it ended forever the threat of diminishing fertility of the soils . III Of the utmost importance in these days when the Agricultural Adjustment Administration is tinkering with the problem of taking a few million acres out of , or putting them back into , cultivation is the direction of the second of the four stages listed in the preceding section : intensive farming . The belief has been prevalent that an acre of land could produce just so much corn or wheat or cotton and no more . It has been believed that God provided good land and bad land , that production of that land was almost static , and that man could n't do much to change the situation . The agrobiologist is changing this idea by demonstrating that poor land can be turned into the best by the application of intensive farming methods . He has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth . It is what 's in the soil ? and things can be put into it . Granted that Dr. Willcox is somewhat visionary when he says that 80 per cent of cultivated farm land can be eliminated by the general introduction of the best practice , it can not be doubted that the whole farming enterprise is manifestly moving steadily in that direction . And since farming is stimulated by the whip of competition and profits ( when and if they come ) , there is no reason to believe that the trend will be deflected . Intensive farming , despite the increased costs of fertilizers , water control , and other factors , is more economical in the long run than extensive farming , hence the forward trend is toward growing larger a-op yields on smaller areas of land . To illustrate the difference between extensive and intensive farming , suppose Farmer A has ten acres and Farmer B has twenty acres . Farmer A buys fertilizers for intensive farming and thus adds to his initial cost , but he obtains the same crop yield from ten acres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farmer A has less labor cost , for he farms only half the acreage of B , and his taxes , or rent , are less . Further , his crop is likely to be of better quality , and his soil is left in better condition than his neighbor 's . American agriculture , Dr. Willcox says in his Reshaping Agriculture , is only 11.3 per cent efficient to-day on the scale of the most efficient methods . If the farmer is now in the midst of a crisis , with ability to produce enormous surpluses , what will happen when the efficiency level is doubled or trebled as in all probability it will be ? " Let the coefficient of 1L3 be doubled ? brought up to a mere 22.6 , which is still below the coefficient of most European agricultures ? and the social-economic destruction along the marginal lines of our farmers would be catastrophic , " Dr. Willcox asserts . This threat of catastrophe is not so far-fetched when one examines the present and potential yields of our major crops . The average acre yield of corn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The agrobiologist maintains that the calculated maximum yield of corn is 225 bushels an acre , and as a matter of record this yield has actually been reached . The average yield of cotton is 0.32 bate an acre ; but the agrobiologist says we can raise 4.6 bales an acre by calculation , and he points to the known maximum yield of 3.5 bales an acre to prove his point . Although we raise great surpluses of wheat in non-drought years , the present-day yield is only 8.4 per cent of the calculated possible yield if the best practices were used . And so it goes with all the major crops . Year by year the yield is greater per acre , and yet we are to-day only 11.3 per cent efficient . Raise this to 25 per cent efficiency , or 50 per cent , and then what of the surpluses ? By achieving 100 per cent efficiency in farming methods according to the agrobiologist ( a theoretical maximum which has little chance of ever being reached ) , we could grow on 20,600,000 acres the 1930 actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for cattle and poultry . Only one cabinet has been brought to America and is supplying fodder for cows on a dairy farm near Summit , N. J. , while secret tests are being conducted on its efficiency . The crop grows miraculously . A tray of seed corn begins to sprout within a few hours and in ten days is a foot high . The seed germinated is said to produce five times the volume of seed planted in the ground . Dairy farms find the process economical . Experiments are being conducted in England in the growing of fresh vegetables , with the prediction that the time is not far away when the householder can grow his own year-round supply of greenstuffs in his kitchen or basement in a cabinet resembling an ice-box or electric refrigerator . This stage of agriculture is still in its infancy , but the revolutionary economic and social implications of its extensive development for growing household vegetables are obvious . IV The most amazing strides in the agricultural enterprise have been made in the realm of synthetics , a phase of the rural revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farmer and his future . Synthetics mean either an exact reproduction in the laboratory of a natural product heretofore grown in the soil or the creation of an artificial substitute . Sometimes the finished product is a mixture of the synthetic and the natural ; but whatever the process , the whole of agriculture is gradually being brought under scientific control . Synthetics assure a uniform product with continuous production the year round , a decided advantage over the more uncertain and slower crop cycle . Synthetic production of agricultural products began seventy-five years ago , when the chemist found that he couldcompletely eliminate the cultivation of natural dyes by synthetic production in factories . It has been only since the World War , however , that the vast potentialities of synthetics have appeared . For although the synthetic industry moved forward steadily , chemistry has followed rather than preceded the advances of mechanics . Thus the past few decades have brought us such startling new objects from the industrial revolution as the radio , the automobile , the airplane , the moving picture , and a hundred new uses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us developments just as significant , but in the chemically dominated fields of foods , clothing , and plastics . Directly or indirectly , the bulk of these will be concerned with agriculture . It is necessary to sketch only briefly the growth of synthetics to indicate the trend for the future . The traditional illustration of course is the dye industry ; but chemistry is not likely to provide many such altogether devastating examples in the future . More acreage in indigo over the world disappeared than we need to grow cotton in this country to-day . The growing of vast quantities of madder stopped within the space of a few years . Not only was the dye industry forever lifted from the soil but the chemist was enabled to create by synthesis scores of new dyes that nature had never herself been able to provide . The second spectacular invasion was in the textile industry . Patient years of research in trying to duplicate a natural fiber were rewarded with the commercial production of rayon ? a product , curiously enough , which is not a duplication of natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiber . Although rayon has not altogether replaced natural fibers ( about 75 per cent of its composition is cotton linters ? the short , poor cotton ? and 25 per cent is wood pulp ) , it , nevertheless has played hob with the textile industry and has critically affected the production of natural silk . The chemist found that the common base of cellulose for all textiles is obtainable , not only from certain trees and plants , but from virtually all fibrous growth , including even weeds and corn stalks . The laboratories are only now struggling with the cellulose problem , but the strides made in artificial textiles have opened the way for a myriad of other products , for the cellulose base can be used for plastics in housing , interior finishings , enamels , laminated plastic tiling , and a host of other items . Not only have the chemists made it virtually certain that cotton , silk , and wool will be largely dominated by synthetics in the future , but certain large industrial interests are almost ready to venture into large-scale production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The raw agricultural product of the past thus becomes merely an incidental adjunct of industry . The finest cotton is no longer desirable when poor cotton serves the industrial purpose . Fine lumber becomes unnecessary when any kind of fibrous material , even weeds , is suitable as a base for plastic houses . Existing industries are always skeptical and scornful when confronted with predictions . The natural-dye industry maintained it could never be abolished by the laboratory , but it is now non-existent . Silk growers said nothing could replace the natural fiber , but the industry is being wrecked by substitutes . Cotton growers scoff at artificial cotton , but synthetic cotton in small quantities is already on the market in this country . The raising of sheep , being a long , tedious job , is destined to go by the boards with the development of synthetic wool processes which have already been the subject of extensive experimentation . The synthetic-rubber industry has moved forward and is bound to supplant the market now occupied by the natural product . Perfumes once supported a vast agricultural population , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pound of Bulgarian rose oil requires from 250 , - 000 to 750,000 roses , according to the character of the crop . The chemist produces unlimited quantities of synthetic rose oil at a fraction of the cost of the natural . Natural musk may cost $250 a pound , but the synthetic can be purchased for a few dollars . The drug industry has been revolutionized by synthetics . Many essential drug products have been removed from agriculture to the synthetic laboratory . Natural leather is disappearing under the strain of competition with substitutes , and the substitutes arc almost as good as the raw hides . The paint and varnish industry has been transformed by synthesis , much to the benefit of the industry ; for paints and varnishes no longer vary in quality from year to year according to the character of the crops . Not the least important invasion of chemistry into agriculture is in foodstuffs . Virtually all foods , from wheat and corn to beans , can be made in the laboratory . The problem was merely to break down the natural food into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms . While this is not strictly a synthetic process , it at least transfers the making of foods from the farm to the factory . One of the outstanding achievements to date has been the manufacture of butter substitutes . The matter of synthetic foodstuffs is often misunderstood . There will in all likelihood be no change in the present method of eating , and there is little immediate prospect of being served concentrated pellets of chemical elements as our main diet . But there is a prospect that a large variety of new foods will be produced under scientific control of the laboratory . Factory production of milk ? a purer and more healthful beverage ? is sure to come and at cheaper prices . Milk is 87 per cent water anyway , and it will be relatively easy to substitute a machine for the cow as the agent for converting cellulose ( grass ) and such into a liquid we call milk . Only a few months ago the first two " synthetic " sheep in the history of the world were slaughtered with appropriate academic ceremony at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blade of grass or a kernel of grain . In fact , it was only for the purpose of taking photographs that the hapless sheep were even given the singular thrill of walking on grass . They were weaned from their mothers early and placed on a diet of a synthetic mixture of casein , cellulose , starch , vitamin concentrates , and salts . They grew to maturity rapidly under this curious diet and were killed at the age of a year and a half . They were beautiful sheep , their wool was excellent , and they were free from one of the most common parasites found in almost all sheep of the region . It would seem to be obvious that the chemical revolution is only beginning to open up a new and bewildering world . The development of synthetics will not necessarily mean complete replacement of natural products , but it will mean sharp adjustments , often affecting millions of acres of land and the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of persons . These adjustments are coming with ever-increasing frequency , causing crises of price , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry has arisen since the World War , organized into the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturers Association . As spokesman for the industry , C. A. Mace , the association secretary , expresses their ideas in the following significant words : " The greatest advantage of synthetic products lies in the control of manufacturing and uniformity of product , something that is impossible with natural agricultural products . When synthesis keeps out the natural product forever , it is because the synthetic product is uniform . Synthetic vanillin is the same every week and every year , all the time . Natural vanilla beans change from year to year . The nearer you get agriculture to industry , the more you divorce it from the vicissitudes of climate and the like , the more you keep it under control . " V A word must be said in passing about the old concepts of agricultural economics . Fundamental changes have come so swiftly with the overcoming of the threat of scarcity and the advancement of chemistry that the academic economist is practically useless . In agriculture , as in many other fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worrying about problems that have already been solved . He continues to discuss the problems of a half-century or two centuries ago , when he should be equipping himself to discuss the changes , shifts , and redistribution of occupations which accompany actual progress . Incredible as it may seem under existing conditions , Ricardo still sets the pace of agricultural economics . Ricardo , it will be recalled , maintained that land is getting scarcer and scarcer , that land is constant and indestructible and can not be increased , and that , therefore , the person who owns land will be in control of the economic situation . Poorer and poorer land will have to be used , he said , and that would make a higher and higher rent on good land , and the difference between what the good land and the poor land will produce is the amount of rent to be paid . It is important that Ricardo 's theories of rent be kept in mind , for they are being taught religiously in practically every school in the country ( including New York 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Ricardo 's theories at the time ? over a century ago ? when he made a substantial fortune on the Exchange in London and had retired to his estate to write his treatises on economics . His mind was keen and he saw the situation about him beautifully . But changes came almost immediately to upset his theories . He was not to blame for failure to foresee the future ; but there is no excuse for the acceptance of his theories to-day . The steamboat came almost at once to revolutionize transportation of agricultural products ; England could draw food from her wide-flung possessions instead of depending on her own island . Increased mechanization and fertilization were also prime factors in effecting fundamental changes . Yet nearly all economists , up to and including such authorities as E. R. A. Seligman , have persisted in tying up all agricultural economics with the idea that richness is in the soil , that there is good land and poor land , and that man is practically powerless to increase production of foodstuffs except with the use of more land . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can both reduce acreage and double his production ! Only a cursory examination of economic texts being used in schools today reveals their uselessness . As recently as 1929 Professor Seligman wrote that " The time will come in every country when there will be no further supply of fresh lands . When this situation arises the growing difficulty of maintaining the fertility ofthe soil , not to speak of producing a greater yield per acre , will more than offset the advantages of mechanization and of the application of capital . In the long run agriculture is subject to the law of increasing costs . " This statement , amusingly enough , was made by Dr. Seligman in a study for John J. Raskob , then chairman of the National Democratic Committee , who was endeavoring to obtain authentic farm data in the pre-brain trust days . If this had been written in 1900 it would have occasioned no surprise . But by 1929 the threat of a scarcity of fresh farm land had been forever removed . In their widely used book on Economics with Applicaaon to Agriculture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for products , the increase in the use of land would be to poorer lands , " and " the total quantity of land in the world is fixed . " It is quite true that the quantity of land is fixed , but this is no longer suitable as a basis for economic theory . Production in the future will have little relation whatever to the land itself . Malthus also had his day and scared the academic world so badly that it has not yet recovered its bearings . He showed that population would some day ? and not in a far distant future ? overtake the food supply . Some of the academicians , while not abandoning Ricardo , have begun to suspect a fallacy in Malthus ' remarks . Certainly the specter which he portrayed has been annihilated , given any reasonable control over the food supply . Both the land and food problems that tormented and harassed the nineteenth-century economists have been solved , and yet almost all of to-day 's economic thinking , and many of the sacrificial rites practiced at Washington continue on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brings us to one of the most curious documents of modern times ? the Agricultural Adjustment Act . The historians of the future will at least be able to say that it was a brave and daring measure in time of emergency . It was action in a real political sense , and no one will deny that the millions of dollars in payments to farmers have supported many regions of the country from near collapse . But what in reality is the AAA ? It was based on two utterly false assumptions . The first was that it proceeded from the primitive premise of agriculture , i.e. , that the amount of production is dependent upon the amount of land . Naturally any slight reduction in acreage reduced production temporarily ; but as we have shown , one can grow 20 per cent more on 20 per cent less acreage by improving his methods ( up to a maximum point now distant ) . The AAA plan of reducing crops by reducing acreage is no real solution . In the second place ? and much more serious over the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " pre-war parity prices , " raising agricultural prices to the relation they bore to industrial prices of five years before the War . Is this what the farmers wanted ? It is more logical to assume that what the farmers really wanted was higher income for their products . The AAA set out to obtain a higher price for farm products instead of a larger income per family . What value is these in a higher price if the income received is no higher than before ? The AAA overlooked the fact that with any sizeable increase in agricultural efficiency what was needed was fewer farmers , a larger output , and a larger income per farmer . It is unlikely that there will he any satisfactory answer to the entire farming problem ? at least there is nosound hope for higher incomes for farmers ? until Secretary Wallace and his aides are willing to face the question of what is the smallest number of farmers who can raise our own food supply by using the most efficient means possible . This must necessarily involve both a real program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a proper re-distribution of the surplus farm population . The AAA is designed to keep a large number of people on the farms and to reduce the production of all of them , in the vain hope that higher prices will result in higher incomes . Whatever the AAA 's merits as an emergency measure ( and it succeeded better than any other New Deal measure in getting dollars into the country ) , all the scientific evidence at the present time shows that fewer and fewer people can do the job . Instead of paying all to reduce acreage , we should reduce the number of people in the farming enterprise . The AAA is paying people to keep from producing as though they could do nothing else in the world . The aim of any highly civilized station should be to have the fewest number of people do the job , no matter what the occupation . The reason for this does not need an extended explanation . When everybody is in agriculture we have a low standard of living , because all we have are agricultural products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population was on the farms . But when the percentage of those on the farms goes down , those released can produce other products and services , contributing toward an increased standard of living . No other argument is valid . For if we are to assume that the AAA is sound then we must also assume that everybody has everything and that we need nothing else . Such a proposition is manifestly fantastic . We should never pay any part of the population to keep from producing when there are unlimited things to he done and when our standard of living is so utterly short of minimum decency . There are still those in high places who believe the solution to farming lies in foreign trade . Little need be said on this subject . Increasingly , nations will not have to have foreign trade . What they will have will depend upon treaties , barter , and such arrangements . Transfers will be made only where they are directly more prof .. itable . This may not mean any great material trade . Any highly technical country to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ synthetic industries have already broken numerous monopolies held by one or two countries . Dyes and perfumes have largely been eliminated from foreign trade . Nitrate-fixation processes broke the Chilean monopoly of nitrates . The Japanese monopoly of camphor was broken by German synthetics . Synthetic rubber will break the Dutch and British monopolies . The fighting point now is not geography , but economic advantage ; for the importance of geographical location of natural products has been fast disappearing . Even if synthetic substitutes be inferior to the natural products , or even though they cost more , the price and quality factors become unimportant in a crisis involving war or economic advantage . Germany 's present desperate mobilization of her scientific industries to become self-sufficient through synthetics and chemistry is a pertinent illustration of the lessened need of foreign trade . With a battle cry of " irrespective of production costs , " Germany is experimenting feverishly with all varieties of fabrics . Through increased fertilization her whole farm program has taken great strides forward . She still leads theworld in scientific research and much of this is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on either imports or exports or both is in a precarious situation . With vast areas of land being opened to cotton cultivation in Brazil , as well as in the East , there will be little salvation in exporting American cotton in the coming years . The drive toward national self-sufficiency has gone ahead in almost every country on the globe . Chemistry , particularly since its invasion into agriculture , has practically doomed large foreign trade . It seems clear from the evidence that , far from being in a temporary crisis which can be adjusted by slight reductions in acreages and manipulation of prices , agriculture has entered a physical revolution of significant proportions . Certain it is that the day of the traditional farmer and his rustic isolation is over . No longer is he an independent entrepreneur . He is becoming more and more an adjunct to industry and dependent on its swift changes and its highly competitive markets . No longer can he profitably expand to new lands except to eke out his life on a subsistence level . As intensive agriculture advances and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the factory , hundreds of millions of acres will have to go out of commercial cultivation . The problem of redistributing population will increasingly be a paramount task of the central government . The opening up of this marginal land to subsistence homesteading means only a lower standard of living . The threat of scarcity has been overcome but the problem of social control has hardly begun . The AAA will have to move down the alphabet if agriculture is to get on its feet .                     