@@487338

I have always been of the opinion , as Mr. Granite seems to indicate he is , too , that our country can not keep in step with the evolution of progress in other fields until we resolve to rid ourselves of the " stagecoach " type of political thinking as exemplified and personified by the two old-time parties . Yes , you can count me as one of the many liberal and progressive-minded citizens who yearn for the change suggested by Mr. Granite 's letter in The Nation for December 5 . Washington , December 3 GEORGE M. Fox Any Third Party Is Doomed To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I have pretty definite objections to your United Liberal Party . First , the name  --  at least call it the United Radical Party , for the Woodrow Wilsons , Lloyd Georges , Newton Bakers , John Simons , and Franklin Roosevelts have appropriated the word " liberal " and given it a connotation to which , I gather , you object as much as I do . Second , I believe that any third-party movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the democratic tradition of America , but the two-party system with its ward-heelers , bosses , and graft is just as much part of that system as the ballot itself . I do not think that radicals have paid nearly enough attention to the lessons of Upton Sinclair 's campaign in this connection . One of the most politically vulnerable men in the United States with an economic program composed of undiluted moonshine rolled up over 800,000 votes because he captured the Democratic Party 's organization in California . If you are planning to work within the existing political framework , I believe that you , should set out in like manner to capture the Democratic organization in as many States as possible . Take Mr. Roosevelt at his word as Sinclair did , bore from within , appealing always to the masses and promising them what Sinclair did , along with a program that might give them a chance to obtain security and plenty . New York , November 29 QUINCY HOWE Join the Communist Party To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION " : While agreeing with much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I refuse to join him in urging the formation of " a united liberal party . " Long a liberal myself , I am opposed to it at this late day . I had thought the older liberals were aware by now of the bankruptcy of liberalism . A " united liberal party " could be only a union of the forces of delusion , retarding the social progress which they profess to promote . I am convinced that the " more thoroughgoing distribution " which Mark Granite thinks a liberal party might bring about can not be accomplished at this stage by liberals . The most liberals could do would be to " redistribute " social power , seemingly achieving it for the middle class but actually leaving it in the hands of the owning class . What is needed is not a redistribution of social power but the abolition of class power . The injustices of class power can only be wiped out and made im possible again by its chief victims , the workers . And the wiping out would be revolutionary , in the Marxian and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary process is not only too drastic for the liberal , but mainly outside of his realm , that of the middle class . The liberal deplores reaction , but when a crisis appears and the only alternative to reaction is revolution , he finds himself in an untenable and a quite ludicrous position . He modifies , compromises , adulterates , becomes corrupt  --  unless he turns definitely left , where he should have turned in the first place instead of trying to start a liberal party . There is a third party , small but growing , which liberals should support . It is the Communist Party . It is not trying ' to face-lift capitalism . It sees the growth of fascism and the certainty of it here unless it is resisted by the working class , aided by the liberals . This party knows , too , that something more is necessary than a political party , and that this something is struggle  --  struggle of the workers against their exploiters . The liberal never goes this far  --  while he remains a liberal . Let him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , join them in a test of their so-called democratic rights , and he will find out , if his instincts are honest , what may be expected of liberalism . Norton , Va. , December 3 BRUCE CRAWFORD It 's Worth Trying To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : It takes no high degree of prophetic divination to see that the two major political parties are unlikely to rise to the vast needs which today and tomorrow thrust upon America . A party which will unite our present groups of the discontented , and constructively direct their dissatisfaction , is well worth trying to build up . Brooklyn , November 28 HENRY NEUMANN Liberalism and Dishwater To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I doubt if I have any particular ideas on the question of a new liberal party . My hope and faith in this regard have grown weak during the years , as I am more than fifty years old , have heard of new liberal parties coming during all this half-century , and have never seen one appear yet . And why seek for a new party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialist Party ? I believe that we shall get a new party for the expression of liberal and radical opinion when the present Socialist Party becomes an all-inclusive Labor Party , composed of hand workers and brain workers after the pattern of the British Labor Party . To expect anything to come out of the liberals is as foolish as to expect a good square meal to come out of dishwater . New York , November 28 JOHN HAYNES HOLMES Have We Learned Our Lesson ? To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Several thousand years ago liberalism first faced the dilemma of fascism or communism . The lack of a solution resulted in the Dark Ages . At that time liberalism had but one chief proponent ? Cicero . We all know what his fate was . He was liquidated ' by the proletarian dictatorship , and to the delight of the proletariat his head and hands were nailed to the rostrum from which he had so often sought to teach his countrymen , who were not then ready to learn . Perhaps we are now ready to learn the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should teach . I , for one , think that liberalism represented by a united liberal party may now be possible . Mount Vernon , N. Y. , December 2 GEORGE FREY A Crackpot Idea To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : It has been evident for some time that there will be another party , recruited from liberal or left-wing elements of both Democratic and Republican parties , from right-wing Socialists , from Technocrats , Sinclairites , Utopians , Social Creditites , and Farmer Laborites , supplemented by a general assortment of adherents to a variety of crackpot and social theories . It is my opinion that the party will be the political expression of many of the fascist tendencies already clearly discernible among the various elements from which it will draw its support . They can be brought together and made to function as a political party by an astute leadership that is able and willing to take political advantage of private property 's need to defend itself and of the millions still ignorant of the direction in which their salvation lies . The party will be anti-revolutionary ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconciling the existing political and social state to the machine of the productive system . This is the great issue of today , not the vague and intangible " distribution of freedom , security , equality , and opportunity " to which you refer in your letter . The new party will be unable to find a solution by the very nature of its composition " . Because of its - function to defend the existing system of private property it can not accept the basic reasons of the conflict , namely , the irreconcilable forces inherent in the present order . The Capital Party will have , I repeat , a temporary political success and a large following , but I will not be among them . New York , November 29 MAXWELL HYDE United Liberal Clubs To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I have read with deep interest Mark Granite 's letters in The Nation for December 5 . I have always thought that when the new and much-neede , d liberal party is formed , it will be through the initiative of some " unknown citizen , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our present " leaders " now in the public eye . I think the name " United Liberal Party " is a particularly happy one . That is exactly what many of us , heretofore affiliated with the Republican or the Democratic Party , are waiting for and would like to join . May I offer one suggestion ? It would help to crystallize opinion on this subject and give it tangible form and substance if " United Liberal Clubs " were to be organized everywhere throughout the nation . These would be , in the beginning , local circles for the study , consideration , and discussion not merely of the " possibility of this new party but of the whole body of liberal thought of the day . This would naturally lead to the formulation of a " new bill of human rights and a simple , practical liberal program " such as Mr. Granite speaks of . I , for one , will be glad to join a United Liberal Club , Local No. 1 . Brooklyn , December 1 HENRY MORROWThe Scottsboro Case The Nation has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorials on the Scottsboro case , some of them expressing satisfaction with The Nation 's point of view , others disagreeing more or less violently . Lack of space prevents us from publishing any considerable number of the letters , and it was considered fairer to summarize certain of them than to use only a fraction of what we received . First , Osmond Fraenkel writes concerning the telegram signed Clarence Norris received by Samuel Leibowitz on November 21 , which declared that " Mr. Powell . . . I. L. D. attorney " had threatened him with loss of his stay of execution if he permitted Mr. Leibowitz to defend him . Mr. Fraenkel declares that he has a denial from Mr. Powell that any such interview took place and a statement from the prison warden that he was present at the meeting between Powell and Norris and " did not understand Powell to say I. L. D. would withdraw stay of execution . " Mr. Fraenkel adds : " While it appears from the warden 's telegram that Norris actually sent the message which you quoted , it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so . " Alfred H. Hirsch , secretary of the National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners , sends a letter signed by himself , with forty-three additional typewritten signatures , which makes in general the same points made by the I. L. D. last week , and which adds that " as The Nation knows that the parents and the boys themselves " wish the I. L. D. to represent them , it is " respectfully " urged either to " support the I. L. D. in its fight for the boys ' freedom or at least to cease endangering the lives of the boys by continuing the unjustified attacks upon the I. L. D. and its handling of the case . " Letters of protest on The Nation 's position also came from James Rose , Justine Wise Tulin , A. Hoppe , Henry Hart , and , others.  - -  - Enrroas THE NATION . Are We at War in China ? To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : In the China Weekly Review of October 6 , 1934 , there is an illustrated advertisement of a new type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the magazine is an illustration of a squadron of these planes flying in military formation somewhere in this country . Underneath the first advertisement is a news item concerning the arrival in China of the first shipment of an order of these planes placed by the Chinese government in this country . Then follows an account of the arrival of a certain pursuit officer of the United States army who has been given leave of absence for the purpose of demonstrating these planes . I understand that the Nye committee investigating the munitions industry discovered that the Department of Commerce had been assisting private corporations to secure aviators for enlistment in China who had previously served in the armed forces of the United States . Such practices seem to me to amount to intervention de facto if not de jure , and of course they are being carried on without any warrant from Congress . A letter just arrived from China informs me that this practical intervention by the United States in the civil war in China is likely to prove decisive . I have written to Senators Borah and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those constitutionally responsible in such matters to end this unauthorized interference in the affairs of another people . I hope that you will feel the urge to endeavor to inform and arouse public opinion on this matter . If the American people are going to supply the " Hessians " in the revolutionary struggle in China , at least it ought to be done by decision of their representatives and not by arbitrary acts of executive officers . New York , November 30 HARRY F. WARD The Class-War Prisoners ' Christmas Fund To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Each year at this time the General Defense Committee undertakes to provide those who have gone to jail in the cause of labor with a cash Christmas present sufficient to enable them to obtain tobacco and other prison comforts and to buy books or subscribe to magazines . To the families of these men we want to send , in addition to their regular monthly relief checks , something to provide for winter needs . In this we ask the help of all . We wish also to assure all contributors that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages , or other overhead , as these services are given to this committee free by the I. W. W. ; at the same time this committee does not concern itself with the affiliation or viewpoints of those to whom it sends relief . There are far snore prisoners receiving this relief who do not belong to the I. W. W. than who do . Will those who wish to donate to this fund please send their contributions to 2422 North Halstead Street before December 20 . Each contribution will be acknowledged with a copy of our itemized financial statement . Chicago , December 3 JOSEPH WAGNER , Secretary General Defense Committee Clothing for Christmas TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I am again trying to help clothe some of the needy here this winter . Any old clothes you might have will be greatly appreciated if you care to pass them on to me at Box 634 . Anything can be used . Marion , N. C. , December 5 GRACE ELLIOTT R. Father Coughlin ? " Crackpot or Flaming Comet ? " A voice and a passion carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATION appears the first of two striking articles on the Radio Priest by Raymond Gram Swing : his early background , his present power , his real responsibility . How does the Vatican feel toward the League for Social Justice and its founder , the priest of the Church of the Little Flower ? Does Father Coughlin plan to lead either a new liberal party or a fascist party ? Mr. Swing 's articles can not tell what Father Coughlin does not yet know himself , but they explain the forces which are shaping the answer . When writing to advertisers please mention The Nation 