@@143537

The usual chemical method of obtaining vitamins from fish oil is to remove the oil and leave the vitamin-like obtaining a carburetor by removing the rest of an automobile of which it is part . Distilling is a more efficient method of obtaining vitamins from oils , but distilling vitamins is not so simple as distilling whiskey . Vitamin distillation has been practical only in recent years , has not yet been completely commercialized . Last week , at scientific meetings in Ithaca , Manhattan and Washington , Dr. Kenneth Claude Devereux Hickman of Eastman Kodak laboratories , Rochester , N. Y.-a British bachelor of 41 who likes to give gay cocktail parties , and happens to be more responsible than any other chemist for developing the technique of vitamin distillation-described the results which he and his co-workers have obtained in this new field . <P> If the air in a distilling vessel is pumped out leaving such a high vacuum that practically none is left , molecules flying off a hot distillate have " free paths " - that is , they are not interfered with in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight . Hence , by adjusting the distance between the hot surface of the distillate and a cold condensing surface , molecules can be separated by weight . " Dr. K. Hickman , " said Dr. K. Hickman last week , ' ' began experiments in high-vacuum distillation in 1927 . In 1931 he constructed the continuous molecular still and was able to separate from cod-liver oil a golden waxy concentrate which showed high potency of vitamins A and D. Up to this time , molecular distillation had been a scientific curiosity . It represented the ultimate in the application of vacuum . " <P> In the Hickman still , the hot surface carrying the distillate and the cold condensing surface are in the form of concentric , vertical cylinders . The vacuum is about one-millionth of atmospheric pressure . General Mills joined Eastman Kodak in erecting a pilot plant , which was put into semi-commercial operation a year ago . Its Vitamin A capacity is 60 billion units a week . This output is expected to be trebled by two stills of improved design now under construction . <P> But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new method of obtaining vitamins , but in the discovery that vitamins previously recognized as individuals were in fact whole tribes of near relations . Distiller Hickman found that as temperature increased , the distillation rate of each vitamin changed and each had its characteristic peak . By this means he established that different fishes manufacture different kinds of Vitamin D. Vitamin D obtained from bluefin tuna did not resemble , in distillation behavior , the vitamin from white sea bass . Cod-liver oil was found to contain two major Vitamin Ds and some minor ones , making at least four and possibly five in all . When the new stills are completed it is hoped that these will be isolated and identified .                     