@@221317

The most luridly erotic of all opera heroines has yet to appear on any opera stage . Beside her , Shostakovich 's Lady Macbeth of Mzensk would seem a rural innocent ( TIME , Feb. 11 ) . The adulterous Marie in Alban Berg 's Wozzeck is a colorless nobody compared with Alban Berg 's Lulu , a symbol of insatiability conceived in the tortured mind of Playwright Frank Wedekind ( Erdgeist , Die Bchse der Pandora ) . Sooner or later Lulu is bound to make her operatic appearance because of Composer Berg 's reputation , the power of his music . Orchestral excerpts from Lulu have been played at the Berlin Staatsoper where extra police squads governed the crowds . Last spring fragments were played by the Boston Symphony ( TIME , April 1 ) . Last week the New York Philharmonic-Symphony took its turn at Lulu , under Conductor Otto Klemperer . <P> In the opera 's prolog Lulu is represented by a fearsome wriggling snake , an eternal destroyer , according to Composer Berg who makes her just as horrid in every scene which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a murder which lands her in prison , weasels her freedom only to philander in Paris with gamblers , procurers , swindlers . End comes in a sordid London attic where Lulu is brutally murdered by Jack the Ripper . Berg 's orchestra then sounds out a shuddering scream . The New York Philharmonic took the cue faithfully , startled half its subscribers who still had to hear Soprano Agnes Davis emit a wailing postlude . Strapping young Agnes Davis , who has made her mark at Philadelphia Orchestra concerts , was supposed to be a Countess Geschwitz , as bewitched by Lulu as were the many men who loved her . The whole story seemed revolting in its episodic outline . But Berg 's music was not to be discounted . Murky , rumbly drums actually suggested an evil , brooding power . The entire orchestra chattered over one gruesome death , grew lyrical when the composer wanted sympathy for his heroine , reached an awful climax when Lulu was slain . Austria 's Alban Berg is one of the few real modernists who has been able to write effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a truly urgent feeling . Critics were unable to agree on Lulu 's worth last week . Olin Downes of the New York Times pronounced it " involved trash , " while Lawrence Gilman of the Herald Tribune went the whole hog in the other direction by saying : " The layman , if he can accustom himself to a doubtless indisposing idiom , will find in it a lacerating beauty , a piercing expressiveness often overwhelming which reveals Berg for what he is : a poet , a man of tormenting sensibility . . . . "                     