@@221327

" All well . I estimate that we are at seven whurp zzuldung whooltcrazzptlin or thereabouts . My guess is a slult whish as that zzzzsock blatz ug still clear notle deglup at that squarbritedul country blzylttle whurp phoollb zzwhiee crackzpst . Little or no wind . " <P> Fortnight ago , when this garbled radio message from Flyer Lincoln Ellsworth , far out over Antarctica , was followed only by complete jumble and then silence , Sir Hubert Wilkins and the rest of the expedition on the base ship Wyatt Earp at Dundee Island at first refused to be upset . In a wireless dispatch to the New York Times and the North American Newspaper Alliance , Sir Hubert guessed that the explorer and his one companion , Pilot Herbert Hollick-Kenyon , had " decided to land for the night . " Next day , with still no word from the pair , the expedition began to fret . By last week , after nine days of silence , their fretting had become acute worry . Still pooh-poohing in print all fears for the flyers ' safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Admiral Byrd 's principal rival in Antarctica , Explorer Ellsworth , 55 , has been distinguished less for his success in exploring it than for his personal modesty and his willingness to finance his expeditions from his own capacious pocket . Eager to make the first crossing of Antarctica , he was forced back twice before he finally got away permanently in his Northrup monoplane Polar Star . Then he took off from Dundee Island , due south of Cape Horn , headed in a straight line toward Little America , 2,100 miles away and southeast of New Zealand . Passing within 600 miles of the South Pole , the course lay for the greater part over unknown terrain , possibly mountainous , possibly only tumbled ice fields . On this dangerous trip , the flyers took eight weeks ' supply of food , a small sled to carry it on in case of emergency . This emergency apparently took place about half way through the flight , when communications ceased . If such was the case , the flyers may be trudging northward toward the coast , hoping to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except the radio , the plane may be resting at Little America , where Admiral Byrd cached 500 gallons of gasoline . Working on these two theories , the Wyatt Earp last week plowed back toward Magallanes , Chile , to pick up another airplane . Then it will return to Antarctica , skirt the Graham Islands until it approaches Charcot Island , then follow the coast past Mt . Mabelle Sidley , and Mt . Grace McKinley . At each of these points the rescue plane will drop caches of food by parachute according to instructions left behind by Flyer Ellsworth . That done , the ship will push on to the Ross Sea , hoping to find the lost pair a month hence safely ensconced at Little America after all .                     