@@487397

ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE 1938 BUDGET will be balanced by cutting $500,000,000 from the appropriation for relief and $75,000,000 from that of the CCC camps would be a signal for another sharp break in the stock market if it were taken seriously . With unemployment rapidly rising , a substantial increase in relief funds will be necessary if consumer purchasing power is to be maintained . It is unlikely , however , that anyone in the Administration actually feels that the budget can or should be pruned in this manner . December and January are months in which burnt offerings are traditionally laid on the altar of the great god Economy . But budgets balanced at this season of the year have a habit of becoming unbalanced as Congress faces the political and social consequences of proposed cuts . We refuse to believe that an Administration which achieved extraordinary success in exorcising the last depression through stimulating mass purchasing power will abjure those tactics in the present crisis . Granting that the time has come to balance the budget , we recall the President 's warning that the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averted . Both can be accomplished by levying higher taxes on those who have more wealth than they need for current living and utilizing at least part of these funds for assistance to the millions who are unable to purchase everyday necessities . ) ( - WHILE THE OUTCOME OF M. DELBOS 'S TOUR of the capitals of Central and Eastern Europe can not be evaluated for some weeks , his stay in Warsaw was not without result . In backing Poland 's claims for colonies , which are at least as plausible as those of Germany , M. Delbos astutely inserted a wedge in Polish-German relations which Nazi diplomacy will find difficult to extricate . It is also significant that the French , according to Frederick Birchall 's story in the New York Times , have come away saying that Poland is not the near-fascist dictatorship that everyone has supposed it to be but a " dictatorship more or less rooted in liberalism . " Although the evidence quoted by Birchall  --  the decline of extremism and the gradual moderation of anti-Semitism -- does not seem to square with the known facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least , Poland has steered a rather skilful middle course between Hitler and the Western democracies . On a number of points  --  notably Danzig , colonies , German militarism , and the hope of financial assistance ? Poland naturally leans toward France and the democratic bloc , while on others ? Czechoslovakia , the " threat " of communism , and antiSemitism  --  it finds itself much closer to the interests of the Rome-Berlin axis . Presumably nothing that Delbos could offer would align Poland definitely with the antifascist powers , but if he has succeeded in preventing an extension of Nazi influence he will have achieved his immediate mission . *-ASSUMING THAT MAYOR LAGUARDIA WAS both sane and sober when he " accepted the resignation " of Langdon Post , chairman of the New York Housing Authority , last week , we must put the whole incident down as either a major error of judgment or a political move of questionable character . When Mr. Post informed the Mayor that he could not resign from a position to which he had never been officially reappointed ( his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced the affair to opera bouffe by swearing in his secretary , Lester Stone , as Mr. Post 's successor . Informed by newspapermen that the Authority chose its own chairman , the Mayor , in a final burst of irresponsibility , announced that it would either accept his secretary or he " would get a new Authority . " His belated explanation that Mr. Stone 's appointment was temporary merely reduced the incident to a theatrical announcement that Mr. LaGuardia intended to have his own way with New York housing whatever the law or the consequences . These antics have brought down upon the Mayor blasts of editorial disapproval from almost every newspaper in New York , including his most sincere supporters . The position in which the Mayor has placed the Authority will not facilitate what he claims is his sole objective  --  prompt loans and grants for public housing in New York . In the meantime , the federal Administrator , Mr. Straus , is concluding arrangements with other city housing authorities at a second conference in Washington , and his opponents are continuing their attempts to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an investigation is authorized , its scope be extended to include all the facts about the Anacostia site in the District of Columbia , which was acquired before Mr. Straus 's appointment as Administrator . We understand that a secret report on the purchase of that site is now on file in the Department of the Interior and that its publication would yield dramatic and significant results . WITH FEWER MEN GOING TO WORK EACH morning in the industrial centers of the nation , the attempt to find a formula for peace between A. F. of L. and C. I. 0 . becomes more important as hope of its success seems to grow more dim . Maury Maverick estimates that a million have been thrown out of work since September , and there is evidence that the C. I. 0 . in particular is acutely aware of the menace of unemployment to its membership and its effectiveness in the massThe NATION production industries . It has advised its affiliates to set up unemployment committees , keep careful records of lay-offs , and make the local unions the most active agencies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the C. I. 0. , its membership of mainly unskilled or semi-skilled workers who are quickly affected by the rise and fall of production , seasonal or cyclical , and its lack of machinery for taking care of those laid off make it particularly susceptible to the ravages of depression . These very factors seem to guarantee its good faith in seeking peace , on honorable terms , with the A. F. of L. By the same token the A. F. of L. bureaucracy , if not the rank and file , may feel that it is in a better position now to fight the C. I. 0 . than at any time since the Lewis committee was formed . Its most recent activities in New Jersey , where it has championed Mayor Hague at the moment when he is busy abrogating civil rights in order to defeat the C. I. 0 . drive in Jersey City , would indicate as much . What has stopped the peace negotiations , apparently , is the refusal of the A. F. of L. to merge with the C. I. 0 . on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mean sooner or later the end of power for some of the big frogs in the little puddle of the A. F. of L. executive board . Obviously it is not a price they care to pay for a unified and strong labor movement . THE NEWSPAPERS HAVE BEEN MAKING front-page stuff out of so-called attempts of the NLRB to throttle press criticism . The board , in proceeding against the Weirton Steel Company , for instance , subpoenaed Hartley W. Barday , editor of the magazine Mill and Factory , to submit all records and materials pertaining to a distorted account of the board 's Weirton hearings . Such action has been attacked as interference with freedom of the press . Thus far there has been no such interference . What the board has been trying to do comes within its province . It is seeking not to intimidate publishers but to discover whether employers , in fighting trade-union organizations , have been deliberately using the newspaper articles and editorials by distributing them widely among workers in order to intimidate them . The board must be careful , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers ; it has no power or function to proceed against them . Far more important than this clamor was an item almost unnoticed last week by the press  --  the decision of the NLRB in the Allis-Chalmers case . The majority held that while the workers in a plant could vote as a body , using the entire plant as a voting unit , separate craft groups could split off  --  in this case the firemen and oilers  --  and vote separately . Since the very fact that they split off indicates that these crafts will go A. F. of L. , the board 's decision may mean that when a plant as a whole votes C. I. 0. , separate small groups may be in a strategic position to paralyze the industrial union . The dissenting opinion of Edwin S. Smith , the first to be written in the board 's history , points out this danger and marks its author as a realist . December 11 , 1937 " HE LOVES ME , HE LOVES ME NOT , " WALL Street has been saying in alternate fits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moods and moves of Chairman Douglas of the SEC . Since the sharp stock break of Black Tuesday , negotiations have been under way between the commission and the Stock Exchange for some sort of peace . But no peace has been made . Chairman Douglas 's statement last week was a clear indication that he means to introduce a greater measure of democracy into the Exchange , breaking the oligarchic rule of a small group of brokers , and taking the Exchange leaders at their word when they say they want self-regulation . The only self-regulation that will protect the investors is one in which they would be represented , and one that would provide for the segregation of brokers from traders and specialists . This is a soundly conservative approach  --  so conservative as to seem radical to the Stock Exchange controlling group . The informal announcement that John W. Hanes and Jerome Frank are slated as the two new members of he is the leader of the opposition to President Gay . Jerome Frank is one of the best minds in the New Deal , and his appointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its importance for the future of the SEC . YUGOSLAVIA IS PEEVED AT MICKEY MOUSE . The Belgrade government has just clamped a ban on a newspaper strip in which Mickey is portrayed as the double of a young prince . So popular is the double that the prince 's uncle , the regent , becomes jealous and launches a military conspiracy against him . It happens that Yugoslavia has a boy king named Peter , and that Peter has a cousin , Prince Paul , who acts as Chief Regent . Perhaps the Yugoslav censors did n't like the idea of a mouse doubling for their king , or perhaps they found the plot entirely too suggestive . Whatever the grounds , Mickey will have to do his royal doubling elsewhere . We have no way of knowing how apt the cartoon was , but we are impressed with the power of Ambassador Mouse . If he can draw down on his head an official ban , he has an influence and a boldness that are no longer common in our diplomatic corps . When we think of Norman Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into attending Nazi party congresses , of American consuls sneaking out of loyalist towns in Spain ? when we think of all these things , we ask ourselves : Shall we be represented abroad by mice or men ? And the answer is  --  by all means , mice ! ( - DESPITE CHANCELLOR HITLER 'S ARROGANCE in international affairs , the Nazi regime is showing signs of great strain . The struggle with the Catholics grows sharper , and there is good reason to believe that large sections of the population feel bitter about the anti-Christian propaganda of the Nazi Party . But in a totalitarian state popular feeling is important only in so far as it affects the state 's capacity to wage war and survive . That is why principal attention should be focused on the German General Staff and on the Economics Ministry . It has been known for some time that the General Staff does not regard Germany as ready for a war . But of even greater importance is the news published last week in the New York Times that the German army chaplains have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nazis and pointed out that a disaffected and demoralized army is of no use in war . As Dorothy Thompson remarks , this petition could not have been presented unless it had the approval of the General Staff , and it indicates a possible rift between the Reichswehr and the party . Pointing in the same direction is a pamphlet we have received , written by a member of the General Staff and printed illegally , attacking the German policy of aiding Franco as a waste of military resources and prestige . As for the economic situation , Schacht 's resignation is only one of many indications of widespread gloom in German official cirdes over the financial weakness of the regime . JEHOVAH 'S WITNESSES , WITNESSES , A RELIGIOUS SECT , won its first major victory for religious liberty in Philadelphia last week  --  and lost a minor one in New York State . Federal Judge Albert B. Maris held that the requirement of a local school board that children salute the flag as a prerequisite to attendance at dasses was a violation of both the state and federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State a jury convicted two members of the same sect whose child had likewise refused to salute the flag , although the justice in this case stated in his charge that it is not disorderly conduct for a pupil to refuse , on religious grounds , to participate in the flag-salute ceremony . In general , the courts have upheld the school boards . Judge Maris took a longer and more sensible view . If any individual sincerely bases his acts or refusals to act on religious grounds , that must be accepted as such and may only be interfered with . . . if it appears that the public safety , health , or morals or personal rights will be prejudiced by them . Judge Maris has proved himself worthy of his Quaker ancestors in a way seldom encountered among the self-styled inheritors of American traditions . We hope his decision  --  and its implications for individual liberty in general  --  will have a salutary effect on various and sun ? dry martinets both on and off school boards . THE NEW MASSES , IN LAST WEEK 'S ISSUE , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was not an unfriendly one , considering the attacks of bygone days . The author , Granville Hicks , credited us " on the whole " with a disposition to be fair , however open to criticism from the point of view of Communist analysis . But our literary department he charged with consistent unfairness on questions of communism and Soviet Russia . He even charged that " some four years ago the book-review section seceded from the rest of the magazine " and ha &; remained in rebellion . Only a rebuttal of equal length could take up seriatim the examples of alleged bias cited by Mr. Hicks . This we shall not attempt . But we want briefly and finally to repudiate the suggestion that The Nation is divided . Likewise the charge that we have deliberately selected anti-Communist reviewers for books dealing with Communist policy or the U. S. S. R. is entirely unjustified . We have tried , however , to avoid obviously partisan reviewers , and this means that we have deliberately chosen non-Communists to review such books . What earthly end could be gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hicks proposes , to review books on communism or allied subjects ? The very phrase reveals the weakness of the suggestion ; " spokesmen " are not critics . What The Nation wants is criticism by persons capable of independent thought about the book and its subject . Have we achieved that purpose ? Not always , certainly . A few of the examples selected by Mr. Hicks prove that unwise choices were made ; most of them seem to us wholly defensible in the terms we have set down . The fact is , the area of free criticism is narrowing around our feet . Those who do not write as spokesmen for the Communist line too often reveal themselves as spokesmen for some other  --  opposition partisans fully as biased , and therefore fully as untrustworthy , as critics . But there are writers ' who still remain outside the intellectual trade barriers that surround the various totalitarian camps , and in dealing with controversial books we shall do our best to choose our reviewers from among them . Ceiling and Floor THE wage-hour bill , called officially the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House Rules Committee . It is ironic that the final batch of signatures necessary to discharge the bill from committee should have been secured only by the threat to delay or defeat the farm bill , a threat that spoke eloquently to the Southern tories . The whole episode has been an acid test of the progressive impetus in Congress to defeat the sabotaging attempts of the reactionary blocs operating within the committee system  --  with party lines crossed on both sides . It is another indication that party responsibility no longer exists and that a new party alignment may be in preparation . Thus far we have viewed the struggle over the wage-hour bill mainly as a question of Congressional procedure and party responsibility . Now that the bill is out of committee , however , it must be scrutinized sharply in terms cg its actual merits and dangers  --  considerations that were not before the Rules Committee at all . There can be no doubt that the President 's message of last May , in which such legislation was first proposed to Congress , laid down a far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House has since been willing to adopt . The President suggested that Congress setcertain " rudimentary standards " in the production of goods entering into interstate commerce . These standards ? minimum wages , maximum hours , and the elimination of child labor  --  would have to be established by legislative action , and applied nationally . They would not be , in any real sense of the word , " fair " standards , but would merely take the edge off exploitation . " Fair " standards would have to be approximated by further administrative action , and by the upward adjustment of the rudimentary standards to meet particular sectional and industrial conditions . This whole conception has been scrapped . At last summer 's session the Senate , under pressure by its Southern members , rewrote the bill . And in the process of rewriting , the rudimentary standards  --  originally conceived of as forty cents an hour and forty hours a week  --  became the fair standards . Instead of being set by Congressional action , they were to be set by administrative action . Instead of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which the administrators were expected to build , it became a ceiling beyond which they were not to go . And instead of the hours minimum ( forty ) being a ceiling beyond which the administrators could not let the employer push labor , it became a floor below which the administrators were not to be allowed to push the employers . Finally , the walls of the original structure , determining how much of unorganized labor was to be included in the scope of the act , were drastically contracted by revisions in the Senate and House committees . Agricultural workers and domestic workers were excluded altogether , and the cotton-processing and canning industries were excluded from the hours provision as seasonal industries . These clauses , it is estimated , would reduce the number of workers affected from about eleven million to less than four million . Obviously , while a principle has been established by the bill even in its present shape , it is the wrong principle and a dangerous one . Its danger lies in the fact that it makes Congress function to protect business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administrative agency to protect the workers ' interests as best it can locally and by industries . The original principle was the safe one : that Congress , being responsive to popular demands as the people 's representative body , should set minimum standards to protect the workers , leaving the administrative agency , responsive to considerations of practicality and locality , to make small or large adjustments on a realistic basis . If what is wanted is the establishment of a principle , the bill must be recast to embody the right principle . There are three other adverse criticisms of the bill , but we feel they lack weight . One is that it may involve a repetition of the mistakes of the NRA . We do not regard this objection as valid . What was vicious about the NRA was that both labor standards and fair trade practices were included in the same administrative structure and in the same codes . The result was that workers bargained away their interests as consumers , allowing high monopoly prices to be set and the price structure to become rigid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 