@@486486

THE most charitable thing that can be said of President Roosevelt 's action in summoning a special committee to prepare legislation for " equalizing the burdens of war " is that it was untimely and extremely ill-advised . Although on the surface it appears as a move to regulate and control the armament industry , no step could have been better calculated to defeat that end . The Senate Munitions Investigating Committee , under the able chairmanship of Gerald P. Nye , is just finishing the second three weeks ' session of its remarkable inquiry . Its task is by no means completed although the initial appropriation of $50,000 is almost exhausted . On the basis of the startling disclosures which have been made in these preliminary sessions , the committee feels justified in asking the Senate for an appropriation large enough to make possible a still more thorough investigation of the arms industry and its financial associates . The committee also takes the position that no solution should be sought until the facts are fully in hand , and that then the legislation should be drafted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . A review of some of the evidence brought out by the committee this past week is sufficient to indicate the undiminished importance of its work . Scores of corporations , including several of the largest in the country , were shown to have made fantastic profits from the World War , both before and after the entry of the United States into the conflict . In some cases these were as high as 800 per cent . Such instances were , of course , exceptional , but many of the larger companies reported profits of 40 to 50 per cent . Similarly , 181 individuals were listed who received incomes in excess of a million dollars during at least one of the war years . Many of these persons were closely connected with the various munitions industries , including six different members of the du Pont family . The committee also introduced evidence indicating that the American chemical industry worked in close harmony with similar concerns in Great Britain and Germany in developing the munitions business . It showed that the sale of war materials to Japan had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground that such transactions would aid the American espionage service . And it revealed that the American armament manufacturers had frequently resorted to bribery and graft in order to dispose of their products in foreign countries . If public opinion has been even partially awakened to the menace of the arms traffic , the credit belongs almost exclusively to Senator Nye and his committee . They have tackled an extremely difficult job and done extraordinarily well with it , despite the meagerness of their appropriation . Never has such an opportunity existed to deal a crushing blow to the war system and those who thrive upon it . It would be ironical if the sum total of action taken as a result of the committee 's indefatigable work should be the adoption of the proposals made by Bernard Baruch before the War College in 1922 , or the very similar recommendations which he laid before President Hoover 's War Policies Commission in 1931 . Only last June Mr. Baruch reiterated his belief in the desirability of recapturing " all profits in bulk made byindustries engaged in war supplies , above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Ile also made it clear that he was not making this suggestion because he was opposed to large profits , but because of fear that civilian morale might be undermined if profiteers were unchecked and that a recurrence of war inflation might lead to a collapse of the capitalist economy . In other words , Mr. Baruch is primarily concerned with strengthening the national defense and averting , if he can , the downfall of capitalism . Since The Nation is not interested in either of these objectives , it finds itself quite out of sympathy with Mr. Baruch 's modest program for " taking the profits out of war . " The assumption that all man power and all capital should be drafted by the state in time of war is dangerous because it implies that war is at least sometimes justified and that individuals have no rights above those of the government . The fact that Mr. du Pont and other leaders of the munitions industry have declared themselves in favor of this plan does not increase its attractiveness in our eyes . As Senator Nye has so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capone should recommend plans for combating crime . The alternative is the total abolition of private manufacture of munitions of war and the strict control of all subsidiary industries . Several governments , including France , Poland , Denmark , and Spain , advocated such a course during the early stages of the Disarmament Conference , but it was opposed by the United States . Two objections have been made to this plan  --  one trivial and the other serious . Armament manufacturers declare that the destruction of private industry would cripple the national defense . This contention is based , however , on the assumption that the " defense " of the United States would again necessitate our sending an army of three or four million men overseas . Actual defense of American soil would require a small mobile army of no more than a few hundred thousand men , which could easily be supplied with arms by government arsenals . The second objection is more disturbing . Many of the small nations have opposed the elimination of the private production of munitions on the ground that it would weaken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and some countries now without arms might manufacture their own munitions . But this danger is infinitely smaller than that inherent in the private manufacture of arms , even under drastic supervision . At the hearings before the Nye committee it has been shown that the armament firms have repeatedly been able to defy all efforts to restrict their activities . Regulation and control are bound to be farcical as long as the industry remains in the hands of international buccaneers spurred on by the lure of high profits . Nationalization of the arms industry alone will not remove the basic causes of international friction and war , but it is the only way to correct the flagrant abuses which have been revealed by the Nye committee 's investigation . That it will be difficult to achieve , despite Lammot du Pont 's assertion that his company 's profits on military explosives are only 2 per cent of its total profits , goes without saying . For that reason the inquiry must not be allowed to lag . Devil 's Advocate DONALD RICHBERG 'S appointment as general counsel of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the reconstruction of our economic order . Was he not the friend of organized labor , the legal brains of the Railway Brotherhoods ? Lifted to responsibility and vested with power , Mr. Richberg almost immediately broke with his past . Since then he has exerted endless ingenuity in contriving one argument after another - to disprove the right of trade unions to profit by their guaranty of collective bargaining . In less than two years he has emerged as the spokesman of our most reactionary employers : the lords of iron and steel , the automobile manufacturers , the newspaper publishers . Although it may not be generally recalled , Mr. Rich-berg 's record of sabotage goes back to the very beginnings of the National Industrial Recovery Act . When Section 7-a came up for debate in the Senate , the Finance Committee recommended tacking on an ingenious proviso that the statute must not be construed so as to compel any change in " existing satisfactory relationships " between employers and their employees . Fortunately , after vigorous debate , the proviso was defeated ; but not before its sponsors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who regarded it as a constructive contribution to the theory of collective bargaining  --  this joker which would have sanctioned company unionism and prevented trade unions from claiming recognition as a legal right . No sooner was the NRA set up than Mr. Richberg began actively to collaborate with that firm champion of the labor movement , General Johnson . Their theme was twofold : it was not part of the government 's duty to promote the organization of workers in trade unions ; it was not part of the government 's duty to insist that the labor provisions of particular codes should be determined by collective bargaining . Section 7-a , they maintained again and again , created abstract rights of freedom which the NRA would compel employers to respect . But let no one suppose that the NRA would lend a helping hand to the trade unions in their struggle for recognition and status . Soon afterward the National Labor Board began its career . Honestly if ineffectively the board sought to safeguard employees in the free choice of representatives , to protect union workers against interference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that collective bargaining aimed at the execution of collective agreements . Relying on a simple theory of Section 7-a , the board called for elections , affirmed the doctrine of majority rule , and came out for the recognition of representative trade unions . Messrs . Rich-berg and Johnson were quick to rush to the defense of the National Association of Manufacturers , the United States Chamber of Commerce , the Iron and Steel Institute , the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce , and the other active resisters . They poured forth a steady stream of " interpretations , " each timed so as to obfuscate , if not to contradict , some general principle which the Wagner board had just announced . Trade-union lawyer though he had been , Mr. Richberg lost no opportunity to provide anti-union employers with legal equipment by which they might duck and dodge , evade and sidestep the obligations of the statute . He has performed the same function , single-handed , since the creation of the National Labor Relations Board and the noisy retirement of General Johnson . First came the Houde decision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lloyd Garrison , reaffirmed in one judicial sweep the elaborate structure of principles so painfully erected by its predecessor . Promptly Mr. Richberg issued another interpretation , confusing and equivocal and intended , as before , to protect big business against the force of Section 7-a . But Mr. Richberg 's most spectacular contribution to the task of impeding unionism was his action in the San Francisco Call-Bulletin case . Here for the first time in the history of the New Deal a government official appeared before the board , now headed by Francis Biddle , in the role of public advocate for an employers ' association bent upon the destruction of an infant trade union . Mr. Richberg must long since have lost much of his original value to American big business . He can no longer pose as a labor sympathizer of high and open mind who takes the long view and the constructive view . But he has not ceased to be a menace to the continued existence of an independent labor movement in the United States . At its forthcoming session Congress will address itself to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . If Mr. Richberg has an important share in the proceedings , the labor movement will inevitably find itself enmeshed in legal restraints and disabilities from which it might take many years of bitter struggle to cut loose . The Spanish Conquest of Spain UNDER-COVER reports from Spain give us a belated picture of the terrorist methods by which Jose Maria Gil Robles and Premier Lerroux crushed the workers ' revolution in October . We have had to wait for such private accounts because most of the newspaper stories printed during those weeks of warfare were either shamefully lacking in substance or gave a grossly distorted view . Indeed , at the height of the war in Asturias certain pro-government correspondents began to concoct atrocity stories , tales of crime attributed to the revolutionary miners . Presumably they hoped to forestall or anticipate true accounts of the government 's military campaign . But the authorities were shrewd enough to squash this atrocity talk : better not bring up the subject ; somebody might investigate , and investigation would reveal the government 's own guilt . One newspaperman tried it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . He was shot down in cold blood by an officer of the Spanish Foreign Legion . Other newspapermen in Asturias knew the facts as well as he , but they dared not put them into print . For it is a story of invasion that belongs in the Dark Ages . The legionnaires , mostly Moroccans , simply conquered Asturias , which means that they sacked and burned the villages and tortured the inhabitants , choosing to hold every man , woman , and child responsible for the resistance put up by the miners . And now the Spanish government is about to bestow on the army and the police honors , medals , and cash benefits out of the millions donated by the grateful banks , industries , and other large businesses of Spain  --  among them the International Telephone and Telegraph Company and American banks . These concerns are grateful because more than 10,000 political prisoners are now in Spanish jails  --  so many that ships and schools and convents have had to be made into improvised prisons ; because among these prisoners may be found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because trade-union leaders are being shot or committed to " perpetual chains " ; because the Socialist , Communist , and other left-wing groups and parties are now underground , bitterly persecuted ; because the government is preparing to dissolve the great Socialist Union General de Trabajadores ; because newspapers are censored , and civil liberties have been completely blotted out by prolonged martial law ; and finally , because Catalonia has lost the democratic gains it had made as an " autonomous province " and is being ruled like a conquered colony . In Barcelona most of the members of the board of patrons of the university are in jail , along with the members of the Catalan government , representatives in the Catalan parliament , councilors of the municipal corporation , Catalan representatives in the Spanish parliament , writers , teachers , artists . There are 800 of them imprisoned in the steamship Uruguay , fifty-five in second-class cabins and the rest in the holds . Ex-Premier Manuel Azaiia , " the Man of the Republic , " was put by himself in a warship , consigned to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " get " him ever since he made certain reforms to eliminate graft and politics from the Spanish army . Among the men on the Uruguay are Professor Pornpeu Fabra , the grand old man of the Catalan cultural renaissance , a linguist and a literary leader , and president of the P. E. N. in Catalonia ; Dr. Pere Bose i Gimpera , internationally known archaeologist and rector of the university ; Dr. Josep Kirau , jurist , editor of Revista Juridica and contributor to international law journals ; Dr. A. Trias , one of the foremost surgeons of Barcelona ; and Dr. J. M. Batista i Roca , formerly assistant professor in the faculty of philosophy . In other words , the Inquisition has ceased to be a menacing ghost and is now fully reincorporated . No protest is heard , in Spain or elsewhere , from any but republican , intellectual , and left-wing political sources . The entire clergy is enthusiastically behind the present government , along with the military chiefs , the big landowners , and big capital as a whole . A concordat is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubted that the restoration of civil liberties with justice and mercy for all Spanish citizens is listed among the conditions required by the Pope . Gil Robles represents in politics the Jesuit group that edits the paper El Debate  --  today talking in a spirit of righteous rejoicing  --  and controls the landlords ' party , AcciOn Popular . He is , in fact , virtual dictator of Spain  --  and the man who insists on death penalties when President Alcali Zamora hesitates . Outside of Spain certain outraged voices have already been raised . A British commission sent to investigate conditions was got rid of by a " patriotic riot " nicely stage-managed . Here , Ernest Hemingway and John Dos Passos have called attention to the fact that Luis Quintanilla , probably Spain 's foremost artist , is behind bars in Madrid . Sooner or later Gil Robles will have to reckon with a wave of protest spreading throughout the world . They Lisped in Numbers B URTON RASCOE and Groff Conklin did an inter- esting job when they resurrected from the pages of Smart Set a volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fame . Now E B. White of the New Yorker has gone them one better with an equally impressive list of well-known men and women whose even earlier work appeared  --  believe it or not  --  in the pages of St. Nicholas . Improbable as it may seem , the creator of our most " sophisticated " magaiine was , in his more innocent days , himself a member of that St. Nicholas League whose young members competed with words and pictures for a graduated series of medals , and so , it seems , were a good many others now out in the great world . Perhaps Mr. White woke up in the middle of some night gripped by the fear that he was only a leaguer at heart and the pet of Albert Bigelow Paine , its erstwhile mentor ; but others bear the burden of an equally innocent past . In 1904 , for instance , Robert Edmund Jones got a medal for a drawing of My Playmate and wrote a nice letter of acknowledgment ( very cautious with its " shalls " and its quotation marks ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and shall always look back with pleasure to the time ' when my first picture was printed . ' " One Ringold W. Lardner just managed to squeeze into the Honor Roll for April , 1900 , with a puzzle , but a certain lady who may be recognized under the name of E. Vincent Millay was a frequent contributor , and among some two score others appear such future personages as Conrad William Faulkner , Kay Boyle , Elinor Hoyt , ( Wylie ) , Deems Taylor , Stella Benson , Peggy Bacon , Edmund Wilson , and Lee Simonson . William Rose Benet , Elinor Wylie , and John Macy passed , by what does not seem an especially easy transition , from the St. Nicholas League to the Smart Set . Even more remarkable is the fact that the New Yorker of today seems to be written largely by persons who can have been prepared only rather indirectly for their present duties by the innocent amusements suggested by St. Nicholas . Mr. White , for instance , had the cold comfort of learning that his drawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " if space permitted . " On the other hand , Sigmund Spaeth landed a poem about spring ; Lois Long was a leading juvenile photographer ; John C. Mosher also did wonders with a camera ; and Robert Benchley was elevated to the Honor Roll in 1903 for a drawing entitled The Dollie 's Lesson . There was , however , no gossip column in St. Nicholas , and so Mr. Woollcott was of course absent . The moral seems to be , first , that the " little magazines " are not the only nurseries of talent , and , second , that genius is not too much influenced by the kind of education it gets . St. Nicholas was safe and sane and thoroughly nice . It did not teach its young aspirants to " think " ? at least not about anything more dangerous than Spring , Where I Spend My Vacation , and Kindness to Animals . But what does Mr. Paine , from his distant abode , think of his young charges now ? Surely that twig which was to become William Faulkner was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are not , unfortunately , told what his contributions were about , but it is easy to guess that there was not a murder , a rape , or even a soupgon of amentia in the lot .                     