@@144224

&para; Painting in a high key means using bright colors without much tonal shading or contrast with neutral greys and browns . A brave method , what it may produce for the uninspired was shown in astonishing variety last week in Manhattan at the 113th annual exhibition of the National Academy . By contrast with four out of five of the 300-odd paintings , the American Abstract Art which preceded them at the spacious Fine Arts Building ( TIME , Feb. 28 ) seemed modestly professional . Exceptions were the entries of a dozen academicians who know their business and a few young artists whom the Academy has lately delighted to honor . Associate Academician-Elect Frank Mechau Jr . won one of the Altman Prizes for his Last of the Wild Horses-a scene of wintry , grey-blue mountains with a train at rest in a long streamline , the locomotive sending up its ribbon of smoke , and herds of spirited horses running in well-designed cattle pens . Other prizewinners included : Gleb Derujinsky , Lewis Iselin , Jerome Myers , Charles S. Chapman , Jon Carbino , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago 's Art Institute the 42nd annual exhibition by artists who live within 100 miles of Chicago brought out a large entry of artists who well know that during the past five years Institute shows have sold 424 paintings , 3,546 prints and drawings , and 20 pieces of sculpture . A painter who never won a prize before-pipe-smoking , easygoing Norman MacLeish , brother of Poet Archibald MacLeish-won the Logan medal and $500 , generally considered the Institute 's first prize , for his Watertown , a composition of waterfront buildings worked out in warm reds and neutral colors . Artist MacLeish began painting when he was studying architecture in Paris in 1920 , in the last few years has given up architecture entirely . He lives in Winnetka but does his painting in a basement studio in his mother 's old mansion in Glencoe . Reason : his three children are getting to the age where they ask ' ' What are you doing that for , Daddy ? " <P> &para; Big news in Richmond , Va. , and auspicious news for the blossoming South , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Museum of Fine Arts . Planned to take place on alternate years with the great Corcoran Biennial Exhibition in Washington , D. C. , it displayed a much smaller but notable group of 183 paintings by 183 artists from 24 States . They were selected , from 1,551 submissions , by the bluest of blue-ribbon juries : Artists Edward Hopper , John Carroll , Bernard Kartiol , Daniel Garber , Charles Hopkinson . Honored by the award of John Barton Payne medals and purchased by the Payne Fund were Eugene Speicher 's Peach Jacket , a girl portrait done in soft peach , dull green and dreamy neutrals ; Henry Lee McFee 's intricate , expert still life , The Desert Plant .                     