@@431028

 |p642  OUR AMERICAN DREYFUS CASE A CHALLENGE TO CALIFORNIA JUSTICE BY LILLIAN SYMES N THE thirty-five years since I Emile Zola thundered the charge of fraud and perjury at the military accusers of Alfred Dreyfus , the Dreyfus case has stood as the classic international example of what we in America have come to know as " the frame-up . " The affaire Dreyfus ? it may be necessary to remind the members of a younger generation ? shook the French nation to its foundations and involved on one side or the other many of the most famous and influential men of the time . Doubtless to the more complacent minds of the nineties the charges of the Dreyfusa.rds after the shameful acquittal of Esterhazy in 1898 must have seemed the mouthings of dangerous radicals ; for it was difficult to convince the average citizen that any group of men , military or civil , would deliberately manufacture evidence of guilt , suppress proof of innocence , keep silent when they could vindicate , or shut their minds to the truth because of personal prejudice . We in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the frailties of official nature . From Teapot Dome to our latest municipalcourt scandals , we have seen enough of political and police malfeasance to believe almost anything of our lawmakers , courts , and public guardians . But if we have lost much of our social idealism , we have lost in still greater degree our capacity for indignation in the face of palpable injustice and stupidity . No such roar of protest as sounded in France in the nineties has been heard in the past fifteen years on the subject of our American Dreyfus affair , the Mooney-Billings case , and California is still convinced that , as one prominent native put it , " only a few parlor reds in the East care  |p642  a damn about the Mooney business anyway . By the time this is printed , perhaps , a new State governor ? the fourth to hold office during the history of the case ? will have had an opportunity to bring to a belated ending the injustice involved in our civil counterpart of the great French military scandal and to demonstrate a moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Should the genial new executive surprise both his friends and his enemies by such political hardihood he will not have wiped out the fact that in an enlightened and progressive American community it is possible for two men to remain in prison long after practically everyone but a small and embittered group of die-hards has become convinced of their innocence . This is not to say that all Californians , outside this small and embittered group , believe that Mooney and Billings should be freed . That is another matter . California , like all our States , abounds with persons who feel that anyone suspected of subversive opinions regarding this best of all possible worlds is better off in jail . But few Californians , except the more simple-minded readers of the San Francisco Chronicle and the Los Angeles Times , believe for a moment that Thomas J. Mooney and Warren K. Billings are guilty of the crime of which they were convicted . Almost every year of the fifteen that have elapsed since these men were arrested in 1916 has witnessed some fresh disclosure of perjury or injustice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their behalf from men intimately connected with their trials . The trial judge in the Mooney case , the ten living jurors , the assistant district attorney who prosecuted Billings , the chief of the detective bureau who assembled the evidence , and the present district attorney of San Francisco have repeatedly petitioned California 's successive governors to pardon the two prisoners on the ground that they were unjustly convicted . But all of these efforts , together with the intermittent protests of labor groups , of prominent individuals , and of the liberal press , have bounced ineffectively against the wall of California 's official indifference . In spite of reports in the two or three newspapers that have espoused the prisoners ' cause , the State has no realization of the interest and indignation its famous labor case has aroused beyond its borders or of how damaging to the State 's reputation is the continued imprisonment of the two labor men . Public interest in the Mooney-Billings case , which had naturally drooped during the past ten years , was revived again last summer when Warren K. Billings made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was during this hearing that the last remaining shred of evidence against him and Mooney collapsed officially in the person of the recanting drug addict witness , John MacDonald . ( MacDonald had made an affidavit admitting perjury years before . ) The refusal of the Supreme Court to grant a pardon in the face of that collapse and the outrageous manner in which the hearing was conducted aroused a new flood of amazed and indignant comment in both the conservative and liberal press of the nation . For , after all , the Governor of California had intimated a short time before , in referring to Mooney 's plea , that the guilt of the two men now hinged almost solely on the testimony of MacDonald and that MacDonald 's recantation alone could save them . Now , with MacDonald admitting perjury , their appeals were denied . In spite of the Supreme Court 's urgent hope that their decision would quell all agitation in relation to the case , " now and forever , " it was soon obvious that more than ever , thoughtful people were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Billings still in prison ? " The Californian who knew his State 's political and industrial history did n't need to ask why . II The more obvious facts of the Mooney-Billings affair have been repeatedly aired in the national press , and no detailed story of the case is necessary here . Nothing short of a book could do justice to such a story , anyway . But , for an adequate answer to the question , " Why are these men kept in prison ? " it is necessary to go behind these facts to the case 's background , to trace the relation of that background to the amazing web of perjury which surrounded the trials and to the prejudice that has kept them where they are for nearly fifteen years . California , unlike Massachusetts facing a somewhat similar situation , is not a self-righteous and stratified community with a homogeneous ruling caste . Like Florida and other playground regions , it is intensely concerned with the national good will . It is , on the whole , politically progressive ? a heritage from Hiram Johnson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where this affair took place , it is easy-going , tolerant , and humane in its standards of human conduct . Its larger cities have reeked with graft and corruption but , except for the southern evangelists , Californians do not get excited about such things . They are inclined to smile deprecatingly about them , just as a politician will smile deprecatingly as he admits , privately , " Yeah , this Mooney-Billings business is a dirty mess all right . Sure thing , it was framed ? not that Mooney ai n't a anyway . But what 's the use of raking all that up now ? No , do n't you quote me . I do n't want to be smeared with it . " This is a type of response I have had from people in a. position to speak with authority on the case . No , California js not smug in the sense that Massachusetts was . It merely wants to keep effectively buried what it admits to be a dirty mess , lest the exhumation should prove embarrassing all around . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grant the men parole , because parole , carrying with it the intimation of mercy to repentant guilt , would still outside agitation in their behalf . But to grant pardon is to admit officially what has already been amply proved . And to admit perjury is to cast serious reflections upon prosecuting officials . So far the State has n't taken such chances . It has preferred to abide by its past peccadillos with the oft-repeated phrase , " Well , anyway , we got the right men on the wrong evidence . " The roots of the Mooney-Billings case go back a long way ? farther , indeed , than we have space to trace them . California 's labor history up to the last prosperous decade had been an excessively violent one . The large employers were mostly of the oldfashioned , predatory type best personified by the well-known Pacific Coast shipowner who declared that the best way to break a strike was to send a few ambulance loads of pickets to the hospital , and by labor-hating publicists like the late owner of the Los Angeles Times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during an attempt to organize Los Angeles labor , was one aspect of labor 's answer to such a policy . Up to our entry into the War , every industrial conflict on the coast echoed with charges and countercharges of sabotage , dynamite , and frame-up . " Scabs " were regularly beaten up by union " entertainment committees . " Union pickets were slugged by hired gangsters . Damage to property occurred . Dynamite was planted at strategic points and then  |p644  duly discovered by corporation detectives to the fanfare of newspaper indignation . Throughout all this guerrilla warfare San F , rancisco remained largely a " closed shop " town , the most effective stronghold of organized labor in the country . Its labor leaders were , on the whole , of the conservative but quite practical A. F. of L. type usually referred to by the scornful radical as " labor politicians " ? men who , though they might know more about the technic of sabotage than any I. W. W. ever talked about , nevertheless believed implicitly in the present social order and looked upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only to the American labor movement . As a rule , however , whether " straight " or " crooked , " they " delivered the goods " to their constituents and maintained through their political machinations the economic strength of their respective bodies . Only the large public utility corporations , and particularly the United Railways the officials of which had once been indicted for buying outright the entire city administration ? were able to resist successfully the pressure of union organization . All this while " open shop " Los Angeles to the south was the envy and inspiration of Pacific Coast Chambers of Commerce . As early as 1913 , one of these utility corporations , acting through a private detective , one Martin Swanson , had attempted to implicate Tom Mooney and Warren Billings in a dynamiting plot in connection with an electrical workers ' strike . Mooney had been acquitted at the time , but Billings , a mere boy , had been convicted on a separate charge and sentenced to a short prison term . Mooney was a cocky and aggressive young member of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles . For several years he had been active as a free lance organizer and in 1916 , believing evidently that he could accomplish single-handed what the local labor movement had failed to do , he secured permission from the international carmen 's union to organize the street railway employees of San Francisco . It was just at this time that Northern California capital was staging its revolt against " the crippling hand " of the trades unions . A general strike among the waterfront workers was the signal for the great crusade which was carried on with the utmost ruthlessness . The violence engendered by the knowledge that both sides were fighting for their lives furnished an excuse for the organizing by the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce of a " Law and Order Committee , " with all the slogans of the old-time Vigilantes . A million-dollar fund was raised to finance the fight and to deal with recalcitrant agitators . In the midst of all this , and in spite of the weakness of his little union group , probably infested with private detectives , Mooney called a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It failed immediately , only a few men responding , but , in the language of President Wilson 's Mediation Committee , it undoubtedly increased the determination of the utility corporations to " get " Tom Mooney . It was at this fortuitous moment that the Preparedness Parade explosion took place . No greater piece of luck could have befallen the embattled Chamber of Commerce and the utility companies . All union men had been instructed to stay away from the parade . It had been heavily sponsored by the Law and Order Committee , the patriotic organizations , and the nonunion employers whose employees were instructed to march . The explosion of a bomb behind the crowd of spectators on a sidewalk killed ten and wounded forty people . The Law and Order Committee im-  |p645  mediately elected itself the community savior . A reward of seventeen thousand five hundred dollars was raised for the apprehension of the criminals , and San Francisco frothed at the mouth in an orgy of fright , hatred , and desire for vengeance . On the very evening of the explosion , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utility corporation detective , who had been on the trail of Mooney and Billings for three years , visited the district attorney who had been helped into office by the United Railways a few years before to dismiss the remaining graft prosecution indictments against them . Swanson was placed in charge of the investigation , and four days later Mooney , Mrs. Mooney , Billings , and two other trades unionists , Israel Weinburg and Edward Nolan , were arrested . III The story of the trials that followed need not detain us at this late date . Billings was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on the testimony of a drug addict , an ex-convict , a garrulous ex-prostitute with a police record , and an apparently irresponsible mother and daughter , later discredited . Assistant District Attorney Brennan , who prosecuted the case , declared later that had he been a juror he would not have voted for conviction and , because of the weakness of his case , asked for life imprisonment rather than death . It was undoubtedly because of a realization of this weakness that District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the desperate expedient of importing the " honest cattleman , " Frank Oxman , into the Mooney trial which followed . They were asking the death penalty and were determined to get it . Recently the writer talked with Judge Franklin A. Griffin , who presided at Mooney 's trial , who later sentenced him to death , and who for fourteen years has been making every possible effort to secure a pardon for him . " When I look back upon the trial now , " he said , " it seems to me that we must have been slightly crazed by the hysteria of the time to have accepted for a moment the preposterous contention of the prosecution ? the story that the alleged dynamiters , three of them well-known to the police and fully aware that they were being shadowed by private detectives , rode down a cleared street in the face of an oncoming parade with a bomb on the running board of their car . Only Oxman 's testimony carried any weight with me . We did not know then , of course , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his original story bore no resemblance to the one he told on the witness stand . " When Oxman 's incredibility was disclosed through the finding of letters he had written in an attempt to gain corroboration for his own testimony , some of the inner ramifications of the prosecution were uncovered . Others were revealed later by the Department of Labor 's investigation of the District Attorney 's office . District Attorney Charles M. Fickert had been put in office , as we have said , largely through the money and efforts of the United Railways . He had been handed to that corporation by Justice F. W. Henshaw of the California Supreme Court , who was later forced to resign from the bench when Fremont Older , California 's famous crusading editor , discovered that the dignified judge had accepted an enormous bribe in a will case . Fickert had been football captain at Stanford University , the alma mater of so many national figures in current politics , and he had been known to his associates there as " Boob " Fickert . The brainwork of his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young Stanford alumni .  |p646  But the office was directed by two men ? Frank C. Drew , Attorney for the Chamber of Commerce , and Justice Henshaw of the Supreme Court . It is claimed by those intimately associated with the case that the cattle dealer , Oxman ? who had been involved previously in a fraud case ? was brought to Drew , who in turn brought him to Fickert , by a member of a meat-packing firm associated with the Law and Order Committee . In spite of Mooney 's complete photographic alibi ( a commercial photographer , quite unknown to Mooney , had by accident snapped the Mooneys , the passing parade , and a large street clock from the roof of a building where the Mooneys stood watching the parade ) , Oxman 's testimony definitely placing Mooney at the scene of the explosion resulted in his conviction and a sentence of death . The subornation of perjury letters were discovered two months later while Mooney 's appeal was before the Supreme Court , and Fremont Older immediately published them on the front page of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication , according to Mr. Older , Fickert 's chief assistant , Edward Cunha , who had prosecuted Mooney , knocked on his hotel door . " Well , I guess I 'm in the ash-can , " was his greeting to the man who had instigated and fought through San Francisco 's famous graft prosecutions . An hour later , after agreeing that the " game was up , " Cunha arranged for a meeting of Older and a defense attorney with Fickert and his associates for the following night at the Olympic Club . At that meeting Fickert and his friends , thoroughly shaken by the turn of events and not knowing what other evidence the veteran editor might have against them , agreed to throw overboard their load of perjured testimony and to ask for a new trial for Mooney . Pacing the floor in a seeming frenzy of indignation at the deception he declared had been practiced on him , the football star-prosecutor shouted , " I 'll hang the " ( meaning Oxman ) . Older promised not to press the frame-up charges if a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost tearfully , " You 're saving the bunch of us , Mr. Older . " Some months later the burly Fickert knocked him down in the barroom of the Palace Hotel . It is the belief of Fremont Older that Fickert and his associates really intended when they left him at the Olympic Club to do as they had promised . But in the next twentyfour hours they evidently received from somewhere higher up the assurance of support in this crisis and the knowledge that they could afford to be defiant . A meeting of the grand jury , subservient to the District Attorney 's office , was called . It passed a resolution praising Fickert and ignoring the Oxman evidence . The Law and Order Committee , realizing the seriousness of the situation , paid for full-page advertisements in the daily newspapers calling upon all good citizens to stand by the District Attorney . Oxman was finally brought to trial for subornation of perjury . ( His own , personal perjury was not discovered until later . ) He was " taken care of , " at the suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly priced defense attorneys in the State ? Samuel Shortridge , now United States Senator from California . The prosecution was conducted by a friend of the District Attorney 's , then an assistant State 's attorney general ? Raymond Benjamin , author of California 's Criminal Syndicalism Bill , now an unofficial adviser to Mr. Hoover and recently mentioned for chairmanship of the National G.O.P. In spite of the damning testimony against him  |p647  in his own handwriting , Oxman was acquitted ? to the surprise of no one . Because of the public 's cynicism toward the Oxman acquittal , however , it was impossible to use him in the trials that followed . As a result , Mrs. Mooney and Weinburg were promptly acquitted , and Nolan was not even brought to trial . Yet if Mooney and Billings were guilty , these three , according to the prosecution 's case , must have been equally guilty . IV The acquittal of Oxman did nothing to solve the prosecution 's difficulties . In the summer of 1918 , after we had entered the World War and while Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Mooney , President Wilson was moved by labor demonstrations before American embassies abroad to take a hand in the affair . His Mediation Commission , with Secretary of Labor Wilson as chairman and Felix Frankfurter as secretary , reported , after a thorough investigation of the case , that Mooney had not had a fair trial and that his arrest had been " engineered " by Martin Swanson . President Wilson immediately asked Governor Stephens to grant Mooney a new trial on one of the remaining indictments against him . The Governor did nothing at the time . Then a second Federal investigation during September and October of 1918 , conducted by the Director General of Employment , J. B. Densmore , under instructions from the Labor Department , finally ripped the last garment of pretense from the prosecution , revealed still farther the forces behind it , and saved Mooney 's life . A dictagraph was placed in the District Attorney 's office by Federal operatives and dayby-day records of the conversations there were taken down . That record , minus the obscenities necessarily deleted , may now be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The document is an amazing sidelight on the practice of our criminal law , our municipal politics , and the character of the men we elect to public office . Similar records taken in other American cities would undoubtedly show somewhat similar conditions , for , as a conservative attorney recently assured the writer while discussing the Densmore report , " There 's nothing unusual about that sort of thing . It goes on all the time . " In this particular instance District Attorney Fickert was grooming himself for the State 's governorship and probably went a little farther than was wise in ingratiating himself with the powers that could put him there . The confidential conversations between Fickert and his chief assistant revealed them as unscrupulous , vindictive , and vulgar . It is not necessary here to go into the personal peccadillos of the District Attorney as revealed in his telephone conversations ( a French farce writer would do well to consult the record for material ) nor into the intellectual limitations which led him to believe that N-i-e-t-z-s-c-h-e spelled the name of a powerful explosive . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at that moment attempting to re-frame a case against Mrs. Mooney , who had been acquitted , that such efforts were a part of the regular office routine , and that they were co-operating intimately with " notorious jury and case fixers . " Fickert ( Densmore concludes ) is seen throughout this report to be prostituting his office in other cases precisely as he prostituted it in the bomb cases and if there were previously any doubt as to whether a prisoner whom powerful interests desired to convict would receive a fair trial at the hands of the District Attorney , there is now no doubt about the matter whatever . The San Francisco District Attorney 's office ,  |p648  thrown wide open by this investigation , reveals the public prosecutor not as an officer of justice but as a conspirator against justice . Fickert is shown setting the guilty free and prosecuting the innocent . But the dictagraph record showed something else . It will be remembered that Fickert 's patron , Justice Henshaw , had been forced to resign his office some time before by Fremont Older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proving Henshaw guilty of accepting a large bribe . At that time , when confronted by the evidence , Henshaw had pleaded with the editor , for the sake of his gray hairs and the honor of the Court , not to publish these documents and so disgrace him . He promised that he would resign from the bench , sever his connections with Fickert , and use his influence to get Mooney a new trial ? a matter close to Older 's heart . The editor , who is a philosophic Tolstoyan , agreed on these conditions to do nothing . Henshaw then resigned on the excuse that he wanted " to do war work , " and the incriminating documents remained in Older 's desk . The Densmore dictagraph record made some months later , however , revealed the fact that the venerable judge had been " double crossing " the venerable editor . While Henshaw had resigned his office , his was still the fine Italian hand ? or more literally , the Machiavellian mind ? behind the District Attorney . He was still liaison officer between Fickert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which revealed these facts was brought to Older by the men who had made it , he reached in his desk for the bribery documents and handed them to the investigators . They were incorporated with the Densmore report to the Department of Labor . Older published the entire report in his paper ? now the Call-Bulletin . While never released by the Department of Labor , it was later read into the Congressional Record during a congressional discussion of the Mooney case . A few nights after the publication of the report by Older , Fickert made his fistic attack upon the editor in the barroom of the Palace Hotel . Twelve years later , when Older was acting as a witness in support of Billings 's appeal for pardon to the Supreme Court , it was clearly demonstrated by the malicious and insulting cross-examination he received that the justices had not forgotten his affront to the State Supreme Bench in his exposure of Justice Henshaw . In November , 1918 , after two more urgent communications from President Wilson , Governor Stephens commuted Mooney 's sentence to life imprisonment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had testified under pressure from the district attorney 's office , and the simple-minded mother and daughter had been exposed by a neighboring chief of police . In November , 1920 , came the confession of Police Officer Draper Hand that he had coached Oxman as well as other witnesses in their testimony , after they had been " programmed " by Martin Swanson , the private detective . It was with this confession that the present Governor of California , then Mayor of San Francisco , became involved in the situation . Like other recanting witnesses , Hand first brought his story to Fremont Older . Realizing the importance of the confession , Older immediately requested Mayor Rolph to come to his office on a matter of vital importance . The genial mayor , known throughout the State as " Sunny Jim , " readily acquiesced and appeared at the editor 's office in his usual expansive mood . The door was closed behind him , Hand was introduced to him and began his story . A stenographer recorded it .  |p649  In a few moments Rolph must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extremely distasteful situation . He was listening to a story which involved city officials in a frame-up . Rolph is a kindly man , and he has a constitutional antipathy for nasty messes . The famous smile froze . Mr. Older sat between him and the doorway . He was forced to listen to the full recital . The presses that evening would broadcast the story , " Draper Hand Confesses to Mayor Rolph . " The recital ended , and Mr. Older moved back toward his desk . Without a word the mayor shot through the door . A little later Hand was shunted out of the police department on some pretext , and nothing was done about his revelations , which at the time they were made seemed certain to open the entire case again . Four months later , MacDonald , last of the important witnesses , made his first confession of perjury to Mooney 's attorney , Frank P. Walsh , in New York . This confession was repeated by him nine years later before the California Supreme Court ? which preferred to believe , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth in 1916 ! V It may seem incredible to the disinterested reader that in the face of these disclosures and confessions , this complete breakdown of the web of perjury and intrigue which surrounded the trials , it should require any moral courage on the part of a State executive to right these wrongs ? especially since he would have back of him the opinions of impartial investigators and the protests of internationally famous men and women . But Californians interested in the case know that the MooneyBillings affair has become political dynamite ; and no political careerist willingly handles high explosives . The man who pardons Mooney will outrage the class prejudices and hates of the most socially and industrially influential citizens in the State . It is for this reason that three successive governors ? possibly four by the time this is printed ? have turned a deaf ear to their appeals . There can be no doubt in the mind of the impartial observer that these men were ? as President Wilson 's Mediation Commission intimated ? the victims of the machinations of Martin Swanson acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " both men . District Attorney Fickert , who may have at first accepted Swanson 's witnesses at their face value , must have been aware of the nature of the evidence within a few weeks of the explosion . But he has not to this day faltered in his efforts to defeat all pleas for pardon . In this he has been ably seconded by his much cleverer and more bitter assistant , Edward Cunha . However , having bungled so badly the job with which he was entrusted and having committed the unforgivable sin of being found out , Fickert has long since been deserted by his patrons and now looks like a broken man . Recently he is said to have appealed to Governor Rolph for a State job . Cunha is now actively engaged in private practice ? from which he took time off last summer to aid Justice Preston in the " prosecution " of the Billings hearings . But other men , less directly connected with the case , have since moved up into higher circles of social and political life . Much water has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days of 1916 . The United Railways has changed owners and the other corporations which once pursued Mooney and Billings so relentlessly now go in for welfare work , employees ' bonuses , and public relations counsels . When Mooney 's petition for pardon  |p650  was before the Governor last year , the present officials of these companies asserted to newspaper men that their organizations were no longer interested in whether or not these men stayed in prison . They refused , however , to make any effort for their release . But pressure of some sort was certainly exerted from somewhere . One year ago last autumn when the last Mooney plea was on his desk , Governor Young intimated to four different persons , including United States Senator Hiram Johnson , that a pardon might be expected . Mrs. Young , who evidently did not share her husband 's timidity , expressed herself even more forcibly on the subject . But the pardon plea was denied . The Governor had as an excuse , to be sure , the decision of the State Supreme Court in the Billings appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so notoriously prejudiced that no man of courage could have permitted himself to be influenced by it for a moment . ( It was at this hearing that Justice Preston , former United States Attorney during the World War , acted as both judge and prosecutor , displayed a bias that amazed even newspaper men , and generally put on a performance that has probably never been equaled in our judicial history . ) In spite of the assurances of neutrality given by the utility companies at this time , it is entirely obvious that the financial interests of the State want Mooney and Billings kept where they are . During the past summer Duncan Aikman , California correspondent for the Baltimore Sun , interviewed leading San Francisco business men who had been members of the Law and Order Committee in 1916 . While refusing to discuss the matter officially , the consensus of their individual opinions was that both men were " guilty as hell . " Some of the men who voiced this opinion are supporters of the present Governor . This is one reason why the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sympathetic impulses . Another political factor in the situation ? in addition to Northern California capital ? is the Southern California vote . Since 1916 more than two million new inhabitants have moved into Southern California , largely from the rural Middle West . These new voters know nothing of the facts of the Mooney-Billings case , but the two men are vaguely associated in their minds with the more recent red scares , with a Bolshevism that had no existence in 1916 . These people , with their small savings and investments to guard , are kept in a state of almost continual panic by such organizations as the Better America Federation which performs for the Southwest what the D.A.R . and the Civic Federation do for the East . Any governor or other public official who advocated freeing Mooney and Billings would , in the language of the Better Americans , be " truckling to the reds . " Labor in the State is largely apathetic about the case . San Francisco is no longer a " closed shop " city . The strength of the union movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiastic about Mooney , and during a decade of comparative industrial peace the rank and file have lost most of their old militancy , which if socially blind was at least practically effective . The prevailing mood among other classes in the State ? apart , of course , from the thousands of men and women in every walk of life who have protested the convictions from the beginning ? is indifference . The average Californian with whom one talks casually seems convinced that the trials were " crooked " and that Mooney and Billings probably never saw the Prepared-  |p651  ness Parade bomb . But many feel that the men were probably saboteurs and dynamiters who had destroyed property , so why make a fuss about them ? In other words , if you suspect a man of having damaged your back fence but have n't been able to prove that he did it , it is legitimate to frame him on the charge of having murdered his grandmother . This is the attitude which was recently expressed most forcibly by the editor of a Colfax , California , newspaper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case . We may as well be candid and kindergartenish with you . . . . It is quite beside the point whether or not they Mooney and Billings are guilty of the particular crimes of which they were charged and convicted . The question is : Are Mooney and Billings the sort of people we want to run at large ? We have decided this in the negative and we have locked them up . We intend to keep them there . During the recent Billings hearing before the Supreme Court , the San Francisco newspapers devoted from two to five pages daily to what was naturally a sensational and significant occurrence . The student paper of the University of California considered all this fuss about the matter both a huge joke and a daily annoyance . What they wanted , it was insisted , was news . Who cared about all this Mooney or Looney or Spillings stuff ? Like the Supreme Court , they were tired of hearing about it . Back to murders , divorces , and bigger and better sports pages ! VI The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solved by this time had not the prosecution , in its haste to pin the crime on Mooney and Billings , ignored important evidence and the testimony of respectable citizens which conflicted with their theory of the case . Among those who believe the prisoners innocent , several theories have been advanced . One is that the deed was committed by a crank whose mind was inflamed to insanity by the waves of nationalist and pro-militarist propaganda then raging . Another ? advanced recently by a sensational writer in a popular weekly and founded upon evidence long familiar to many San Franciscans ? is that the crime was part of the German sabotage campaign in this country between 1914 and 1917 . While it is possible that the manufacturer of the bomb may have been a man who had been at some time associated with the work of German espionage as a hired mercenary , it is altogether unlikely ? in view of the fact that the explosion naturally intensified the interventionist and anti-German sentiment of the country ? that any German official knew anything about it . German diplomats are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defendants themselves and some of their friends , involves Martin Swanson in the bomb plot as well as in their later persecution . Whoever committed the crime , there can be no question at this time that the men who have suffered for it are innocent . Mooney has grown middleaged in San Quentin prison . Billings , though still comparatively young , has lived more than fourteen years in the blinding heat of Folsom , the other State penitentiary . Not even a justly disposed governor can set him free because , according to California 's law , a second offender can be pardoned only by the State Supreme Court , and the California State Supreme Court has already demonstrated its attitude toward Billings . Only a change in the law or the appointment of more justices like the eloquently dissenting Langdon can save him . Neither Mooney nor Billings is a hero to the writer , nor has she any  |p652  personal interest in either of them . ( In California , everyone who has interested himself in behalf of these men has been accused by the conservative press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in their defense . ) As individuals they may not be of any particular importance , but as symbols of a judicial and industrial frame-up their cases cast a shadow across the whole administration of justice in this country and particularly in California . For years agitators of various schools have been declaring that the worker , caught in the toils of " capitalist justice , " has n't a chance for a square deal . California seems determined to prove that contention . There are , of course , thousands of men and women in the State whose feelings have been continually outraged by the case and who have protested vigorously when given an opportunity . One may hear stronger language on the subject from a prominent rabbi , an Episcopal bishop , or a well-known lawyer than from the convinced radical ? who after all expects nothing better from " the interests " and is not surprised . But California is , as we have said , more sensitive to national disapproval than to native protest . It has not yet realized how widespread this national disapproval is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socially sensitive men and women whose words will mean more to posterity than the timid mouthings of politicians . Scores of such men and women , among them Theodore Dreiser , John Dewey , Harry Emerson Fosdick , Sinclair Lewis , Alexander Meiklejohn , Stephen S. Wise , Fannie Hurst , H. L. Mencken , Norman Hapgood , Philip LaFollette , Robert Duffus , Inez Haynes Irwin , W. E. Woodward , Clarence Darrow , Bishop Francis McConnell , Glenn Frank , and Roy Howard of the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain , have already voiced an appeal for justice for these men , for the pardon which is the only possible reparation the State can now make them . At the present moment evidence in relation to the case is before the Wickersham Committee . In view of the Committee 's Prohibition report , there is probably little to expect from this source ; but if ever a case of " law enforcement " cried to heaven for thorough investigation , it is this double Dreyfus affair in California . That Mooney and Billings are being held in prison long after every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , prejudice , and timidity has been the unescapable conclusion of everyone who has made an impartial investigation of their cases . The facts presented in this article can be easily checked by anyone caring to do so . That the men were the victims of a particularly malicious frame-up ( though the " frame-up " issue was dropped for purely tactical reasons in the last Billings hearing ) can not be doubted by anyone who has read the Densmore report on the District Attorney 's office . The Dreyfus case had its belated happy ending after twelve years . After fifteen years nothing short of a violent awakening of the State 's long dormant sense of social indignation can save us from the disgrace of having these men die in prison ? and from having some future generation shudder at California 's callous indifference and stupidity .                     