@@255784

C , Prime mystery to Wall Street analysts has always been the exact part played by " little fellows " in market activity . To clear it up the Securities &; Exchange Com-mission started last month to tabulate and release daily figures on odd-lot trading ( less than loo-share lots ) , which makes up about one-fifth of all Stock Exchange transactions . Last week a full month of these figures provided solid data for experts in New York and Washington . Total buying orders for 2,934,843 shares with a value of $126,257.589 compared to total selling orders for 2,395.990 shares with a value of $103,758,787 showed that during some of the most decided bear selling in the last two years , small investors had been decided bulls . <P> &lt;L Chalked up by Standard Oil Co. of Indiana last week was a showy legal victory over Standard Oil of New Jersey , ending a " battle of brands " which began in 1935 after both companies had been consist- ently offside in each other 's home territory . Federal Judge George H. Moore in St. Louis decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidiary had infringed on Standard of Indiana 's trademark , " S.O. , " granted an injunction prohibiting the New Jersey company from using in 14 Midwestern States any trademark derived from the words " Standard Oil . " C. WThile automobile men talked of impending higher prices , off the assembly line in Flint , Mich , rolled the 13. ooo.oooth Chevrolet , just eleven months and two days after the 12,000. oooth . This was the second shortest million-unit period in the company 's history . Two days later Ford Motor Co. turned out the i.ooo.oooth V8 , 1937 model , built in the U. S. since production started last October . C. For the benefit of bankers and investment houses generally , and of their law- yers in particular , scholarly Director Harold H. Neff of the SEC 's Division of Forms &; Regulations last week made public a complete lesson in brevity . Declaring that prospectuses for security issues were too long and gummed up with unnecessary legal verbiage , Mr. Neff cited a utility company 's prospectus for an issue of first-mortgage bonds . Of most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SEC 's not only permit but invite the omission of such detail . " offered in comparison a model prospectus of his own covering the same ground in 250 words . C. " Silly , " said Western Union Telegraph Co. ' s dour old Vice President John Calvin Willever last week of newspaper reports that Western Union and Postal Telegraph were about to be prosecuted for violation of the anti-trust laws . Prudence , said Mr. Willever , had dictated that in some cities each company should maintain its offices far enough from the other 's to prevent ' ' dilution of business . " Any notion that this could form the basis of an anti-trust action , Mr. Willever said , was as silly as the rumor that Western Union and Postal might merge ( TIME , July 5 ) . In Washington Department of Justice officials called the story " quite premature . "                     