@@486403

IF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES has made a good start by doing away with the old gag rules ? we can not be enthusiastic over the election of Mr. Garner to the Speakership  --  and the Senate Progressives have rightly defeated the reelection of Senator Moses as president pro tern , the fact remains that both Pkrties are as yet without a clear-cut program or vigorous and able leadership . It is true , as Paul Anderson points out in this issue , that the Democrats have now set themselves to the task of building a program , but that does not excuse the failure of the leaders to come together during the vacation in order to have not only a program but bills ready for action at the opening of the session . Meanwhile , there are thousands and thousands of individual bills going into both houses ; we shall see a session of extraordinary complexity , if not complete confusion . It is , however , gratifying to note that even without voting the Congress has been able to make its opinions felt on certain questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World War Foreign Debt Commission , for the question of debts must always come back to Congress , and the Congress ought to meet and grapple with it and come to a decision , whether it spells disaster for the country and for Europe or not . The leaders of House and Senate also refused to sign the paper Mr. Mellon had prepared authorizing the President to waive the payments due from abroad December 15 . Congress had a right to ask time for consideration ; the fault is Mr. Hoover 's for having refused the extra session . N HIS " TWELVE-POINT PROGRAM " the PresiI dent has at last revealed his plan for dealing with the economic crisis . Soffie of Mr. Hoover 's proposals , if vague , are undoubtedly sound enough within their limits , but nearly all of them are mere palliatives , and not one of them goes to the root of the trouble . The program is vitiated at the very start by the President 's assertion that " the major steps that we must take are domestic . The action needed is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover continues to take this attitude we can not expect any real improvement . The most urgent steps that the Administration must take are in the international field . The greatest obstacle to an American business recovery lies in the state of our foreign trade ; the greatest obstacle in the path of our foreign trade is our high protective tariff , and Mr. Hoover , in his message to Congress , again firmly opposed any reduction in our preposterous rates . But though Mr. Hoover does not include the question in his twelve-point program , he and Secretary Mellon are at least to be congratulated on finally recognizing the necessity for a reduction in the international war debts . In his domestic program , however , Mr. Hoover continues to oppose compulsory unemployment insurance and , in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary , to pretend that voluntary contributions have adequately " solved " the problem . S ECRETARY DOAK continues to regard with unreason- 1.3 ing and narrow suspicion every immigrant who comes to this country . He would have the government stamp these aliens as potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least ten years . He feels , as he said in his annual report to Congress , that immigration " is no longer a substantial economic menace " ? primarily because so few aliens are now being admitted . Nevertheless , he believes it necessary to control under the most rigid sort of rules those few who do manage to get in . He would have them fingerprinted before they can become citizens , and he would have the government reserve for a period of five years the right to cancel the citizenship certificate of any naturalized alien , " in case he violates the law in such manner as to show a lack of proper intention on his part at the time of his admission to citizenship . " Moreover , Mr. Doak strongly objects to giving the alien his full share of legal protection . He declared , said the New York Times , " that even in cases where guilt was clearly shown the efforts of the department were being handicapped by every possible resort to the courts . " Mr. Doak 's department has already shown such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter declaration comes as no surprise . It is really a pity that Mr. Doak has to be bothered with interference by the courts . If he were not , he could proceed quite untroubled to destroy all that is left in this country of a once honored tradition not only of hospitality , but of justice to the stranger within our gates .. 