@@487307

HERBERT HOOVER always had a closed mind on Russia . He has made the most unfounded statements about Russia in private conversations and in public utterances . Whether because he laid claim to mining wealth which is now the property of the Soviet nation , or because his vanity was wounded when the Bolsheviks failed to show sufficient gratitude for his most helpful relief during the Volga famine , or because of his innate conservatism and protectionist tendencies , Hoover has consistently opposed good relations with the Soviet Government . " The whole of American policies during the liquidation of the Armistice , " Hoover wrote to Oswald Garrison Villard in 1921 , " was to contribute everything it could to prevent Europe from going Bolshevik or being overrun by their armies . " In conformity with this fundamental conception , Hoover proposed in 1919 to weaken bolshevism by feeding Russia . The Bolsheviks suspected that his efforts in behalf of the Volga victims were dictated by the same desire . Had not T. C. Gregory , Hoover 's lieutenant in Budapest , boasted that the American Relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tried to establish the thesis that " under their the Bolshevik economic system . . . there can be no real return to production in Russia , and therefore Russia will have no considerable commodities to export and , consequently , no great ability to obtain imports . " Yet in the Presidential election campaign of 1932 Hoover blamed the American depression , in part , on Soviet " dumping , " in other words , on Soviet exports . He was wrong both times . Senator after Senator , business man after business man , editor after editor have been converted in the last two years to the simple idea of Soviet recognition . Secretary of State Stimson is said to favor it , and on one occasion , I believe , he honestly tried to bring it in through the back door . Herbert Hoover , however , has remained adamant . The Russian issue is very real today , and must be faced immediately . I do not hesitate to say that recognition already means more to the United States than to the Soviet Union . I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be an embarrassment to Moscow and the goal of Washington 's foreign policy . The Kremlin may wait until after March 4 or it may not wait . In any event , if there is no United States Ambassador in Moscow by next summer , there can be no doubt that serious harm will have been done to America 's interests in the Far East . Mr. Hoover 's attitude on Russia has jeopardized the position of the United States in the Pacific area , where the fate of nations may be decided during the next decade . If his policy is not quickly reversed , the loss may be irretrievable . The kernel of the problem is China . The United States is a great Pacific Power . It has always endeavored to check Japanese expansion . President Wilson resisted Japanese intervention in Siberia in 1918 until Allied pressure overcame his opposition . He fought fiercely at Versailles to eject Japan from Shantung . And even Charles Evans Hughes , who alone can compete with Hoover in the matter of Russophobia , undiplomatically pressed the Japanese at the Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he did so through no love of the Soviets . He merely acted in accordance with America 's traditional policy of keeping Japan off the Asiatic mainland . Today Japan is intrenched in Manchuria . Nothing short of war will dislodge her , not even a Soviet-American alliance . The only choice now left to Washington and Moscow is to arrange to cope with an expanded Japan . Manchuria , of course , is an element of Japanese weakness , and ultimately the invasion of the three Eastern Provinces may cause regret in Japan . But for the present , in view of the international balance of power , Tokio is strengthened . Tokio knows full well , Norman Davis 's conversations notwithstanding , that England and France will not support America in the Pacific . In 1921 Secretary of State Hughes forced Great Britain to renounce its alliance with Japan , yet the two drew together again immediately . Diplomatic assurances which violate national interests are worthless . The only two great Powers which really object to Japanese expansion are the United States and the Soviet Union . Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * She has tried threats and gifts , pressure and persuasion . Tokio wants two things from the Kremlin : the de jure recognition of Manchukuo , that is , the recognition as a fait accompli of the rape of Manchuria ; and the Chinese Eastern Railroad . Although the railroad 's value has depreciated by reason of floods , insurgent fighting , and the construction of a parallel Japanese system , it is still a precious property ; its sale or surrender by the Russians , moreover , would be the most concrete proof of Moscow 's reconciliation to Japanese mastery of Manchuria . This state , incidentally , may soon be expanded to include not only the opium province of Jehol but everything in Northern China down to Peiping and Tientsin  --  all under a carefully coached monarch . The Kremlin does not wish to recognize Manchukuo ; it does not wish to yield the Chinese Eastern to the Japanese . De jure recognition of the Soviet Government by the United States may forestall both developments . But even if it fails to do that , even if a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a pact of all but its formal significance , and Russia and America would join hands in the Pacific to watch over Japan . Men moved by prejudices and ignorance will say that Russian friendship is unreliable . Let them read the history of Soviet foreign affairs . They will see that Moscow has been a tower of strength to all the nations which have sincerely sought its help ? Germany , Turkey , Lithuania , Persia , Afghanistan , and , for a time , China . Now America needs Russia 's aid in the Pacific . The longer it takes Mr. Roosevelt to see this fact and act upon it , the more Japan will bite off from what Moscow can give to the United States . The problem of Soviet-American trade is also involved . It is a very minor factor . To be sure , one hears constantly ? On December 12 the resumption of diplomatic relations between China and the Soviet Government was announced. ? EruToa ME NATION . that Russia is the world 's greatest market . Russia is smaller than China or India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and its citizens demand a better life . The Soviets could purchase more than could a China in chaos and much more than India , which is , at least in part , a British trade preserve . But the Bolsheviks can not buy unless somebody buys from them . In recent years American industries , so weak that even a Hoover tariff has afforded insufficient protection , have used the fake excuses of " dumping " and " forced labor " to extract from a willing Administration embargo regulations against Russian exports . Reciprocal measures taken by the Russians have resulted in a decline of Soviet purchases in America far in excess of the decline of American imports from the U. S. S. R. All the commercial restrictions against Russia have reacted against the United States . America 's active trade balance in SovietAmerican trade was $76,902,000 in 1928-29 , and $118,206,000 in 1929-30 ; it fell to $32,637,000 in 1931 and to a mere $6,300,000 in the first nine months of 1932 . A few American owners of manganese mines , whose product is so poor that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the country as a whole has lost . Our total favorable balance of trade with Russia between 1923 and 1931 , inclusive , was $488,535,000 ? a half-billion dollars added to our national income . But now the Hoover-Mellon and Hoover-Mills policies have paralyzed business with Russia . Trade is possible without recognition ; but if diplomatic relations are of no use , why maintain them with other countries ? Consuls , commercial attaches , and ambassadors help their nationals to do business , and the experience of European states shows that Russia is no exception . In relation to the U. S. S. R. , indeed , political ties are of special importance , for Soviet foreign trade is a state monopoly and it is the government which buys and sells . The Soviet Government has never defaulted on a single commercial bill and its system of planned economy makes failure to pay most improbable . When the Russian authorities find that their resources are insufficient , they place fewer orders , and they have enough reserves to meet an unexpected emergency . The record of Soviet foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not enough to declare that Moscow may some day default . So may anybody else . Many of America 's best customers are delinquents today , and the financial Gibraltars of the capitalist world sue for a moratorium while the Soviets pay . Russia still needs a great deal of machinery , and she has now decided in principle to import consumers ' goods , which all capitalist countries have in abundance . These unsold goods depress markets and reduce prices . The Soviet Union could offer relief to many a harassed American manufacturer . It all depends on credits . Apart from the Republican Administration 's hostility , the chief reason for the reduction of Soviet purchases in the United States is the exorbitant discount rate on Soviet bills . Moscow pays , on the average , about 25 per cent more , and for a machine in Toledo or Pittsburgh as much as 35 per cent more , than any other buyer . When the Bolsheviks buy $100,000,000 it nrth of equipment in America , they actually pay $125 , - oia 1,000 for it . The extra @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house " speculators . and obstructs trade . Recognition , mild open credit doors to the Bolshe ? de : which are now ciaaed to them in the United States , bigger orders wouldfollow . Today most American banks boycott the Soviets . Russia is increasing her gold output annually . She can not use it , however , to meet her American obligations because the United States government authorities refuse to assay Russian gold . Indirect payments involve added expense and irritation . The Soviet Government recently issued a gold-dollar loan yielding 10 per cent interest in gold or foreign currency . Foreigners in and outside the Union have invested in it . The stability of the Soviets is behind each bond . More has never been asked of a great Power , and when weak states like Poland , Jugoslavia , Hungary , and the like have in the past pawned their customs and other similar assets as security , the investment was usually of questionable wisdom . The Russians can afford to pay 10 per cent interest because , by devoting the proceeds from these bond sales to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 to 35 per cent extra discount on credits ; 10 per cent is less than 25 per cent or 35 per cent . The bonds are pegged at par . The Bolsheviks will buy them at 100 . The Russians propose to apply the sums realized from bond sales in a given country to purchases of goods in that country . Properly handled , this may open a new avenue to Soviet business . State Department rulings , however , prevent banks from acting as agents for the Soviets . A New York bank can only take a man 's money and transfer it to Moscow , which then mails back his bond . Gold , gold bonds , barter , and cheaper credits would swell the Soviet-American trade turnover . One must not be too sanguine , yet $100,000,000 or even $50,000,000 worth of business is not to be scoffed at . Recognition would facilitate commerce , for , all things being equal , the Russians prefer American quality . The only reasons for non-recognition are American conservatism , American ignorance , American prejudice , and American folly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , among them Tory England , Fascist Italy , and monarchist Japan . There are two problems that concern the United States : debts and propaganda . The Bolsheviks have borrowed nothing from America , yet Chicherin , the former Foreign Commissar , and Litvinov , the present incumbent , have stated publicly that the Soviet Government is ready to pay the Kerensky debt , though the money was spent , in large measure , for ammunition subsequently used against the Red Army and for other anti-Soviet purposes . That is the only Russian war debt owing to the United States government . Russia also has a private debt to the National City Bank . The amount is small . Moscow has on several occasions met representatives of the bank . Once an agreement was almost reached . I believe that the Kremlin ought to settle this . Settlement would facilitate trade . Recognition would facilitate a settlement . I feel certain that the Bolsheviks will not pay the National City Bank until diplomatic relations are established . Given the good-will that would follow inevitably upon recognition , debts would present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Communist propaganda has been lied about a great deal . There is no circumstantial evidence of any organizational connection between the Third International and the Sox let Govei nment . It is true that a historic relationship exists , but that i elationship is not static . Things have changed since the Cornintern first met in 1919 . At that tune , no 13olshevik conceived of the continued existence of the So% let Government in Russia if other revolutions did not come to its aid in foreign lands . Moscow was weak . Revolutions seemed to be imminent in Europe and Asia . The sanguine Bolsheviks therefore emphasized the importance of world revolt . The psychology which dominated the Comintern in those days closely resembled the psychology of the Soviet Government . Much water has flowed down the Moscow River since then . The Soviet Union is strong and can stand alone . A foreign Communist uprising , moreover , is quite unlikely at present . Many Russians feel , in fact , that it would be an embarrassment if it did come . This is the angle from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Bolsheviks are now concentrated on the task of national upbuilding . I do not wish to imply that they reject the thesis of world revolution . They do not . But they will not harm Russia by working for it . A few months ago preparations for a Soviet cinema on Negro life in the United States were interrupted because of the possible resentment that might be caused in America . Work on other films has been stopped recently for similar reasons . Early in November two Moscow theaters which were rehearsing plays about France received orders to discontinue them in consideration of French sentiments . This testifies not only to a new attitude but to the effectiveness of foreign relations in influencing Bolshevik manners . Such measures would have been impossible five years ago . I could adduce many more facts to prove the same point  --  that , " interlocking directorates " notwithstanding , the ways of the Comintern and of the Soviet Government continue to diverge . They are already very far apart . Identity of leaders , incidentally , is fast becoming a cold formality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Comintern . Future developments of thistendency toward separation depends on international politics . With respect , more Immediately , to Communist propaganda in the United States , the situation is much simpler . Moscow or no Moscow , there would be a Communist protest movement in the United States , and the only wonder is that economic distress and the brainless leadership of other groups have not increased its strength . Surely fr . Roosevelt can not fear a party which polled only 69,000 out of 39,090,000 votes in the recent Presidential election At the present juncture , communism in the United States is a minor movement which demagogues use as a bogy to frighten the stupid and attain their own ends . It should not be permitted to interfere with such a paramount issue as Russian recognition . In case of recognition , or in advance of recognition , the Soviet Government will pledge itself to non-interference in American domestic affairs , and will ask , in return , a similar pledge from Washington , for history records that America tried much harder to overthrow the Soviets than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Talk about propaganda is not realistic politics . What the situation demands is some clear thinking followed by simple de jure recognition by the Chief Executive and the exchange of diplomatic officers . I think , however , that a possible advantage will he lost if these acts are postponed until after March 4 . An unofficial American might visit Moscow in advance of that date . In the meantime a channel could be found through which the Commissariat of Foreign Affairs would communicate its views on the Far East to American plenipotentiaries . Delay may he regretted in the United States if Russia is forced to take measures in the East which affect American interests . The matter is urgent . The Russian issue must be faced now .                     