@@487390

COLLECTIVE security is a phrase or an idea increasingly dear to such assorted Americans as Earl Browder , Dorothy Thompson , and the editors of The Nation and the New York Times . The League for Peace and Democracy ( formerly the League Against War and Fascism ) in its official program dodges the phrase but , following President Roosevelt 's lead , advocates " the necessity of concerted action to quarantine aggressors , " which if it means anything means to most people collective security . But what does collective security mean for Americans on the eve of the year 1938 of what is called by courtesy the Christian era ? One suspects that its advocates find it easier to agree that those of us who disbelieve in it are " isolationists , " " futile pacifists , " " unwitting tools of fascism , " or " Trotskyists " than to define what they mean by it or how they would apply it in the present crisis . Now collective security as an abstract idea is reasonable , but we must consider it as a concrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions that prevailed at some former time or which may prevail in the future . The advocate of collective security must tell his fellow-Americans plainly how he would answer such immensely pertinent questions as these : Assuming that collective security is something to be achieved against aggressor nations , precisely at which nations should it be directed ? Japan ? Or Japan and Germany and Italy , the latter two being clearly aggressors in Spain ? Who will be our partners in achieving it ? Presumably the " democratic " nations . But which are they ? Great Britain ? France ? Russia ? If , as is probable , collective security should begin with economic sanctions , what reason have we to think that the sanctions would be effective , or if effective that they would be an alternative rather than a preface to war ? If collective security means war , whit should we expect that war to be essentially different from the first war to make the world safe for democracy , or likely to result in a better peace ? How can the United States wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscription , and fascism ? It is because I have not heard , read , or imagined any remotely satisfactory answer to these questions that I reject the idea of American participation in collective security as enormously dangerous . I am aware of the difficulties of keeping the United States out of a war if it becomes a world war ; I should prefer to keep war out of the world . But I object to being dismissed as an isolationist when I insist that we have a right to utilize for our peace the advantages of our geographic and historicposition , and that it is more practicable to keep the United States government out of war than to use it in war for ideal ends . Moreover , if we fail , I think that those of us who tried to keep the United States out of war will have a better hearing from the potential builders of a new social order than those who must assume responsibility for another war with its tragic suffering and ultimate futility and disillusionment . I believe in cooperation for peace and the maximum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ears to every plea for cooperation for peace while there was time have no right to demand that I support cooperation for war . From war and all its effects there is no complete escape for any nation in an interdependent world , but there is no fatalistic inevitability of history or economics which compels the United States to fight Japan , now or later . The assumption of the inevitability of imperialist war between the United States and Japan rests among other things on the refusal to see that our real hope against both imperialism and fascism lies in sanctions which some day the workers of Japan will join with their brothers in China and in other lands in enforcing , and not in the triumph of one set of capitalist powers interested in preserving the status quo over another set which wants to change it . Let us look now in some detail at the bitter facts which make a collective security of democratic states in our crazy , capitalist-nationalist world a utopian dream . There have been many occasions when the omens for successful action by non-fascist nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now . But nothing happened . Great Britain and France , probably alone , certainly with the aid of the U. S. S. R. , by vigorous diplomacy and a discreet threat of economic sanctions could have blocked Mussolini 's war on Ethiopia before it began . In the end , too late , through the League of Nations they imposed weak sanctions which only irritated the Italian people and drove them closer to their dictator . Even Russia continued to sell oil to Mussolini . And even Russia today is purchasing a new naval vessel from the fascist yards of Livorno . Simply by permitting the Spanish government the usual rights of a nation Great Britain and France  --  yes , and America  --  could probably have ended the fascist war in Spain before it menaced the peace of mankind . Great Britain , the same Britain which is now expected to fight for democracy , preferred to take chances on Mussolini rather than on any sort of social revolution in Spain . In 1931 , before Hitler came to power and before the Japanese were so deeply committed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League of Nations , the U. S. S. R. , and the United States could have prevented the rape of Manchuria by economic sanctions or the threat of them . There was no remote approach to agreement among them . Why , then , expect them suddenly today to agree on effective sanctions against Japan , to saying nothing of Italy and Germany ? And if by a miracle they should agree on effective sanctions , including an embargo on cotton , scrap iron , and oil , would not a united Japan seek to break that blockade before it was strangled by it ? Would not the consequence be a prompt attack on the Dutch East Indies to get oil ? And could this nation , partly responsible for provoking that attack , refuse to aid the victim ? It is dangerous irresponsibility , in view of all the probabilities , for Communists or liberals to do what I heard Clarence Hathaway do before the Negro Congress in Philadelphia : assure the audience that effective economic sanctions would bring Italy , Germany , and Japan to terms without any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is so great that advocates of such sanctions at least should press for an armament program in the United States far more costly than our present billion-dollar military budget . " Collective security , " in other words , means for the United States certain militarism and all but certain war . That war would not be for " democracy . " What is the common denominator of democracy which would unite Stalin 's non-capitalist but totalitarian state with the capitalist but non-totalitarian states of Messrs . Roosevelt , Chamberlain , and Chautemps ? Truly a new age of faith is upon us when men and women old enough to remember how we proposed to make the world safe for democracy in one war and got Hitler  --  or with eyes to observe events in India , the Near East , and tragic Spain  --  can believe in a crusade for democracy led by Stalin , Roosevelt , Chamberlain , and the French General Staff . As I write these lines , the British government is showing a far greater interest in finding terms on which Hitler may be satisfied than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is indeed probable that Great Britain and France may fight one or more of the fascist nations , but it will not be for democracy ; it will be for their national and imperial interests . If the United States fights Japan , it will be for national " honor , " to avenge some injury or slight , to keep a Far Eastern trade worth less than our annual " military budget in time of peace . It will not be to make China safe for those Chinese whom we continuously and cheerfully affront by our unilateral exclusion act . The only service of our idealists will be to provide rationalizations highly useful to the militarists . Those rationalizations will be more sophisticated than the Wilsonian rationalizations of 1917 but not essentially different from them , or truer than they were . To these arguments I have heard no plausible answers . The less romantic among the advocates of collective security meet the issue something like this : " We grant that the motives behind collective security may be mixed . Nevertheless , we should seek alliances now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and probably other fascist nations too . This is a good time to get it over , before Japan has strengthened its position by its The NATION conquest of China . To defeat the fascist aggressors , from whatever motives , is the one essential to any hope of building a decent world in which constructive forces can operate . " This statement misjudges the probable effect of a temporary Japanese victory in China as badly as it misunderstands the cause and cure of fascism . Japan will probably be able to impose its own terms of peace in China . But not for long . It has the undying hatred of a patient people whose ancestors have always absorbed their conquerors . Guerrilla war , passive resistance , Communist risings aided by the U. S. S. R. , not only in China but possibly in Japan itself , will still further weaken the structure of a nation already greatly strained by the economic weakness of its position and the costs of war . If foreign nations made war on Japan , the rulers and the masses might unite against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costly victory will have no such effect . Fascism and imperialism are the products of our capitalist-nationalist civilization at a certain stage of its development or disintegration . They are the offspring , horribly ugly but legitimate , of the status quo which we are asked to preserve . Victory for the armies of Stalin , Chamberlain , Roosevelt , and Chautemps might remove certain dictators and might  --  or might not  --  encourage constructive revolution in the conquered states . But certainly in the victorious empires there would be no constructive revolution . The result , as our Communist friends ought to realize , would not be the world Lenin sought in 1917 but a world in which all the major causes of war and fascism would still be operative . Stalin might be among the victors , but not socialism or democracy . The unity of workers with hand and brain would still remain to be achieved . And in that unity lies our best hope of ending the division of men and nations into the houses of Have and Have Not . The chances are that a victorious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in China to finish the work of " civilization " which the Japanese militarists had begun . Our government might take the devil 's role of arch-imperialist . For , never forget , the victory of the United States , however high and holy our alleged aim , would with absolute certainty require the militarization of our people and the establishment of virtual fascism at home . And that fascism would of necessity be imperialistic . Even today the War Department is ready for universal conscription , to draft us all for trench or work bench . The first and perhaps the greatest of the enormous casualties of our next war will be liberty and democracy at home . This will be the one sure consequence of the attempt to use the American capitalist government , in or out of an alliance , to establish peace or democracy by war . It will be a result not limited in duration to the war . No one can tell how long it would take a brutalized , exhausted people , drugged by war and possibly by the thing we call " victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then , condemned to do nothing ? It is true that no means is at hand to bring to us or to the world the democracy and peace as dear to us as to any advocates December 25 , 1937 of collective security . We pay , and pay a tragic price , for all our mistakes and lost opportunities since the summer of 1914 . In any course is some danger and to any program some objection . I should agree with Mr. Buell 's program , as far as it goes , with two important exceptions . I believe ( 1 ) that his third point , an international embargo on raw materials , is today an impossible and dangerous version of collective security ; and ( 2 ) that the desirable improvement in the neutrality law is not an increase in Presidential powers of discretion . Whatever praise is due the President 's Chicago speech as a condemnation of aggression , it was an undemocratic gesture toward changing American policy , a gesture inconsistent with the President 's preceding acts , and one which led the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Norman Hezekiah Davis 's long and unbroken record of failure . Yet many of those most suspicious of Mr. Roosevelt 's ambitions praised this very undemocratic method of changing our foreign policy in a matter literally of life and death to us all . The stock argument that neutrality of the sort envisaged by our present imperfect law is of advantage to Japan as against China is simply untrue , unless , indeed , one believes that we should be ready to fight for the right to ship guns to China . This is what some of my Chinese friends frankly desire . In reality , to call this undeclared war of Japan 's " war , " to ban all loans , to prohibit all shipments of munitions to Japan as well as to China , and to make it harder for Japan to buy and transport other materials would diminish the advantage over China which Japan 's superior merchant marine and banking facilities now give it . If the government would immediately enforce the neutrality law and withdraw our citizens and fighting forces from danger zones in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a worse , position to use such moral pressure as might possibly make for peace . Neutrality in a world war would impose economic hardships on this nation which should be considered and as far as possible anticipated . But those hardships would be less than the costs of war . Beyond this program for the government , I heartily agree with The Nation 's support of a popular boycott by consumers of Japanese goods . Properly conducted , such a boycott is not open to the objections to official embargos backed by navies . Above all , any long-range program for peace requires an active struggle for a new social and international order impossible under capitalist nationalism . This alone can give the economic assurance to nations in the House of Have Not which Mr. Buell suggests that we should give to Japan . No defeat of Japanese militarists will mean much for peace in a world which continues to deprive not only the working class generally but certain races and nations in particular of sure access to the material means necessary for their well-being . The ominous portent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cure of war . " Workers of the world unite " is still the best slogan for achieving a genuine collective security .                     