@@143437

" Tonight I am going to talk about . . . a political ally of thieves , pickpockets , thugs , dope peddlers and big-shot racketeers . Albert Marinelli , county clerk . . . powerful leader of half the Second Assembly District , dominates the whole . Tonight we turn on the spotlight . " <P> Thus on the night of October 24 to thousands of radio listeners came the dramatic voice of New York 's youthful District Attorney-Nominee Thomas Edmund Dewey . In the subsequent account of the underworld connections of Tammany 's Marinelli , Mr. Dewey charged him not only with hobnobbing with jailbirds with such names as " Socks " Lanza and " Scutch " ' Indelicate , but with harboring , as his chauffeur , a notorious fugitive from justice named Charles Falci . It was as detailed and exciting a story as any other installment in the gangbusting radio series that had made Lawyer Dewey the saltiest campaigner in recent New York history . But hard-shelled Boss Marinelli , whose term as county clerk was due to expire January 1 anyway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Dewey 's Tammany targets expected that his campaign speeches would be forgotten after his resounding victory at the polls last month , they were soon disillusioned . Day after election , an organization christened as the " Joint Committee on the County Clerk " wrote Democratic Governor Herbert H. Lehman suggesting that if Mr. Marinelli was all that Mr. Dewey explicitly said he was , he was not fit to hold office even until January i . Democrat Lehman , often accused of an opportunistic friendliness for Tammany , asked Mr. Marinelli to answer the charges within a week . Shunning reporters both at his slum offices and his Long Island home , Boss Marinelli produced within the required time a fulsome protest , nub of which was that if his associates were gangsters he did not know it and was not responsible . Concealing any dismay he may have felt at this reply , Democrat Lehman asked Republican Dewey to submit his charges officially . <P> Businesslike Mr. Dewey not only did so , but , as the special prosecutor whom Mr. Lehman had appointed to head the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subpoenaed some 400 scared Marinelli heelers to appear before the grand jury . At this point a public hearing like that which trapped hapless Mayor Jimmy Walker began to seem to Tammany chieftains a worse prospect than giving Mr. Dewey a second scalp from their wigwam . Last week Boss Marinelli wrote Governor Lehman two letters . In one he resigned the office he would have held for only 28 days more . In the other he explained why . Most compelling of Mr. Marinelli 's reasons was that he wanted to spare " suffering and humiliation ' ' that a public hearing might bring to his more infamous lieutenants ' widows , wives and children .                     