@@302513

Strike Up the Band will be popularly described in weeks to come as the latest Gershwin musicomedy , which means of course that Brother George Gershwin wrote the music , Brother Ira the words . The brothers are to be heard in their friskier vein-you will discover among their tunes no such aphrodisiacs as " Do It Again " and " The Man I Love . " But they make you temporarily forget such omissions with their chipper satires ( " Typical Self-Made American , " " Mademoiselle from New Rochelle " ) , and there is one spasm of trumpeting ( " I 've Got a Crush on You " ) which threatens the Negro monopoly on berserker brass . <P> The plot involves a war between the U. S. and Switzerland caused by a tariff on milk chocolate , but the absurdities that you expect from this idea are never quite realized . Furthermore , the costumes were apparently designed by someone who realized that lengthier skirts were in order , even upon the stage , but did not know how to compensate for non-exposure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bobby Clark , with his spectacles painted on his face , his trick cane and cigar , amuses those who think that the mock-pompous delivery of big words is funny . He reaches another sense of humor by announcing , before playing the piccolo : " There are only a few of us left . " His partner , as usual , is the almost completely silent Paul McCullough , who is impelled by Mr. Clark 's incessant talk to bury his head in a desk drawer ( " Just getting a breath of fresh air " ) . These buffoons and Doris Carson , a very personable girl whose adroitness as a tap dancer is marred only by awkward elbows , are the chief contributors to a pleasant diversion which must still be mainly credited to the exuberant chord progressions of Brother George Gershwin , the deliberately bad or complex rhymes of Brother Ira . Nancy 's Private Affair . Minna Gombell , a fulsome beauty , plays the heroine of this romance by Myron C. Fagan , in which a wife who has allowed herself the pleasure of wearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , learns of an old necessity and reverts to fragile silk hose , mascara , rouge , lipstick , perfume , corsets and eye-strain for her husband 's sake . This theme is presented with a truly incredible number of historic wheezes and situations . <P> Everything 's Jake , a new comedy by genial Don ( The Old Soak ) Marquis , is , like most of his writings , pervaded with the persuasive odors of the barroom . It concerns the adventures of Jake Smith , wealthy Long Island ' legger , with his wife , daughter and three bleary cronies on an expedition to Paris . Playwright Marquis devises considerable fun with the vagaries of ignorant and besotten men in contact with an approachable countess and a haughty courtesan , but most of his intended climaxes are weak , he never gets very far from orthodox , outworn farce .                     