@@493683

The Week TUCKED away in the back pages of the newspapers recently was an announcement which may signify a great deal . The N.R.A. , through Professor Paul H. Douglas of its Consumers ' Advisory Board , is about to undertake the organization of Consumers ' County Councils throughout the United States . It is aimed to make these councils truly representative of consumers ' interests . They will act as agencies for complaints against undue price increases . They will receive and disseminate information from the Consumers ' Board in Washington concerning the effects of the N.R.A . upon consumers . They will " act as an agency through which consumers may become articulate on questions of national economic recovery , " and " aid in development of a more economical and efficient distribution of goods to consumers . " For a long time the Consumers ' Advisory Board has been blanketed . It has not been supported by an organized pressure-group like those back of the labor or industrial advisory boards . Its advice has made little impression on the code authorities , and its statements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to furnish it with a constituency and a sound-ing board . If the Consumers ' County Councils do become genuine consumers ' representatives , business is not so likely to have everything its own way in the forming and administering of the codes . Here is a sign that the administration is buttressing itself to the leftward . THE defeat of the Social Democrats and the tremendous growth of the monarchist and conservative parties give last Sunday 's elections in Spain an extraordinary significance . As we write these lines the final outcome of the election ? whether the political upheaval was decisive enough to lead at once to the establishment of a counter-revolutionary government ? has not been established ; final returns will probably give a slight advantage to the republican parties . Indications are that a sort of interim government of Republicans and Constitutional Conservatives will take the place of the present republican Coalition government . There is a general tendency to attribute the tripling of the anti-republican vote to the fact that the women of Spain for the first time exercised in this election their constitutional suffrage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its reactionary clergy over the women of Spain undoubtedly strongly affected the election results . But here as in other countries , the strength of the religious appeal will have been neutralized to some extent by the political influence of the sons , fathers and husbands over their mothers , daughters and wives in the family circle . One will not go wrong in holding the Social Democracy of Spain , and its participation in a coalition government side by side with the bourgeois Republicans against the development of the Spanish revolution , equally responsible for the victory of the forces of reaction . In this unholy coalition none of the promises made by the revolution was kept . Nothing was done in the direction of industrial socialization , every move toward serious land reform was blocked and the industrial and farm proletariat was held in stern subjection lest it become a factor in the state . In Spain , as in Germany and Austria , " democracy " became the god at whose altars the revolution was offered in sacrifice , to be buried under a military dictatorship or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . DECISION has been reserved on a petition , filed by nineteen members of the Progressive Miners of America , for a restraining order against seven Illinois coal companies . These companies , it is charged , are discriminating against 13,000 members of the Progressive Miners . Judge Louis Fitz-Henry of the United States District Court , sitting in Peoria , November 13 , solemnly avowed : " On the face , this is not a labor dispute , but in essence , it is the very quintessence of a labor dispute . " He also implied that the petition should be considered under the Norris anti-injunction law , which forbids the granting of restraining orders except in very rare cases , rather than under the N.I.R.A. , whose terms the petition declares have been violated . This implied decision supports the contention of former state Senator Thurlow G. Essington of Chicago , representing the coal companies , that the controversy is purely one between Progressives and United Mine Workers . It is well known that the latter organization at present supplies the complete working personnel of mines operated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ N.R.A . legal counsel , Essington further argued that operation of mines employing both United Mine Workers and Progressives would he impractical ? in other words he defended a one-union policy . Judge FitzHenry , shifting the grounds for a possible decision from the N.I.R.A. to the Norris anti-injunction law , averred : " The court can not grant a restraining order , if this is a labor dispute , except in the letter of the law . " Commenting on the impasse which the confusions of Richberg and Essington have created , he excused the anticipated result of his deliberations by this announcement : " If I could pacify the United Mine Workers and Progressive Miners by entering some kind of order here , I would do it regardless of law . " He indicated further that the case is too important to be settled without reference to the Supreme Court of the United States . Meanwhile the Progressive Miners are waiting . AS PREDICTED by Jonathan Mitchell in his article on the new pure food and drugs bill , propagandists for the business interests opposed to this measure are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , that they will come out boldly in favor of selling and advertising poisonous articles . They will appear in sheep 's clothing . A Dr. C. Houston Goudiss has just spoken before the New York State Federation of Women 's Clubs , assuming to wear the mantle of the late Dr. Harvey Wiley , father of the original measure . I-1e was exultant , he said , when he first heard of the plan to revise the law , but later he " recognized it as only another overzealous measure like our unhappy Eighteenth Amendment and Volstead Act . " Why , it even demands that the label of a drug tell exactly what is in it 1 This is confiscation of trade secrets ! The bill would endanger the jobs of nearly 2 million workers ? etc. , etc . We hope that the New York clubwomen are not averse to knowing , as consumers , exactly what they buy . We hope they are not so innocent as to fall for the pica that it would be dangerous for them to know , because if they , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay so much as they do . There are sincere opponents of the so-called " Tugwell bill " who want it to be even more strict in regulation than it is . But the mark of the wolf can always be detected in any opposition unless the speaker or writer can clearly demonstrate how the consumer would suffer from its passage . MANY people believe that the unemployment problem is simply the problem of what to do with the unemployed . There have been all sorts of fantastic proposals ? bright thinkers have modestly sub ; , gested that 30 million people , the members of families without a source of income , should either he shipped off to Siberia or else quietly chloro ? formed ; then the rest of us would be prosperous . Others , like Mr. Ralph Borsodi , have suggested more plausibly that the unemployed could be settled on farms and set to work producing their own food , clothing and shelter . But the defect of all such schemes to solve unemployment by removing the unemployed is that the problem is not merely one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption . At present the unemployed serve an economic function ? they do not produce , but they consume ; they do not consume nearly enough to make the country prosperous , yet somehow , through government help or charity , they do get food and clothing and shelter ; they do help to support industry and to keep real-estate values from collapsing . If they were removed not only from production but also from consumption , the rest of the country would not automatically become prosperous . On the contrary , the place of the 30 millions would he taken by perhaps 15 million others . The ratio betwcen production and consumption would remain almost the same ? and the unemployment problem would be as bad as ever . GOVERNOR Miller of Alabama has taken on himself a terrible responsibility in regard to the third trial of the Scottsboro defendants , which opened Monday in the town of Decatur , in Morgan County . The Governor has refused to send troops of the National Guard to protect the defendants and their counsel from possible mob violence , as was done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Miller says he will not call out the guardsmen unless the county authorities ask him to do so , or unless he is independently convinced of a sudden change in the public feeling in Morgan County . But obviously , county officials will give themselves every benefit of the doubt before admitting that their friends and neighbors are in a lynch ? ing mood . And how is the Governor , many miles away , to know of a sudden shift in public opinion ? Is there any reason to suppose that the lives of the defendants and their attorneys are actually in clanger ? Some weeks ago , a number of men employed by friends of the defense traveled through Morgan County , representing themselves to be salesmen of soap or brushes . They called at hundreds of homes and in the course of their " sales talk " they brought the subject around to the Scottsboro case . The result is a mass of several hundred affidavits which the defense has presented to Presiding Judge WT . . Callahan , showing that this number of persons expressed themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those interviewed added that they thought it would be a good idea to do away with " the Jew lawyers from New York " who are acting for the defense . IT IS possible , of course , to argue that these persons were just indulging in loose talk , which they would never translate into action . The prosecution , evidently having got wind of these affidavits in advance , has introduced a similar large mass of sworn statements by Morgan County residents testifying that they believe in a fair trial and the orderly processes of law . But everyone knows that a lynching party does not consist of the total population , and usually excludes the " better element " to whom the prosecuting attorney would naturally go for evidence of the sort he wished . There is no reason to believe that the bitter prejudice which existed in Morgan County at the time of the previous trial , and then justified calling out the National Guard , has abated in the slightest degree . That there is some danger the authorities have admitted by swearing in nineteen special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If even these deputies are necessary , there is great doubt whether a fair trial is possible in Morgan County and it seems clear that despite the Alabama law to the contrary , a change of venue to Birmingham is desirable in the interest of justice . ADDITIONAL testimony regarding feeling in the South is shown in the letters received by Ruby Bates , one of the two young women who were supposed to have been raped by the defendants two and a half years ago . Miss Bates , at the last trial , repudiated her previous statement implicating the Negroes , charged that it was made under duress , and testified to the innocence of all the accused . As a result , she says , she has received numerous letters from Alabama threatening her life if she returns and again gives her testimony . These letters have had sufficient effect so that she is extremely reluctant to go to Decatur , and her testimony will probably be available only as a deposition . Everyone knows that a written statement has far less effect upon the average jury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is quite possible that the failure of Governor Miller to give an immediate and adequate promise of safety to Miss Bates may already have been the deciding factor in causing another verdict of guilty , although all intelligent persons everywhere must by now agree with Judge Horton , who presided at the last trial , that such a verdict is completely out of accord with the facts . And if harm should come to the defendants through mob action , the Governor ? and all the decent people of the state of Alabama ? must live under the shadow of the tragedy to the ends of their lives . 