@@222713

Already in Japanese hands are China 's Boston ( Peking ) , New York ( Shanghai ) and Washington ( Nanking ) . Last week the Japanese pressed forward in a renewed drive to add China 's Chicago ( Hankow ) to the collection . Capture of Hankow , temporary operating headquarters of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek 's Government since the fall of Nanking five months ago , would not complete the process of dismembering China but would leave the Chinese only a fraction of what was once their nation . In the Yangtze Valley , main trade stem of central China , industrial Hankow is second only to Shanghai . Into Hankow daily roll trainloads of supplies , munitions from China 's New Orleans ( Canton ) , planeloads and motorcades of vital arms and materials from Russia through Sovietized Outer Mongolia ( China 's Pacific Northwest ) . <P> Japanese forces last week made their main push along the strategic Lunghai east-west railroad , which at Chengchow connects with the Peking-Hankow line ( see map ) . Fortnight ago , retreating Chinese turned and drove an advance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kenji Doihara , " Lawrence of Manchuria , " into a bottleneck area between the broad Yellow River and the railway . For nine days Chinese forces , often behind providential screens of swirling yellow dust , charged at the Japanese ranks , attempted to wipe out the 10,000 . Finally Japanese reinforcements forded the river from the north under artillery bombardment , helped Japan 's " Lawrence " pull the cork out of the bottle . <P> Some 200,000 of China 's central army 's best-equipped troops backed slowly westward along the railway all week , allowing Lanfeng and Kaifeng to fall , finally holed up in Chengchow , and at week 's end Japanese bombers hammered at the city . Japanese shock troops pressed at its sides . Capture of Chengchow would enable the Japanese to right-angle down 300 miles of railway to Hankow . Only serious obstacle in their path will be the Chinese defense fortifications in the southern Honan mountains near Sinyang . Meanwhile , two Japanese forces pushing from the Nanking area to Hankow , one paralleling the swollen Yangtze , the other striking overland through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy rains , inefficient transport . After a long silence , small Japanese warships shelled towns on the Yangtze some 60 miles upriver from Wuhu , leading observers to believe that they would take advantage of the high waters to push on up to shell Hankow , 200 miles away . <P> In Hankow last week , nervous Government officials , believing the city 's fall a matter of weeks , packed their families off to remote cities in southwestern China , started shipping Government archives and nonessential equipment to Chungking , officially the seat of the Government . Kweiyang , in Kweichow Province , and Yiin-nanfu , capital of Yunnan , only 400 miles from the Tibetan frontier .                     