@@487340

T HE founding of the Third International in March , 1919 , was not the beginning but the end of a process which split the Socialist labor movement . In a generation of rapid , successful growth , wide circles of the proletarian movement had become imbued with the hope that it would ultimately be possible to secure the power to the working class by peaceful parliamentary methods . Eduard Bernstein 's theory of a gradual evolution into the proletarian state was laughed at in the nineties , was seriously discussed and hotly repudiated in the early years of the twentieth century , and by the time the World War broke out had completely permeated the consciousness of the radical labor movement . The powerful influence of the trade unions underscored the conception that a multiplicity of social services would eventually add up to a Socialist sum total . In the hothouse atmosphere of the World War these conscious and unconscious tendencies experienced a mushroom-like growth . With few exceptions the Socialist parties supported the nations in their war aims , at first shamefacedly but with increasing enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between these reformist majorities and the revolutionary minorities which party discipline had more or less effectively concealed came slowly to the surface . The victory of the Russian Bolsheviki in November , 1917 , gave the uncompromising Marxists a rallying-point . It was inevitable that the elements which came together here should regard the Social Democracy as their greatest enemy , as that force which had diverted the world 's working class from the path which might have led to victory . The Social Democracy will have to be destroyed , said Lenin at the first Congress of the Third International , before the workers of the world will come into their own . It was this sentiment which gave the Communist program and tactics the direction they have since taken . The immediate result was a bitter controversy between the old and new parties . Alarmed at the hatreds it engendered , the Sozialistische Arbeitsgemeinschaft , an organization with its seat in Vienna representing independent left-Socialist groups in various countries , proposed an international unity convention in 1921 . A joint conference was held in April , 1922 , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distrust were too great to be thus easily overcome . The Second and a Half International , as this new movement was scornfully called by Social Democrats and Communists , had been encouraged to take this step by a united-front resolution adopted at the third congress of the Communist International in June , 1921 . " Under a united front of labor , " this resolution read , " we understand a union of all workers who are determined to fight against capitalism . " Optimistically the would-be arbitrators ignored the attitude of Moscow . The Fourth Congress of the Comintern , held in December , 1922 , reiterated its demand for a united front . But again the resolution , while calling for unity , stressed the importance of organizational independence with " complete free-dom of propaganda against the bourgeoisie and the counterrevolutionary Social Democracy . " With the coming of fascism in Europe the labor movement entered upon a new phase of its existence . In Germany labor leaders were attacked , imprisoned , and slain , labor headquarters and meeting places were demolished , and property was destroyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own disunion was the enemy 's greatest strength . In June , 1932 , the German Social Democracy , which had up to that time haughtily declined to discuss cooperation with the Communists on any basis whatsoever , approached the Communist Party with a united-front proposal . But the latter refused to consider " unity with social fascist leaders . " Socialist suggestions for an armistice between the two parties were likewise rejected . " The Socialist Party of Germany is still the most important social support of the bourgeoisie , " we read in a circular letter sent out by the Central Executive of the Communist Party of Germany in July , 1932 . " In February , 1933 , the Socialist Labor ( Second ) International made . its much-discussed offer to the Communist International for the creation of a united front against fascism . Moscow refused to entertain the proposal , and referred the question to its national affiliates to be decided by each unit on the basis of national needs and conditions . In a statement to its parties issued in March of last year , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their respective countries be approached for united action against fascism along specific lines . Though considerably less than the Second International had hoped to accomplish , it was a step in the right direction . It was the first intimation by the Third International of its willingness to depart from the position it had stubbornly held so long  --  that unity must come from below , through the members , not from above through the organizational apparatus of the Social Democracy . Before the unwieldy machinery of national united-front action could be set in motion , the German labor movement was crushed without a show of resistance by the weight of the National Socialist offensive . Scarcely a year later Austria 's brave Social Democracy succumbed behind the barricades . Fascism is sweeping the Balkans , is lifting its head in democratic France , has appeared and for the moment subsided before a demonstration of united Labor strength in Great Britain , is hoisting its flag over the shambles of Asturias and Catalonia in Spain . Over the torn and bleeding bodies of these victims of a relentless fascist offensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majesty in the sacrifices that have been and are still being made that strips factional issues of importance . There is now an emotional as well as an intellectual realization of the need for unity , the only hopeful sign in the unrelieved blackness of the European scene . On July 27 , 1934 , the Communist and Socialist parties of France paved the way with a united-front pact . " The Socialist Party and the Communist Party , " the document reads in part , " sign a pact of united action by which they pledge to organize in common and to participate with all their resources ( organizations , press , militants , elected delegates , and so forth ) in a campaign throughout the country having for its aim to mobilize the working-class population ( a ) against fascist organization for its disarmament and dissolution ; ( b ) for the defense of democratic liberties , proportional representation , and a new Parliament ; ( c ) against all war preparations ; ( d ) against government by decree ; ( e ) against fascist terror in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernst Thalmann and Karl Seitz and all other anti-fascist prisoners . " A commission consisting of seven members from each side arranged the common plan and character of joint demonstrations . Unimportant differences of opinion were easily overcome ; the united demonstrations were harmonious throughout and well attended . Both sides are satisfied with the results of their courageous step . The sentiment it created has spread to the trade-union movement more rapidly than its most fervent defenders dared hope . A merger of the two national federations , the Confederation Generale du Travail ( Amsterdam ) and the Confederation Generale du Travail Unitaire ( Moscow ) , is already complete . Austria , the Saar district , and Spain likewise report a united front of the two parties . On the other hand , the Social Democrats of Sweden , Denmark , Czecho-Slovakia , and Great Britain  --  those parties , notably , which have or hope to have a stake in their governments  --  have declined to entertain united-front proposals . The past with its Communist " maneuvers " is still too fresh to be taken lightly . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , these parties are unwilling to sacrifice the possibilities of coalition to tread new and untried paths . October saw a new development in the international movement for united action . This time it was the Communist International which came to the Second International with the offer to extend the anti-fascist action of the French parties to all sections of the two Internationals . The Second International was reluctant to take this decisive step but left its affiliates free to decide for unity wherever circumstances were propitious . In America , far as yet from the tragic problems which are troubling fascist Europe , the united-front movement is finding expression in an interesting intra-organizational development within the Socialist Party . The Norman Thomas-Dan Hoan wing , with a majority in the National Executive Committee , has come out for cooperation with the Communist Party against the opposition of the Old Guard , led by the group which controls the New York State organization ? Waldman , Oneal , Solomon , Lee , Vladeck , and Abe Cahan . Mr. Thomas , acutely conscious of the influence of the Old Guard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York , is making every effort to avoid the threatened split . At the recent session of the National Executive at Boston , this group accepted a compromise and voted for a united front " in principle , " leaving it to the State and local organizations to take whatever action they deem advisable . Decision of the problem on a national scale was referred to the national convention to be held in 1936 . There is little wisdom in Norman Thomas 's strategy . His compromise will satisfy neither side and will merely serve to increase bitterness and confusion within the party organization to its own lasting detriment and factional disintegration . The Old Guard never surrenders . At a meeting held in New York it served notice of its intention to organize against any Communist influx into the Socialist Party . On the same day on which the leaders of the Socialist Party decided to take no stand on the most pressing problem before the labor movement , two smaller groups , the American Workers ' Party and the Communist League of America ( Trotzkyists ) , met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new joint organization , the Workers ' Party of the United States . The A. W. P. was an outgrowth of the Conference for Progressive Labor Action , an organization created by formei Communists , left-wing Socialists , and radical trade unionists , which has made considerable headway during the last few years in the organization of unemployed leagues which have several hundred thousand members , chiefly in the Middle Western and Southern States ; it has taken an active part in the textile and mine strikes of the last few years and achieved effective contacts for organization work in the basic industries . A. J. Muste , former director of Brookwood Labor College , was the chairman . The Communist League consisted in the main of former members of the party who followed Trotzky into organizational exile . This group , like the A. IV . P. , has played an active and constructive part in the trade-union struggles of recent years . James P. Cannon , for many years on the Central Committee of the Communist Party , is probably the most widely known of its members . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately 2,000 members in good standing , hopes to unite a Marxian position with an " American approach " by pursuing a sane course of action adapted to political and economic conditions in the United States . A. J. Muste is the chairman of the new organization . This is a small beginning but a beginning in the right direction . It takes cognizance of the important fact that united action alone will not solve the problems of the revolutionary labor movement . At best it bridges organizational antagonisms , reduces expensive duplication of effort , and avoids friction before the outside world . But it can never become greater than the sum of its parts . To become an important factor in the life of the working class , united fronts ? unthinkable as this may seem at the present moment  --  must grow into united organizations , big enough in spirit to overcome personal resentments and to work out a common plan combining healthy growth with revolutionary action . Characteristically , Moscow will be the first to break with the theoretical and organizational inhibitions of the past . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet capital late in September showed this quite plainly in its discussions of the united-front question , which formed the chief topic on the agenda . A motion by A. Losowsky , chairman of the R. T. U. I. , was adopted , pledging Communist parties and Communist trade-union organizations in all parts of the world to work wherever possible for organizational unity on the basis of free trade unions . ' Wherever this is possible , the motion stipulates , red trade unions and trade-union federations must be dissolved forthwith , and Communists must devote their energies to active and exemplary work as members and officials within the free trade-union organizations . It is true that except in the Soviet Union the red trade unions are small and insignificant minority groups . But the self-abnegation that lies in Moscow 's withdrawal from organizational control deserves commendation . Moscow would not dream , of course , of abandoning its much more important political sections to merge them with those of the Socialist Labor International . To attempt to merge elements so contradictory in outlook before they have been drawn by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spiritual alignment would invite disaster . There are indications , however , that this process is under way . The new Social Democratic movement in Austria , the Socialist majority movement in Spain , the radicalization of the Socialist Party in France , the theoretical and tactical reorientation of the Revolutionary Policy Committee of the American Socialist Party , and , last but not least , the saner and more realistic outlook of the Communist International are close enough in their interpretation of the import of recent events to make eventual cooperation possible . Labor Notes The N. A. M. Proposes A S part of the newly contrived scheme by which industry intends to " cooperate " with the government in hastening recovery , the National Association of Manufacturers once more proposes that Congress should enact legislation akin to the British Labor Disputes Act . This is not the first time such a suggestion has been made by the N. A. M. ; and it will not be the last time . There is every reason to expect that the N. A. M. will try to establish restraints on the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to fortify Section 7-a and make it permanent is brought before Congress . All the problems of industrial relationship could be solved , according to the N. A. M. , by a simple formula : outlawing sympathetic strikes , inhibiting walkouts for union recognition , restricting the political activities of organized labor , and so forth . You get rid of labor unrest , in other words , by suppressing its manifestations . The N. A. M. has nothing to say about the possibility of employers ' helping to maintain the industrial peace not only by relaxing their stubborn refusal to grant union recognition , but also by complying with the law of Section 7-a as laid down by the several labor boards . On the contrary , the N. A. M , has not retreated from the position it took some months ago , when it advised employers to ignore the majority-rule principle of the Houde decision , and to resist , to the last legal ditch , every attempt to put that principle into effect . Proposals to restrict the right to strike come with ill grace from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers a state of mind which makes strikes inevitable . Such considerations of equity are hardly likely , however , to deter the N. A. M. ; which is one reason , among others , for watching with the greatest of care the progress of labor legislation at the next session of Congress . How to Win a Strike A FTER five weeks of unbroken solidarity in their strike in the Passaic valley , 25,000 silk and rayon dye workers have won a two-year contract providing for a wage rate of 66 cents an hour for men and 48 cents for women , a maximum thirty-six-hour week , and a preferential union shop . To be sure , the union was demanding a thirty-hour week , a basic rate of $1 , and the closed shop ; but the organization has a remarkable record of attainment for so new a union . The Federation of Silk and Rayon Dyers and Finishers , a section of the United Textile Workers , was organized in 1933 ; it raised wages through its first strike from 15 and 25 cents an hour to 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week . The present settlement , though it represents no great increase in wages , does mean employment for more workers and gives the union greatly increased power in the shops . Machinery for settling disputes is also set up . The strike offers additional proof that action by the workers themselves through a strong union is the most important factor in improving conditions . The strike had other interesting aspects . The rules of the union prevented the committee elected to negotiate with the employers from putting forward anything other than the original demands , and none of the leaders was sufficiently well established to use his prestige to back any compromise . It was a rank-andfile settlement . It is interesting to note also that all union officials were cut off the pay roll during the strike . incidentally , the wages of business agents in the federation are fixed at those received by workers in the shop for a full week ( $23 under the old agreement ) . The dyers also broke with the A. F. of L. tradition in their reaction to the attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Vice-President Vigoritto , when reproached for being red , retorted , " Better red than yellow . " One other fact deserves to be mentioned , namely , the inclusion in the union of " maintenance men " ? electricians , carpenters , and so on . They were admitted in the name of industrial unionism , and their solidarity with the dyers was an important factor in the success of the strike . Employers ' Tactics A CTING- under the authority of the Railway Labor Act , the Railway Mediation Board has just concluded an investigation of charges that shop workers employed by the Atlantic Coast Line were coerced into voting for the company union at a system election held by the board last September . The case goes straight to the heart of the act , which rests on the premise that collective bargaining can succeed only where employee representatives are freely and fairly chosen . The testimony brought out at the hearings , as reported in a recent issue of Labor , reveals a shocking story . The A. F. of L. Railway Employees ' Department has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss of seniority if they did not vote for the company union ; that the management encouraged the belief it would close all repair shops in which the workers chose the trade unions ; that foremen actively campaigned for the company union and sat in the rooms where the ballots were cast ; that it was intimated to employees that the management had ways and means of knowing how each ballot was marked ; that the company let drop strong hints that wage rates might be cut if the company union were upset ; that a company operative stood at the door of each polling place and threatened employees with immediate dismissal if they voted for the A. F. of L. Should the mediation board come to the conclusion that the charges of coercion are well-founded , summary discipline may be expected in short order . Needless to say , the board will be empowered to throw out the election result . Beyond this , violators of the Railway Labor Act upon conviction in the federal courts make themselves liable to fines and jail sentences. , It will be interesting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line was guilty of coercion . Will the direct and weighty sanctions of the Railway Labor Act prove more effective than the roundabout and insubstantial sanctions of Section 7-a ? 