@@469291

IN A society which counts its popu-1 lation by the million it is evident that the masses have rarely the leisure to plan , and never the authority to determine , the essential contours of their lives . Leadership a democracy must have , since save for great occasions like war and revolution , the multitude is enfolded in its private life , content for the most part that initiative in thought and policy should rest elsewhere . It may indeed be stirred to gusts of indignation by grave public misfortune ; but so Iong as life flows smoothly upon a fairly even keel it watches public affairs as a drama in which it is not expected to play an active part . There are , of course , innumerable causes , historic and psychological , why this should be the case . That it is a public misfortune it seems difficult to deny . For the inertia of the multitude is the foundation of public wrong ; and the effort required to stir it from its somnolence lies at the root of the distortion of public opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern world , its very vastness also , make the grasp of public issues a matter of profound difficulty to any who do not make their understanding a matter of professional preoccupation . The proper nature of a banking system , the rights and wrongs of Japanese policy in the Far East , the necessary foundations of a creative internationalism , the reasonable limits of a tariff-schedule , thesedo not yield their secrets to the popular intuition of right and wrong . Yet they make their impact , they call for imperative decision , at a moment in history when their consequences upon the multitude arc more direct and more profound than at any previous time . None of the specifics by which it has been proposed to remedy this disharmony has so far proved a way of salvation . Much was expected from the coming of a free press ; but its transformation , in the past thirty years , from a profession to a department of big business , has in large part deprived it of that independence essential to the task of enlightenment . Even more was expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , our systems have failed to cope with the power of propaganda to defeat their purposes . Much hope has been placed in the organization of the electorate by political parties ; but history has made it evident that these are so generally concerned with the promotion of particular economic interests that , even at their best , they become in some sort what Halifax called a conspiracy against the nation . And the vaunted rule of experts has failed us , for the effective reasons that they have neither title to prescribe the goal at which to aim nor wisdom enough to see their own specialism in its proper perspective . The expert we need should be an expert in life ; and life itself is too manifold to submit to the narrowing discipline of expertise . In a fundamental sense there is no escape from the dilemma we confront save in the creation of a society where men have an equal interest in the result obtained . That is the only true democracy ; for it is the only one where men would have no interest in the destruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life where no man calls another master save as both share in a function which equally redounds to their common benefit . Such a society we have not yet known in history ; and even where its outlines have been drawn the road to its realization has either , as with Marx , lain in the path of bloody revolution , or , as with Plato , deliberately surrendered the hypothesis of democracy and placed the common man in tutelage to the rule of the wise . It may be that Marx is right ; though the price we may well have to pay for the application of his remedies is the temporary eclipse of civilized life . Certain it is that the Platonic hypothesis will not do ; for our experience of an aristocracy in power is the inescapable lesson that all men succumb sooner rather than later to the poison of a self-perpetuating authority . The aristocracy of the future must he built upon the deliberate choice of the common man if it is to respect his needs and secure his sympathies . II But it is legitimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discovered among elected persons . The political career breeds for the most part a special race of men interested rather in the truths that may hope for acceptance than in truth itself . The ambition to conquer power is in general in inverse ratio to disinterestedness ; and it is the association of this quality with the ability to command attention of which above all a democracy has need . Our political systems tend , taken by and large , to give us the available men rather than the mind which creates and enlightens ; and even under a dictatorship , once it has secured a measure of stability , its habit is to attract the men who can satisfy the dictator rather than those who can convince him that he is wrong . That is why Mr. Coolidge and Mr. Baldwin are the characteristic products of universal suffrage in one realm , why , also , Trotsky has been driven into exile in another . The type of man we require , especially in a period so critical as our own , is the man who can act the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power even though his influence may indicate his title to it . His business is the definition of the ultimate values toward which the society should move ; and he should judge the transient spectacle of the arena from above the incidents of the battle . To accomplish his aim certain qualities alike of mind and heart appear essential . He must have great ends ; but he should have impersonal benefit only from the attainment of those ends . He should be vowed to the ascetic life ; for no man remains capable of the prophetic utterance who searches either for wealth or power . If he associates with the strife of parties it must be always in terms of a resolute aloofness from the desire for office ; for the man who is a contestant for the prizes of political victory has thereby sacrificed his independence . He must be prepared , like all prophets , for the scorn of successful men and the ignorance of the multitude ; the values for which he cares must be those of to-morrow rather than of to-day . He must be capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mankind , and of a noble indignation , without which no man can care for freedom or seek for the righting of wrong . It is in the power of society to discover such men , their search for influence without authority , their willingness , not least , to stand aside from the common objects of ambition , that a large part of the future of democratic government depends . We have bad men of this kind before ; and perhaps they may even be distinguished in our own day behind the miasma of contemporary conflict . In the eighteenth century there were Rousseau and Voltaire among the giants ; and , of lesser stature , Mahly and Paine , Quesnay and Priestley show that profound devotion to great causes which by its critical insight elevates the stature of a generation . In the last age , Owen and Marx , Emerson and Matthew Arnold , Carlyle and Ruskin and Whitman , performed in their various ways a similar service . They compelled the attention of their period to the essential questions of ultimate objective . They did not yoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They did not bow the knee to the attractions of authority . They proclaimed the truth that was in them without regard to the consequences it involved . They spoke their minds with the one insistent purpose of reminding society not of the petty issues of the moment but of the direction in which its feet were set and the significance of that direction . It is a measure of the quality of their work that we still discuss , if under different forms , the answers to the questions they were compelled to ask . III My thesis is the simple one that the function of an elite in a democratic society is precisely the function that , in their different ways , these men performed for a previous period . It is to train itself to discover the essential issues of a state or generation and , in season or out of it , to proclaim their meaning as they see it to their contemporaries . It is not an easy task ; for it involves for the most part the work of pioneers in the proclamation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue in a society like our own without touching a vested interest ; and in no previous society have vested interests been so well organized for their self-protection . That is apparent on every hand . Marx was not an exile for nothing ; it was not merely ebullience of high spirits which led the mob at Birmingham to wreck Dr. Priestley 's house . When Ruskin deserted the criticism of art for the criticism of those social foundations of which he had come to see that art was but an expression the character of his audience completely changed . Rousseau was a hunted and haunted wanderer for all his life ; and his fashionable supporters deserted Robert Owen once they perceived that he meant what he said . Our own day has seen significant incidents like the attack on Mr. Justice Brandeis ' appointment to the bench ; and a long line of dismissed teachers in school and college bears witness to the uncomfortable nature of innovating truth . We have had men and women in our own day prepared for the consequences of this attitude in widely disparate fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? whatever our views of his philosophy ? than the long years of hard preparation Lenin consecrated to the service of the Russian Revolution . To move singlemindedly on that dangerous path without hope or prospect of reward is , on any showing , an immeasurable inspiration . The men who battled for the national freedom of Czechoslovakia , the devoted band of women who- fought for the political emancipation of their sex , the quality of effort Lord Cecil has brought to the cause of peace , the generous humanity which Jane Addams has bestowed upon a wide field of social service , the critical imagination of men like Mr. H. G. Wells , or in the Dreyfus case of Emile Zola ? these in our own time have set the stature of humanity . Nor may one forget here an effort like that of Felix Frankfurter and W. G. Thompson to save Sacco and Vanzetti from a death of which we are learning slowly to be ashamed . The elite of a democracy is that band of men and women who give this kind of service as best they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reckon ; and it does not include those who associate their effort with the conquest of social prestige . For to win that prestige , whatever material form the conquest may take , is at once to dim the clarity of vision . The charity-monger , however devoted , cares for the patronage of the wealthy ; the professor of " sound " views may hope for the politician 's ear ; the author who has won a sudden audience thinks of success rather than of insight . The root of any elite is its independence ; and the foundation of any independence is the suppression of personal ambition on the one hand and the ability to be alone yet happy on the other . The problem of independence is a graver one than we care to admit . The type I have in mind can not be independent if there is care for wealth or place or authority . If there is care for wealth ? since for the most part the sources of wealth lie in an acceptance of a social order it is the business of an elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care for place ? for the search after place involves invariably the adaptation of ends to means . Nor , finally , the care for authority ; for that implies an unwillingness to sacrifice influence in the insistence upon truth lest the audience melt away through indifference or indignation . An elitemust be a band of Stoics ; and the essence of Stoicism is to accept with calmness whatever the morrow may bring forth . But the only way of attaining that temper is to be independent of what the morrow may bring forth , to accept its consequences without repining as the price of the conviction to be uttered . There is a special reason why the pursuit of wealth is incompatible with the function of an elite in a society like our own . For one of its first tasks is to grasp the problems of workingclass life ; and , as a general rule , the more distant it is itself from the conditions of that life the less able it is to understand them , Success is here a factor of definitive separation once it assumes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preventing them from seeing the issues with the sharpness they in fact assume . It gives them the fatal opportunity to exalt the immediate issue above the long-range problem ? politically , for instance , it becomes more important to win an election than to fight for a principle . All of us know the type of intellectual who writes a book likely to pay in order to win economic security , and who then finds its possibilities too pleasant to be willing to risk their loss . In a routine-ridden world the desire to be recognized as a " sound " person is as normal as it is dangerous to the ends an elite must serve . For the type of critic whose value I am seeking to establish , life at the best is a battlefield where the first obligation is the offensive . Most men hate the discomfort of thought ; and there are few alternatives they will not embrace rather than be driven to its exploration . They have not the leisure inquiry demands ; they think it folly to shoot an arrow at the stars ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Who is there who does not know the unending excuses for inertia ? There is the haunting fear of insecurity ; there is the duty to one 's family ; at the margin , there is the dread of the law and its consequences . For every reason to be vigilant there are a score which move men to acquiescence . It is an attitude an elite must reject . To permit injustice to go unchecked is to make its victories more easy of accomplishment . To abandon the battle because the enemy is strong is to assure him the opportunity to consolidate his victory . To suppress the truth that is in one because it is unpleasant , or dangerous , or inconvenient is to offer oneself as a shield for falsehood . Men have suffered more from the silence of those who knew the truth than they have suffered from the deliberate infliction of wrong upon them . That kind of timidity is a betrayal more final than any other . For its author is then the accomplice in an act or policy of which he knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity where this is not the case . No great fight has ever been won save where men and women were prepared to be militant about the ideas they held . Christianity did not conquer the empire by hiding its light under a bushel ; nor did men win the right to religious toleration by a meek acceptance of the penalties of the law . If it is said that it is impractical to be uncompromising in a world where compromise is the law of life , it is surely the answer that no social order will consider the need to compromise until it is persuaded of the seriousness of the challenge . The main cause of the drift of our civilization to disaster is the easy belief that at the eleventh hour some magic way of relief will be discovered . War is always unthinkable before it occurs ; so we avoid the need to deal with the permanent roots of war . Prosperity is always just round the corner ; so we donot seek to grapple with the essential causes of unemployment . Men always achieve disaster by not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after it has come by proving its inevitability . Yet there are no inevitabilities in history ; there are only causes and effects we may seek to alter by dragging their incidence to the light of day . It is against this desire to temporize with essentials that an elite must be on guard . It must know wrong as wrong and evil as evil whatever palliating good or perspective of tradition may seem to surround them . No doubt it is a dangerous adventure ; for to bring men back to the foundations of a social order is inevitably to invite them to its reconstruction . Yet it is the challenge of the best that is invariably responsible for whatever measure of achievement we accomplish . The critic who does otherwise ceases to fulfill the function of an elite . He becomes a lost leader ; and it is the tragedy of his betrayal that the victory of his cause is involved in his personal disaster . This is why I emphasize independence as the supreme quality of an elite . You can not have the right to ask ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Churches can not be Christian for fear of their propertied supporters and their own possessions . Political parties , like ecclesiastical bodies , seek the advocate rather than the skeptic . The professions hate an innovating reformer , and a nation finds it difficult to endure the patriot who , above all in war , denounces its objectives . The fundamental pressure of life is the urgency to go with the crowd , whereas it is the business of an elite to ask where , and why , the crowd is going . Once he is the servant of any save his own insights his power to achieve his end is gone . One can see that in innumerable instances . The vision of Voltaire was always limited by his fear of losing his property . The yearning for a good name made Emerson pleasantly ironical where he should have been passionately indignant . The unwillingness of the German socialists in 1914 to fight for their beliefs made the surrender to IIitler a natural outcome of that earlier acquiescence . Mr. Ramsay MacDonald 's refusal in 1929 to stand by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1931 . Without the power to stand alone , no member of an elite can do more than pay lip-service to his ideals . For once he sacrifices that power he is unable at the critical moment to retain possession of himself . The pressure of an immediate solution which invariably seeks to postpone the issue will hold him as its captive . IV There is no special subject or vocation to which this temper is limited , in which , accordingly , the member of an elite may he found . Life is so various a thing that there is hardly an aspect of it which does not offer its peculiar opportunity . The problems of international government , the treatment of the colored peoples , the relations of a city administration to its citizens , the claims of churches , the issues of economic power ? these are only the most outstanding of the contemporary affairs in which there is special need of this sort of light . And in our society there is a large number of men in a position , did they so desire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to draw attention to its claims , to invite men to their enforcement . A great industrialist who decided that a policy of ostrichlike acquiescence was no longer possible would meet to-day a public mood of which it would be difficult to overestimate the significance . An eminent churchmanwho sought to redefine the social purposes of Christianity from an angle which recognized the gravity of the challenge to the existing order might well refresh the foundations of a dwindling ecclesiastical authority . A famous judge who admitted the wide abyss between modern law and justice might give a seriously needed stimulus to the reform of the law . The president of one of the major universities who was prepared to say with emphasis that their greatness was not a function of their size would find an eager audience among teachers who are a little weary of long subservience to rich alumni and powerful foundations . The opportunity is there ; what is required is courage on the one hand and profundity of belief in the critical temper on the other . Courage first , since to doubt is to refashion ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the price of reconstruction and resist it . No one can doubt the possibility that business man or churchman , judge or university president may well by such action call down a storm upon his head . Those who dwell at ease in Zion always resent a challenge to their comfort . They impute motives , and they move with swiftness to the attack . It is useless to open fire if the critic at the first counter-move proposes to abandon his guns . The kind of courage an elite requires is the courage that is not less persistent than profound . It accepts the consequence of its insight , and pays the price for it . It assumes without discussion the obligation to be broken rather than to betray . But hardly less than courage is the critical temper ; by which I mean that intensity of conviction is always accompanied by openness of mind . The fanatic to whom no evidence of a contrary sort affects his belief is unfit for membership of such art elite as I am seeking to describe . For he is by his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has relinquished his claim to be regarded as independent . And it is here important to realize that there is a passive fanaticism not less than an active , which in the result is infinitely more dangerous . The active fanatic , William Lloyd Garrison , for instance , or Samuel Plimsoll , carries with him his own corrective ; for the narrowness of his perspective compels the observer to supply his own horizon . A passive fanaticism is that which is so completely the prisoner of an environment that it is unaware of the presuppositions of its own creed . Its exponents may even , as with the typical English gentleman , speak in the very accents of tolerance ; they arc prepared on inquiry to surrender all save the things their opponents seek to investigate . Such a passive fanaticism was supremely exemplified in Hegel who spoke the language of reason the more supremely to serve the Prussian monarchy ; or in Chief-justice Marshall who used a dominating intellect to serve a property-system the implications of which he had never thought it necessary to examine . A prisoner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause of freedom . I do not mean by the critical temper that constant suspension of judgment so rooted in doubt that it is never able to express the provisional conclusions it is necessary to make in life . The elite must believe that effort is worth while and preach the obligation to be active about the principles they profess . But they must insist upon awareness of their assumptions , make clear , that is , the fact that in all intellectual processes the choice of postulates is an act of faith it may be necessary to revise in the light of experience . For , at best , the things we affirm have a limited validity ; and inability to adapt our postulates to the pressure of new facts is the prelude to inevitable death . The critical temper is , therefore , profoundly aware that all our hypotheses are provisional ; and it is prepared accordingly not only for a constant reexamination of fundamentals , but also for a generosity to opposing views . It seeks to persuade rather than to denounce , on the vital assumption that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are possible , than solutions imposed by force . So that an elite is capable of moderation even in victory since it realizes that the differences between men are not the result of deliberate perversity but of varying environments which beget needs between which conflict may prove inevitable . At its highest expression , as in Rousseau or Marx , there is hardly , on a long-term view , any limit to the influence this critical outlook may hope to exert . The victories of Cromwell or Napoleon may have been more spectacular than this influence ; I do not think they have been more profound . But it is not necessary to assume that it is futile , save in its most eminent form , to exert this kind of influence . Anyone who has seen in some social group the kind of impact made by informed and fearless sincerity knows of the difference it is able to effect upon those who come within the ambit of its authority . The little circle at Tew who found their inspiration in the character of Lord Herbert of Cherbury ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their contact with Hull House ; the bare room in Bloomsbury where Marx sought to write the epitaph of capitalist society ; the tailor 's shop in Charing Cross where Francis Place consolidated the foundations of the British Labor movement ; the library at Wisconsin where Charles McCarthy built the most creative experiment so far recorded in the history of an American State ? these are temples of the human spirit , worship in which has had consequences not less significant than the more dramatic spectacles of a battlefield. or a legislative chamber . Each man , in his measure , may contribute his item to the account if only he be prepared to endure the pain involved in the effort . He must not , let me emphasize , expect that either is likely to be evaded . If the pioneer is not necessarily a martyr , there is still a price to be paid for pioneering . It involves a self-imposition of a discipline for which few men have the requisite endurance . It means the capacity to hope when there seems room only for despair . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Mr. Lippmann has commended to America as the national equivalent of the Stoic temper . It replaces indignation against persons by anger against ideas . For the easy result which appeals to the populace it substitutes the long achievement which may have no immediate hope of success . It learns how to renounce without embitterment ; it seeks to persuade without superiority . It is , therefore , an attitude which does not accept any of the practical man 's criteria of success . Its life is that of the spirit ; like Nato 's guardian , it seeks to dwell upon the heights . But its outlook differs from Plato 's in two essential ways . It does not seek for the association of its insights with powet . Rather does it repudiate the career of authority and search for the right to judge rather than the opportunity to perform . For it is aware that in a world like our world authority in itself , whether of material wealth , or public office , is poisonous to those who hold it . Realizing this , its effort is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men and women who can force the holders of power constantly to relate their prerogative to principle . This , it suggests , can most effectively be done where the ordinary man isconvinced that no personal ambition is served by the critic ; and the best way to convince him is by having no personal ambition . It differs , again , from the Platonic attitude in its emphasis upon the eminent worth of human personality as such . It is , therefore , in a final sense a democratic attitude . It believes that historic experience gives us the right to believe in the power of institutions to elevate the quality of ordinary men . If it seeks to convince them of the truths it has to offer , it is that they may enter into , and so enrich , the fabric of ordinary men 's lives . Again it stands apart from the normal criteria of practical men because it believes that by so doing it gives proof of disinterestedness ; and it is convinced that only by offering such proof can it infuse its ideals with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for converts in the sense of building a party which may hope one day for authority . Rather , it seeks to persuade men of all parties that only as its attitude pervades the society is there hope of a reasoned settlement of the issues between men . Such an elite as I have described could grow without organization and influence without ceremonial . It would be a priesthood without a church , a religion without a theology . By harnessing the noblest of human emotions ? the love of freedom ? to the service of intelligence it would direct through society a stream of tendency which would seek insistently to place first things first . It would not clamor for recognition , which incurs the odium of vanity ; nor would it search for security , which perverts all loyalty to ideals . It would need no funds and no officials . Its members could go quietly about their daily lives , an unconscious brotherhood who found one another only in the mysterious alchemy of kindred devotion . They would not be without their reward . " Fellowship , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of fellowship is death . " In the mysterious communion I have here depicted there is that out of which fellowship in its most intense form may grow . For its roots Iie most profoundly in that adventurous quest where men set out upon a journey to which there is no end . The satisfaction of a great purpose served , the joy of digging for principles of final significance , the effort , if only in a humble way , to shape the large contours of a richer life , these are the rewards for which they may hope . To some they will come , as , above all , to Spinoza in that final ecstasy men know when at rare moments the secret of life itself seems to be revealed as the sun lights up the heights of some distant mountain range . But for most the reward will be the glory of the effort itself , the sense of duty done , of friendships gained , of truths , however small , wrested grimly from the raw stuff of life . And these , though impalpable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human search for happiness . One final remark is necessary . It is the fundamental assumption of this argument that the ultimate problems of social organization are intellectualproblems , and that it is , therefore , the function , as it becomes the possibility , of reason to solve them . The responsibility of an elite is , therefore , a momentous one . For its members ignorance is a sin , and passionate ignorance the worst of sins ; and it is its primary task first to inform itself and , in the second place , to promote as an inescapable social duty the diffusion of knowledge . But in diffusing it , it is not to be a lawgiver ; that is a function of control which risks the transformation of an elite into a body of Philistines . It is to be in the baffle , but above it ; to sound the call , but to refuse the command of the army . It must learn this art of selfabnegation , difficult though it be ; for it must have caught the inner truth of Goethe 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is so difficult . If in our own time such a body of men and women could be found their contribution to the sum of social good would be great beyond measure . They would set the objectives of human effort ; they would establish the standards by which practical activity might be assessed . They would not themselves seek to lead mankind into the promised land . But at least they would possess some small assurance that its tents had been struck and that it marched with hopefulness to the highroad.                     