@@142226

Michael Sirogoff ( RKO ) starts with a battle and ends with a siege . The body of the picture contains a massacre , a fight between a bear and a man , two horse-whippings , several murders , the spectacle of an executioner drawing a red-hot sword across a man 's eyes and a sort of chariot derby between three-horse Russian droshkies . Winding through these and other divertissements , which make it easily the most eventful blood- &-thunder; spectacle of the current season , is Jules Verne 's 61-year-old story of a courier sent by the Russian Tsar to tell the Grand Duke , commanding an army at Irkutsk , that reinforcements are on their way to help him put down a Tartar rebellion led by Scarface Ogareff ( Akim Tamiroff ) . Courier Michael Strogoff ( Anton Walbrook ) is spotted by Ogareff spies as he leaves St. Petersburg . Highlight of his journey is the day he spends at his home town of Omsk where he is taken prisoner and where his mother ( Fay Bainter ) and a girl ( Elizabeth Allan ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are present when Ogareff has his eyes roasted . The roasting produces no bad effects because Ogareff 's mistress ( Margot Grahame ) , who has fallen in love with the courier while shadowing him , bribes the executioner to do it inefficiently . Nonetheless , by the time he reaches Irkutsk , Michael is in terrible shape . His clothes are torn to ribbons and it is all he can do to jump on a horse and rescue the town from the Tartars , practically singlehanded . <P> Most interesting fact about the manufacture of Michael Strogoff is the fact that not only its big scenes-Tartar troops riding across the steppes , rout of the Tsar 's regiments by Ogareff 's cavalry-but almost all the outdoor sequences were actually filmed in Siberia , giving the picture a photographic validity that could not possibly have been duplicated in California where almost every foot of available landscape is already familiar to cinemaddicts . Second most interesting fact is that all this apparently expensive panoramic authenticity cost RKO practically nothing . Michael Strogoff was originally made in both French and German by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berman ( Winterset , Swing Time bought the U. S. rights to the picture for $75,000 , but instead of showing it with subtitles or dubbed-in sound , he proceeded to remake it in Hollywood . Directed by George Nicholls Jr. , and supervised by Ermolieff , the parts made in Hollywood are so shrewdly interwoven with those made in Russia that cinemaddicts will be unable to guess where one starts and the other stops . To make his coup perfect , Producer Berman imported famed Viennese Actor Anton Walbrook who had played the lead in the European version . In his first appearance on the U. S. screen , Actor Walbrook 's performance suggests that he will be almost as good an investment for the long pull as the picture is for a quick turn . Most spectacular shot : Ogareff 's signal to his troops to charge Irkutsk-an oil-flooded river in flames below the walls .                     