@@491622

T HE American Institute of Public Opinion recently asked this somber question : " Is the Republican Party dead ? " The very asking of it was salt in an unhealed wound . Despite the tradition of good sportsmanship with which our political minorities accept their transient defeats  --  and 1936 will not be the slightest exception to the rule  --  this question suggested that the recent Republican disaster was , perhaps , entirely too conclusive . It smacked of a visit to the morgue . But the country 's answer was balm of Gilead . It showed that all sense of values is not lost . According to this prescient oracle , the country 's opinion regarding the speculative Republican demise proved to be as follows : Yes , 27 per cent : No , 73 per cent . Even a comforting majority of Democrats voting in the poll declined to be illogical . Mark Twain once found it necessary to announce that the prema t are reports of his death were " greatly exaggerated . " Thus with the G. 0 . P. The country is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathing spells . The immediate requirement is a common and united effort to win through to stabilized recovery . What happens to any party is of far less moment than what happens to the nation as a whole . But since our representative form of government can function only through the instrumentality of parties , and since popular control of government otherwise would be inarticulate , there is always reason to watch the party heart lines and the party health , Even so , it never would have occurred to me to discuss such a theme in terms of Republican dissolution but for the frequency with which I have heard this same discouraging question posed . " Is the Republican Party dead ? " If asked often enough , the cumulative effect might be impressive . The truth is that great political parties rarely die . They may sink to a dangerous pulse , only to revive amazingly . They may even merge with a successor . But the blood stream carries on . The habit of American politics to maintain two dominant parties , and to avoid the chaos of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menace of a single tyrannical party upon the other hand , is , fortunately , so fixed in our custom that extinction is at war with every American tradition . It is our insurance against anarchy , at one extreme , and against dictatorship , at the other . It is our bulwark against the transfer of the European political system to the United States . Least of all is there any occasion to speak of Republicanism in the past tense because of 1932 and 1936 . That it was conclusively defeated beyond any necessity for recounts is poignantly true . But that it mustered 16.651,913 presidential voters  --  nearly four voters out of every ten  --  in the face of irresistible resources , plus the greatest . campaign personality of modern times , is equally and significantly true . The wonder , in retrospect , is that it did so well . It was , and is , the agent of the largest . minority which ever marched unsuccessfully to the polls . It was , and is , the hope and the reliance of countless American firesides , It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a country to which it has rendered incalculable service . Despite all superficial theories to the contrary , including the self-serving obituaries pronounced by those with whom the wish is father to the thought , it is a living and electric force in the United States . A Realist Looks at 1,940 I DO NOT play at prophecy . I deal only with things as they are . Our country and the world are in the grip of tremendous forces that make for change . All civilization is in a state of flux . Nothing is certain but uncertainty . 11 1940 were 100 years remote , it could not be farther away in terms of political potentiality ; and this applies just as much to the Democratic Party and to the Roosevelt Party  --  two essentially different things , despite their common parentage  --  as it does to the Republican Party . There may be evolution into more realistic political alignments , with traditional Democracy and traditional Republicanism drawing together on middle ground , a little right of center . But dependent only upon its ability to justify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterly adverse circumstances last November , Republicanism  --  as it is known today , for want of a better name  --  will continue to provide a " rendezvous with destiny " for vast and often dominant groups of country-loving Americans to whom a few defeats are but the tonic for tomorrow 's conquest . One of my philosophic friends , retaining his sense of humor under all circumstances , recalls the story of two rival merchants in a small Ohio town . One of them advertised in the country paper one week with the truculent headline , intended as a challenge to his rival , WE ARE NOT DEAD OR SLEEPING . lits competitor replied the following week : IF I CHARGED AS MUCH FOR MY GOODS AS MY COMPETITOR , I COULD NOT SLEEP AND I WOULD BE AFRAID TO DIE . My friend insists  --  and not without highly literal analogy  --  that the Republican Party of today may well borrow and apply this retort . It certainly has its appropriate application . Indeed , it is entirely too true for comfort . Its accuracy is one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not long survive the absence of such spokesmanship . Farsighted citizens , even among triumphant Rooseveltians , are wise enough to want the cause to carry on . No less authentic a spokesman than the brilliantly efficient James Aloysius Farley , major prophet and major domo in the new dispensation , recently said , in the course of a speech to the National Press Club in Washington : " The stronger the opposition , the more certain it will be that the Democratic Administration will pat forth its best efforts . It is important in the interests of the people that the Republican Party be strong . " Of course , he added , with a candid smile , " but not too strong . " Yet his philosophy of things is right . The greatest handicap which the President paradoxically confronted in the last Congress was the magnitude and the blind loyalty and , therefore , the too complacent subservience of his congressional majorities . The handicap is even greater in his new Administration . In whatever degree adequate and competent opposition is lacking , in just that same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absent . A rubber-stamp Congress will always be guilty of ill-considered snap judgments . It is the easy road to error , and the people pay the freight . The Safety Valve of Democracy AN ADEQUATE and highly vocal minority is the safety valve in a democracy . This is not said in the petty sense of cheap , partisan sniping . It is not said in the sense of small obstructive strategies . It is said in the sense of honest constructive criticism based in sound principle and deep conviction . This service is frequently rendered by dissenters within the majority itself . It often will be thus rendered in the present Congress . because the Roosevelt victors rode to glory in an omnibus which included among its happy hitchhiking passengers all the known varieties of divergent human thought . But primarily this sentry service is the function of the direct opposition . It is the Republican function in 1937 . In other words , there could be no greater mistake than to assume that a party is moribund or dead and gone beyond utility simply because it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merit its greatest following by its censoring service when it is not in power . Thus , frequently , in the British Parliament , the leader of the government is known to rise from his bench and thank " His Majesty 's loyal opposition ' ' for the fruitfulness of its vigilance . Phraseology is different in the U. S. A. , but it is pretty much a distinction without a difference . There never were greater Republican responsibilities than there are today . But there are always ledger-minded folks who , in the presence of any problem , must deal exclusively in figures , and it is they who seem to find it most difficult to give the Elephant any further actuarial chance . Let 's linger for a moment on their theme . It may surprisingly invite sonic readjusted viewpoints . Measuring political mortality by relative mathematics is a very deceptive enterprise . It frequently proves a lot of things that are n't so . Thus , for example , while electoral votes are fatefully potent in determining the presidency  --  and nothing else matters if you have n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflection of true popular authority . Everything depends upon where and how the popular vote divides within the various states . A credulous stranger , sitting in the gallery of the House of Representatives last January when a joint congressional session Was going through the routine of receiving the verdict of the Electoral College  --  and ironically applauding only when Maine and Vermont reported their spectacularly lonesome Landon allegiance  --  might have concluded that these eight Republican electoral votes were the lamented last of the G. O. 1 ' . But eight electoral votes were all the disconcerted 0 . 0 . P. could muster on a similar perspiring occasion back in 1912 . Yet it lived to sweep the boards within less than a decade . Popular Votes and Electoral Votes TNDEED , only four years later it polled 46 per cent of the total presidential vote and lost the White House only because it lost California by 3806 votes . It took three days to find out authentically that the Republican , Hughes  --  now Chief Justice of the Supreme Court  --  was not the President-elect . In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to multiply at rabbit speed within forty-eight months . No , it is not normal expectancy . But who knows ! ? Anot her thing which the credulous stranger would not know was that the eight Republican electors really represented more than 2,000,000 popular votes apiece on a nation-wide apportionment , whereas each of the dominant 523 Democratic electors represented only 53,000 popular votes apiece on a kindred basis . This does not pretend or hope to minimize the staggering extent of the Roosevelt triumph . We Republicans were trounced conclusively . But it does demonstrate the fallacy of discussing Republicanism and its recuperative potentialities in the relative divisions of the Electoral College . Electoral votes are merely an ultimate mechanism to clinch the will of majorities voting by states . A presidential candidate theoretically could almost evenly divide the popular voting strength of the nation with his opponent ; ho could be only forty-eight votes behind in forty-five million ; yet if one of those determinative popular votes was in each of the forty-eight states , he would not have a single electoral vote in the Electoral College , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimous . The conclusion at this point is obvious . Lack of electoral votes is no automatic reflection of proportionate lack of political vitality . Indeed  --  note this ! ? President Wilson got 435 Democratic electors in 1912 on the strength of 42 per cent of the popular vote , which was just 0 per cent more of the popular vote than produced only eight Republican electors for Governor Landon . These relationships are " cockeyed " ? to borrow from the Landon lexicon . Somewhat similarly , congressional divisions are no true index to the country 's political thinking . Our casual stranger , seated in the Senate gallery today , might pity the Republican decimation apparently personified in the little group of sixteen senatorial survivors huddled together in the Senate well , entirely surrounded by Democratic winners in the recent Roosevelt rodeo . That we are distinctly lonesome is the painful fact . A small-sized luncheon table will accommodate our party caucus . But that the limitation of our numbers is the yardstick that measures I he sum total of our constituency is fortunately and encouragingly untrue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of last November 's national division , we would have nearer thirty-seven Republican senators instead of sixteen , and nearly 165 Republican congressmen instead of SS . We do not have proportional representation  --  and could n't . So these calculations are entirely metaphysical . The Farley Boys are entitled to everything they won and have . That 's America . But therelevantpoint remains that any political calculator who measures the raw materials of Republican rehabili tation in terms of present congressional mathematics is riding for a fall . He is an intellectual boondoggler . Things just simply are not as they seem . Flourishing at the Roots It is equally deceptive to think that one has done all of his essential arithmetic  --  if he chooses to do his thinking mathematically  --  by surveying merely the presidential returns and their reflection in the Washington picture . Frequently , Republican strength  --  and , therefore , its latent resource  --  finds greater and more significant vigor in other than these national returns . For example , the latest figures for last November indicate that the totals in twelve typical states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 Republican votes for senators ; 4,521,000 Republican votes for congressmen ; and 4,780,000 Republican votes for governors . In other words , the closer one gets to " home politics , " as differentiated from presidential poli tics , the greater becomes the Republican vitality . Another dependable tabulation in twenty-five states shows 10 , - 592,000 Republican votes for President and 11,759,000 Republican votes for governors . If this is a criterion , the Republican backlog in the nation as a whole is nearer 18,000,000 voters than the 16,681,000 we have been discussing . These observations in no sense pretend to detract from the sweeping character of recent Republican defeats . That is not the point . The point is that those who would search the truth can not confine themselves to the national balance sheet . The national Democratic victory was infinitely less a party victory than it was , particularly and spectacularly , a personal , Roosevelt victory with a Santa Claus flavor . By the same token , the national Republican defeat was less a party blow than it was an enforced surrender to conquest by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope . So far as arithmetic is our monitor  --  a poor monitor , both ways , at best  --  the wise analyst will not , as a matter of fact , rest upon his calculations until he has gone down into county and local elections where , in innumerable scores of instances , the Republican tickets continue victorious , even in the presence of the Roosevelt threat , and the Republican organizations remain intact . From a practical standpoint these grass-roots conditions are far more influential than is the larger , grander aspect . The final totals are but the sum of the lesser parts . At these roots Republicanism emphatically still lives and flourishes and plans and hopes . You could not kill it if you would . It can only die by suicide . Bad News for the Undertakers Political parties , to the final a nal : , ? - sis , consist of something vastly more than National Committees and prima-donna nominees and itinerant campaigns and big or little leaders . If that were all , the casualty frequently would be fatal . But parties are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tradition , of a profoundly tenacious habit of political action among mass groups , of grim and often unreasoning adherence to inherited principles , of vague but vivid faiths , of gregarious associations , of co-operative dedications , of instincts for self-preservation . These things never - die . They do not . decide elections . Unattached and independent voters always hold that balance of power . But they do decide the longevity of parties . Forms and objectives , even names , may change . Affiliations may shift . But there is an unbroken trend beneath it all . The tenacity with which the Democratic Party itself has clung to life despite its persistent and perennial calamities is the strongest possible admonition to eager undertakers , and particularly Democratic undertakers , that it scarcely is wise to pronounce obituaries upon political rivals because , however mortified they may contemporarily seem to be , they are not so far gone as has been Democracy itself upon occasion . Nor is there anything in our history to indicate that this power of resurrection is a Democratic monopoly . It will chasten the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spirit which precedes destruction  --  even as it may nourish the vanquished and perhaps fatten their protruding ribs  --  to linger for a moment with this part of the record . In 1920 , the decimated Democracy polled less than 35 per cent of the popular vote . This was a greater mathematical accident even than befell the recent sunflowers and prairie schooners . And  --  wonder of all wonders  --  on the underside of this devastating landslide was a distinguished young candidate for Vice-President by the name of ? what do you think ? Franklin Delano Roosevelt ! When a submerged and conclusively flattened pro-League-ofNations candidate for Vice-President in 1920 can become an overwhelmingly dominant and universally acclaimed // , anti-League-of-Nations President in 1932 and again in 1936 , anything can happen in American polities . The distraught Dems themselves were in a frightful dither when the ominous 1920 count was in . William Jennings Bryan , prefacing his valedictory with a Biblical allusion that " the Lord gave , and the Lord hath taken away ; blessed be the name of the Lord , " proposed that President Wilson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Harding Secretary of State ; and that Marshall then resign and let President-elect Harding proceed forthwith into the White House . But despite all his lugubrious pessimism , Mr. Bryan did not surrender his party to disintegration . He talked of rebuilding for the 1922 congressional campaigns . Meanwhile , the always buoyant , always eloquent Sen. Pat Harrison , of Mississippi , rallied drooping spirits with a call to arms ere the ashes of the last defeat were even cold . " The Democratic Party is not dead , " he cried . " It has only received a temporary setback . . . . The results of the recent election , while , of course , discouraging , should inbleat@ Democrats to - rand united as never before and work together in a spirit of complete co-operation and accord . " Tough Donkey Ex-Secretary of the Treasury  --  now Senator  --  William G. McAdoo no less vigorously rejected crape . Indeed , in only four more years he was to run after his party 's presidential nomination in a Madison Square Garden marathon as if it were the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Party has suffered a severe but not a disastrous defeat . It is far from dead  --  it is not even seriously wounded . Throughout our history , overwhelmingly political reverses have been followed by extraordinary political recoveries . " That last sentence is important . It should give final pause to all Republican pallbearers . History is the great teacher . Overwhelming political reverses are followed by extraordinary political recoveries . Roosevelt , among others , is the proof . After 1920 came 1924 . This time the Democrats polled only 29 per cent of the popular vote . Two defeats in a row ! The second was progressively worse than the first . This was fully as bad as the Republican vicissitudes in 1932 and 1936 ; and , in respect to percentages , it was worse . It took the late Congressman Rainey  --  afterward Democratic Speaker of the House  --  just three months to recover entirely his poise and his confident prospectus . Said he : " The Democratic Party can not be defeated . It stands for certain basic principles of government. , and these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ? Once again the irrepressible and utterly delightful Harrison told the Jackson Day diners at Columbus , Ohio : " No , the Democratic Party is not dead " ; and proceeded correctly to prove again out of history that not even the proverbial nine-lived cat has greater grip on life . Senator  --  now Secretary of the Navy  --  Swanson put his magnifying glass upon the returns and " showed a situation in which careful management of the defeated party would mean its return to power " ; and the late Democratic Senator Ralston , of Indiana , calling for " new leadership from the ranks , " asked and answered his own questionnaire : " As to the future of the Democratic Party , I have no doubt . It will live .. I can see that the Democratic Party may be crippled from within , but it can not be killed , even from without . " That , too , is something to think about . A party may he crippled from within . Strange how the two great major parties have shared vicissitudes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the confirmed and incorrigible Democratic optimists should have been ready to admit that another wound would spell the end . And what a wound ! They polled only 41 per cent of the popular vote . They took their third licking in a ghastly row . Worse ; the Solid South , heretofore grimly faithful when all else was lost , was fickle in its loves . Democracy carried just two states  --  that sounds familiar  --  outside of what remained to her below the Mason and Dixon 's line . But even there Florida , North Carolina , Tennessee , Texas and Virginia ran up the Republican gonfalon . Nothing like it had been known in three-quarters of a century . It was the coup de gnIce . Now , if over , one might call the chapter done . A New York national weekly said : " The Democratic Party is smashed  --  of that there is no doubt . " Norman Thomas , the popular Socialist who repeatedly seeks the presidency with no illusions , but with amazing campaign industry , declared : " The Democratic Party is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a program , nor the smell of the pie counter to hold it together . " The Lynchburg Neese , operated by Sen. Carter Glass and sons , was as bitter as it , was dismal in its almost hopeless requiem : " Democracy has received the worst defeat in its history , and at a time when it was most truly democratic . As a party , it can scarcely be said to exist . Overwhelmed by its enemies and deserted by its friends , it lies gasping for breath and in immediate danger of death . Whether or not it will ever recover is a question for the future to answer . " There was a general disposition to call it a funeral and probate the estate . This , mind you , was just eight short years ago . Depths to Heights But up in New York , a Democratic governor who survived the Hoover landslide , and who was being hailed in some quarters as a future leader of his party , sniffed at all this potential interment . He bluntly said that " a party which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was still far from moribund . And the funny thing about it was that the then Governor , Franklin D. Roosevelt , was just exactly right  --  as he subsequently proceeded to prove so conclusively . From the Democratic lows of 1920 , 1924 and 1928 to the Democratic highs of 1932 and 1936 is the eternal vindication of faith , hope and persistence . If this were a metaphysical discussion , one might sustain a pretty argument that it was not the Democratic Party which saw Easter in this fashion , but rather anew party , a Roosevelt Party . But that is something else . At any rate , it was the same ethnic strain . For the moment we are studying the face of the election returns and we are taking party labels at faces value . Such a study leaves but one safe conclusion , academically , and that is that there is no party cemetery . There is no such thing as death . There may be evolution . There may be transmigration of soul . But there is no death . The Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the storm , found in due season that it led them to high land , however strange to some of them the new altitudes proved to be . So . If three stinging defeats in a row , with the popular vote sinking as low as 29 per cent , do not spell the end , why should two defeats , with the popular vote never sinking below 36.4 per cent , be any more lethal ? And if " a party that polls 15,000,000 votes " provably had no need to fold up , why 92 THE SHTHHDAY EVENING POST Fo  --  bruary 22 , 1947 should at party which just polled 16 , - 700.000 votes for President  --  and many more than that for other offices  --  call the coroner ? Or why should it be static ? Under such historic circumstances , it is not too difficult for Republicans to whistle through the woods . We Americans are a volatile people . The pendulum forever swings . What goes up must come down . It was over thus  --  cud it will be again . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are , the harder they fall . " This historical reminiscence would he incomplete without one further entry . There was another , earlier occasion this century when the Democratic Party indulged a significant and monitory experience . It was 1904 . Another Roosevelt was on the scene . All these Roosevelts have a way with them ... . Judge Parker polled less than 38 per cent of the presidential vote . Judge D. Cady Herrick , defeated Democratic candidate for governor of New York , was moved to observe : " Perhaps the Republican Party would have won this election in any event . Bdt the magnitude of their victory is due to the personality of President Roosevelt , and it is his victory and not that of the party . " Who says that history does not repeat itself ? Indeed , some of these 1904 quotations may be applied to 1936 without changing a single word . For example , an editorial in the Democratic New York World on November 9 , 1904 : " It can truly be said of the people 's choice of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second time : ' It is a triumph of hope over experience ' If President Roosevelt will be satisfied with this splendid vote of confidence , the climax of his whole career , the greatest personal triumph ever won by popular mandate may yet redound to the welfare and the true glory of the Republic . " No Tears Without changing the dot or an i or the cross of a I , that editorial could as well have been written after the returns were in last November , 1936 . Meanwhile . Judge Herrick also said : " This is no time for Democrats to weep and moan . Those who are Democrats on principle will continue the fight . Anyone can fight when he is a winner . Letthe Democratic Party show that it can keep it up when beaten and eventually turn defeat into victory . " That was sound , manly , patriotic advice  --  and it was followed . I have no doubt that the same spirit imbues Republicans in 1937 . Parties are purged by defeats . The political parasites and opportunists  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fishes  --  leave defeated parties and rush for the new market places where jobs and favors are dispensed . It is good riddance . It permits sounder lines to be formed . Defeated parties are purged , too , in that they are driven to candid self-scrutiny , which forces a healthy admission of errors  --  errors of commission , errors of omission  --  and a finer rededication that shall deserve renewed public confidence . II Time for Self ? .. analysis Heaven knows that there is plenty of Republican opportunity for this precise sort of soul-searching , and the more the better . We were entirely too self-satisfied , too smug , in the lush and easy days . It would be silly to deny these realities  --  just as it would be equally silly to deny that sound Republican principles , at base , were largely responsible for the gigantic American achievement which made us the envy of the world , which here created the greatest distribution of mass advantage ever enjoyed by any people since time began , and which , in proper purity and focus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It permits time for inventory , and for prayer . It allows a separation of the wheat from the chaff . It has never hurt any party to he defeated . Paraphrasing Mr. Bryan , as he spoke after 1920 , " whom the Lord loveth , he chasteneth . " The need is to make a virtue of necessity . Defeated parties usually do . Then they invariably succeed again . In the final analysis , it will be these spiritual values , so to speak , which will determine the future of the Republican Party . But I did not set out to discuss its future . I proposed solely , at the moment , to prove that it has one . How it shall take advantage of its opportunities , which , in my personal judgment , call for sane and sympathetic liberalism grounded in sound and unsurrendered constitutionalism , is out- side this assignment . How it shall win back the mass confidence which it once so richly justified and which , in my personal judgment , it still can better serve  --  if true to itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , is for forward-looking leadership to find . Whether the Republican Party is destined to carry on under its present name , or whether it is destined for new baptism as the nucleus of the forces realigned upon the side of personal liberty , individual opportunity and autonomous democracy is wholly in the lap of the gods . These are not the present subjects of debate , although I would venture the opinion that Doctor Tugwell ? with whom I have violently disagreed throughout his public career  --  was giving sound advice to all concerned , regardless of their partisan affiliations , when , in January , he said , upon retiring to private life , that " the new leaders that will rise during the next four years ought to be searching now for the best methods to bring the greatest- assistance to the people at the bottom of the economic heap . " But I would hasten to add that it will not do the people at the bottom " any good merely to level off all America to their same plane . A Vigorous Corpse The question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is the Republican Party dead ? " From whatever angle you may wish to seek your verdict , the answer emphatically is " No . " It is not even seriously ill  --  unless the diagnosis be confined to office holding . It stands today as the largest political minority in American history . It is the custodian of great principles and traditions . It boasts a record which , despite all accidents , is proud and fruitful . It confronts duties and responsibilities of critical magnitude . It claims the loyalties of devoted patriots . If it is true to itself and its opportunity for service to the advantage and the security of all America . with special prvilege for none and equity for all , the election returns will one day make us laugh , in retrospect , that there ever should have been even casual anxiety as to its pulse .                     