@@154849

Franklin Roosevelt with government posts , William Randolph Hearst with hard cash , other ambitious men with other means have been great collectors of useful living brains . Only an institution , however , can satisfactorily set itself up as a great collector of useful dead brains . Cornell University at Ithaca , N. Y. and Bekhtereff Institute at Leningrad are well-known dead-brain collectors . Last week another institution , Brain Research Institute of Georgetown University at Washington , D. C. , launched itself in this elite field of collection , planning to enlarge its already considerable " library " of 5,000 brains . Anatomist Othmar Solnitzky , wiry little cosmopolite director of the Institute sent out a call to all lands and peoples for collectors ' items which he may slice exceedingly thin and map at his leisure . <P> Besides human brains Georgetown wants the brains of all kinds of animals , birds , reptiles and fish . The U. S. Biological Survey , Bureau of Fisheries and Smithsonian Institution are contributing ordinary specimens . Anatomist Solnitzky asked hunters to supplement this with the brains of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Georgetown collection so far is the brain of a sphenodon , a three-eyed lizard which lives in New Zealand . Its third eye is in the top of its head . When the Washington Zoo 's arthritic elephant , Babe , died recently ( TIME , Aug. 23 ) , Anatomist Solnitzky , who keeps an empty human skull on his office desk for scientific sentiment , tried to obtain her brain . But Zoo Director William M. Mann for animal sentiment insisted that Babe , although so large she had to be buried in pieces , nonetheless should be buried in toto . <P> Georgetown 's collection is still small but already promises to be one of the most varied . When full grown , its brains , whole and sectioned , are to give a scientist 's eye view of one of the least known parts of anatomy , a view covering not mankind alone but virtually the whole field of animate evolution .                     