@@145040

You Ca n't Take It With You ( Columbia ) . When the play from which this picture was derived opened in Manhattan in December 1936 , critics complained that Playwrights George Kaufman and Moss Hart had failed to equip it with plot , that their eccentric characters were freaks rather than human beings . Translation from the stage to cinema sometimes has extraordinary results . In this case , the result is spectacular proof that the comic exterior of You Ca n't Take It With You concealed not merely plot but superb dramatic conflict , and that its characters , far from being freaks , were really human beings drawn on the heroic scale . Brilliantly explored by Writer Robert Riskin , Director Frank Capra and the season 's most astutely chosen cast , these unforeseen potentialities make the Pulitzer Prize-winning play of 1937 into what is easily the No. 1 cinema comedy of 1938 . <P> Most titanic rebel in the group of legendary rebels which You Ca n't Take It With You assembles in the living room of a shabby urban household is Grandpa Vanderhof @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he decided one morning ' that working was no fun . His daughter , Penny Sycamore ( Spring Byington ) . writes plays because someone once delivered a typewriter to the house by mistake ; his son-in-law ( Samuel Hinds ) manufactures fireworks in the basement ; his granddaughter , Essie ( Ann Miller ) , studies ballet with a ferociously impecunious Russian ( Mischa Auer ) ; and the assorted camp followers of the Vanderhpf-Sycamore menage pass their time playing the xylophone , experimenting with false faces and training pet birds . Thus when Alice Sycamore ( Jean Arthur ) , the only member of the family normal enough to work for a living , falls in love with her boss ( James Stewart ) , scion of the fabulously rich and conventional Anthony P. Kirbys , it occasions not only a meeting between the two clans but a Homeric clash of creeds . <P> In the play , the climax of the clash , like all the rest of the action , occurred in the Vanderhof living room , where the Kirbys , arriving the night before they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be carted off to jail when the fireworks in the basement exploded prematurely . Unimpeded by the restrictions of the stage , the camera follows the party to jail , then into court , then into the newspapers , then into a board meeting at the Kirby bank in a series of scenes which lifts the feud between the Kirbys and the Vanderhofs to the plane of that between the Montagues and Capulets . By the time Grandpa Vanderhof and Banker Kirby ( Edward Arnold ) eventually symbolize their inevitable meeting of minds by sitting down together to play Polly-Woily-Doodle on harmonicas. their duet affords some of the emotional impact of a Beethoven symphony .                     