@@470065

THE fabric of the American system of I education has been woven with four distinct threads of different hue : two represent the aristocratic traditions of the old world , two the democratic forces unleashed on a new continent . As year by year the cloth slowly and continuously comes from the loom the proportion of the threads changes in response to variations in the complex social life of a great nation . From decade to decade the pattern alters . At times we who tend the educational machinery may fancy that we control the changing lines and varying intricacies of color , but we delude ourselves . We are not designers ? free agents capable of radically altering the pattern through our collective wisdom . The design in broad outline is determined by forces far beyond our control , forces which , indeed , control each of us as surely as they controlled our predecessors . Our task , I take it , in the famous phrase of Gladstone , is " working the institutionsof the country . " We must keep the machines running ? foresee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from time to time , and repair the breaks in the colored yarns . But to perform these functions satisfactorily we must to some extent foresee what is to come . We must estimate the strength and weakness of the threads . As historians we can trace the changes on the cloth ; as prophets we may hope to outline those to come . And since it has always been the role of prophets not only to foretell the future but to urge the desirability of the inevitable , we may from time to time pretend we are more than skilled machinists ; each of us may temporarily assume the role of a masterful designer . Now , examining in retrospect the first cloth which came from the early American educational loom I find the two aristocratic threads predominating . As I foresee the future I see these threads largely displaced by the two of democratic origin . Perhaps all eyes are not the same as mine . The very nature of this miraculous textile manufactured by schools , colleges , and universities makes its appearance most deceptive . Where one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of line and color . For example , on a modern section from another country I spell out the words tyranny , dogmatism , decay . Others see on the same strip in letters of flaming gold ? loyalty , happiness , efficiency , patriotism . But I have undertaken to examine the weave of the American product , not to decipher the pattern . Let us proceed , therefore , with an attempt at an objective examination . One of the binding elements in all education for hundreds of years has been the perpetuation of a learned class . When the members of this class are related , one to another , generation after generation , we can speak of a learned aristocracy . The clearest example is perhaps the French noblesse de robe of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . In the earliest colonial period the New England clergy occupied a not dissimilar position . This element in the early American educational fabric was strong . Nor is it negligible to-day . In this century we must amplify the phrase " a learned ministry " to include the lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May the desire to be one of the company of leaders continue to be inheritedl A nation is poor which can not count among its assets family names synonymous with highly trained ability placed at the disposal of the people . The other aristocratic element represents not the tradition of learning within a family but the passing on of power and wealth from generation to generation . The education of what to-day we call the " privileged group " has been one of the tasks of the universities of the world since the end of the Middle Ages . A gentleman 's education from century to century has not been simple to define , nor in many cases easy to administer . Indeed , an impartial appraisal of this goldenthread has always proved difficult . Some would pluck it out ; others see the whole cloth as one of gold . And only a specialist within a laboratory can examine gold objectively . But there is no use ignoring , bewailing , or magnifying the problem . As long as the institution of the family exists certain sons will inherit from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ privileged position may be transmitted by virtue of wealth or social prestige or political power ; but like the poor , the privileged are always with us . Their education must be fitted into the general scheme . As far as possible it should be made not a separate component but an integral part of our institutions of higher learning . On this point I quote , as a matter of historical record , from President Eliot 's inaugural address at Harvard in 1869 : " The poorest and the richest students are equally welcome here , provided that with their poverty or their wealth they bring capacity , ambition , and purity . The poverty of scholars is of inestimable worth in this money-getting nation . It maintains the true standards of virtue and honor . The poor friars , not the bishops , saved the church . The poor scholars and preachers of duty defend the modern community against its own material prosperity . Luxury and /earning are ill bedfellows . Nevertheless , this College owes much of its distinctive character to those who , bringing hither from refined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delicacy , add to them openness and activity of mind , intellectual interests , and a sense of public duty . It is as high a privilege for a rich man 's son as for a poor man 's to resort to these academic halls , and so to take his proper place among cultivated and intellectual men . To lose altogether the presence of those who in early life have enjoyed the domestic and social advantages of wealth would be as great a blow to the College as to lose the sons of the poor . The interests of the College and the country are identical in this regard . The country suffers when the rich are ignorant and unrefined . Inherited wealth is an unmitigated curse when divorced from culture . " Turning now to the democratic elements in the development of American education , we recognize at once their mighty influence . Approximately a century ago a period of educational reform set in . On both sides of the Atlantic democratic and liberal ideas began their devastating attack on an educational system largely conceived in the aristocratic tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The siege of Oxford and Cambridge lasted for half a century . In the United States the course was one of expansion and development : the great American public-school system has been the result . The institutions of higher education were so little developed in this country as to offer no such resistance as in Great Britain . Those already in existence were remodeled , a multitude of others founded . The two different currents in this democratic reform of education ? the two threads I have mentioned ? are described in a recent history of the American Republic in these words : " Jefferson .. . proposed to train an intellectual aristocracy ? one selected for ' genius and virtue , ' not anyone who had the ambition ? to serve the Republic . And he proposed to do this in colleges and universities free from sectarian or political control , in order to give the scholar 's mind free play . Jacksonian Democracy , on the contrary , affirmed that all men were born equal , envied intellectual pre-eminence , and preached the doctrine of equal educational privilege @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word democratic to both these elements which have predominated so strongly in recent times . I have done this in spite of the fact that the historians just quoted have employed the phrase " intellectual aristocracy " in describing the Jeffersonian approach to educational problems . To my mind Jefferson 's proposal ? " to cullfrom every condition of our people the natural aristocracy of talent and virtue " ? was so democratic as to be revolutionary . The eighteenth-century system of higher education was operated by and large for a selected group , but a group selected primarily from the sons of the learned ministers , the wealthy merchants , or the prosperous planters . To me a " natural aristocracy " chosen afresh with each succeeding generation is a necessary element in a democracy . There are , however , a sufficient number of real problems in education without laboring a possible dispute about the meaning of such amorphous words as " democracy " and " aristocracy . " As to the Jacksonian democratic tradition , here there can be no doubt as to the correctness of the term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people and all the people . The sweep of the new idea throughout the land will be recorded by future historians , I believe , as one of the significant achievements of the American Republic . On the solid basis of our public-school system we can face the educational problems of the future in a way never before possible in the history of the world . But in one important respect the future will be different from the past One condition which has greatly affected educational history in the United States in the past fifty years will be absent in the coming period which we are entering . I refer to the tremendous increase in the population during the nineteenth century , the ever-enlarging school system , the ever-increasing college and university student body . All this was part and parcel of an expanding universe ; part and parcel of a nation whose development every day in every way was not only to be better and better , but larger and greater by every quantitative test . This is all past . One of the few elemental factors which control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this country . By 1960 or thereabouts we shall have a stationary population . The expansive pressure on our schools will soon be gone ; indeed , a lessening of the tension is already evident . In the kindergarten and the first five elementary grades there was a decrease in attendance of 7.7 per cent for the whole country in 1935-36 , as compared with a decade ago . It has been estimated that an actual diminution in the first-year high-school class will be felt in 1939-40 . A stationary population with a relatively high percentage of adults and a relatively small percentage of youths to be educated presents a totally different picture from the situation which existed a generation ago . What will be the influence of this changed condition on the course of educational develop-ment ? The fundamental difference will be one of altered emphasis . We shall cease to be concerned with a breathless race to provide enlarged accommodations . We shall have time to stop and consider other important matters . One of the most important , surely , is adult education , but space does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as higher education of young people is concerned , the first question on the agenda is : Higher education for whom ? II In a recent article , " Education in a Changing World , " Professor Kandel has expressed the view that " in the United States the supreme task of educational statesmanship to-day is to discover more accurate and more reliable methods of educational guidance . This will mean not merely the substitution of new-type tests for the old examinations , but more careful attention to teachers ' estimates , and particularly to a continuous record of the development of each pupil 's interests , abilities , and aptitudes . Only in this way can education contribute to the happiness of individuals and the welfare of society . " With this statement I heartily agree . The problem of " culling the natural aristocracy from every condition of our people " is much more complex and difficult than Jefferson imagined . We have only begun to envisage the ways and means of approximating his ideal . We must not only perfect our methods of selecting those most suitable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of training for those not so " culled . " Selection is not a " weeding out process " ? it is one aspect of educational guidance which has as its aim the direction of every youth into a fruitful field of labor . Only a relatively few should proceed through the long and somewhat tedious process of " book learning " that leads to the professions . The others should receive a training which not only equips them for work in certain vocations but prepares them for life as well-rounded , intelligent , and useful citizens in a democratic society . Clearly the basic conditions for the differentiation of higher education are universal elementary education and universal opportunities for secondary education . Toward the first goal we have made great strides in the past fifty years . Though much more remains to be done , the groundwork has been laid . Relatively little talent is lost to the country because of a lack of educational opportunities at the lowest level . When we consider high school , college , and university , however , the case is quite otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persons between the ages of fourteen and seventeen now attend public or private high schools ; only 11 per cent of those between eighteen and twenty-one attend colleges or universities . The proportion of the population which is now receiving a higher education may be too large or too small . This is not an easy question to answer without defining carefully what we mean by " higher education . " But only the most unrealistic optimist would believe that the accidental interplay of social and ear nomic forces has resulted in the selection of the right 11 per cent of our youth for college work . And no one who thinks in terms of adapting the education to the student would imagine that the same type of training would be desirable for the entire 100 per cent of boys and girls of college age even if it were felt advisable for everyone to go to college . Furthermore , the most casual inspection of the situation in different parts of the country shows that the future course of development must vary from section to section . There must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single answer to the problem of higher education applicable to the entire nation . In the present diversity of our methods lies strength for the future . One group of institutions may perform one task ; another totally different group may serve an equally useful but dissimilar purpose . We do not need to reduce our present heterogeneity to uniformity . We need rather to adapt each component part of our educational plan to some end consistent with the general objectives of modern society . Let us start with the professional education offered in our universities and work backward through the age groups of the American student body . I am inclined to think that probably there are too many rather than too few students attending the universities of the country . I should very much question the desirability of increasing materially the number in our professional schools . Indeed , in some instances the number might well be reduced . The social problems created by serious unemployment in the learned professions are obvious . The German experience in the decade after the War should warn us against the perils lying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of professional men than society can employ . In medicine the danger seems slight , though nearly twice as many doctors enter the profession as are lost by death each year . The peculiar conditions necessary for a first-class medical course , such as expensive laboratories and association with hospitals , make it possible to control the inflow of students . Probably five to ten times as many young men would like tostudy medicine as are admitted annually . Though the exclusion of so many results in much disappointment , I can not but feel that the situation in this sector of our universities is satisfactory . With the law there is no such selective process at work . Within the limits set by geographic and economic factors almost anyone with a modicum of intelligence and academic ability can enroll in a law school and eventually become a lawyer . Many competent observers feel that the profession is seriously overcrowded . If a statistical analysis should convince the members of the bar that this is , indeed , the case I imagine it would be difficult to devise ways and means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require , first , the education of public opinion . But in so far as a redistribution of public funds for educational purposes can be accomplished , the numbers in our universities can be controlled . Certainly before any institution embarks on an expansion of the student body in a professional school the authorities concerned should consider carefully the questions : Is there a need in this direction ? Will this new venture do more good than harm ? Before further academic training is provided for a large number of students bent on entering some particular profession or vocation , the first question to consider is the employment situation . The second is the relation of the proposed course of study to entry into this particular line of work ? in short , the placement of the graduates . An institution of higher education can not light-heartedly open the doors of a new school or department offering professional or vocational training without weighing carefully the possibility that there will be a large number of unemployed graduates . It is easy to say that another year or two of schooling is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As far as university instruction is concerned , I challenge this point of view . I doubt if society can make a graver mistake than to provide advanced higher education of a specialized nature for men and women who are unable subsequently to use this training . Quite apart from economic considerations , the existence of any large number of highly educated individuals whose ambitions have been frustrated is unhealthy for any nation . The problem of unemployment in the learned professions is likely to become more acute in this country as the relative proportion of adults in the population increases . It deserves our most serious attention . Let us assume that we do not need any increase in the total number of students in the professional schools of our universities . That all is well with the present situation , however , by no means follows as a matter of course . On the contrary , a revolutionary change is much to be desired . At the risk of being dogmatic without sufficient evidence , I suggest that the country at large would benefit by an elimination of at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now enrolled in advanced university work , and the substitution of others of more talent in their place . That there is a large untapped reservoir of such promising material I have no doubt . That geographic and economic factors prevent our utilizing this reserve I feel quite certain . In spite of our much-vaunted democracy of opportunity and " education for all , " can anyone doubt that of the 89 per cent who do not go to college at least 5 per cent of high ability have failed to proceed for economic reasons ? Probably this figure is too low ; but it is sufficient to illustrate the point . III The opportunities for higher education are very unequally divided . Youths of the large cities are at a great advantage compared with those who dwell in towns or rural communities . Every metropolitan center has one or more large universities , and if a boy lives at home he can obtain professional education in these cities at low cost . No such privilege isavailable for the young man in a community beyond the commuting range . This situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What is the remedy ? To attempt to locate universities at every crossroad ? Hardly . By necessity , first-class professional training must be carried on in relatively few centers in the country , perhaps a hundred or so . The advancement of knowledge and university teaching must go hand in hand . A community of scholars must not grow too large ; nor can it thrive if too small . Each group must have expensive libraries and laboratories . It is an impossible ideal to imagine a university in every city or large-sized town . Notice , please , I am discussing universities ; we arc coming to the college problem later . The location of our present universities is already a matter of history . It is extremely unlikely that these institutions could be moved , or new ones founded in sufficient numbers to change the present pattern appreciably for years to come . There is , therefore , only one way to provide a university education for the promising youths who are now debarred by economic and geographic factors : by a generous subsidy ? by large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of money . It is strange that , in spite of the great need for scholarships in our present educational system , the basic considerations involved in a discussion of this subject are often entirely misunderstood . For example , a prominent educator said recently , " Unblushingly , presidents of large and dignified universities have announced they are going out to buy students or at least bribe the unsophisticated youth to attend their universities and have even boldly applied to their alumni for large funds for this purpose . " Now there can be no question that the scholarship system has been gravely abused . That , however , does not justify a sweeping condemnation of the system , let alone an attack on proposals to increase endowments designed to provide financial aid to students . Under the name of scholarships subsidies have been given to athletes , and tuition has been discounted by many an institution to increase enrollment . I du not propose to discuss either of these practices . I should like to point out , however , that while scholarships of an amount less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable feature of an institution 's general policy . In other instances they may be merely a method of filling up the vacant ranks by attracting boys to come to one place rather than to another . If an institution needs more students , and can accommodate them without appreciable extra expense , it is clearly profitable to enroll a greater number even at a greatly reduced tuition . The danger in this sort of competition lies in the temptation offered to boys and girls to undertake types of education for which they are not adapted . Such competition to some extent nullifies intelligent educational guidance . Furthermore , it is a wasteful process to have two colleges or graduate schools bidding against each other for the same boy . Not only is it wasteful of money , but it has a bad influence on the youth concerned . A great deal of this now goes on , we must admit , not only at the college level but in the graduate schools . Conferences between officials of colleges and professional schools , however , can go far in reducing these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the principle is recognized that the amount of financial aid should be determined not by the institution 's desire for the particular student , but by the applicant 's need as evidenced by the income of his family . When we consider that probably less than 3 per cent of the families of this country receive an annual income of $5,000 or more , it is quite clear why competition occurs . The boy or girl who does not live at home and who will accept a scholarship of tuition , or less , must dearly have some resources , or be prepared to earn extra money . Can anyone believe that any large proportion ofsuch youths come from families with a total income as low as $2,000 ? And yet 80 per cent of the families of the country probably receive no more than this amount . It is perfectly evident to me that at the college level , and at the advanced professional-school stage , all the institutions of the country have been fishing in one small pond . They have been concerned , by and large , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income-tax-paying group ; and at least three-quarters , or more probably 90 per cent , of the youths of the country are not to be found within this class . In a country with forty-eight States generalizations are dangerous . The reader may feel that I am painting much too dismal a picture of the fate of the poor boy , and that I am overlooking the existence of our great State-supported universities . No one can be unmindful of the value of their work . It is true that an education can be obtained at these centers at very low cost . Furthermore , earning one 's way through college is still both possible and fashionable ; probably easier at our State universities than at the privately endowed institutions , but still possible at both . Nevertheless , I submit the following facts to support my plea for a greatly enlarged scholarship policy for the country : ( 1 ) the statistics in regard to the income of the families of the country ( less than 3 per cent with $5,000 or more , 80 per cent with incomes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ college age in our colleges or universities ( 11 per cent ) as compared with the high-school figure of 63 per cent ; ( 2 ) the fact that , with the unemployment situation as it is to-day , working one 's way through college is much more difficult than in former times ; ( 3 ) the empirical evidence collected incidentally during the past few years in connection with the administration of the Harvard National Scholarships in certain States in the Middle West . The Dean 's Office has found case after case of a most likely candidate for university work ? a young man of outstanding ability and personality ? who could not afford to go even to the publicly supported university of his State . A scholarship which would pay the total cost of his education away from home would enable such a boy to go on ; otherwise his higher education would consist only of high-school work or the instruction offered in a local academy . These youths are lost to the professional leadership of the country . They arc Iost to the advancement of knowledge and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can estimate the potential gifts to civilization which are yearly squandered by cutting off the further education of boys and girls for financial reasons . A sound scholarship policy , I am convinced , can be established only if one starts with the premise that the stipend be adjusted to the financial needs of the individual . For the student absolutely devoid of resources the award must be large enough to cover all the expenses of an education away from home . To pay this same stipend to a boy whose family can provide a portion of the requisite amount is not only a waste of precious funds but of dubious advantage to the boy . In recent years at Harvard College there has been developed in connection with the " National Scholarships , " now available in the Middle and Far West , what we call a " sliding scale . " The study of a great many actual cases has yielded basic data indicating the probable contribution to a boy 's education that a family of a certain size with a certain income can afford to make . Tables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each successful applicant for this new type of scholarship . For example , it is estimated that a family with a total of three or four dependents and an income of $2,000 can hardly be expected to contribute more than one or two hundred dollars a year toward the college education of a promising son . The balance to make up the total amount ( $1,000 ) needed for all expenses of the Freshman year at Harvard is provided by the College . On the other hand , a family with an incomeof over $5,000 and one or two children should be able to supply almost the total requisite amount . The award of a " National Scholarship " is made in the first instance solely on the grounds of merit , of promise as determined by a careful study of the individual and his record . The stipend is adjusted in the way just mentioned ; the brilliant applicant from a well-to-do family receives a small sum as a prize . When the lists are published the amount of the award is not made public . No one outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $100 or $1000 ; or , rather , no one outside the Dean 's Office except an official of another college . For a statement of our scale has proved of great value in eliminating the unfortunate aspects of the competition between institutions . If a successful applicant receives an award from another college larger than the one proposed on the basis of this scale , he is of course welcome to accept it and go elsewhere . An extension of this same principle to the graduate schools would be helpful . Certain of the features of the system just described might not be of value in another institution , but as to the importance of the principle of the " sliding scale " I venture to be quite dogmatic . Unless the universities of the country can supply scholarships with large stipends to boys without financial backing they can not " cull from every condition of our people " that natural aristocracy to which Jefferson referred . In this article the word scholarship is used as a general term to designate financial assistance given to the student of ability and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of little importance whether the money comes to the recipient as a pure scholarship award , as a loan , or in return for employment . In any case an educational road for a promising youth has been opened irrespective of his finances . From the point of view of the student , however , the distinction is obviously very great . Except in certain professional schools whose graduates will soon be in a position to repay the loans , any considerable sum of money lent to a student is apt to prove a millstone round his neck . For each college and each professional school there is some maximum figure beyond which a loan should not be made . Lending money beyond this breaking point is almost certain to start a young man in active life with a severe handicap . The temptation to repudiate the loan is great . There is no surer way of destroying moral fiber than through such temptation . And yet much is to be said in favor of the student 's actually borrowing a certain fraction of the financial assistance he receives . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance to render service in return by work done in odd hours are open to debate . The disciplinary value of such work may often be considerable . We have had fortunate experience with such financial aid at Harvard ; for one type of student we should be loath to relinquish it . For another type , however , we believe the outright grant of a scholarship is highly desirable . These problems can not be solved in general terms . Each college and each professional school must develop its own policy . In one locality certain kinds of ? employment are more readily available than in others . Whatever work is required should be carefully controlled . All too many students are to-day struggling so desperately to earn a living while attending a college or university that they permanently impair their health . A generation or so ago it was an easier matter to earn one 's way through college ? though we often fail to consider at what cost certain students obtained an education even in those days . The development of a well-rounded individual with sound health is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Army and the Navy are not expected to pay their way through West Point or Annapolis by doing chores . Why should we treat the future leaders in our non-military adventures with less consideration ? IV For those who proceed beyond high school but do not contemplate entering a learned profession , a university education is not essential . A certain type of college , unlike universities , can be widely distributed throughout the country . Indeed , in certain parts of this nation such colleges ? junior colleges ? are rapidly expanding . Some sort of liberal arts education should precede a professional training , particularly for the gifted student . But a general college education can be given at greatly reduced cost locally , since students live at home . The economic basis for the junior college movement seems clear . But the question remains as to what proportion of the population should receive even a two-year college education , To answer this question or to discuss the nature of such a two-year course lies beyond the scope of this article . On the relation of such junior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hazard an opinion . Some prominent educators maintain that the road to all university work should lead through a two-year junior college . Perhaps this may be the eventual outcome of the development of our educational system , though the resistance to the trend toward junior colleges will be great in certain sections of the country . Personally I should prefer the alternative by which selected high-school graduates leave their local communities and go directly to a four-year college of what may be called the " university type . " In such a liberal arts college about half the students are headed for further higher education . The atmosphere is quite different from that of a local two-year institution where only a small proportion plan to go on to university work . The liberal education which these four-year colleges provide , particularly if they are part of a university , I believe to be of value . It is not only a question of academic standards , the quality of the teaching , the scholarly atmosphere , but the diversity of the student body . In such colleges the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The youths from all parts of the country rub shoulders and forget their provincial prejudices . in such centers a liberal arts course preparatory to a professional training can be offered , of special significance for the youthof great promise . Is it not worth while to insure a balanced group in these institutions by a liberal scholarship policy which will tap all economic levels of society ? If the advanced work in a university is to be made available on a broader scale than hitherto , a great extension of financial assistance will be necessary . If the selection of the group to receive this aid is made on graduation from high school , the junior college can then be left to perform its special task . Each locality will decide what type of education it wishes to provide at public expense . In making this decision the relatively few university students can be disregarded , for under the plan I am suggesting they will have left the local community at the end of the high-school course and have proceeded to a liberal arts college en route to advanced university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no single uniform pattern for the development of higher education in the next generation . Sectional differences are too great . The colleges and universities already established are too varied . Nothing short of a violent revolution or a national dictator could reduce them to uniformity . And the uniformity thus established would automatically eliminate the university spirit ; it would , indeed , eliminate the universities themselves in all but name . It is , nevertheless , possible to proceed along the road of development in many different ways . Some educational innovations will suit the temper of the times and will flourish ; others will be ill adjusted and will perish . No one educator can outline the perfect plan ; nor can all of us ( even if we agreed , which is most unlikely ) call the tune . We can , however , define the problems , suggest the alternative routes , and by public discussion do our part in directing the forces of democracy toward ends we feel desirable . Without attempting to play the role of supreme educational planner , any one of us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impassable . Those of us who are confident of the continued triumph of democracy on this continent can have no fear lest the Jacksonian tradition of education for all perish . But in regard to the Jeffersonian tradition we may feel more apprehension , for it has never taken deep root even in this country , its native land . We must continually urge upon the nation the desirability of directing the expenditure of public money for education with the selective process in mind . University education for all is to me a contradiction in terms . A two-year course in a junior college , however , might conceivably be desirable for every boy and girl , though many educators doubt the value even of high school for certain types of students . This much is certain : that a selection of a group of promising students from all I economic levels for higher education in the universities is essential for the continued vitality of a democracy . The four threads of the American educational fabric are knotted together in our great centers of learning . In the future , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be united in correct proportions . Our institutions of higher learning must neither be overwhelmed by numbers nor cut off from the great reservoirs of talent made ready by our superb public-school system . Above all , Jefferson 's ideal must be achieved . If we can in the next decade draw appreciably nearer to the goal he outlined , higher education will flourish as never before . Our children will see what the world has never witnessed : a nation in which basic education is truly universal and careers are open to the talented drawn from every class and section of the /and.                     