@@493647

Maryland : Storm Warning UP TO A certain point the recent outbreaks of mob violence in Maryland conform to behavior patterns familiar to every sociologist . We have the usual decaying community , the usual interracial economic stress , the criminal of low mental age and the community leadership paralyzed by fear ; all of which are well known to everyone who has made even a superficial investigation of lynchings . But there is a point at which the Maryland sitution seems to depart from what may be termed the normal pattern ; and at this point , at the battle of Salisbury when the mob fought with the soldiers for the release of men charged with lynching , it becomes unusually interesting . Here there were elements in the situation which appertain less to race than to class war . Many investigators have pointed out certain conditions which seem to be indispensable to the production of the lynching spirit . They are all present in Maryland . The community involved is an isolated and backward one . Life is hard on the lower Eastern Shore and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light , sandy soil makes it a moderately good truck-farming region , but between the lower Shore and the markets in Wilmington , Philadelphia and Baltimore , lie the five counties of the upper shore and the whole of Delaware . Between it and the Washington market lies Chesapeake Bay , while all southern Maryland can drive its trucks straight into the District of Columbia . Between it and the Norfolk market lies the Eastern Shore of Virginia , and a long ferry from Cape Charles . The lower Shore is in the unfortunate position of the afflicted man at the pool of Bethesda ? at those rare intervals when the angel troubles the waters of trade , whether in Wilmington , Philadelphia , Baltimore , Washington or Norfolk , others can always get there first . Lately the waters have rarely been troubled . Since the depression set in , the geographical handicaps of the lower Shore have been sharply accentuated . Through no fault of their own , the Shoremen have seen their position growing worse and worse , not merely absolutely , but , what is harder to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times intensify racial antipathies anywhere in the world by adding the stress of economic competition to race prejudice . The Eastern Shore has a relatively large Negro population , and Shoremen feel that the lower standard of living of the Negroes gives them an unfair advantage . Furthermore , employers have found that for the roughest sort of unskilled labor a Negro of low mentality is satisfactory and cheaper than an intelligent one . Within the last two years three spectacular crimes have been committed on the lower Shore by Negroes apparently of this type . The first of the three was the slaughter of an entire family near Berlin , in Worcester County . A farmer , his wife and two children were butchered in their beds . The police promptly arrested a Negro named Euel Lee . The man was obviously of a low type , mentally , but he was not insane in the legal sense , and in the community there was no doubt of his guilt . Nevertheless , it required two long years to get him hanged , because three judges on the Eastern Shore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in handling the case , and a clever lawyer representing the International Labor Defense took instant advantage of each of them . In the meantime , the second crime , this one a simple murder without any fancy accompaniments , had resulted in a lynching in Salisbury , metropolis of the Eastern Shore and county seat of Worcester County . An investigation attempted by the Attorney-General of Maryland was converted into a broad farce by the Worcester County grand jury , which heard the evidence in secret and refused to indict anyone . Still the Euel Lee case dragged its weary way from appellate court to appellate court ? it reached the Supreme Court of the United States once ? and while the Berlin murderer was still unhanged a white woman seventy-one years old charged that she had been raped by a Negro in Somerset County . The man , George Armwood by name and of mentality even lower than Euel Lee , was arrested and brought to Baltimore for safekeeping . The state of feeling in Somerset County is beyond description . It was freely predicted that here would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially John B. Robins , the State 's Attorney , and Robert F. Duer , judge of the First Judicial Circuit , were blamed for permitting the Negro to be taken away . As it happens , both men come up for reelection in about a year , his chadc , , table to assume that political fears overcame State 's ' Attorney Robins , because otherwise one must as. , ' surne either that he is insane or that he deliberately set about to provoke a lynching ; for he ordered Armwood brought back to Princess Anne , count seat of ' Worcester , and held in the flimsy jail there . Under Maryland law he had a right to take this action . But the state authorities sent with the Negro only a handful of state police , and there is reason to believe , too , that the police had been ordered not to shoot . At any rate , when the mob arrived the officers fought only with clubs and a pitifully inadequate supply of tear-gas grenades , and George Armwood was lynched with hideous incidental touches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body partially burned and left lying in the street . Robins professed to have no evidence against anyone , and again the Attorney-General of Mary . land , William P. Lane , intervened . Within a few days he sent word to Robins that he had evidence against nine men , gave their names , and asked that they be arrested and brought before a magistrate to be committed for trial . Robins flatly refused to make the arrests . The judges of the First Circuit , of whom Duer is one , refused to relieve him and appoint a special attorney who would act . Then after two weeks , Governor Ritchie ordered Milton A. Reckord , Adjutant-General of Maryland , to take a battalion of troops from Baltimore to the Eastern Shore and arrest the men . General Reckord mobilized a battalion of the Maryland National Guard , loaded them into trucks , and descended upon Salisbury in the early hours of November 28 . Four of the men he arrested , but here the military movement went wrong : the truck carrying the field kitchen had broken down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in and his men fed , instead of carrying his prisoners before the magistrate immediately . By the time the men had had breakfast , the General found himself besieged in Salisbury armory by a mob of two thousand Shoremen . All morning the battle raged , the mob employing fire-hose , bricks and stones against the troops and the soldiers responding with gas bombs . At noon the detachment fought its way out and returned to Baltimore with its prisoners . Hot on their heels came the sheriff of Worcester County with writs of habeas corpus issued by Judge Duer . The prisoners were returned to Princess Anne . The judge would grant the state no delay , to permit it to collect its witnesses and present its evidence . The prisoners were triumphantly freed . The battle of Salisbury is the point at which the Maryland situation departs from the traditional pattern of mob outbreaks and begins to assume a different character . When the regiment entere Salisbury , it was regarded , not as armed forces 0 the town 's own government , but as an invading army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not in behalf of lynchers , but against the government of Maryland . At Annapolis the next day Eastern Shore members of the legislature were wrathfully demanding the impeachment of Governor Ritchie for doing his obvious duty . The mere attempt to arrest a few men charged with the crime of lynching hardly accounts for all this . It is evident that the lower Shore cherishes a very genuine hatred of constituted authority in the state . Nor is this sense of grievance altogether impossible to understand . The government of Maryland , especially during the long reign of Governor Ritchie , has been distinctly a government of gentlemen . Albert Cabell Ritchie is an extraordinarily shrewd politician , but he is also an aristocrat . The higher state offices are all filled by men who , while they may not be direct descendants of the Calverts , are at least gentlemanly fellows and as efficient as similar officials elsewhere . But this type of government , with all its excellences , has one de-feet that is serious at this moment . It is anything but supple . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in getting under way . Month after month the state authorities have debated over which of a dozen projects suggested was best . Month after month has been lost in the effort to make sure that the state 's credit was fully protected . Meanwhile , the distress of the unemployed has grown more and more acute . The Court of Appeals in the Euel Lee case , as another example , rendered an admirable decision ; but it did nothing to expedite the processes of the law , although the honorable members of the courtought to have known that the law 's delay was subjecting the lower Eastern Shore to a fearful strain . The net result is that Shoremen feel that neither the executive nor the judiciary knows much about their needs or cares much about their distresses . So they regard the government of their own state as an alien thing , defy its decrees and meet its soldiers with showers of curses and stones . Of course , this is not clear in the minds of the people of the Eastern Shore . They have n't thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like the masses of the people everywhere else , they have only felt ; and their feeling is not conducive to confidence in government by gentlemen . Government by such as these has proved wholly incompetent to relieve the distresses of the people . If such a government is flouted , why should common men regard the fact as particularly appalling ? They do n't , on the Eastern Shore . They are proud of their rebellion . In part this is due to sympathy with the lynchers ; but in considerable part it is due to dislike of the government of their state . Yet , as governments go , theirs is a pretty good one ; it is merely stiff-jointed , too class-bound to respond quickly to the needs and desires of the people . But this failure to maintain contact with the masses in this time of crisis has set the masses to rioting in the streets . In the roar of the Salisbury mob , very faint and ' far away , but perceptible to an attentive ear , there sounded something more than the voice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the revolution .                     