@@144028

The august Supreme Court this week proceeded to slap faces to Right and Left . On the Right those eminent attorneys who once were sure the National Labor Relations Act was unconstitutional , were slapped again by a series of decisions upholding the law . On the Left those liberals who have long maintained that the Court was an arch enemy of Labor were rebuked with decisions favorable to Labor . <P> Most important was a decision on the Norris-LaGuardia Act which sharply limits the power of Federal courts to issue injunctions in labor disputes . A case arose in Milwaukee , when the Amalgamated Meat Cutters &; Butchers Union , an A. F. of L. affiliate , appealed to E. G. Shinner &; Co. to hire union workers only . The management refused , the union started picketing , and the company asked for an injunction to forbid picketing . District Judge Ferdinand Geiger decided that no labor dispute existed since no employes of the company were on strike , that therefore the Norris-LaGuardia Act did not apply , granted the injunction . The Circuit Court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cardozo and Reed not participating , and Justices McReynolds and Butler dissenting vigorously , the Court upset the injunction , remanded the case . Nothing could have pleased Labor more , because for years Milwaukee unions have considered Judge Geiger their particular archenemy , have called his court " the injunction mill . " <P> Having delighted Labor once , the Supreme Court went on to uphold the National Labor Relations Board unanimously in two cases . In both cases ( involving Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines and Pacific Greyhound Lines ) the issue was whether the Board could order an employer to withdraw recognition of a company union if there was no competing union in the field . Admitting that there might be situations in which such an action would not be warranted , the Court nonetheless concluded that in both cases the Board 's action was an appropriate way to give effect to the policy of the Act .                     