@@468734

I CALLED at the office of the Big Business executive in New York City at an unfortunate moment because he was taking the train in half an hour to attend the annual convention of his industry at a Virginia resort . An ItalianAmerican named Joe had just delivered a package of merchandise , for which the executive insisted on paying cash , though Joe protested politely that he was perfectly willing to wait until his client 's return . Joe went out of the office , stuffing a bundle of ten-dollar notes in his pocket , and the executive proceeded with his preparations for the business convention . His big leather golf bag stood upright against his flattopped desk ; he removed the sticks and stowed several bottles labeled " Best Scotch , " taken from the package Joe had left , at the bottom . Then he replaced the sticks carefully and called the office porter to carry the golf bag and his suitcase to the lobby of the building , twenty floors below . Putting on his hat and overcoat , the executive was ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Station . He asked me to go with him as far as the street . On our way down I could not resist a question . The executive was not. , I knew , a confirmed drinker and it would be no hardship for him to go a few days without alcoholic stimulant . The convention was to be held in Bishop Cannon 's own state where the voters have declared themselves overwhelmingly for Prohibition and where citizens have been killed as a result of having in their possession as little as half a pint . These things being so , why take chances ? His reply suggested a curious phase of the Prohibition problem that has , perhaps , escaped general notice . After explaining that he was not taking liquor to the convention city for his own use , but for the entertainment of a few special customers of his corporation , he re-marked : " I 'm going to a national convention of important businessmen wh ere a little good Scotch dispensed judiciously may mean some orders for my concern . I should n't be true to my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders . As for taking risks , there are n't any to take . Since Prohibition became a law I 've averaged a dozen business conventions a year , and I 've never seen a single one that was dry . Moreover , I 've never known a case where the authorities interfered in any way . So far as I can judge , it is everywhere regarded as thoroughly legitimate to use liquor to grease the wheels of business . " As a writer on business subjects , travel about the country considerably to interview business men of every class . In all sections I find the point of view that Prohibition must not be allowed to interfere with trade . It would be reasonable to suppose this point of view should be maintained more strongly in large cities than in small ones ; but the size of the community makes no ap-parent difference . For example , on a recent trip through the State of Pennsyl-vania , where Governor Pinchot fought for law enforcement so long and ear-nestly , I visited a town of fewer than four thousand people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barroom at the front of its premises and vended alcoholic drinks . There was no apparent concealment or apprehension , though the pastors of the five local churches and the members of the police force must have passed it daily while on their rounds of civic duties . In conversation with the ranking hardware dealer of the community , who chanced to be a patron of the bar at the moment , I inquired the reason for the acquiescence of the good citizens in this wide-open violation of national and state laws . The words of the hardware dealer must be accepted as truth because he took care to inform me that he was a church member in good standing . " Our towndepends on one large factory which has a country-wide trade , " he said . " Anything that affects the factory affects all of us , working people , merchants , and property owners . A lot of buyers come here to place orders . There are competing factories in Philadelphia and Scranton . Those are bigger places , and buyers would rather go there , so we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a brass rail helps a lot . Maybe some of the people around here do n't like it , but they know better than to say anything . " The Eighteenth Amendment was still in its infancy when evidence was forthcoming that many business men who favored Prohibition did not intend that Prohibition should interfere with gainful undertakings . Early in the Harding administration I was in San Antonio , Texas , when the Chamber of Commerce of that city undertook to sponsor a lecture by Captain William B. Stayton , who was touring the country with the object of arousing interest in the development of American merchant shipping . Captain Stayton is a former officer of the United States Navy , with a distinguished record in the Spanish War . Upon his arrival in San Antonio , however , he was told that the Chamber of Commerce would not allow him to speak under its auspices . It was learned that Captain Stayton , who is personallyan abstainer , had taken part in the formation of an organization to work for the repeal of the Prohibition Act and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justified the cancellation of his lecture on the grounds that a business body , representing the moral elements of the city , could not properly sponsor a lecture on American merchant shipping by a man whose private beliefs on another subject were in conflict with local opinion . Except for another incident that took place while I was in the city , this action on the part of the San Antonio business men might have seemed quite logical , because a Texan , Senator Morris Shepard , is author of the Eighteenth Amendment . San Antonio is a strategic military point , and the citizens were anxious that the Government should select it as the site of an additional army flying field . A committee of congressmen was invited to come from Washington to investigate the matter . Speaking Iater with one of the Chamber of Commerce executives , he told me it had been considered advisable to purchase a quantity of liquor with which to entertain the distinguished visitors . The executive 's conversation with me was in the nature of a complaint . Prohibition had so recently been inaugurated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If I remember correctly , members of the Chamber were obliged to pay something like twenty dollars a quart for authentic whisky . Not only that , but it was said one or two of the congressmen abused the Chamber 's hospitality in the matter of drinking and made rather nuisances of themselves . The inconsistent actions of the San Antonio business men must be blamed on the tenet that Prohibition shall not be allowed to interfere with prosperity . An austere Puritanism could be maintained in the case of the ex-naval officer because there was no immediate gain for an inland city in the promotion of a greater Merchant Marine . At best , its benefits were far in the future . But an additional flying field would at once put money into circulation to enrich the citizens and make possible a finer , more virtuous community . Practically it was a public duty to entertain the visiting congressmen in such a manner that they could not think of locating the desired flying field in some rival city . II Naturally there has been little said for publication about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official notice that this was being done on a large scale came several years ago when an organization was formed in New York known as the Committee of One Thousand . Names of private members are held secret , but the list of officers includes those of Mr. Sebastian Kresge , the Reverend S. Parkes Cadman , and Bishops James Cannon and William T. Manning . The general chairman is Mr. Fred B. Smith , who is nationally known as a paid speaker on religious topics and who is frequently employed by large corporations to deliver inspirational addresses before gatherings of salesmen . One of the first activities of the Committee of One Thousand was the broadcasting of a letter to business executives throughout the country asking that they forbid their agents to spend money for liquor for entertainment purposes . To the lay mind it might seem strange that responsible business executives should be asked to obey the laws of the land . A cynical person might even surmise that an occasional executive , being thus apprised of what was being done by his competitors , might decide to fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entertainment on his own account . At the time the Committee of One Thousand made its appeal , General Lincoln G. Andrews was still Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in charge of Prohibition enforcement ; and the Committee revealed the shocking situation byquoting from a letter sent by the General himself : I was in the street railway business for four years before taking this office . On every occasion , where the street railway men got together in their annual state and national conventions , these agents of supply houses were always present as delightful hosts dispensing unlimited quantities of liquor for the jollification of the occasion What is true in this business is undoubtedly true in other big businesses . This publication of General Andrews ' letter explained a strange statement which he made at the time be became Prohibition director . He was quoted in the press as saying , " When I took this office I quit drinking with a bang ! " It is curious how long an idea , once accepted , will persist in the face of evidence to the contrary . Though both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had advertised the fact that big business was using alcohol on a large scale for commercial entertainment , many people continued to believe big business was in favor of complete Prohibition . The persistence of this belief was shown during an important law enforcement convention held in Chicago , and largely attended by Anti-Saloon League and Government officials . The statement was made that many churches were subscribing less money than formerly to the Prohibition cause . At this , according to newspaper reports , a resolution was presented to the effect that , if the church people were becoming unenthusiastic about enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment , then the matter might well be placed in the hands of American big business men . The precise wording , as reported by the newspapers , was : " Let Big Business Enforce It . " With all due respect to the AntiSaloon League and Government officials who applauded this resolution , I would say that so-called big business is about the last agency to wish for a complete and efficient enforcement of the Prohibition law . I trust I shall offend no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is beneficial to big business . Entire prohibition is not . The reason lies in the fact that with liquor fairly high priced , and with good quality liquor sometimes hard to procure , the large corporation can afford to spend the necessary money to entertain its customers , when such entertainment would be beyond the means of its smaller competitor . In New York and other great centers many important business organizations have arrangements by which out-of-town customers can be entertained at clubs where liquor is served . Some do their entertaining in their own offices . One very prominent New York corporation maintains a barroom at its headquarters in a mid-town skyscraper which is kept open until twelve o'clock every night for the free entertainment of customers . The office manager informed me recently that while the barroom is expensive , it is looked on by the board of directors as a profitable enterprise . He himself remains at the office each night and at such times frequently books orders that might otherwise go to competing concerns which can not afford so expensive a system . Even retail business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sales stimulant . This was explained to me recently by a stockholder in the leading department store of a small Montana city . The president of the concern , though personally fond of his drink , was an active worker for the passage of the Prohibition law on the theory that his store might do more business if the money taken in by the saloons were diverted to more useful channels . For a time following the enactment of Prohibition the theory apparently proved its soundness . Then clouds began to gather . Trading centers are far apart in the Northwest , and an enterprising merchant frequently draws business from a radius of two hundred miles or more . The department-store president found that many of his mostprofitable cattlemen and ranchowning customers were going to other communities less strict than his own , where a convivial man might enjoy a little alcoholic entertainment while the members of his family purchased their supplies . Being a resourceful man , the department-store president has found a way out . In an office building next to his department store he now maintains a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visiting heads of families . Everything goes well . During the past year the store has reached a volume of more than one million dollars . Stockholders have been paid a dividend of fifteen per cent . No one , so far as I know , has written to Senator Walsh to complain of this outrageous violation of the Prohibition law in his state . Everywhere , even in the driest of political territory , there seems to be an informal agreement that the Eighteenth Amendment must not he allowed to stand in the way where important business enterprises are on foot . It is only a few months ago that I had occasion to visit the Pacific Coast and stopped en route in the city of Boise , Idaho . One would think that in a state which made mere possession of liquor a prison offense long before National Prohibition , and particularly in the city of Boise which is the home of Senator William E. Borah , there would be no compromise on the question of alcoholic commercial entertainment . But at the time of my visit there chanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from the activities that went on in the entertainment line one might have supposed himself in a wide-open convention town like Atlantic City , or even in New York itself . Manufacturers ' agents from Salt Lake City and other centers were on hand , maintaining bars in their hotel rooms and dispensing refreshments to prospective clients . So far as I could see , there was no attempt at concealment . Apparently the only persons in Boise who knew nothing about it were Senator Borah and the local Chief of Police . It was on the same Western trip that I encountered evidence , even more striking than at the Boise convention , of the point of view that Prohibition must not interfere with business . It would be unkind to name the city , far its population is so small that any local person who might chance to read this article would at once recognize the actors . It will be enough to state that it is a highly religious community , the Methodist faith predominating , and an important center of the Ku Klux Klan . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of no business standing who have violated the Prohibition law . On the occasion of my visit a tremendous money-raising campaign was in progress in order to induce an industrial corporation to locate a branch factory in the community . The Chamber of Commerce had caused a wooden platform to be erected at the intersection of the two business streets , directly in front of the leading hotel ; and on the night of the great rally a large crowd of loyal citizens gathered here to listen to speeches by various officials of the Chamber and to make their subscriptions toward the factory fund . Just above the speakers ' platform , at the second floor of the hotel , was a large open window at which stood several enthusiastic Chamber of Commerce workers ; and when a citizen in the crowd below called out the sum he intended giving to the fund , these enthusiasts in the window would beckon him to come up to the hotel room . Everyone understood what was meant . A man 's subscription entitled him to free drinks . Soon there was a steady @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stairway to the second floor . In the lobby stood the manager of the hostelry , a worried looking man with horn-rimmed spectacles and a drooping black mustache . As the subscribers to the factory fund filed past him several spoke to him jovially , and he tried to make return in kind , but his efforts at lightheartedness were rather pitiful . In an hour the scene was distinctly bacchanalian . One of the enthusiasts on the second floor called loudly for a rope with the intention of lowering himself to the ground . He had , he stated to admiring friends below , given everything he possessed to the factory fund and had nothing left for his hotel bill , so it was necessary to escape in that manner . Someone produced the rope , and the enthusiast seemed actually about to carry out his intention when others , who were still reasonably sober , prevented the dangerous feat . The hotel lobby was filled with a milling crowd of celebrants , and the jokes flung in the direction of the unhappy proprietor became more jovial than ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned that in private life he was a pillar of the First Methodist Church and leader of the local chapter of the Ku Klux Klan . As a churchman and a Klansman he had , more than any other person in town , been responsible for filling the jail with Prohibition malefactors . I chanced to overhear a conversation between two citizens that explained the local point of view in regard to Prohibition and big business . One of the citizens asked his neighbor apprehensively if there might not be danger that the hotel man would make trouble over the use of his premises for convivial purposes . The reply was reassuring , " Not on your life . He 'd he run out of town if he did . This is a business party . " The next day 's newspaper carried a front-page story recording the fact that the factory fund had been triumphantly subscribed , but gave none of the details as to the methods employed . A short time later the newspaper contained an item regarding the arrest of two Mexican sheep herders . These sinners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about ten miles out of town when their car became bogged in a mudhole caused by recent rains . A party of gentlemen in a more powerful machine chanced by and helped the sheep herders out of their difficulty . One of the latter , to show his appreciation , offered the gentlemen a drink of Mountain Dew from a bottle which he had in his pocket . It was an unfortunate act , for the gentleman who received the bottle was an earnest churchman , one of the patriotic business men who assisted at the moneyraising affair of the Chamber of Commerce . The Mexicans were arrested and taken into town for incarceration . In each of the incidents I have described the participants manifested a curious unconsciousness that anything might be wrong in violating the law for the good of business . Men of apparently sound judgment in ordinary affairs have spoken to me about the wet conventions promoted by their chambers of commerce , or of the use of alcohol to influence buyers , with the same detachment they would exhibit in any other business discussion . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no sense of wrongdoing . Recently I had occasion to interview the president of a large commercial enterprise in a city of New York State . Luncheon time arrived , and the president extracted from his desk a bottle of apple brandy for which his county is celebrated . As he poured his drink he told me how much money the farmers of the county are making from their apples each year . The sight of his brimming tumbler prompted him to speak of law enforcement and politics . He expressed regret that Senator James Wadsworth no longer represented the Empire State at Washington , and then said : " Jimmy Wadsworth is a good friend of mine . I like him a lot . But Jimmy Wadsworth needed to be taught that no man can be against Prohibition and get the votes of the God-fearing people of New York State ! " Following this ringing pronouncement , the friend of Senator Wadsworth drained his glass to the last drop . III There must be some particular reason for so much wooziness of thought among business men throughout the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a business observer and writer which necessitates some hundreds of interviews with business men each year , is this : No authoritative pronouncement as to the precise object of Prohibition has ever been made . When the measure was first proposed business men were asked to support it because it would help them make money . They were told they would have less trouble with their employees . They would also get the money that was being spent in the corner saloon . Thinkers of the school represented by Mr. Henry Ford still maintain this view , regarding Prohibition as a strictly business matter . On the other hand , many outstanding ministers of the Gospel , such as the Reverend John Haynes Holmes and Bishop William Manning , generally advance the belief that Prohibition is a moral issue only and that money-making should have no part in it . A third point of view is maintained by many public men who derive their incomes from the Prohibition movement . These citizens claim that Prohibition is intended to promote money-making , and also that it is intended to create a higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Anti-Saloon League , at the beginning of the present year issued a statement that is typical of this school of thought . Reviewing the past ten years of Prohibition , he said in one paragraph , " The economic progress of the United States in this decade surpasses any in the world 's history . " In a succeeding paragraph he leaves out the money-making view and says that , " Prohibition has tended to the establishment of a better social order . " Perhaps all of these gentlemen are correct . Yet that in no way clears up the confusion that exists in the minds of thousands of American business men . The average business executive is not a philosopher . He has little time for abstract thought , and is inclined to take his views from the printed utterances of public men whom he admires . Some of these men tell him Prohibition is intended to promote the sale of merchandise . Others tell him Prohibition is strictly a religious and moral matter . Still others tell him Prohibition can bring about both bigger sales and higher morality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these conflicting views , that the ordinary business man should follow his own course and use Prohibition in any way that promises most advantage to himself . One very potent factor that makes for employment of alcoholic drink as a business-getter is the increasing size of American business organizations . The bigger the business , the less liable it is to conform strictly to the Prohibition law . A small manufacturer with a local trade can issue orders to his sales force that no law-breaking will be condoned , with reasonable certainty that his orders will be observed . But this is a practical impossibility in the case of a countrywide corporation that has branches in dozens of cities and a sales force of several thousand men . The president of the big corporation may be heartily in favor of law enforcement ; but the district manager or , the star salesman , hundreds of miles away from headquarters and intent on making a record for himself , will not usually forego business that may be influenced by so simple a matter as a little alcoholic entertainment . In a recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial plant testified that one of the salesmen for a very prominent New York manufacturing corporation called upon him each Saturday morning over a considerable period . Cross-questioning brought out the fact that at each call the salesman placed a quart bottle of choice bonded whisky upon the purchasing agent 's desk . Aside from the fact that it was one of the few cases of alcoholic bribery which has ever been officially placed upon record , this incident is nothing to wonder about . It is surprising only because the great New York corporation which employed the law-breaking salesman has often been mentioned by journalists as one organization that would tolerate no underhand practices , and this reputation has been enhanced by its frequent employment of Mr. Fred B. Smith , chairman of the Committee of One Thousand , as an inspirational speaker at its conventions of salespeople . It would be unfair , certainly , to condemn either the corporation officials or Mr. Smith for the misdeeds of a single over-eager salesman . The incident merely shows the difficulty encountered by big business in controlling the actions of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distances from the moral influences of the home office . Recently when making preparations for the annual convention of the Southeastern Division of the National Electric Light Association , Mr. J. H. Gill , the president , felt it necessary to address an open letter to manufacturers who do business with the members of that organization , on the subject of alcoholic entertainment . Mr. Gill wrote : The general thought has been that such excesses have resulted from the assumption , by manufacturers ' representatives , that a sacred duty would be violated if they did not furnish liquor , at a convention , to make everybody gloriously drunk . May I ask that you ask your representatives who may attend not to furnish liquor for general consumption ? No doubt a great many business men exhibit a cloudiness of thought toward the Eighteenth Amendment because its precise object has never authoritatively been stated . It would he charitable to believe this in connection with an incident which I happened recently to witness . Having occasion to speak to the ranking executive of a great New York City business concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotel in the Grand Central section . At the hotel desk the clerk stated that the executive was possibly in a suite upon an upper floor . This turned out to be incorrect . The executive was not there , but two young men from his office were . There was a large table on which stood a great many bottles of choice intoxicants , and the two young men acted in the combined capacities of bartenders and entertainers to three gentlemen , executives of a worldrenowned industrial corporation . There were present , also , other entertainers in the persons of three ladies . From the conversation which went on it was evident that none of the ladies was related by marriage or otherwise to any gentleman present . It was hard to believe that the New York executive whom I sought should officially sanction such an affair . Rather , it seemed , the entertainment was staged sub rosa by some over-zealous salesmanager who hoped to further his personal fortunes by entertaining the industrial officials , who were extremely important customers . But as I took my leave one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There he said it was a pity I could not wait because his chief , the gentleman I wished to see , had expressed his intention of coming to the party . It is only fair to say the gentleman did not arrive before I left . It is to be hoped he never arrived , and that he was in entire ignorance of the drinking entertainment being staged by his employees , because he is a man nationally known for his public utterances in favor of the enforcement of the dry laws . Doubtless Prohibition is a noble experiment . But perhaps it would be less of an experiment if an authoritative decision were made as to its precise object . Is Prohibition intended to promote the sale of merchandise ? Or is Prohibition intended to promote morality ? Until this is settled many business men will continue to interpret the problem according to their own interests .                     