@@493729

December 5 , 1931 THE NEW Fog Over Washington THERE have been few incidents more illustra-tive of what has come to be known as " the Washington Run-Around " than the recent experience of a committee representing the striking employees of the Macaulay Company , book publishers of New York City , which went to Washington to seek a decision from the National Labor Relations Board . What happened was described by Mr. Nathan Asch in an article published in the November 27 issue of The New Masses . The strikers , who borrowed two automobiles to make the trip , were accorded all the courtesy that seems to characterize the Roosevelt administration . All doors were opened to them and they were permitted to see everyone they asked to see . There was no ' official unpleasantness and no bureaucratic red tape . If the delegation had gone to pay a few social calls and see the sights of Washington , the visit would have been a great success . Its purpose , however , was much more serious . A ruling of the Regional Labor Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinstate its discharged employees , has been consistently ignored and the strikers ' committee wanted to find out if the National Board would help them to bring the recalcitrant company to terms . The committee went to the offices of the Board and was granted an immediate interview with Dr. H. A. Millis , the Board 's acting chairman . Dr. Millis was very cordial and polite , and expressed a willingness to do everything he could , but explained apologetically that he had to attend another hearing . One of his assistants , Mr. Benedict Wolf , would act in his stead . Mr. Wolf appeared , carrying the file containing all the material relative to the Macaulay dispute , but he seemed to know very little about it . He was very polite , very friendly and very vague . He was not sure , for one thing , whether the Board had any right to take legal action against the Macaulay Company because when the strike started the company had not yet signed a code . He did not see how , until this question was resolved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not his impression that the President recommended that workers organize prior to the making of a code , so that they might help to shape it , he said this was not his impression . He was sorry , very sorry , but he did not think there was much he could do . The strikers , able to stay in Washington only one day , then went to the White House . They wished to find out if Mr. Wolf 's opinions prevailed everywhere . In a few minutes Mr. Marvin McIntyre , the President 's secretary , came out . Mr. McIntyre was his usual poised , urbane , well mannered self . He listened to the strikers with great sympathy and immediately arranged another interview with Dr. Millis . Doctor Millis , when seen this second time , was possibly a little less polite . He would not speak of the ruling of the Regional Labor Board ; nor would he say when the National Board would decide whether it could take up the Macaulay case . Perhaps by the following Monday the Board might be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , but no word has come from Dr. Millis . This , of course , is not surprising . The experience of the Macaulay strikers has been the experience of most of the strikers ' committees that have gone to Washington . They all report the same cordial affability and the same irritating vagueness . But the overworked , harassed members of the National Labor Relations Boards should not be saddled with all the blame . They are lost , along with hundreds of their fellows , in the fog of uncertainty and indecision that hangs over Washington . The Department of Justice has shown a singular reluctance to proceed against recalcitrant employers ? witness other and more important situations such as in the Houde and Weirton cases ? and the power of the National Board , which could be considerable , has been greatly reduced by this significant hesitancy . And the attitude of the Department of Justice is caused , obviously enough , by the attitude of the President himself . If Washington officialdom can not make up its mind , if timidity and caution seem to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nil- . Roosevelt can not make up his mind . As soon as he formulates a definite program , and adheres to it , the fog will quickly lift . Meanwhile , to the despair of persons like the Macaulay strikers , who have not only their jobs but their futures at stake , the Washington run-around goes on . 