@@487392

THE four art projects of WPA dramatize an idea which is even more heretical than work relief for bricklayers . They disprove the legend that painters , musicians , writers , and actors prefer to dwell in the shadow of isolation and insecurity ; they demonstrate that federal subsidies create conditions of work for the artist that give new impulse to his development , extend the scope of his efforts , and open to him new avenues of response . The aim of the art projects is to bridge the gap between the artist and society . Their record of accomplishment is difficult to appraise . It can not be stated glibly in number of concerts given or of books printed , and it has been obscured by the rising political storm over relief appropriations . Fierce debates on the percentage of genius on the pay roll , on the worth of individual performances , have distracted attention from the crucial issue  --  whether WPA has created conditions in which the arts can flourish . For revealing answers to this question one has only to examine the record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an audience for American actors , larger , more alert , and more devoted than anyone had dared to imagine . Since the project 's inception from twenty to thirty million people have thronged theaters in twenty-seven states to witness performances ranging from T. S. Eliot 's " Murder in the Cathedral " to authentic children 's theater . Something like half of these millions had seldom if ever seen a stage production . To many the theater was an alien technique which proved strangely moving . Until a WPA unit played in Omaha , no legitimate production had been offered there in seven years . Even in New York City sixty per cent of the audience in the parks where the caravan theater performed was unacquainted with the conventional drama . Through WPA , Sinclair Lewis 's play " It Ca n't Happen Here " opened simultaneously on twenty-one stages in eighteen cities . And 12,500 theatrical performances , exclusive of marionette shows , were given in rural communities . Similar feats were soon accomplished by the other projects . By September 1 of this year an aggregate audience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the music project  --  symphony and concert orchestras , chamber-music ensembles , dance bands , opera groups , vocal ensembles and soloists . It became evident that an astonishing proportion of these millions , in rural regions and congested industrial cities alike , were hearing good music for the first time in their lives . Since October , 1935 , the project has sponsored more than 90,000 performances , most of them well-attended . In Min-nesota 500,000 people flocked to WPA concerts in the month of July ; in Connecticut 246,100 attended the summer programs . " Pinafore " attracted 75,000 to Cincinnati 's parks last September , and the conductor of the WPA band in Lawrence , Massachusetts , received in a year 6,000 letters of inquiry from school children . Even more striking , with reference to the apathy which had hitherto prevailed , was the response to the activities of the art project . From January , 1936 , to March , 1937 , thirty art centers were established in the Carolinas , Alabama , Florida , Oklahoma , Tennessee , Utah , Wyoming , and Virginia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibited little artistic activity . In these fourteen months more than 1,300,000 people participated in the work of the new centers , jamming exhibits , listening to lectures , and receiving instruction . In Harlem a single exhibit drew an actual registration of 20,000 visitors . During 1936 alone the drab walls of public buildings throughout the country were covered with more than 500 murals . The sheer volume of work accomplished on the project is shown by figures for the year which report the production of 7,695 easel paintings , 1,511 prints , 1,462 sculptures , 102,105 posters , and a host of miscellaneous works . To estimate the audience for such diverse and abundant efforts is almost impossible . Among its members were teachers of art in remote communities who had never seen an original work before . As to the federal writers ' project , its publications range from the much-heralded guidebooks to such ventures as " Who 's Who in the Zoo " and a series of educational pamphlets . They have already reached 1,200,000 people , and when the current publication program is concluded , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already been issued . A magazine to provide an outlet for original creative work is now envisaged . In some instances the response to WPA books has been so pronounced that private publishers have contracted for new editions : for instance , the sprightly " Almanac for New Yorkers , 1938 " has just appeared under the imprint of Modern Age Books . Although it is frequently asserted that the volume of response proves nothing about the quality of the work , this is at best a half-truth , at worst an expression of an anti-democratic tradition . Surely there is a causal connection between a large , attentive audience and a valid achievement . What the figures we have cited dramatically signify is the dissolution of those barriers between the artist and the people which have caused American artists to stagnate in poverty and despair . The discovery of a nation beyond Broadway and Carnegie Hall has had another notable result . Not only is the creative worker finding an audience in his own country ; with increasing swiftness he is uncovering a heritage which has been long neglected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been scarcely explored . Numerous researches into America 's cultural past have been undertaken by WPA . Perhaps the most fruitful is the Index of American Design which is being compiled in twenty-five states , recording the decorative arts in America from their inception to the end of the nineteenth century . No comparable record has ever been attempted before , and the Index is destined to prove indispensable . More than 6,000 facsimile renderings have been completed for it . Another rich reservoir of American expression has been plumbed by the music project . More than 2,500 primitive , indigenous folk-songs and tunes , ranging from little-known Negro spirituals to the early Spanish songs of California , many heretofore lacking in notation , have been preserved . That such recordings will have immense future value is indisputable ; the important point is that , before WPA , nothing of the kind was being done on a large scale . The guidebooks issued by the writers ' project are a colorful illustration of this renewed emphasis upon the American scene . Baedeker had not published a volume dealing with the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in print . This lack pointed directly to a project for writers which would both arouse their interest and be of lasting service . The WPA guidebooks do not imitate the monotony of Baedeker . The writers have lifted information for tourists from the level of traffic directions to that of sensitive description and authentic history . Instead of solemnly listing " points of interest , " they have tried to suggest both the brilliance and the ugliness of American life . Although the books naturally vary in quality , they all show that the writers have been encouraged to employ initiative and freshness , even to the point of irreverence , in setting down their record . At this writing three state guides and one for Washington , D. C. , have been published , five are in galleys , and sixteen others are under contract for publication this winter . The Massachusetts book , rendered famous by Governor Hurley 's protest against its sober reference to the Sacco-Vanzetti case , has already sold out its first edition of 10,000 . Ultimately the contents of all the state guides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , insular , and territorial United States . To say that these books may prove more fruitful for future historians than for casual travelers is praise rather than censure . Have the writers loafed  --  unwilling to work ? By February 1 more than 10,000,000 words will have been published . These projects , as I have indicated , have already found an immense audience . It was , however , often a crude and untutored audience , which wanted not only to see but also to learn and even to participate . The educational program accompanying the projects has been designed to encourage these impulses . Probably the most rudimentary example of this effort was furnished by the , ? The NATION theater project , which sent supervisors into remote areas to direct plays fashioned out of the lives of the people and even acted by them . In several Oklahoma mountain districts drama supervisors assigned by WPA guided the production of primitive , vigorous plays actually created by the inhabitants . In four Georgia communities drama leaders invaded stores , shops , and back-country farms appealing for participation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time directors were instructed to assist hundreds of already existing non-professional groups . All these steps were planned not only to stimulate interest in the drama  --  a task which proved relatively simple  --  but to lay the foundation for a critical , well-equipped audience . The education provided by the music project has been similarly imaginative , ranging from actual instruction to courses in music appreciation and experiments in music therapy . An aggregate of 7,689,406 adults and children had received instruction in Greater New York up to the end of last April . In Oklahoma every month 41,000 persons attend music classes . In more than thirty states teachers are giving group instruction , both vocal and instrumental , and presiding over courses in music appreciation , history , and theory . Bare-footed children walk miles for a lesson . Negro members of choruses rehearse late at night after their day 's work is done . One Florida chorus patiently learned to read music although they had never been taught to read English . Such incidents reflect an awakening which deserves more than statistical summary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centers in crowded cities and isolated towns . Groups have assembled in community houses , in orphanages , in hospitals , and other institutions . This teaching may bring to light only a handful of genuinely talented artists , but it will certainly heighten the perceptions of the developing audience . WPA 's adventure in the arts has not been limited by the necessity of achieving commercial success . Spurred by this circumstance , the projects have not hesitated to experiment and have often obtained notable results . . Many of their innovations have won widespread recognition . Brooks Atkinson has called the " living newspaper " technique , widely exploited by the federal theater , the most dynamic contribution to the American stage in recent years . The Composers ' Forum-Laboratory is another enterprise of more than temporary value . Organized in ten cities , these forums provide a channel for discussion and debate between the composer and his audience after the rendition of his work . Warm response to the work of the children 's theater has stimulated a remarkable development in that field . No summary of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which started as government relief and has flowered into an " art movement . " But certain things stand out and they are full of promise for the future . WPA rescued thousands of talented artists from imminent personal disaster and creative stagnation . WPA discovered an American audience , and that audience is being tutored . WPA endowed the artist with a December 25 , 1937 sense of belonging to his own country . Of course there are perils ahead . In so complex and far-reaching an effort tendencies toward vulgarization , lowering of standards , and slipshod performance will undoubtedly appear . The surprising thing is not that flaws can so easily be cited but that so many obstacles have already been surmounted . The greatest hindrance to the success of the art projects is the continued insecurity which surrounds their existence  --  dismissals , wage cuts , acute budget restrictions . The personnel of the writers ' project has been slashed from a peak of 6,700 to about 3,000 . A disheartening effect of the economy wave on the theater project is seen in the limitations that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So long as the future of the projects remains precarious , susceptible to every drift in relief legislation , demoralization is bound to increase . WPA 's record in construction was outlined in the first section of this article . Its service to American art  --  and hence to the richness of American life  --  is one of the brightest compensations of the depression years . " Economy " may temporarily triumph in Washington , but the surge toward fuller democracy which WPA has set in motion will not swiftly subside . This concludes Mr. Wechsler 's two-article summary of the accomplishments of WPA in the fields of construction and the fine arts. )                     