@@486467

aspect . But it has nature worship and poetry for all the year round , with enough of human interest to serve as string for the pearls . The Biography of a Prairie Girl ' is undeniably strong and striking as a picture of life on a Dakota farm Reading it , one sees the prairie , the corn furrows , the cottonwoods , and enters upon the hazards , glooms , and occasional pleasures of farming in a new country where Indians may steal the horses , and gophers will certainly steal the corn The little heroine , strapped on a pinto at four and a half and set to herding cattle , grows visibly to girlhood , where we leave her , in pages full of the adventure and risk that make daily life on the plains . An engaging little puss she is , often in difficulties and dangers of her own making , forgetting to do her agricultural duties while she lies dreaming on the grass , passionately loving her pets , be they pony or tamed badger , wandering through the strange ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and age on all who live it ; a quaint little figure , prematurely old in out-of-door learning , pathetically ignorant of childhood 's pleasures . The story is told in a singular way , with a plethora of adjectives , and a use throughout of paraphrase to the exclusion of all names , as , " The little girl , " " The biggest brother , " etc We discern no advantage in this affectation , and could wish that the whole tale were more simply told , with less of what children call " thick part , " and more alleviation in the shape of conversation . But the lights and shades of Western farm living could hardly have a more graphic showing than in this story of a child , which yet is not for children . Scottish History and Life Glasgow . James MacLehose &; Sons ; New York : The Macmillan Co. 1902 . Buckle , in a celebrated but libellous passage , taxes the Scotch with the backwardness of their civilization . Not only did " the ferocious Highlanders live entirely by plunder , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until a comparatively late date . Down to the seventeenth century , " no glass was manufactured in Scotland , neither was any soap made there . Even the higher dais of citizens would have deemed windows absurd in their wretched abodes ; and as they were alike filthy in their persons as in their houses , the demand for soap was too small to induce any one to attempt its manufacture . " We shall not go so far as to assert that all the allegations of Buckle are disproved by the book before us , but we will say that it furnishes a more attractive picture of Scottish life and culture than is afforded by the second chapter of his second volume . In a word , this very handsome volume is a memorial of the Glasgow Exhibition . Historical collections of great interest and value were there brought together for the sake of illustrating different stages . of the national development . But objects thus gathered are quickly dispehsed , and can be reassembled only for a great occa sion . Hence it was decided to utilize this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and showing what the people were who made it . " The editor , Mr. James Paton , also states " that no effort has been spared to make this volume both a vivid and an accurate picture of Scottish History and Life . " In describing the nature of the contents , we must divide honors evenly between the four hundred and thirty-seven illustrations and the twenty-three chapters which they serve to adorn . The cooperative plan has been followed , and each separate aspect of history or culture is treated by a specialist of recognized authority . Dr. D. H Fleming and Mr. H. G. Graham are the only contributors who furnish more than a single chapter , and the table of contents presents nearly a score of names . According to another division , history receives eleven chapters , and the same number is devoted to various aspects of the national life ; while , in conclusion , Mr. William Young furnishes such memorials of Glasgow as explain the growth of the town at which the exhibition was hold Regarding the illustrations , it may be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the choice of subjects is excellent , and good modes of reproduction have been employed . Most of the full-page plates are executed in half-tone , but there are also some fine photogravures  --  for example , the frontispiece , which represents the Darnley Cenotaph , and a striking portrait of Dundee . In every case the mechanical work is good of its kind . If we were seeking for a standard of comparison , we should suggest that the illustrations of this book agree with the text , and explain it in much the same way that the illustrations chosen by Mrs. J. R. Green and Mize Kate Norgatc add to Green 's ' History of England ' Objects like the Ruthwell cross , the brooch of Lorne , the oak cradle of1 Queen Mary , and the wine glasses of the Jacobites are shown in great profusion ; almost all the leading politicians and notables are represented either by portrait or autograph ; town seals and loving-cups , dirks and broadswords , pages from chronicles and illuminated missals , appear with regularity at the proper places . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good talent accompanies good scholarship throughout . - Writers and illustrators have both done their subject justice , but , after all , it can not be affirmed that the Scotland of the Middle Ages or of the Stuart regime was in any special sense a home of the arts Poverty , turbulence , and isolation were barriers which the incipient genius of the north could not well break through The general conditions were in some respects similar to those which prevailed among the Alps , though on the whole the Scotch made a better use of their opportunity than did the Swiss . Where so much was borrowed , we need not pause to discriminate between French friends and English foes . It is more candid as well as less harsh to say that despite the hostility of nature and the fierceness of their chieftains , the Scotch did recognize a difference between refinement and barbarism Their pursuit of beauty and elegance was not wholly successful , but the Lowlander at least had grasped the idea that decency is better than squalor before the day when James VI . mounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , besides being well written , are marked off from the generality of such sketches by - - - - - their closeness of contact with the illustrations . It is , however , to the chapters on social life that most readers will turn when they begin to examine the text closely . Studies like the editor 's paper on Scottish towns , Mr. Kerr 's account of the national games , and Dr Murray 's description of the universities , are more likely to fill a gap than is the best resume of political history . The mention of this last subject brings to mind a shortcoming of the Scottish universities upon which Dr. Murray dwells with great earnestness . Notwithstanding their belief in education and the sacrifices that they make on its behalf , the Scotch do not seem even at the present day to entertain much affection for their universities . The students see little of each other and have few interests in common . According to Dr. Murray , " the student life of the ordinary Scottish undergraduate , at least in the large universities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him as a student but worry him with lectures and examinations , and does nothing for him after he leaves her care except to keep his name upon the books . " Such is the condition . Of equal significance is the remedy which Dr. Murray proposes , namely , an adoption of American methods , and the development of a class feeling Should his suggestion be heeded , Scotland may receive from the United States , besides Mr. Carnegie 's money , the benefits which are represented by cane rushes , Greek-letter societies , and amphitheatrical football games ! Speaking seriously , our college life possesses attractions which are unknown at Edinburgh , Glasgow , and Aberdeen Perhaps we shall do well to recall this fact in moments when we are dismayed by certain ebullitions of undergraduate energy . New Amsterdam and its People By J. H. limes . Charles Scribner 's Sons . 1902 . The various contributors to the voluminous literature concerning the history of the city of New York have treated the subject in very various ways and from widely different points of view John Fiske , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an integral part of the country 's colonial history , Mrs. Lamb entertains us with sprightly and gossiping relations of families and their changes , in the Goede Vrouiv of Manhattan Mrs. Van Rensselaer paints the inner life and domestic virtues of the Dutch matrons . These sketches are fitly supplemented by her elaborate tables of genealogies , separately published : which have proved of much service for the biographies of families of later date , and useful to conveyancers for tracing title to real property . Besides these more serious works , many clever monographs exist shedding light on special periods or persons in the town 's story . The present author conducts his account in-a quite novel way , from the first beginning of separate streets and buildings through their connection with the succession of persons who have occupied them , illustrating these by noted characters , with personal sketches This method , though fragmentary , brings out detached points of lively interest . The period , within which the author chooses to confine his researches  --  that between the discovery of the islands and the final surrender of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preclude scope for much interesting variety of treatment . True , the public events recorded are of narrow range and slight importance . The building of forts , palisades , a church , and public warehouses , the purchase of the island from the Indians , wars with the savages and the intruding Swedes , the creation of the class of patroons , and the establishment of the Boweries , and city charters , comprise the public events marking that space of time . But the great world across the sea seethed with a ferment that reacted upon this insignificant nook of earth . The Thirty Years ' War , the cruel religious persecutions , and the upsetting of dynasties involved in their sweep these far-away lands , and threw upon their shores a mingled and adventurous population . It is an error , then , to suppose , as is generally believed , that the early settlers of Manhattan , though mainly Dutch , were purely so Almost all foreign civilized nations were represented among the immigrants to this island in the half century following its first settlement The first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lower part of what is now Broad Street , occupied by a French settler , Philip Gerard , or Geraerdy , as his Dutch neighbors called him The name of the Delancys , refugees after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes , early appears in holders of a great estate along the Bowery , which would have made them , bad it not been confiscated at the American Revolution , almost the richest landholders of that date The Scotch line of the Livingstone was planted here early , and appears about 1670 as wealthy and politically eminent . Another striking personage described in this volume among the later colonists was the Scotchman William Paterson , adventurer and financier , celebrated by Macaulay , and the projector of the Bank of England He lived some years at New Amsterdam and at Albany , involved himself in noted quarrels , and at last returned to London , leaving his reputation and even his identity an historical puzzle . The Scotch line of Stirling , settled in New Jersey , and the French Jays , in Westchester , N Y. , soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Through such mingling of alien races , busy in divers pursuits , the town of New Amsterdam , at the time of its final surrender to the English in 1674 , had , under the guidance of Dutch polity and thrift , grown to be a truly cosmopolitan community , quite justifying the author 's description of it as a people not greatly different in its nature , however narrower in range , from the population which throngs the streets of Manhattan in this year of grace 1902 . Pursuing his plan of tracing the growth of this people through the slow building-up of its separate habitations , the author does not need to expand his treatment of his theme from the time when the few settlers podded their way through muddy lanes over rough cobblestones to this era of stately parks , sky-piercing hives of industry , and avenues disembowelled by subways The plain homes of traders , artisans , sailors , and farmers supply a sufficient field of human interest and progress Localities suggest their creators and occupants The , record of many scores of such growing erections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their development , and in these little biographies is gathered a mine of incident and adventure . This treatment of the subject baffles the reviewer who seeks a clue or a principle in the multiform growth of a microcosm , but it is perhaps the more entertaining for being discontinuous and fragmentary . The text is enlivened by some forty we , 1-chosen illustrations , mostly engraved from diagrams and authentic official maps An apt preface , a full index , and clear type leave nothing to be desired in the makeup of the volume Recollections of a Player . By J H Stoddart . The Century Co. 1902 These autobiographical notes of James IL Stoddart are chiefly valuable as a revelation of the man himself , and an illustration of the process by which good actors were made out of raw material in the old days before the stage had been converted by commercial speculators into an emporium for the display of tailors ' models and realistic representations of police-court incidents . The author must be one of the oldest players still in harness , but is not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is , happily , in full possession of his bodily mil mental faculties , and only recently won , in " The Bonnie Brier Bush , " the-crowning triumph of his career . For nearly fifty years he has occupied a most honorable position in the Ameriban Theatre , playing successfully many prominent parts , of the most diversified character , in old and modern comedy and the romantic drama , and to-day furnishes one of the most conspicuous examples of thorough competency to be found in the ranks of his profession . His story . reduced to its simplest elements , is a record of indefatigable industry , intense conscientiousness , and rare modesty Interesting as it is on account of its complete naturalness and its manifestations of a sweet , genuine , and generous disposition , it contains nothing that is startling and but little that can be quoted . From the spirit of artistic jealousy it is absolutely free . It is full of the most kindly and ungrudging appreciation of the many distinguished actors with whom at various times the writer has been associated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment Of his own successes he speaks gratefully but doubtfully , while lavish in the praise of his associates Born in Yorkshire , in October , 1827 , the son of a provincial actor , he began acting while yet a child , and passed the long years of his novitiate as a member of the stock companies of various theatres in Scotland , Yorkshire , and Liverpool , earning a mere pittance by acting innumerable small characters of every description , and gradually working his way up to the position of leading man in provincial theatres of the first rank . It was in 1884 that he came to this country and secured an engagement with the elder Wallack , with whose brilliant company he was associated for many seasons . Later on he was a prominent member of the memorable body of players collected by A. M Palmer at the Union Square Theatre , contributing in no small degree to some of the most notable successes achieved in romantic melodrama , and establishing for himself a reputation which extended from New York to California . Nor were his triumphs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of decided mannerisms and a man of utterly undisgmsable personality , his intelligence and his training enabled him to exhibit a true versatility in the broadly comic Mark Meddle , the tigerish Pere Michel , and the deeply pathetic , unhappy father in " Saints and Sinners . " In all these and many other parts the habitual gestures of the man were so dominated by the informing spirit ? of the trained actor that there was no confusion of identity . It may be noted here that there are many delusions , common to both actors and critics , concerning the meaning of versatility  --  at all events in the theatrical sense of the word For instance , there is a prevalent idea that it relates chiefly , or largely , to externals Actors skilled in the use of wigs , paint , paddings , and costumes for the transformation of their bodies , are constantly credited with the versatility of a Proteus , although in reality they never offer any other personality than their own . Other actors are reputed versatile because their own individuality is so weak and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any character they may undertake . Even so veteran an observer as Mr Stoddart is not quite clear on this subject . He is inclined to undervalue versatility , and even to regard it as an obstacle to histrionic success He quotes the case of an actor who played everything , and was always good , yet never made a mark in his profession . This player , doubtless , was lacking in character and mentality , and so never amounted to anything more than a pliant , agreeable , uninteresting nonentity . In bodily aspect all Mr. Stoddart 's characters resemble each other closely , but in spirit they are widely different Herein is manifested the intellectual versatility that counts , and this is a gift with which Mr. Stoddart is highly endowed , although he does not appear to be aware of it His modesty , indeed , has prevented him from doing himself full Justice in many ways In his long and active life he must have accumulated rich funds of experience and anecdote , but he does not draw upon either , rarely digressing from the plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abilities of his associates , few of whom were comparable with himself . In this respect the book is a disappointment , but it is very pleasant to find in an old actor a heart so fresh and genial , so unspoiled by success or disappointment , so cordial towards aspiring juniors , so entirely free from envy or suspicion . May he be long preserved to the stage which he adorns How to Sing By Lilli Lehmann . The Macmillan Co Pp. 281 . Mr Richard Aldrich's'accurate and readable translation of Lilli Lehmann 's book on singing appears simultaneously with the original German , and will be cordially welcomed by thousands of students and lovers of music . The German title of the book ? ' Meine Gesangskunst ' ( My Art of Song ) ? indicates one of its principal charms . It is a sort of autobiographic description of the processes by which the author herself learned to sing , and at every point her own experiences illustrate and entorce the rules given by her to singers in regard to what they should do and what they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art will be interested in her remarks on famous vocalists ? Patti , Melba , Sembrich , Niemann , Betz , Wachtel , Silva . There are numerous pictures to illustrate the physiological side of singing ; and the minuteness of some of her directions is instanced by the fact that she requires nearly a page of text and a diagram in two colors to show how she sings the word Fraulein . The author tells how she studied the role of Isolde , and a chapter is devoted to her method of interpreting three of the most popular songs in her repertory ? Schumann 's " Der Nussbaum : " Brahms 's " Feldeinsamkeit , " and Schubert 's " Erlking . " Mme. Lehmann is severe on the voice factories which turn out singers in two years , and contrasts this state ' of affairs ( fostered by ignorant or unscrupulous managers ) with the time when an eight-year course was required at the conservatories . She herself was so lucky as to have a mother who Could sing , and who was her first teacher . She began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leading grand-opera singers of her time , differing from most others in not being a narrow specialist , but an expert in Italian florid song as well as in the Wagnerian drama . This versatility makes her ideally qualified to pose as a teacher for singers in general . Beginners who have difficulty with their breath will be consoled on reading that the writer herself was very short of breath by nature , and will be interested in her method of overcoming this defect . Singers of more mature years will eagerly read what she has - to say about the secret of keeping the voice young . The hygienic hints alone would make the book indispensable to every singer ; they are all based on personal experience . One of her topics is the reason why artists like to sing Wagner . There are also remarks on the duration of concerts , on applause , on . the behavior of audiences , and many other things of interest to music-loVers . While holding that " it is not enough to sing well ; one must also know how one does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Patti could give no explanation of her art , but answered all questions concerning it with an " Ah , je n'en sais rien . " Daniel Boone . By Reuben Gold Thwaites . Illustrated . D. Appleton &; Co. 1902 . Daniel Boone ( 1734-1820 ) was an extreme type of our foremost frontiersmen . Born in eastern Pennsylvania , he moved far West with various halts , chiefly in Kentucky , and , keeping on the outer fringe , was in Spanish , service on the Missouri while it was still Spanish , his hunts extending far up that river . As an omnivorous Nimrod , buffaloes were not too large nor bees too small for his chase , and he was of that class who largely return to the hunting stage in social development . A capital shot , he easily believed that both his pleasure and his profit lay in the same line , and that he could best earn his bread as a hunter . Thus his ruling passion was a lifelong pilgrimage to happy hunting-grounds . He became as , migratory as Indians or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight and heaviest in worth , for markets were distant and transport at best was by pack-horse . To Indians , who were dragons guarding the golden fleece he was after , he became an Indian . He out-Indianed them , and was too wily for their wiles . A chief had made him captive and purposed to burn him , yet , in fact , adopted him as his son . His strange career has been chronicled in a dozen books , which all have a Robinson Crusoe charm , and about his hairbreadth ' scapes clouds of legends or lies have . gathered , which a sketch like the present , the outcome of long and earnest search , was needed to clear away . The truth was romantic enough . This latest publication is first to show the exact date of Boone 's birth and many another suggestive fact . It shows us also for the first time Boone 's best portrait , and many significant autographs in facsimile , such as pages of field-notes of surveys and familiar letters , photographs of his last home , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reburied there , with other realistic , not imaginary , scenes . It omits many irrelevant matters with which some preceding narratives had been padded , and defines Boone 's place among Western pioneers in the light of manuscripts which can be found only in the charge of its author . - - Having both hands full of biographic details , there was reason for the Wisconsin secretary to open his little finger . One letter ; however , we miss more than we should some of his pages . It is an appeal to Virginia for help just after a defeat by British-aided Indians , written when Boone 's military rank was highest , and brings to view back-countrymen safeguarding the Revolutionary back door . - This letter is found in Peck ( p. 131 ) , whose painstaking production , derived in part from personal interviews with Boone himself , and the early Draper collections as well , would remain the standard biography but for the improvements it was reserved for Mr. Thwaites to add . Few books have so little need as has this finality to ask pardon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               