@@486448

DISGRACEFUL as were the breaking up of the un- official peace meeting at the Trocadero in Paris on November 27 and the hooting down of such distinguished men as Viscount Cecil , Signor Scialoja , the German delegates , and especially Alanson B. Houghton , who was not allowed to read a word of his speech , they were less significant than the unanimous condonation of this public rowdyism and bad manners by the French press , the legal and police authorities , and the government . We are on the whole not sorry that this outrage took place . It will make plain to intelligent men everywhere that it is France that blocks the way both to peace and to economic sanity in the world ; we see clearly the lengths to which its officialdom is willing to go even to stop criticism of its policies . It will further open the eyes of Americans to the present French determination to rule Europe by force , to cling to a military dictatorship far more dangerous than any of the ambitions attributed , in war time to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least disturb the President and Secretary Stimson but , should make them more than ever determined to isolate France at the Geneva disarmament conference , to create a bloc headed by England and the United States , and to lead the way to disarmament , whether France wishes to come along or not . H OW CAN PRESIDENT HOOVER expect io arouse enthusiastic support for his disarmament proposal when he is not loyally upheld by his own Secretary of the Navy ? This question inevitably arises again as one reads Mr. Adams 's annual report , which is an appeal for more funds for the fleet . He declares , among other things , that " many of the most experienced and far-seeing officers feel that amounts reasonably in excess of those being annually appropriated can be used advantageously  --  in fact are essential to provide adequately for the navy 's minimum treaty requirements . .. . " This is backing up your chief with a vengeance . Does not the innocent Mr. Adams know that there has never been a time when " the most experienced and far-seeing officers " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in excess of the annual appropriations were needed ? Mr. Adams 's report should have been a whole-hearted support of Mr. Hoover 's disarmament plans , should have urged a further decrease of the American naval burdens , and should have pledged his heartiest cooperation to bring about international disarmament at Geneva . As it is we do not see why Secretary Adams does not resign or why Mr. Hoover does not ask his resignation . W E HAVE REPEATEDLY expressed our belief that great savings could be made in the army if a commission of business men were given the power to reorganize it , eliminate the unnecessary officers and men , and introduce business methods throughout . In the annual report of Major General H. A. Drum , Inspector General of the army , we find striking confirmation of our contention . The Inspector General calls for the redistribution of the regular army , not primarily for the purpose of saving money , it is true , but from the point of view of adequately training the combat forces . He points out that the infantry troops available for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no less than forty-five different posts with only a battalion or less than a battalion at thirty-four of these posts . Artillery troops , he says , " are in a similar situation . They are distributed among seven regiments and seven different battalions located at nineteen different posts with a battalion or less at sixteen . " There is no sound military reason whatsoever for manning all these posts . Most of them would be of little value in war time ; they ate usually maintained to satisfy local politicians or local pride , and their abolition would make great savings . T HE LONGER SIGNOR GRANDI stayed here , the better we liked him and his utterances . We know very well that many have read and heard him with profound distrust , doubting the sincerity of his demand for disarmament in view of the fact that Italy is annually spending 25.1 per cent of its budget for army and navy , and that hardly more than a year ago Mussolini was making saber-rattling speeches in the worst manner of the ex-Kaiser . None the less , whatever the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like those that Mr. Hoover ought to be making about the coming disarmament conference , and every foreign minister as well ; moreover , he has behind him as evidence of his sincerity the fact that he proposed , and put through , the truce of one year in all new shipbuilding which is now in forte . - He was extraordinarily outspoken and frank , his whole thesis admirable . One phrase that he coined should be framed and displayed in every Foreign Office : " We must ' fortify justice and not justify- force . " In his final speech he went farther than previously in that he declared that Italy considers the reduction of armaments a moral as well as a juridical obligation on all governments and made the extremely important statement that Italy " can not share the view that an absolute security is the condition sine qua non for starting any measure of disarmament " ? Paris please take notice . It is a pity that his visit was marred by the two-year sentence given to a young anti-Fascist for jumping on the running board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fascism . " For this episode Grandi made the grateful gesture of urging clemency . W E ARE NOT SURPRISED by the news that Senators James G. Davis of Pennsylvania and James T. Watson of Indiana were allowed , by means of notes , to purchase stock in two sugar companies directed by one B. G. Dahlberg . Senator Watson 's interesting alibi is : " The stock is of no account , and worth nothing , and neither is my note . Therefore the score is 0 to 0 in this game . This was a purely private business transaction , with no relation to legislation past , present , or future . " Senator Davis , our noble ex-Secretary of Labor , admits that he made a little profit ; but , like the servant girl 's baby , it was " such a little one " that he gave it to charity . From neither of these men did we expect any appreciation of the morality of this transaction . Mr. Davis 's unblushing solicitation , often written on official stationery , of funds for Mooseheart while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was totally lacking in understanding of the decencies of office . Both Senators were high lights in their party in 1928 when the Dahlberg transaction took place . Both were facing the fact of a tariff revision , yet they had no compunctions whatever at being " carried " by a promoter who was lobbying furiously for higher tariff rates . Incidentally , Mr. Dahlberg was so skilful a promoter that he succeeded in getting our good friend Herbert Hoover to visit the plant of one of his companies . Dispatches report that the testimony was " very amusing " so far as the details of the President-elect 's visit are concerned . T HE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE has suddenly discovered , after weeks of investigation by numerous secret-service agents , that the " hunger march " on Washington is being directed by- a group of Communists . The department 's announcement , which reads as though it were deliberately designed to alarm the country , suggests that the " hunger march " is a deep and mysterious bolshevik plot . Sections of the announcement go so far as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fight their way to Washington . One sentence , for example , reads : " It is reported that the delegates and marchers will travel on trucks and all will be furnished with rifles . This , of course , we believe far-fetched , and simply report it for what it may be worth , if anything . " If the agents believed this rumor far-fetched , why did they report it unless theymeant to use it in stirring up general hostility ? Moreover , why was an investigation necessary in the first : place , and why were the results of that investigation announced in such a sensational manner ? The secret-service agents could Dave learned as much as they - did by reading recent:files ' of the various Communist publications . There has been little effort to make a mystery or conspiracy of the proposed " hunger march . " Has the Department of Justice a specific purpose in mind in attempting to sensationalize the Communist demonstration ? Does it mean that Washington this winter intends to follow a policy of labeling as bolshevik everyone who advocates direct government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call the minor scandals involved in the administration of the Federal Farm Board , and even accepting on their face the figures of Chairman Stone , the main fact which stands out is that at the market levels of October 31 , which were higher than present levels , the board has lost $102,000,000 in wheat and $75,000,000 in cotton . This $177,000,000 , moreover , was worse than thrown away . When the 190,000,000 bushels of wheat and the 1,311,000 bales of cotton that the board now holds have finally been sold , even the farmers in whose supposed interests the board 's activities were undertaken will have suffered more than they have benefited . As the United States raises only about one-quarter of the world 's wheat crop , any purchases in the open market , so long as we remain a wheat-exporting nation , must raise not merely the American price of wheat , but the world price . But this world aid at the expense of the American taxpayer is only a temporary one . The wheat held , no matter how long it overhangs the market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sold again , and prices must be depressed by as much as they had previously been raised . The board bought high and found itself obliged to sell low . It thereby increased the violence of the price change and encouraged the farmer to maintain acreage when he ought to have been reducing it . The Farm Board fiasco has the dubious distinction of being complete and perfect . J APAN MAY CONSIDER itself strong enough ' to defy the League of Nations and to ignore the counsel of the American State Department , but it has met a formidable foe in the Chinese people . Their boycott of Japanese goods is now making itself felt in Tokio , Osaka , and other commercial centers , and this may , if continued much longer , have the effect of reducing Japanese military pressure in Manchuria . A Department of Commerce bulletin says that as a result of the boycott Japanese shipping " is suffering additional depression . " Ships to the number of 534 are lying idle in Japanese harbors . But the most disastrous result is shown in the cotton-textile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ square yards of cotton cloth were sold to the Chinese ; in October of this year less than 400,000 square yards were exported to that country . In another direction an equally intangible force has been set in motion with a view to checking Japanese imperialism in Manchuria . Forty-one national and international peace organizations have petitioned President Hoover requesting him to take more vigorous action in support of efforts now being made to stop the Sino-Japanese conflict . They have urged him " to publish all correspondence with Japan and China relating thereto . " SECRETARY STIMSON should know by now how dangerous secret diplomacy can be . The tendency of the State Department to clothe with secrecy all its moves in the Manchurian controversy was largely , if not wholly , responsible for the misunderstanding in Japan over Mr. Stimson 's remarks concerning Japanese military movements in Manchuria . The bitter resentment of the Japanese press and Foreign Office for the statement erroneously attributed to Secretary Stimson could have had very serious consequences . Fortunately , both Tokio and Washington realized the delicacy of the incident created ' by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming a row between the United States and Japan . Mr. Stimson was in a position to bring about a quick and satisfactory adjustment because he had unquestionably been misquoted . But it seems clear from the facts developed in connection with the misunderstanding that not only are the League Council and the American people being kept in doubt as to the State Department 's attitude , but that Tokio , with whom there has been a constant exchange of secret correspondence , does not feel certain where Washington stands . T HE SENTENCING of Carl von Ossietsky , the distinguished editor of Die Weltbahne , to one and one-half years in prison because of an article revealing secrets of the German air force , which he published no less than two and one-half years ago , shows how little freedom of the press has come to mean under the German republic . It is the more striking because the conviction is under an old law enacted under the Kaiser just before the beginning of the World War . Granted that Von Ossietsky was indiscreet in publishing this article , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sentence so long after the deed . Probably it represents a good deal of the pent-up anger against Von Ossietsky because of his constant criticism of the existing government . As the Berlin Tageblatt has pointed out , nothing could be worse at this time than this sentence . With the disarmament conference meeting at Geneva in two months what could be better calculated to increase French fear that Germany is secretly armed or in possession of military secrets of so grave a nature as to warrant such a punishment ? As a matter of fact , Germany in its present situation ought to have no military secrets whatsoever that it can not give to the world . The conviction of Von Ossietsky is a blow at the liberty of the press everywhere . T HE MEXICAN PRESS is highly and rightfully indignant over the acquittal of two Oklahoma deputy sheriffs in connection with the shooting to death of Emilio Cortes Rubio and Manuel Garcia Gomez , Mexican students . " Innocence in Oklahoma , " as Universal of Mexico City comments , " is hard to understand . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , were killed while driving through Oklahoma on their way home to spend the summer vacation with their families . The deputies suspected them of having liquor in their car . A misunderstanding and the shooting followed . ' Fortunately , the Mexican government has refused to become unduly excited over the acquittal of . the two officers , and even the Mexican public , although outspoken in its condemnation of the verdict , has raised no demand for vengeance . It would hardly be possible to imagine the American public taking such a serene view of the situa. tion had two American students of good family met death under similar circumstances in Mexico . The Mexican government has indicated that it will ask damages for the killing of Rubio and Gomez . Governor William H. Murray of Oklahoma has said that he will request the State legislature to pay $5,000 each to the families of the students . Surely Oklahoma could do not less . T WENTY-SEVEN DEATHS ? that is the toll taken by football this fall . " While the total is alarming , " writes the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only five of the players killed this year were members of college squads . " Pray what has that to do with it ? The life of a high-school player is as valuable as that of a collegian ; the death of one as profoundly tragic as that of the other ; the family 's grief and misery as acute in one case as the other . This figure does not include those hopelessly crippled , the many who are injured ; one of the Fordham University players is coming back to " activity " in a paralyzed condition which may not yield while life lasts . Why should these casualties be tolerated ? We do not deny that football has merits ; that it is a challenging spectacle . But the game could be altered at the next session of those who yearly meet to revise the rules if they only desired to do so , and in such a way as not to deprive the game of its interest and thrill . If the president of Yale , within whose - Bowl a West Point cadet was fatally injured this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand such changes as would minimize the risks , we believe the reforms would be made . It is true that the slaughter is not so serious as that during the hunting season  --  incom'plete figures show 20 killed and 101 wounded in New York State alone in the pursuit of this sport ; none the less the game of football can and should be reformed or else abolished . B tILLYHO 0 , the latest entrant to the lists of humorous magazines , now sells more than 2,000,000 copies an issue and that sale is steadily increasing . Though the paper has been appearing only for a few months , an enterprising publisher has already brought out " The Book of Ballyhoo " made up of selections from it . Ballyhoo is not , with due apologies to the editors and with due recognition of the mustachios and leg-o ' - mutton sleeves in its illustrations , incomparably funny ; it depends for much of its humor on fairly broad improprieties , but so do a number of other magazines that do not command such magnificent sales ; it is vaguely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journal has never reached such a circulation as does the newcomer . One can only conclude that the public , while it succumbs to advertising ballyhoo to such a large extent as evidently to justify the enormous expenditures of hard-headed advertisers , nevertheless likes to see fun poked at one of its own weaknesses . It will buy in huge quantities the cigarettes which kind-hearted movie actresses received " not one cent " to indorse ; but when ' Ballyhoo paraphrases thus : " Not one cent was paid for Miss Zilch 's statement . Of course Miss Zilch 's new picture is about to be released , and two million dollars ' worth of publicity is n't to be sneezed at , but why bring that up ? " it can see the paint and enjoy a guffaw thereat . We like to be fooled ; we like to laugh at ourselves for being fooled . If this is the great human secret which Ballyhoo has discovered , it deserves a vote of thanks from a grateful public . 