@@301503

Just as President Roosevelt and Comrade Litvinoff were fraternizing last week ( see p. 12 ) , the Soviet War Council at Moscow , with blazing indiscretion , issued Order No. 173 . <P> Abrupt and militant , it knocked into a Red soldier 's turnip-shaped helmet the soothing assertions by Soviet publicists in recent weeks that Russia 's leaders have abandoned the objective of her late , great Dictator Nikolai Lenin : to foment " the World Revolution of the Proletariat " by every practicable means including , when advisable , intervention by the Red Army . Order No. 173 is specific . It instructs every Red Army commander " to train each Red Soldier to be devoted in heart and in soul to the World Revolution of the Proletariat . " The issuing of such an order at such a time seemed to indicate a slip between the cogs of Dictator Josef Stalin 's complex State machine . Last week that popular cog War Minister Klimentiy ( " Klim " ) Voroshilov had not yet returned from his junket to Angora where he congratulated Dictator Mustafa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( TIME , Nov. 6 ) . Order No. 173 was therefore not signed by " Klim " but by fierce-bearded Vice-War Minister Jan Gamarnik , who looks like a world revolution all by himself . Had " Klim " been in the Kremlin , observers thought , Order No. 173 would have been circulated privately to Red Army commanders , not blatantly released to the Moscow Press . <P> By no means dead , though Dictator Stalin has ostentatiously withdrawn from its Executive Committee , is the Comintern or Third International , the world agency of proletarian revolution . While Comrade Litvinoff was en route to Washington , dispatches from Moscow reported that " the windows of the Comintern Building are dark . " Last week the Comintern Executive Committee issued an appeal " to the toiling masses of the world , " bade them to " Join ranks with the Soviet Union proletariat ! Forge a uniform Revolutionary Front against Fascism and War ! Against Japanese Imperialism and World Imperialism ! For a Soviet China and a Soviet Germany ! " <P> Equally embarrassing to Soviet Foreign Minister Litvinoff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Communist ) which persisted in announcing during the New York mayoralty campaign that one of its main objectives is " Militant support of the Soviet Union ! " Finally in Moscow last week the inopportune death of cackling , seamy-skinned Comrade Sen Katayama , 74-year-old Japanese member of the Comintern Executive Committee , forced Dictator Stalin to make open display of the fact that he is still pro-Comintern ( i.e. pro-World Revolution ) , despite his resignation from the Comintern Committee . <P> In great flakes Moscow 's first heavy snow of the season was softly falling . Red Army divisions , snug in their ankle-length winter overcoats and turnip helmets , filled the vast Red Square . All Moscow turned out to see who would bear the ashes of Comrade Katayama to their niche in the Kremlin wall . Millions of eyes fastened on a swart , powerfully built man in a long greatcoat who strode bareheaded through the snowstorm : Chief Pallbearer Josef Stalin .                     