@@141638

Simultaneously last week in Boston and in Philadelphia batons flicked into the air , releasing the music that marked the overture to the 1936-37 season . In Boston , Beacon Hillers , not content merely to clap their gloved hands , stood in deference to Conductor Sergei Koussevitzky who gravely bowed his thanks , peaked the afternoon with a peerless performance of Beethoven 's Fifth Symphony . <P> For 24 years the conductor 's stand in Philadelphia has been a throne for Leopold Stokowski . Last winter King Stokowski decided that he wanted more time for " research , " more personal freedom than a conductor 's routine duties permit . Result was that the Philadelphia Orchestra authorities had to choose another conductor for the bulk of this season , picked Eugene Ormandy , 36 , pale , small , blond Hungarian who for the past four years has been leader of the Minneapolis Symphony. - <P> Young Eugene Ormandy walked briskly into the Philadelphia limelight last week , hopped onto the Stokowski throne and in a determined , businesslike manner commanded attention for two Bach transcriptions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known by Philadelphians as one of their regular clarinetists . After Cailliet 's Bach came Mozart 's Fourth Violin Concerto with Fritz Kreisler as soloist , forerunning such headliners as Josef Hofmann , Sergei Rachmaninoff , Kirsten Flagstad , Vladimir Horowitz , Mischa Levitzki , Jascha Heifetz , Lawrence Tibbett , Artur Schnabel , all sure bait for customers not altogether sure of a youthful new conductor . Fritz Kreisler 's spell was sure , while Ormandy kept courteously to the background for the 61-year-old fiddler who , according to his irrepressible wife last week , " would be good if he would only practice . " Ormandy ' s strongest test came with Schubert 's Seventh Symphony which , though it left him dripping with perspiration , showed a surprising authority over the Stokowski players , meticulous care for detail and phrasing , a lyric gift keenly adapted to Schubert 's own sense of song . <P> This week the big orchestras in Cleveland , Cincinnati and Chicago will start their seasons , under such proven leaders as Polish Artur Rodzinski , British Eugene Goossens and square old Frederick Stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proud Chicago institution . St. Louis ' hopes are high again for a series of concerts under Vladimir Golschmann , the sleek Franco-Russian who has built himself a strong Missouri following . The Los Angeles Philharmonic was driving for money last week and awaiting the return of towering Otto Klemperer . San Francisco stages its opera season first , but by midwinter the rejuvenated symphony will be playing again under the beneficent command of Pierre Monteux . The New York Philharmonic , bereft of Arturo Toscanini , has postponed its season 's opening until November when John Barbirolli , an obscure young Englishman so far as the U. S. is concerned , will take over the first ten weeks . Barbirolli 's appointment has been frowned upon by many a Philharmonic subscriber who may soon be convinced that he is either the season 's dead flop or its dark horse .                     