@@487314

H OW COMPLETELY FUTILE a lame-duck session of Congress can be is being demonstrated in ' Washington today . A deadlock between the discredited man in the White House and the Democrats on Capitol Hill has already developed . The present session seems likely to drag on , until it automatically expires in March , without accomplishing much if anything of consequence . This feeling is reflected in the President 's annual message to Congress . Mr. Hoover says little that is new , and that little he puts forward wearily , without conviction . He advocates a reform of the banking system and recommends a manufacturers ' sales tax as a source of revenue . No suggestion aroused any enthusiasm in Congress . The Democratic majority in the House is clearly not disposed to accept any of Mr. Hoover 's major recommendations , while the Democrats in the Senate have already decided that they will not confirm the appointment by the President of any officials whose terms expire after March 4 . It has been intimated that Mr. Hoover , for his part , will veto all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment or farm relief , which does not fit in with his notion of rugged American individualism . At the moment it seems as if Congress would do no more than pass the continuing resolutions necessary to extend the life of the current appropriations measures until the new Congress shall have had time to adopt a budget for the coming fiscal year . Happily , this will be our last lame-duck session . The Norris amendment abolishing such sessions has already been ratified by more than twenty States and by the end of January will almost certainly have been approved by the required thirty-six legislatures . T HE DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE has been saved again , this time by a five-Power agreement not published in full at this writing . It appears , however , that Great Britain , the United States , France , Italy , and Germany have signed a declaration indorsing the principle of " simultaneous equality of status " - for Germany and of security for France . One delegate is quoted as saying that " this does not mean the success of disarmament , but does avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been put through , . the conference in all probability would have collapsed . The present agreement insures the return of Germany to the conference , and constitutes from that point of view a great success for the German offensive begun by the Von Papen Government . It will doubtless encourage the Reich to be more aggressive hereafter in its demands for the revision of the Treaty of Versailles , and especially for the abolition of the Polish Corridor . Meanwhile , we eagerly await the exact text of this agreement in order that we may know just how far the United States has been committed on the question ' of security to France . The Hoover Government has thus far stood up very straight in refusing to enter into any treaty or obligation which would compel us to come to France 's rescue whenever and however that country might decide to engage in war . No agreement signed by Norman Davis should in any way obligate us to- be ready to guarantee France 's safety . At least , however , Mr. Davis has something to bring home as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the credit for the agreement seems to belong to Ramsay MacDonald , who finally put it through . THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS has again refused to take positive action against Japan for its violation of the peace treaties . The smaller Powers , especially CzechoSlovakia , the Irish Free State , Spain , and Sweden , wanted to get down to cases without further delay , but their resolution condemning Japan on the basis of the Lytton Commission 's findings was quickly buried in an obscure committee . Instead of acting favorably upon this resolution the League Assembly referred the entire Manchurian question to a special Committee of Nineteen . The new investigating committee is to study the Lytton report and draw up proposals for a settlement of the controversy . This cowardly procedure deceives no one . It simply means additional delay at a most critical time . What can the Committee of Nineteen learn that the Lytton Commission was unable to discover for itself in a year of intensive investigation and study ? What proposals for a settlement could the committee agree upon that would differ very materially from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and perhaps deliberately , playing into Japan 's hands . At least that country alone stands to profit by the League 's repeated refusal to face the basic issue , Japan needs time in which - onsolidate its position in Manchuria , and the more time it gains the more diffioult will it be to pry the Japanese loose from their unlawful gains or to bring them to book for their brazen violation of the League Covenant , the Nine-Power Pacific Treaty , and the Kellogg Pact . England and France must bear their full share of the responsibility for these results , for by their inaction they have sabotaged the Covenant and the Kellogg Pact at almost every turn in the Manchurian dispute . T APAN HAS NOW COME FORWARD with a naval- disarmament scheme of its own . While the Japanese plan contemplates what appear to be important reductions in the naval strength of the leading Powers , its real motive is altogether too transparent . A careful reading reveals that the plan , through manipulation of the various categories of naval ships , would give Japan not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but additional offensive power in the Pacific area . In Washington the Japanese proposals were promptly denounced as " fantastic and impossible of acceptance , even as a basis for discussion . " In its eagerness to strengthen itself in Asia at the expense of other Powers with interests in that region , Japan imperils the delicate balance of power set up with great care at the , Washington Conference for the specific purpose of preserving the peace of the Pacific area . Perhaps , however , Tokio was no more serious in announcing its plan than Washington and London have been in accepting that announcement . It has been suggested that the Japanese brought out their naval scheme at this time to complicate the Manchurian negotiations . To us it appears rather that Japan , encouraged by the League 's procrastination in the Manchurian question , has now taken the next logical step in its program of imperialistic expansion . DENMARK APPEARS to be about the only country in the world that has managed to retain its sanity in the economic storm . It was the first , and still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now the government at Copenhagen plans to remove many of the restrictions on Danish foreign trade , in refreshing contrast to the attitude of other governments , which are constantly creating new barriers against trade or are adding to the barriers already existing . Under the present system the Danish government controls the flow of imports by requiring importers to take out " currency licenses . " The new plan would place at least 35 per cent of the imports in a special group requiring no such licenses . Articles in this group would enter the country without restriction of any kind . The decline in the value of Danish currency will continue to operate as a barrier against American products , but the government proposes to adopt special regulations to facilitate the importation of certain goods from the United States , especially automobiles . The Danish government is proceeding cautiously of course . Only with great difficulty , in the face of the rising tide of economic nationalism elsewhere , could it abolish at once all measures protecting its trade . It is most heartening to find at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . GERMANY HAS ENDED its Mooney case after . Walther Bullerjahn had served more than six years of a fifteen years ' sentence in the penitentiary for high treason . In December , 1925 , the Supreme Court rejected Bullerjahn 's appeal from the decision of the lower court that he had betrayed a hidden store of arms to the Inter-Allied Military Commission when in December , 1924 , it searched the plant of a company in Berlin in which he was employed as a supervisor . That seemed to end the case , but the League for Human Rights fought on precisely as has the Mooney Committee , and finally succeeded in getting the Supreme Couit to hear the case again and reverse its own decision . Bullerjahn was convicted on the testimony of a certain Baron Paul von Gontard , the general director of the company , who declared that information that Bullerjahn had betrayed the hidden arms to the commission was given to him by a certain French lieutenant by the name of Jost . Three times the League for Human Rights appealed to French premiers , asking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permission was denied . When Baron von Gontard was reexamined in the retrial of the case , according to the London Daily Mail , he testified that it was an English officer whose name he could not remember who made the accusation against Bullerjahn . Thus has been won a case which for years has had the sympathy of the liberal German press . Meanwhile , our own Mooney continues in jail . MACHINE-GUNS WERE USED by a sheriff 's posse in evicting a farm family from their home in Wisconsin . Fortunately , no one was injured , although hundreds of shots were fired on both sides . Throughout the Middle West the tension between the farmers and authorities has been growing in recent months as a result of tax and foreclosure sales . In many cases evictions have been prevented only by mass action on the part of the farmers . However , until the Cichon homestead near Elkhorn , Wisconsin , was besieged on December 6 by a host of deputy sheriffs armed with machine-guns , rifles , shotguns , and tear-gas bombs , there had been no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a foreclosure sale last August , but he refused to allow either the buyer or the authorities to approach his home . He built a barbed-wire entanglement around the buildings and held off unwelcome visitors with a shotgun . The sheriff called upon Cichon to submit peacefully . When he refused to do so , the sheriff ordered deputies to lay down a barrage of machine-gun and rifle fire . The battle lasted twenty minutes . Cichon is now in jail in Elkhorn , and his wife and two children , who were with him in the house , are being cared for in the county hospital . Cichon is not a trouble-maker . He enjoys the confidence and respect of his neighbors , who only recently elected him justice of the peace of the town of Sugar Creek . That a man of his standing and disposition should go to such lengths in defying the authorities is a clear warning that we may expect further trouble in the agricultural districts unless the farmers are soon helped . N NEW YORK CITY during the first ten months of 1 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the municipal courts of the city . In other words , more than a quarter of a million families , involving surely a million people , have in less than a year been faced with eviction from their homes for failure to pay rent . The figures are almost unbelievable ; one shrinks from translating them into terms of human misery . They offer a useful index of the absolute destitution in New York , though undoubtedly they fail to indicate its full extent . Many thousands of families , unable to meet their rent , have been allowed to remain by decent landlords  --  or by landlords who despair of finding tenants who can pay . The situation is so acute that the Bronx Tenants Emergency League has written a letter to Governor Roosevelt , citing the figures and urging ? " in behalf of more than 60,000 destitute families against whom dispossess proceedings have been instituted this year in the Bronx alone " ? several measures to be acted upon by the special session of the New York Legislature now in progress . It asks that the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six months in the execution of a warrant of eviction instead of the present five-day stay . It asks that a landlord initiating dispossess proceedings be required to prove that he has a prospective tenant for the apartment in question and that there are no similar vacancies in the same house . It asks finally that the State and city each appropriate $20,000,000 for the direct payment of the rent of unemployed persons who , in spite of these restrictions , may be faced with eviction . Certainly some such measures should be taken to meet a housing crisis that is more acute than the situation existing in 1920 when the emergency rent laws were put through . The cause today is different but the suffering is even more widespread and intense . THE MASSACHUSETTS BRANCH of the League of Nations Association has sent us an interesting compilation of the results of a number of referendums held in Massachusetts on the day of the Presidential election to ascertain the feeling of eleven communities as to whether the United States should enter the League of Nations . Of these eleven communities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 63 per cent of the total vote cast was on the side of the affirmative . It is to be noted , however , that while 63,034 persons voted for the Presidential candidate , only 64 per cent , or 40,510 , took the trouble to signify their wishes as to the League . Of these , 25,631 approved , and 14,879 were opposed . This recalls the reversal of the vote of 1926 in Malden , when that town voted 5,763 against our entering the League to 3,239 in favor . Two years ago 6,050 voters favored the League and 5,490 were opposed . While Malden did not vote this year , the change in the other towns would seem to indicate that the majority in favor of the League in Malden would this year have been 7 or 8 per cent higher . These may be only straws , but it is at least gratifying to know that in Massachusetts they are getting into the habit of voting on international questions . CAROLINE STEVENS WITTPENN , who died in Hoboken on December 4 , was without doubt the foremost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether any single individual in the United States has done more work for social welfare than Mrs. Wittpenn . In her seventy-fourth year , until the time of her death , she was still active in fifty-two social groups , and at one time was associated with no less than ninety social-service organizations . To these she not only gave so generously of her means as to draw heavily upon her capital , but contributed most intelligent and high-minded interest and direction . Merely to list the organizations through which she personally accomplished changes in the social agencies of the State , and bettered the lot of orphans , paupers , the insane , and the criminal , would fill more than a page of The Nation . Largely because of her efforts the State Board of Children 's Guardians wasappointed and the State Reformatory for first offenders established at Rahway . For many years she was an assistant probation officer of Hudson County , and a member of the Probation Board . Mrs. Wittpenn was twice a member of the American delegation to the International Conference on Crime and Prevention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Commission . Never was there a woman of means who felt more keenly the responsibility that wealth should impose upon those who are advantaged by it to serve the public , not spasmodically , or when the drums are beating , but day by day , year in and year out . It need only be added that this service was enhanced by a rare and charming personality . A GREAT INJUSTICE seems to have been done to the American Consul General in Berlin , George S. Messer-smith , in connection with the Einstein case . It now appears that that official was not in Berlin but in Breslau when the incident occurred , and it is asserted that the consulate treated Professor Einstein with all consideration . This raises a dear-cut issue of veracity between the consulate and the press associations and special correspondents in Berlin . We can hardly believe that it was all a mare 's nest in view of the direct quotations of indignation attributed to both Professor Einstein and his wife . We are happy , however , to have the Consul General himself cleared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most intelligent and liberal men in the service , to which he has belonged for some nineteen years . The real guilt lies , of course , with a government which is so incredibly stupid and narrow as to compel its consuls to cross-examine applicants for visas on their political and economic views , and with a State Department which forwards to Europe for action any complaint which comes from an unrepresentative and silly organization like the Woman Patriot Corporation . It would certainly not feel a similar obligation to act on protests from liberal or radical organizations in America . The whole procedure is the more indefensible because of its futility . We venture to say that it is keeping out neither anarchists nor Bolshevists while it is constantly degrading us in the eyes of other nations . THE AUTHORITIES of Girton College , Cambridge , have announced that a woman student is likely " to wish to talk with a man student " and that " in her social relationships she is to be trusted . " Accordingly , from now on , Girton students may visit Cambridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This revolution has occurred peaceably , without riots or petition ; but it is a revolution none the less . At Oxford things are different . Somerville girls must have chaperones present when young men come to tea , even in the particular room consecrated to tea drinking . They may not motor with a man unprotected ; they must receive permission before accepting an invitation to go boating . It is fair to admit that American women 's colleges resemble Oxford in this regard more closely than they do Cambridge . Discipline is generally called upon to supplement training and good sense in matters of behavior . There will be many a college president and dean of women , here and in England , who will watch with interest and skepticism the Cambridge experiment in treating college women like mature persons instead of like delicate , and apparently very frail , flowers .                     