@@468831

THE Mission field is dangerous ground for an outsider to tread ; yet missions have been , are , and will continue to be important elements in the development of changing Africa . Without the missionary spirit we should never have had Livingstone : without Livingstone the exploration and opening-up of Africa would have been long delayed ( perhaps with beneficial results ? - one thinks of the Congo atrocities ? Livingstone begot Stanley , Stanley begot the Belgian Congo ) ; without Livingstone the ghastly crime of the slave trade would have lasted many decades longer . The early missionaries were undeterred by tropical diseases in days when even the bare facts about their transmission were not known and tropical hygiene was yet unborn . They were undeterred by physical hardships or by the very real dangers from savage and hostile negroes . In the unsettled conditions of these early years , the missionaries played a vital role . At that time the country was just being opened up . Many tribes were still unsubdued , hostile , dangerous . Arab slavers and equally unscrupulous white traders were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missionary was the much-needed antithesis to the slaver and the unregulated trade-adventurer . Even when settled government began , the missions for a long time supplied a large number of the administrations ' defects ; any education or medical service which the natives received was provided by them ; they imported useful plants and trees and taught useful arts . But conditions change rapidly in Africa . To-day the various African dependencies , governed by an admirable staff of administrators , are rapidly becoming organized states with their own patriotisms , their own life . Slavery and tribal war are no more ; alien trade and settlement are carefully regulated ; there are State medical , agricultural , forestry services ; scientific discoveries , unknown in their pioneer days , are being requisitioned to build the foundations of health and prosperity ; railways , steamers , and motor buses speed up transport ; the natives themselves arc anxious for education , and the breath of ideas is stirring among them . The period since the War has been characterized by a new spirit in African affairs ? the desire to find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptable to the general conscience of civilization and shall promote both the development of African material resources for world use and that of the African peoples towards a fuller life . The exact issue is not yet decided ; but we can safely prophesy that the history-books of the future will record as one of the special characteristics of the present half-century the fact that it fixed the broad lines along which the destinies of Africa were to develop . What part are the Missions to play iu this new , stabilized Africa ? That is the question at issue . They are a powerful body . Missionary effort is now better organized than many businesses . The income of the various Protestant Missionary Societies has risen steadily from about two and three-fourths million pounds in 1895 to nearly fifteen million pounds in 192.5 . In the latter year they had over 7,000 ordained ministers in the field , and claimed a total of over 8 million converts , with over three and one-half million communicants . Figures do not seem to be available for the income of Roman Catholic Missions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magnitude , since in the same year they boasted over 8,000 European priests in the Mission field , and about seven and one-half million native converts . The influence of Missions in primitive countries is far greater than can be reckoned in terms of converts . It is subtle and pervasive . The missionaries are often the chief or only source of the light of Western learning and ideas ; their converts play a disproportionate part in the life of the country ; Missions are usually entrusted with all or the major part of education in primitive regions and entrenched in their privileged position by sanctions and subsidies from the local governments ; in backward territories , where the natives have as yet no real power , they may constitute one of the three estates of the realm , on an equal footing as regards influence with the personnel of government and the unofficial white community of commercial men and planters . The chief difficulty in discussing the role of Missions is the enormous difference among them . Not merely will one missionary body base itself on quite different ideas from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ White Father , devoted and hardworking limited yet tolerant , an earnest and learned German Lutheran , and a representative of corybantic Fundamentalism from the United States ? ) , but two stations or sections of one and the same Missionary Society may be as different as chalk from cheese ? one may be dominated by old-fashioned ideas and narrow , bigoted minds , the other by the most humane and modernist temper . Then again there are all grades of devotion and sacrifice . At one end I think of saintly faced French nuns who have come out to Africa , knowing that the regulations of their order will never permit them to see their own land and people again , of men working for native health and happiness as hard as the hardest driven Government servant , but with a far lower standard of living and far less leave . At the other I think of men I have met who obviously found in missionary life in Africa a much freer , ampler , and more comfortable existence than any they could have looked forward to at home ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black men and women to wait on them and labor for them , no more work than they cared to do , and with a mild adventure thrown in . One of them in conversation quite frankly acknowledged the immense advantages of missionary life . None the less , there are some general or fairly general statements which can reasonably be made . The first is that medical Missions , almost without exception , are accomplishing first-class and indispensable work . The C. M. S. Medical Mission in Uganda is the outstanding East African example . To be shown over the hospital at Kampala by Doctor Cook is a revelation . This big place , admirably run , would never exist but for the rare combination of missionary zeal , medical skill , pioneering spirit , and practical ability of this one man . And his wife 's accomplishment is almost equal to his . She has organized a system of maternity clinics far and wide over the country and trained the Baganda girls to act as midwives and nurses in them . So reliable are they that though the outlying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be visited for weeks or months at a time , the girls can be trusted to carry on and cope with the work unaided . I saw a class of them in the hospital at Kampala , learning the elements of gynmecology ? a pleasant sight , with their soft-modelled kindly faces and trim uniforms . Then there are the immense services of the Missions to native education , on its practical and technical as well as its academic side . Do not let it be forgotten that they have been so long in the field that they have had time to spread a network of schools all over the country . And good missionary schools are very good . No one can see the two great cathedrals outside Kampala ( both fine , and one a really striking building , full of dignity and cool simplicity ) , can visit them and listen to the choir sing Bach or plain song , see the thronging attentive congregation , hear ( and long to understand ) a fiery sermon preached by a Muganda , without realizing that the missionaries have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definitely suit many Africans , but have done much more to introduce the African to beauty , whether of architecture , of music , or of thought , than all the rest of the white men on the Continent put together . Unfortunately the beauty is sown very sporadically ; most churches in East Africa are still ramshackle affairs , most church music goes no farther than a harmonium and atrociously nasal hymn-singing . But there are a fair number of exceptions , and they are increasing . Then the Missions are often the disseminators of new and healthier ways of living . In the Kikuyu reserve , mission-trained girls are generally not content to live in a dirty , unventilated , beehive but : they insist on their husbands building them nice little houses , two or even four-roomed , with windows and a door . These , with their tin roofs and bare-looking wood walls , are lamentably less picturesque than the old huts , but are palaces in comparative comfort , and infinitely healthier . Nor are most of these Christianized women willing to go on with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , knit them little garments for the cool evenings , give them food which will not swell their unfortunate little stomachs to bursting-point . And the same is true among many of the Baganda and other tribes . III That is the credit side of the balance ; and it is impressive enough . There is , however , a debit side . Even those two great cathedrals at Kampala have their discouraging aspect . For there are two of them only because they are rivals . They are visible memorials of the fact that Uganda was the scene of the last religious war between Christians . They are symbols of the fatal disunion of Christianity , which invades Africa divided into dozens of separate sects , each assuring the black man that it alone holds the secret of his eternal salvation ? and implying , if no longer openly asserting , damnation to the rest . What wonder that the natives become a little bewildered at the sectarian divisions in the white man 's religion ? It is an interesting fact , but one which may make white Christians blush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestant and Catholic teachers worked together was founded by a native chief in Uganda , himself a Christian convert , who refused to believe that sectarianism could be good . The only other schools of such a nature are not Mission but Government institutions , and even in them the Catholics have sometimes tried to get the native Catholic teachers away from this sinful association . At the Government training schools for teachers and other higher institutions attempts have been made to set up common hostels for everyone ; these attempts have always broken down owing to the opposition of the Catholics , who will not tolerate the notion of undenominational services or close mixing of the sects . Then of course you have to face the fact that if most of your education is going to be given through the Missions , most of your education will have a strong religious bias . The principle of secular education , established for half a century all over western Europe , has not yet found much foothold in Africa . In Kenya , even though there is a Government Education Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is recognized only when the schools are in receipt of a grant ; and the Roman Catholics have chosen to do without grants so that they enjoy complete freedom to teach what they like , of whatever standard they like . This is an anomalous situation which should not be allowed to continue . With few but notable exceptions , missionary endeavor puts conversion far above education , concentrates as much as possible on religious teaching , and often ? though this attitude is decreasing ? sees in secular knowledge merely a bait with which to angle for souls . ( That being so , one can hardly blame those among the natives who being astute enough to see this manage to secure the bait without swallowing the hook . ) I shall not easily forget the impression I received at one large mission in the Kikuyu country . An official of the Education Department and I were being shown over the school by the head of the mission , a charming and saintly man who has devoted his life unsparingly to this work . He is a great believer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the East African lingua franca . In the school , however , a good deal of Swahili was being taught . When asked why , he answered , " Because the whole of the Old Testament has not yet been translated into Kikuyu . " I was staggered : I had not envisaged a state of mind which would make a man willing to insist on his boys grinding away at Swahili , against his own educational conviction , in order that they might have the privilege of reading Deuteronomy or a few of the minor prophets . It all seemed so wrong-headed , so astonishingly out of proportion . This attitude encourages also ? or at least permits ? a low standard in nonreligious subjects . There are still hundreds and hundreds of bush-schools in which hymns and catechism take the lion 's share of the curriculum ; and the rest is devoted to exceedingly sketchy instruction in reading and writing , a little arithmetic , and rarely geography or history . Combined with the natural desire to score as many conversions as possible and the need to impress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to native education . A missionary body likes to be able to report that it possesses so many hundred schools and is educating so many thousand little heathens . But the people who drop their pennies into the missionary box at home would often be astonished enough if they could see the miserable huts that serve as schools , still more , if they could hear the limitations of the teaching , and most of all , if they realized the extremely casual attendance at such schools . I should imagine , from inquiries I made , that only between thirty and forty per cent of the children put down as attending mission schools in East Africa were getting an education worth calling an education . When conversion is the prime aim , it is almost inevitable that many valuable native customs will be lost in the process . Converts often come to despise all their own customs . They throw the baby out with the bath and abandon respect for tribal elders and tribal traditions . Yet they almost inevitably fail to imbibe our Western traditions properly ( how could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually fall between two stools . I may quote an actual instance . The Government of Kenya is making a determined effort at the Jcanes School to show the native teachers engaged in the school to teach native handicraft and tribal history how to use these crafts ; I was told there that one of the greatest difficulties is the reluctance of many Christian native teachers , and of the white missionaries under whose instruction they work , to countenance such " evil practices . " Then we must not forget that natives do not always embrace Christianity for the reasons the missionaries would desire . Christianity is the white man 's religion , and in many regions it definitely confers social prestige . When this is so , the convert tends to look down on his unconverted brethren . As a result of these two tendencies , it is unfortunately often the fact that in Africa certain types of Christianized " educated " native , if put into a position of responsibility . often treat their own people very harshly . Then there is the question of religious intolerance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been assured that Christianity ( or rather one particular branch of it ) means salvation , while all other religions mean damnation . In a district of western Uganda which Ivisited , there was considerable trouble a year or so ago owing to the fanaticism of a native Christian who was going about inveighing against , and sometimes deliberately destroying , the little shrines outside the native huts . These are really miniature models of huts where a simple and admirable ritual of ancestor worship is carried on . But as certain of the local missions have given them the name of " devil houses " it is not surprising that zealous converts set out to extirpate these abominations . IV One must confess that there is still a good deaf of narrowmindedness among missionaries in the field . There has been a notable change in this respect of recent years . But I do not think it unfair to say that at present the proportion of men and women with at all liberal or modern ideas about religion is lower in the mission field than in religious circles at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in a position to exert more power and influence than can religious bodies at home . In England there are other currents of thought besides religion ? literary , scientific , artistic , philosophical ? which help to mold the country 's ideas and action , but in the tropics missionary notions on theology and moral values can exert their influence starkly with scarcely a competitor . There are two unfortunate results of this strong influence of any missionary narrowmindedness . In the first place , much to the bewilderment of the native , a gulf seems to yawn between the standard ideas of the two kinds of white men with whom they are chiefly brought into contact ? the missionary and the administrative officer . Most men in government service in Africa have the standard of ideas of the average middle-class Englishman . They do their job to the best of their ability , they devote a good deal of attention to tennis , golf , and other forms of sport ; they are always playing bridge , and they dance whenever they can find an opportunity . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's routine . In missionary circles , however , I was astonished to find how many people still regarded cards as the devil 's bible , the theater or the cinema as wicked , and dancing or the least trace of alcohol as deadly sin . And in place of the usual tolerance of the official , I was horrified to see the amount of hostility , veiled or open , between the official representatives of different Christian sects . When missionaries are narrowminded , their narrowmindedness has other unfortunate results . It tends to make them intolerant of , or even hostile to any manifestation of beauty in art . Too often art , like secular knowledge , is regarded either as a mere handmaid to religion , or in some cases , as definitely hostile to it . It will be a long time before the idea that art for art 's sake and knowledge for knowledge 's sake are two great liberating forces for the human spirit , neither of which is inferior to religion proper , will have taken root in missionary circles . Here again there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many cases the effect of missionary influence and missionary education has been to break down the traditional native ideas , and their mode of expression , without putting anything in their place . Or what is put in their place is too often inferior . Art and beauty are regarded as of very secondary importance and , therefore , only a perfunctory attention is given to them . Pleasing songs are sometimes taught. , but on the other hand , music is often confined to hymn-singing . And what hymn-singing ! I shall never get out of my ears the sound of the hymns atone big mission church in the Kikuyu country . The church was packed to overflowing , the mere odor was overpowering . The hymn was given out ; the congregation threw themselves upon it . A volume of sound broke forth which you could have heard a mile away . Determined , strident , metallic , it pierced one 's very vitals . The hymn continued , always fortissimo , verse after verse . I did not dare raise my eyes to look at my companions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's recesses . And yet the wonderful results achieved in places like King 's School , Bodo , show that the East African needs only proper training to love good music and to sing it well . And finally there are clothes . At some places , they have given up trying to make the natives wear European clothes , because they have realized that their own traditional skin costume is healthier . But in most places , either on the score of health , or usually on the score of propriety , Missions encourage or even insist upon the wearing of European clothes , especially amongst the boys and girls actually in their school . It is unfortunate that these costumes are almost invariably so much less becoming than the old native , traditional clothing , and much less so than they have any need to be . In some cases also , although they cover up all of the body , they often do so in such a way as to reveal or to accentuate the form , thus becoming a good deal more sexually provocative than the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear to imagine that they should be allowed to enjoy certain privileges denied to other mortals . This is seen especially in their attitude towards work for the benefit of the Mission . At many stations much work is done for the benefit of the Mission station and of the missionaries themselves , by native labor which is defiMISSIONS AND THE LIFE OF AFRICA ' 739 nitely underpaid even in relation to the low standard elsewhere prevailing in Africa . Some of this is doubtless given freely and willingly . But there can be little doubt that the prestige of a creed which lays claim to a control over man 's eternal fate contributes , consciously or unconsciously , to this result . And in the commandeering of porters or of foodstuffs the missionary will often find that the end justifies the means . In western Uganda I was myself witness of an illuminating incident . The District Commissioner was seeing us off on our way towards the Belgian Congo , when a nice looking native came up and spoke to him . He was complaining of the local Church Missionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an island in the lake where he had been growing coffee and bananas . The Mission had then obtained a permit for temporary occupation of this island . They had dispossessed the man and cut down his bananas and were profiting by his coffee plants ; but they had up till now refused to pay any compensation to him whatever . So far as I could understand , they were letting the island and the cottage they had built on it to settlers and thereby were making considerable profit , although by the terms of their contract sub-letting was not permitted . V There remains the most fundamental question of all ? the suitability of Christianity , and the suitability of Mission methods of Christianizing , to the African . Here again , a great deal depends on the particular case . A Martian observer would , I imagine , find an ironical humor in studying some of the more fundamentalist creeds that are being pressed upon the Dark Continent . For after all , if judged by the consensus of educatedthought , they are in many respects little more advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to wean the negro from his addiction to magic and yet allow him to be preached at and converted by people who solemnly believe in prayers for rain , the literal inspiration of the bible , the historical truth of Genesis ' account of Creation , and all the rest of it ! Over and over again I was warned about the difficulty of introducing biological ideas into native education ? because biology implied evolution , and evolution ( although admittedly the greatest and most illuminating single new idea which we owe to the nineteenth century ) was anathema to large sections of Protestant and Catholic missionaries alike . I wonder if people of this stamp realize that their ideas seem exactly as barbaric , crude , and wrong to a considerable and influential section of civilized people as do to them the ideas of the primitive tribes among whom they are working ? Do they at all grasp that there exists a large and growing body of people , brought up in the new conception of the universe which Science is revealing , familiarized with inodern ideas on religion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind , not a body of dogma or a system of salvation , and who believe that religion can live only if it abandons its primitive certitude and learns to change and grow ? and that to them the theology which was orthodox up to the late nineteenth century is completely obsolete , as obsolete as feudalism , bows and arrows , or the divine right of kings ? I will quote one instance of what I mean . The following extract from a letter was in a copy of Ruanda Notes , a Central African missionary journal , which I happened to see . The pious gentleman is describing some of the horrors of a famine . " As 1 walked down the hill from the hospital my blood boiled because of the cruelty of it all , but the answer came to me . Sin was written across these withered bodies . Satan had dragged them down , and given death and disease as his reward . " This is white enlightenment and Christian charity . Fortunately there is a strong broadminded minority among the missionaries . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still is retarding the enlightenment of Africa , and will continue to do so until the enlightened minority becomes a majority . Relevant here is the grave question whether conversion may not do as much harm as good . Even if , as undoubtedly often occurs , it helps individuals , it may do social harm by rotting the framework of native tradition and tribal ideas without succeeding in putting anything adequate in its place . This is especially true with the converts of bodies which believe in the efficacy of sudden conversion . For how can you expect a primitive negro mind by a few weeks or months of religious instruction to acquire a complete new background of all the ideas which alone give significance to nominal Christianity ? Especially when his old background of ideas has been almost non-existent ? Incautious proselytism runs the risk of producing intolerance , disintegration of social solidarity , disrespect for tradition . Administrators and anthropologists can produce scores of instances in which the new ideas have had unfortunate and sometimes entirely unforeseen results . And then there is the radical difference between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in the country . This difference often has its admirable side : it is highly important that in a new country there should exist an influential body of men whose attitude is coloredneither by the incentive of personal gain nor by the outlook and restrictions of government service . But it has its faults as well as its merits . As illustration , I will content myself by setting down an incident which was narrated to me by a European education officer . A boy at a Government school , a non-Christian , met with a bad accident and was taken , unconscious , to a hospital . There he was seen by a charitable Roman Catholic missionary , and baptized ? while still unconscious . He recovered , was informed of his baptism , and came in some perplexity to my informant : was he really a Christian , would he have to go to church , believe all the things the missionaries told him , and behave as they bade under penalty of damnation ? His idea seemed to be that having come under the control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now be subject to that God 's power . He was told that as the rite had been administered without his knowledge , he was perfectly free to do as he liked . However , he appeared to feel that some magic compulsion lay upon him , went to church to see what it was like , as he put it , and has thus drifted into Christianity . To the orthodox Catholic the missionary 's action seems not only legitimate but highly praiseworthy ; it was done to make quite sure that if the boy died his soul might have a chance of being saved . To my informant , on the other hand , it seemed a wholly unfair way of gaining influence over the unprepared mind of a young native . The view of some of the more liberal of the younger missionaries is that the theological aspect of Christianity should be reduced to a minimum in mission work , and that the stress be laid on its ethical side , and also upon the general raising of the native 's standard of life and thought , irrespective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They point , with some reason , to the impossibility of supposing that tribal Africans can be brought at a bound to appreciate in any adequate way the theological elaborations of Christian religious thought ? how can they do so , for one thing , through the medium of languages in which words for abstract ideas are sadly lacking ? And they object to any such idea as the verbal inspiration of the Bible , preferring with some reason to see in it the history of a religious evolution from a barbaric stage scarcely more advanced than that of many African religions to-day up to a high level of ethical monotheism finally illuminated by the ethical insight of Jesus and his spirit of sacrifice . They are also quite alive to the danger I have already mentioned , of inducing mental and social chaos by insisting on new and unassimilated ideas . They would accordingly do everything in their power to keep as much as possible of customs like initiation which lie at the root of tribal organization and native psychology , of the dances which are the African 's most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art and music , crafts and folklore which embody the soul of the people . And they would give the greatest possible autonomy to the local churches as they developed . With regard to the last point , it is an interesting fact , not perhaps generally known , that the affairs of the Anglican Church in Uganda are looked after by a body on which natives are in a majority , and several cases have occurred in which black opinion has been opposed to white , and has outvoted it . Not long ago , for instance , a proposal was made to put up a stainedglass window in the Cathedral to the memory of Bishop Hannington , who was murdered , forty-five years ago , by the Baganda because he persisted in trying to reach the capital by the forbidden route from the east . The European clergy were almost unanimously in favor of this . But unfortunately the language difficulty cropped up again : the Luganda phrase for stained-glass window included a word also used for graven image , and as graven images are forbidden in the Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the subscriptions had to be returned . Farther to the south in Africa there is a strong movement in favor of an autonomous African Church and it is at least arguable that the best thing for the African will be to let him work out , with large latitude , the types of religion best suited to himself ? even should this here and there involve such patriarchal doings , on the whole well suited to African conditions , as the marriage to more than one wife , for instance . Here again let us remember that there can be no question of shutting off the African from religious progress any more than from economic or intellectual progress . There is , it is true , one region of British Africa ( in northern Nigeria ) in which Christian missionizing is actually prohibited , under the treaty by which the country was taken into the Empire , but this is already under the sway of an advanced religion ? Islam . In regions where the original primitive religions still prevail we can no more suppose or hope that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their illiteracy or their unsanitary huts or inefficient methods of agriculture . Progress in any one department of life will react on the rest . If Christian ethics , humanist ideals , and non-sectarian services and beliefs , based on some simple monotheist creed , could be universally given in government schools , it might be that the African would build up for himself a Christianity so highly modified as to be a new religion . Meanwhile , however , the choice lies between educated paganism , Christianity , and Islam . Educated paganism may become a force to reckon with in East Africa ; at the moment it is negligible . There remain the two Western world-religions . There are a great many people who stoutly maintain that Mohammedanism is the best religion for the African , that it encourages in him greater stability , more self-respect as well as more respect for authority , less restlessness and less hypocrisy than does conversion to Christianity . It would seem that there is something in this And yet it is very difficult to believe that in the long run Islam would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wherever Islam has made headway in Africa it has led to a definite and real progress ; true , but to a progress which has then been arrested . This seems to be the all but universal opinion of those in a position to fudge . It takes the pagan so far and no farther . This is doubtless due to the fact that the profession of Islam , in practice if not in theory , means chiefly the keeping of certain rules , the practice of certain ritual observances , the recitation of certain words ; while Christianity , even in cases where it is strictest in the matter of rules of life , ritual , or credal efficacy , does invariably insist on the importance of the inner life and of high standards in regard to it . The standards of Christianity are often described as impracticable and impossible , leading inevitably to hypocrisy or a divorce between precept and practice . This may be true in its degree , yet it seems undoubted that it is the very impossibility for the Christian of living up to the standards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is impossible to live up to any standard of perfection , whether in matters intellectual or artistic as much as in ethics . But the fact that it is cherished impels to further effort . Belief in the efficacy of external things , be they words or deeds , on the other hand , of a practicable instead of an impracticable standard , will tend to moral and intellectual stagnation . It may , if the prescribed rules be well chosen , help markedly at first towards a raising of level of life and an increase of self-respect ; but after a time this will almost inevitably cease . As between Islam and Christianity , then , it would seem that although Islam may secure greater immediate progress , the improvements due to Christianity are likely to be in the long run more considerable and more continuous . If we desire a progressive development for the African native , we are more likely to get it through Christianity than by either encouraging Islam or safeguarding paganism . But we should attempt to make the Christianizing process a gradual one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and humanism which is the new spirit of the post-war age , and may one day form the basis of some religion as yet unborn . VI And our conclusions ? It is no good merely reciting merits and faults , apportioning praise or blame . The Missions exist , firmly rooted , in Africa ; they are a part of its system . The most bitter opponent of Missions could not seriously suggest abolishing them , for he must know this would be wholly impossible . But their most enthusiastic adherent should agree that they ought not to lay claim to any privileged position , and should guard against developing too solid vested interests ; and he would probably agree also that the system had many faults . The chief remedy , as it seems to me , is to take the Missions more seriously , as an integral part of white activity in the tropics , not merely as evangelizing agencies to be tolerated by an embarrassed administration , nor as organizations to be utilized , because they happen to be there , by education departments in a hurry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saving expense in the budgets of the Department of Medicine and Public Health . They are de facto a Third Estate of the realm in almost all African territories ; let us recognize and regularize the condition . What would such recognition mean ? It would mean that the relation of the Missions to the state and the government would become regularized in regard to all their activities , as has already been done with their educational work . Their present complete or almost complete freedom would be diminished , but in return their role as co-partners with Government in the development of the natives would be enhanced . But even if this proposal , which doubtless savors of Erastianism , were not acceptable , much could still be done . Perhaps the Missions will not become more closely linked with government departments . Even so , now that stable and efficient governments with a continuous policy have been set up , the recognition by the governments of the Missions ' value to the country arid of their right to continue their work there involves certain corresponding recognitions from the missionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the recognition that , since to be a missionary in a primitive and changing country is a great responsibility , a definite and high standard should be demanded from would-be workers in this field , just as it is from candidates for the administration , the agricultural service , or any other government department . A missionary in Africa is a man who sets out to remold the immemorial life of whole peoples . He sets out to convert them to a new religion , to alter their morals , their social customs , to educate their children in a radically new way , to teach them new ways of doing old things , and things which are new altogether , to cure their diseases and make them live healthier lives . Now this is a very responsible , not to say a ticklish job to undertake . And one surely has a right to demand that the men who intend to undertake it shall submit themselves to as definite training to prepare themselves for it as do candidates for any other professional career . Missionaries who intend to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will obviously need specialized preparation : but I am speaking of the rank and file who , like the administrator , will be concerned with all the aspects of native life . Their own religious bodies will demand that they receive a specialized religious preparation ; practical needs will see to it that they learn the language of the country once they get there . But is it too much to ask that they should prepare themselves beforehand by passing courses in the history and geography of the country where they intend to go ; in psychology , if possible in science , notably as regards elementary physiology and the biology of reproduction and sex , and very definitely in social anthropology so that they may understand the meaning and value of the institutions and beliefs they are setting out to alter ? I do not think that it is . And governments of African territories could ensure its being done by giving notice that after the lapse of a certain time , missionaries would be allowed to enter the country only if they could produce a certificate showing they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Missions themselves , it seems , would be quite likely to agree . At least , a beginning has been made . I have spoken of the courses organized by the Protestant Missions in conjunction with the British Social Hygiene Council for missionary workers in the tropics . And they have proved so successful that it is proposed to hold them annually and to enlarge them as much as possible . It is a notable step , and one symptomatic of the spirit of progress now to be found in almost all the more active missionary bodies . The only difficulty is that Missions are primarily dependdent upon voluntary subscriptions , and that it is apparently much harder to get contributions for the slow work of what I may call anthropological missionizing than for the more spectacular business of quantitative conversion . We can only hope that this will change as the increase of public enlightenment grows at home . The missionary spirit is a vital thing , productive of much self-sacrificing activity , much potential good to the world . The problem is how toharness it to best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular case , for the good of Africa . At the moment there is one great source of wasted energy . Many people with the missionary spirit do not belong to any Church ; as a result there is at present no outlet in the missionary field for their enthusiasm . If it were possible to organize a non-sectarian mission , a large new supply of energy and devotion would be put at the service of native peoples . Such a body , though non-sectarian , would have a truly religious aim ? to work so that Africato-be would enjoy more life , better and richer life , and enjoy it more abundantly . But even without such dreams , much can be done . And it would seem that the most important things which the missionary spirit could do at the moment are to co-operate to the utmost with Governments in the general task of native development , even if this means sacrificing some of its independence ; and still more , to submit itself to discipline and training , thorough and scientific , for the work it wants to @ @ @ 