@@255401

Astronomers are as proud of the number of total solar eclipses they have witnessed as railroad conductors are of the gold service stripes on their sleeves . Dr. Samuel Alfred Mitchell , director of the Leander McCormick Observatory , University of Virginia , who has been looking at the skies for 32 years , has the great totality total of 15 min. ( six eclipses ) to his credit . He has had to travel 90,000 mi. to do it . Had he attended every instance of the sun 's darkening since 1900 he would have a grand total of 68.1 min. and might have traveled as far as the eclipse-causing moon ( 238,857 mi. ) and back again . It was with much satisfaction that he radioed to Science Service in Washington that , as director of the U. S. expedition to witness last week 's solar eclipse at Niuafou Island ( 8,000 mi. from Washington ) he had added 93.9 sec. more to his totality total . <P> Dr. Mitchell was satisfied but not enthusiastic with what he had seen when the moon 's shadow fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he expected . When , however , his 112 photographs of the phenomenon were developed , Dr. Mitchell pronounced the expedition 's success " unequaled in astronomical annals . " Spectroscopic analyses of the incandescent gases which surround the sun showed a new wavelength which scientists had never known before . The visible spectrum ranges from 8,000 to 4,000 angstrom units. * Dr. Mitchell 's wavelength was 6,770 angstrom units . The camera recorded what the astronomer 's eyes had missed-disturbances in the corona on the east and west edges of the sun , caused probably by violent motions in the inner corona . Evidences of these upheavals were seen shooting out 100,000 mi. beyond the surface of the sun . Photographs showed coronal streamers with unusual strawberry-colored domes . From careful time computations , astronomers discovered that the eclipse had begun 2 sec. before it was scheduled , ended 1 sec. early . <P> Two months ago , the Mitchell expedition , under the auspices of the U. S. Naval Observatory , set out to keep its 93-sec. engagement . The totality band of this year 's eclipse spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South America . On its way it crossed only two tiny points of land : Nurakita , an inaccessible island , and Niuafou in the Tonga group , home of 1,500 Polynesian natives . Because it stands so proudly high in a treacherous sea , ships can not approach Niuafou . Mail is sent to shore in tin cans . Hence the island is familiarly called Tin Can Island . Astronomers had no choice . To see the eclipse they had to dare a difficult landing , pack themselves and their apparatus upon the inhabitable two square miles of Niuafou with the Polynesians . For baggage they carried materials for one 65-ft. and one 63-ft. camera , numerous smaller cameras , food for two months , spectroscopes , lumber , notebooks . Setting up their apparatus they tested it for a month in advance , rehearsed their parts . Rain and mist for 93 sec. at the time of the eclipse would have ruined everything .                     