@@152662

Though the world was loudly promised that Japan 's invasion of Jehol would stop at the Great Wall of China , Japanese troops found themselves occupying about 1,000 sq . mi. of Chinese territory inside the Wall last week , firing at fleeing Chinese only 100 mi. from Tientsin . Heaviest fighting took place at Leng Pass 50 miles inland from Shanhaikwan . Because Japanese citizens and taxpayers were grimly considering the first official casualty lists of the Jehol campaign ( 1,479 Japanese soldiers killed , 3,468 wounded ) , Japanese staff officers moved more prudently . Fifty field guns and 30 military planes pounded the ill-equipped Chinese lines before infantry went into the pass with the bayonet . <P> Chinese patriots , burning in the safe distance of Shanghai , received comforting news . General Tsai Ting-kai , commander of China 's able 19th Route Army , hero of last year 's Battle of Shanghai , announced that he was moving 8,000 of his best men to northern Kwantung province where they would join other Cantonese and Southern troops and advance against the Japanese . Foreign correspondents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prestige of Nationalist Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek than in driving Japan from Jehol . <P> Boxer Balance . The same ship that carried discountenanced Warlord Chang Hsueh-liang and his 17 " secretaries " from Shanghai last week also bore Benito Mussolini 's son-in-law , Count Galeazzo Ciano , Italian Minister to China , going home for a vacation . Earlier in the week he had put the finishing touches to a deal started some months ago when Chiang Kai-shek 's brother-in-law H. H. Kung visited Rome . Still owing the Italian Government is a balance of $2,000,000 in gold from the Boxer indemnity squeezed from the old Empress Dowager in 1901 . It was agreed last week that this balance should be devoted to buying Italian war planes for use against Japan , a business that had become practically a U. S. monopoly . First shipment of 20 fighting planes was already en route to China last week . As a special premium with the deal , three Italian instructors took up their duties at the aviation school at Hangchow , and the famed Italian racing pilot Mario Bernardi accepted a commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rolling Stock . Russo-Japanese relations , quiet for a year , suddenly snapped taut last week at an angry squawk from the government of Manchukuo . While thousands of Soviet troops have moved quietly into line along the Manchukuan border , railway officials at the Russian end of the Chinese Eastern Railway have been quietly detaining rolling stock of the C. E. R. , rerouting them over Russian tracks . Manchukuo officials woke to the fact last week that the Soviet had " borrowed " 3,200 freight cars , 190 passenger cars , 83 locomotives . The system was paralyzed , for the C. E. R. is built on Russian broad gauge , all other Manchurian rolling stock is built to U. S. standard gauge . <P> An official sedative was issued from Tokyo : " We do not believe that there will be serious eventualities . "                     