@@487425

TO ITS cynical critics Teachers College has long resembled a nursery in which incompetents are painstakingly elevated to mediocrity . From it , nevertheless , have emanated most of the vital currents which have periodically stirred the docile teaching profession in America . For many years this unit of Columbia University was the only important center of teacher training in the United States , and although numerous rivals and imitators have sprung up recently  --  largely under the leadership of Teachers College alumni  --  it is still the most important school of its kind . Because its influence is so widespread , certain events that have recently occurred within its walls have peculiar significance for American education . These events dramatize the existence of a tug-of-war between those who want to maintain the institution 's integrity and those who favor a discreet Anschluss with Wall Street . For several decades Teachers College , relying for its revenue upon student enrolment , enjoyed a measure of independence unknown in institutions supported by endowments . It is now passing from this condition of relative freedom to the harsh servitude of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's high-handed disregard for democratic procedure , the anxiety of progressive faculty members who see looming before them a choice between resignation to silence and resignation from the university , the diminished confidence of some outstanding liberals , and intensified administrative efforts to attract conservative benefactors . .. Teachers College was founded by adventurers in an educational wilderness . It attained maturity without benefit of large private subsidies . To its halls came pioneers in various fields ? Thorndike in educational psychology , Strayer in the science of school administration , Kilpatrick in progressive education , McMurry in elementary education , Patty Hill , founder of the first American kindergarten , and a host of others . By 1920 it had become a major source of the profession 's dignity ; by 1927 it was a big business paying handsome dividends . George Strayer and his colleagues had a virtual monopoly in the placement of school executives ; faculty members enjoyed the prestige , and often the profits of such diverse ventures as school designing , textbooks , lectures , educational films . When Dean James Earl Russell retired in 1927 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throne of a prospering enterprise . Even after the crash of 1929 the business of education continued to soar ; in the summer of 1930 , 14,000 students crowded Teachers College classrooms . But very soon the academicians ' dream of immunity from crisis came to an end . Teachers College had long boasted of its cosmopolitan enrolment ; by 1932 it was wooing the teachers of New York in fierce competition with New York University . While the sagging curve of enrolment essentially reflected the increasing economic stringency , it was aggravated by the growing eminence of other teacher-training institutions . It was an auspicious moment for insurgent voices in education . In 1934 such voices became audible ; the doctrines they enunciated were forthright , critical , and , most important , dramatically rooted in social crisis . Names like Counts , Newlon , Watson , Rugg , Miller , Gans over . shadowed those of Strayer , Mort , Briggs , Thorndike . The new progressives bluntly integrated their educational theories with fresh insights into capitalist disorder . In that year the murmurings of this dissident group were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Dare the School Build a New Social Order ? " This was the manifesto of the left wing in education , and its title was amply suggestive of their , emphasis as well as of their hopes . It is not easy to name the precise moment Dean William F. Russell 's bewilderment ended and his fears became articulate . The college 's financial problems were , becoming acute ; such prosperity as it still enjoyed was attributable to the drawing power of the progressives . The first conflict occurred late in 1935 , when Teachers College professors led an energetic anti-Hearst campaign which vexed Russell not because he loved Hearst more but because he was already thinking in terms of " good " and " bad " publicity . Far more important were the labor troubles which had begun to simmer within the college itself . In an attempt to destroy unionism among the college 's manual workers , four cafeteria workers were summarily fired . The dismissals would probably have been unnoticed in an earlier educational environment ; now there were the increasingly vocal progressives , supporting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unionism , preaching an identity between educator and worker . This was their first test , and they met it without flinching . They forced a faculty probe of labor conditions at the college , an inquiry which ultimately led to the establishment of uncommonly enlightened conditions . More immediately , however , it led to a widening of the breach between 562 Russell and William Kilpatrick , acknowledged head of the progressive bloc . A faculty committee headed by Kilpatrick had named the investigators , and at their head was John Childs , a protege of Kilpatrick 's and a thorn in Russell 's flesh at the time . This committee 's report sharply criticized the administration 's labor policy . When similar issues confronted Russell shortly after the cafeteria dismissals , his reprisals became deliberate . Teachers College service men joined a city-wide strike ; they were supported by the faculty progressives and by a newly established student newspaper , the News . Soon afterward the News was deprived of its subsidy and ushered into oblivion . Russell was frank in stating that its editorial judgments were responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the college . The Dean was even more peremptory in challenging the liberals on his faculty . He invited those faculty members who were critical of his labor policies to submit their resignations ; these would not be accepted at once , but he wished to have them " on file . " The bluntness of these measures reinforced the rumors which now began to flood the college . The report circulated that at a party which the Dean gave to conservative administrators and students he had announced his intention to " purge " his faculty and candidly listed five victims : Kilpatrick , Counts , Watson , Childs , and Gans . This story was repeated so frequently that Russell , at a faculty meeting , was compelled to deny it . First he claimed that the remarks had been made in jest ; then he attributed them to an anonymous trustee . It is notable that the same names have subsequently figured in other campus rumors . And it is a fact that , in January , 1937 ? not long after that party ? Kilpatrick was retired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; widespread and impressive protests proved-ineffective : - - Whether such a retirement rule should be automatically applied is of course a debatable issue . Prior exceptions had been made at Teachers College . Considering what were admittedly Russell 's personal emotions , there is little doubt that he was insistent not because the principle of automatic retirement was at stake , but because Kilpatrick was at stake . To the students of the previous summer session Russell had fiercely expressed his opposition to teacher unionism . The intensity of his feeling against it , according to many who knew him intimately , was due to a deep-seated objection to any curb upon his authority ; it was accentuated by a calculated desire to make Teachers College appear " respectable , " and thus to pave the way for endowments . His authoritarian ambitions were manifest in the " reorganization " of Teachers College that was abruptly foisted upon the faculty and in the formation , in almost ostentatious secrecy , of the " Lay Council . " The reorganization transformed the basic structure of the college , fundamentally altering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one another . Many of the educational issues involved had earlier been thoroughly investigated by a faculty committee , which had unanimously condemned the kind of measures later so abruptly enacted . Apart from its academic demerits , the new program penalized various progressives on the staff . The most important figures in the Department of Elementary Education , which was eminently successful , were Ralph McGaughy and Roma Gans , known as vigorous , articulate progressives . The reorganization " coordinated " this department , without its head having been consulted , into a larger division under the supervision of conservatives . In characteristically dictatorial fashion Russell announced this reorganization as a fait accompli . But if there is any single incident more prophetic than another of Teachers College 's approaching twilight , it is the appearance of the Lay Council . In spite of the rhetoric in which its formation was shrouded , its primary mission is plain : to make peace between big business and the " hotbed of radicalism " on Morningside Heights . Its chief figure is Cortlandt Jackson Langley , a retired business man now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guiding spirit of a series of conferences held by the Advanced School of Teachers College , recently organized to establish the college 's superiority to its mushroom competitors , and intrusted to the administration of conservative faculty members . As the Advanced School is a vast financial liability , the conferences were designed to impress its potentialities upon the business world , from which distinguished lists of invited guests were drawn . Reports of the formation of the Lay Council aroused the progressives ' flagging spirits . As a result of bitter controversy in faculty meetings , its composition will be extended to all- walks of - life . But its essentiaLfunction remains that of money-raising . The one name thus far definitely linked with its personnel is that of W ; e-i , rop Aldrich , president of the Chase National Bank . The future of Teachers College will in some respects depend on the evolving role of this council . Thus far its power is largely latent , but presumably the industrialists who enlist in it will come bearing gifts . Such gifts are the usual fee for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Russell himself sees the full implications of the plan . He is frightened by the spectacle of deficits , and he not only enjoys the society of wealthy persons but sees himself as their tutor . The announced closing of New College , a progressive undergraduate wing launched by Teachers College several years ago , is the latest and most flagrant of Russell 's authoritarian moves . The reasons behind this decision are probably as complex as Russell 's personality ; the budgetary excuse is slightly grotesque in view of the negligible sum involved . The important fact is that Russell merely announced its closing to faculty and December 17 , 1938 students alike ; no semblance of democratic discussion preceded the verdict . Now rumors of the impending amalgamation of the Lincoln School with Horace Mann are heard around the college . Last summer , under the imprint of Teachers College , Professor William Gellerman published a thesis challenging the policies of the American Legion . Most of his critique has long been a commonplace among liberals , but it aroused the wrath of the Legion officialdom ; more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was effecting between Teachers College and polite society . Hastily Langley beseeched Legion Chief Doherty to address the Teachers College summer session , and Doherty enthusiastically consented . Later , at the plea of numerous students , George S. Counts announced that he would speak in defense of Gellerman 's thesis at a student conference . The speech was never delivered . Shortly before the conference Counts was summoned to Russell 's office and urged to remain silent , which he did . Although I understand that Russell later confessed that this glaring intervention was an error , his wooing of the Legion did not diminish in ardor . And the Legion reciprocated , inviting him to address its New York State convention . That address , entitled " How to Tell a Communist and How to Beat Him , " together with a juvenile article in the Columbia Alumni News describing Russell 's ripening friendship with the Legion , now constitute the college 's most valuable exhibits . They are being circulated by the thousand to prospective benefactors , including the whole mailing list of the American Bankers ' Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autocracy and pandering to external conservative interests . Among the progressive wing of the faculty is a deepening sense of gloom , and consequent demoralization . One hears morbid speculation over the Dean 's next victims ; one notes increasing reticence among some of those who were formerly boldest , a pronounced decline in progressive activity , perhaps best exhibited in the doldrums which afflict the Social Frontier , and important defections from the teachers ' union . The extent to which insecurity motitates this retreat and the extent to which it reflects broader world tendencies are of course difficult to measure . Basic to this insecurity is the lack of tenure for even the oldest teachers . The fate of Elizabeth McDowell , dismissed summarily after seventeen years on the faculty , can not be contemplated with equanimity by the survivors . In the long run the course of Teachers College will be determined by the response of educators and public alike to the policies it is now pursuing . Measured by the conduct of many universities , Teachers College is not yet notably oppressive . But contrasted with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has heretofore exerted , its present course is a steady retreat . 663 Faith in democratic education and hope for its future animated Russell 's predecessors ; lacking these , ir has set out in search of charity . The Congress of Industry was his first stop . In the Wind I N ITS first edition the anti-Roosevelt Chicago Tribune recently carried this streamer-headline : " Call U. S. Envoy from Berlin . " Under it appeared a sympathetic dispatch about the President 's action from the paper 's Washington correspondent . There was also a three-column , front-page cartoon on the subject of the atrocities and their impact on " appeasement " plans . Under a smaller head appeared the story of the sentencing of Robert Irwin , New York murderer . In the second edition a sweeping transformation was evident . The streamer read : " Slayer of 3 given 60 years , " and under it appeared the . Irwin story . The Washington correspondent 's story had vanished ; on page two , as a tail to a dispatch from Germany , appeared a three-paragraph A. P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all , the anti-Hitler cartoon had disappeared and in its place was a cartoon praising the Munich pact . SPONSORS OF the Japanese boycott have been disturbed by recent sales of " Chinese antiques , " here and in England . They are convinced that most antiques and other contemporary imports from China are owned by Japanese and are being used to finance Japanese war purchases abroad . They cite an error which appeared as a misprint or a Freudian slip in a recent advertisement in the New York Times announcing a sale of such antiques . The prices , according to the advertisement , were unusually low because " the Chinese yen had dropped in value . " The yen , of course , is a Japanese coin . AMERICAN NEWS and radio services have been regularly receiving releases from a certain " Peninsular News Service , " which claims to give the news about rebel Spain . A recent release received by the Columbia Broadcasting System was in a plain envelope stamped across one end : " Deutsches Generalkonsulat , German Consul-General , Whitehall Building , 17 Battery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondent of the Chicago Daily News who was recently expelled from Italy , reports growing Italian dissatisfaction with the war in Spain . Citing native cynicism over press accounts of uninterrupted Franco victories he says this comment is now becoming characteristic : " If the Nationalists had advanced as much as the newspapers have said , they would be across the Atlantic by now . " HOLLYWOOD OFFICIALS are alarmed by stiffening federal requirements concerning films for which government equipment is used . They assert that pacifist sequences are being banned from pictures in which the government cooperates . ( We invite our readers to submit material for In the Wina ? either clippings with source and date or stories that can be clearly authenticated . A prize of $5 will be awarded each month for the best item . EDITORS THE NATION. ) 