@@469363

IN THE early months of 1932 a group 1 of leading American economists were discussing what should be done to restore prosperity . One of them stated a thesis which received the wholehearted approval of a majority of his fellows . The nations of the world , he believed , had learned a lesson from the results of their innumerable measures to hamper trade . At the coming London Economic Conference agreements would be made to lower tariffs , remove import quotas , and lift exchange restrictions . There would follow a writing-down of War debts . Beneficial results would be felt almost immediately in this country . Our foreign markets for wheat and cotton would be revived . The farmers would have more money to pay their debts and would start buying industrial products . Manufactures too , such as automobiles , would begin flowing abroad in larger quantities . American banks would immediately grant foreign borrowers the credit with which to buy . Our tariffs being lower , we should purchase abroad the goods which foreign nations could produce more advantageously than we , and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be liquidated . In comparison with these changes , possible domestic reforms were of decidedly secondary importance . Freedom of international trade would bring recovery , and only that would bring it . This scholar was speaking a language understood and approved byalmost every recognized economic theorist from Adam Smith down . It is a doctrine logical in its essence , carefully elaborated in its details . Yet in each of his predictions lie was one hundred per cent mistaken . The nations had not learned his lesson . Far from it ; the London Conference removed not a single trade barrier . Before it met , President Roosevelt , instead of preparing to reduce American tariffs , increased them in effect by abandoning the gold standard in dollar exchange . This set the Conference by the ears . Our sage counselor would doubtless lay the whole blame for failure on the economic depravity of the American President . But it is certain that no progress would have been made in any case . Germany , France , and Italy are now virtually self-sustaining in wheat output ; the German peasants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " overproduction . " The manufacturers of each nation do want to export more , but not to encourage imports from other nations . Exchange restrictions can not be relaxed until trade revives so long as any nation believes in the virtue of retaining its gold hoards . The logic of capitalism in crisis leads straight toward more barriers to trade , not less . And , in spite of the fact that not one of the approved actions was taken , industrial recovery began . It has been visible all over the world , and its progress was most rapid , for a while at any rate , in the United States , which postponed reforms in foreign trade and concentrated upon domestic measures , most of which our economist friend heartily disliked . II This instance could be duplicated many times in history . Indeed , it is typical of the old conflict between the theory and the practice of international trade . The controversy has recently become more acute than ever . The orthodox economists are commonly called " internationalists , " the business men and politicians " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teaching , the world is drifting closer than ever to a congeries of closed economic systems . We have approximations to them now in Germany , Russia , Japan , and Italy ; the British Empire is groping toward economic unity ; France and the United States are both turning their eyes inward . If the internationalists are right , this portends nothing short of disaster . But are we to think of this sharp division between theory and practice as nothing more than the incapacity of intelligence to impose its wisdom on a stupid world ? May there not be something the matter with a theory which , after so long a development , has so little relevance to events ? Are not the very words " internationalism " and " nationalism " vague abstractions which will have to be filled with more definite meaning if we are to find out where we really stand , and why ? The economic doctrine now called internationalism is nothing less than laissez-faire , applied on a world-wide scale . If competition is free , it holds , the producers having the lowest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will benefit people as consumers , for they will pay the lowest possible prices . It will benefit them as producers also , for if the price of everything is as low as the most efficient practices make possible , more goods will be made and sold . The world 's division of labor will be allotted naturally , according to the fitness of each region to produce , according to its raw material and its skill , according to its geographical location as a center of trade . It prices are uncontrolled , they will act promptly to adjust unbalanced demand and supply . Falling prices will restrict output and enlarge demand ; rising prices will act contrariwise . The wider the markets , the broader will be the choice , the more numerous the compensating price forces , and the greater the stability . Capital , by seeking investment in the places offering the highest return , will tend to develop and so to enrich the more backward regions , to make more abundant the goods which formerly have been scarce . A linking of interests by trade and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development depends , of course , upon certain conditions . There must not be monopoly . There must not be interferences with price movements on the part of the state , by such means as tariffs or aid to cartels or price-fixing . Capital and labor must move about freely . Wage rates and interest rates must both be readily flexible , according to demand and supply . There must be stable currencies , and their relative values must be so nearly unvarying as to facilitate trade . It is unnecessary to elaborate further these conceptions ; they are well enough known . What is not so well known , however , is that laissez-faire is not a " natural " economic order , which inevitably prevails except when some " artificial " action is taken to interfere with it . It did not exist when Adam Smith wrote . He was , as Leverett S. Lyon has written , a propagandist for an " economic plan " ? a plan which he thought would render the largest possible benefit to everyone . This plan has never truly failed , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Manchester School and governed over long periods by the Liberals , probably has come closer to applying it than any other nation . But all her ingenuity and all her skill in government have failed to enforce many of the prerequisites of true laissez-faire . We may perhaps say that she at one time came almost as close to it as Soviet Russia has come to a successfully planned socialism , but certainly no closer . Conservatives habitually say that socialism , though logical , can not work because it is contrary to human nature . The same criticism can be applied with greater force to laissez-faire . The experience of over a century has abundantly proved that laissez-faire is contrary to human nature . It is an economic plan which is so far from realizable as to be utopian . The very title of Adam Smith 's famous book shows that it was , in part , propaganda against the preexisting system of exclusive nationalism . The Wealth of Nations , he called it . The old conception , commonly known as mercantilism , was that nations profited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as private merchants try to expand their sales as much as possible while limiting their purchases to the utmost , and so to pile up more money than their neighbors . But of course the only use of money is to buy , and Adam Smith correctly showed that if nations do not spend abroad they can not really grow wealthy from trade . You can not eat money , or wear it , or build a house out of it . The system of mercantilism , against which the Manchester School directed its propaganda , was in full course before the American Revolution , and played a large part in causing it . The navigation acts , the first of which was passed in 1651 , limited English commerce to English ships . Since the vessels of the colonists flew the English Hag , it helped to build up their fleets . But other laws of the same nature proved more irksome . People in the colonies were forbidden to buy or sell abroad except with the mother country . As manufacture grew in the new continent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were placed on the weaving of woolen goods in the colonies ( woolen manufactures formed one-third of England 's exports in 1699 ) , on iron and steel products , on hats . Duties were placed on foreign sugar and molasses . When colonial legislatures tried to relieve American debtors of their obligations to English lenders by inflating the currency , acts of Parliament put a stop to it . A Board of Trade and Economy was formed in 1690 to handle colonial affairs , and it was very active in ruling on disputes arising from complaints of British creditors , exporters , and importers . This struggle went on for years ? the struggle to place and enforce restrictions upon trade , in behalf of vested interests of England which were being endangered by the growing economic activity across the sea . The colonists had succeeded in evading or nullifying much of this regulation before the Revolutionary War , and it was the effort of Parliament and Grenville to win back lost ground which precipitated the struggle . The phrases about freedom and natural rights embodied in the Revolutionary literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus had , as Charles A. Beard and other historians have proved , a solidly material content . One might have inferred that the revolutionists were fighting Adam Smith 's battle ( The Wealth of Nations was published in 1776 ) ; that they were dedicating the new continent to economic " freedom " and laissez-faire . It is true that they wanted freedom of trade for themselves . But not for others . Hardly had the infant nation begun to draw breath when Alexander Hamilton persuaded it to build up manufactures by a protective tariff . Freedom from English restrictions was not enough . We had to restrict England in turn . Never since then has the United States moved very far toward freedom of trade . Its drift has been in the opposite direction . A society in which production is controlled by profit-seeking capital is bound to seek freedom for specific groups of capital or specific national aggregates by hampering the freedom of other groups or other nations to compete . There is no sufficiently powerful agency to enforce the interest of all against the interests of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up since the late War are often attributed to the War itself . That is in part true , but far from the whole truth . The more serious part of them have been imposed during the depression beginning in 1929 . They were natural , one might even say inevitable reactions to that depression . When there is not enough trade to go round , the economically powerful producers in each nation believe that by tariffs and import quotas they can assure themselves at least the " home market , " and they act on that belief . Prices of wheat have been held far above the world price in France , Germany , and Italy by these means . Under governmental stimulation , wheat growing has expanded so much in each country that the peasants would be ruined if wheat were let in freely from the United States , Canada , and the Argentine . As a result , wheat growers in the exporting countries have been ruined . Is it not utopian to expect that the government of any nation will sacrifice its own farmers for the benefit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protect them ? The same logic applies to manufacturers . Even more nearly inevitable have been the restrictions on movements of gold , of capital , and of foreign exchange . When prices fell , it was harder to pay debts incurred at higher price levels . Nations whose exports were shrinking could not meet their debt charges . The inflow of credits ceased ; capital began to rush out as internal finances cracked . That took gold away . Banking and monetary systems simply had to be propped up by forbidding the shipment of gold , by controlling the export of capital and the exchange markets . It is no good to know that these acts in turn helped prevent trade from reviving . The only route to trade revival by means of free movement of money seemed to be through universal bankruptcy , and no nation was willing to permit that amount of deflation if it could be avoided . Laissez-faire asked too much of human nature under the circumstances . But the depression in turn , it is sometimes said , was caused by the War , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the " artificial " measures of wicked diplomatists , military men , ambitious rulers . Both parts of this statement are too simple . The world has suffered many depressions without war . There was no war preceding the gloomy nineties , which in many respects are comparable with the past few years . Connection between the War and the speculative overexpansion of 1928 and 1929 in this country is pretty remote . The War did not cause the immense inequality in the distribution of income , which , in the opinion of many , led to over-investment and the inability of the masses to huy enough to keep the factories and the farms busy . The War of course super-added many elements of unbalance to an already topheavy economic structure . But the Kaiser and the Tzar , Poincare and Sir Edward Grey , the Hapsburgs and the rest did not act in a vacuum . They were not living in the fourteenth century . Competition for markets was back of the rivalry for colonies and the struggle for sea power . We must not forget the push of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire of Russia for a warm-water port , the Berlin-Bagdad Railway , the struggle for the coal and iron of the Ruhr and Lorraine . Promoters of peace have been busy arguing that nations which expect to profit by conquest in the modern world are simply deceiving themselves ; they can not win . But the argument is irrelevant to the actual motives and behavior of nations subject to the influence of special interests . Oil companies can win ; steel makers can win ; armament purveyors can win . The " artificial , " political interferences with economic health arose in large part from economic forces themselves . Economic nationalism , in spite of the theories of laissez-faire , flourished mightily before the War . Those who attempt merely to restore pre-war economic conditions are attempting also to restore the War . Internationalism , then , is not a good word with which to describe the program of the orthodox economists . Their purposes are excellent ; if they could be achieved the result might be called internationalism . But these purposes can not be achieved by the means which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an absence of governmental interference merely results in the growth of powerful business groups which seek to restrict the freedom of other groups , of consumers , of government itself . Government may try to let alone , but profit-seekers will not . They will in the end use government to execute that multitude of interferences which they favor . Government may , to be sure , under the pressure of small and help-less competitors , try to prevent the restraints imposed by big ones . A generation of such attempts in the United States does not encourage us to hope much from regulation to enforce competition , so far as internal policies are concerned . And internationally , it has completely lost the battle against protective tariffs . Adam Smith 's plan , while preaching internationalism , favors the conditions under which the worst features of nationalism arise . A doctor would be no more foolish if when treating a drug addict he should content himself with shaking his finger at the patient for using narcotics , while leaving about large quantities of morphia and a hypodermic needle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a phantom , because the conditions essential to complete and workable laissez-faire can not be brought into existence , either within the several nations or among them . What is the nationalism to which it is commonly opposed in argument ? This also needs definition . Those who denounce nationalism usually lump together three separate things : first , the sort of situation in which the United States , France , Germany , and Japan have recently found themselves ; second , the ideal of a totally self-sufficient national economy which neither imports nor exports anything , or " autarchy " ( an ideal which no nation has ever achieved ) ; and third , the project of a nationally planned economy , of which the Soviet Union is now the archetype . But surely these things are distinct , and have widely different faults and virtues . The United States has long utilized nationalistic policies like protection , but it has been far from self-sufficient , and has made no energetic attempt to achieve autarchy . Its foreign trade has amounted in normal times to ten per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken great pains to point out , has risen to a much larger percentage in important industries . The wheat farmers , the cotton farmers , the automobile makers , the agricultural-machinery makers , and many others have found a large part of their market abroad . On the other hand we have imported great quantities of rubber , coffee , sugar , tin , light manufactures , and thousands of other things . Surely , then , our difficulties have not arisen from complete economic self-sufficiency , and we are not bad examples of nationalism in that sense . Nor can it be alleged that we have ? with the possible exception of this year ? ever made the slightest attempt at intelligent national planning . There has been plenty of planning and control by separate businesses in behalf of their separate gains . The nation has interposed all kinds of restrictions for the supposed benefit of special groups . But , as the economists also never weary of pointing out , these restrictions often tend to counteract one another . Through blindness and inadvertence we have attempted mathematical impossibilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way of imports , insisting on the collection of foreign debts and ceasing to lend new money abroad . No national planner whom I ever heard of would be so silly as to try a thing like that . Similar dilemmas have been encountered without number and in greater urgency by other nations which arc even less seIf-suffident than we . Call this sort of thing nationalism , if you like , but do not call it autarchy and do not call it national planning . It is a crazy mixture which no good theorist of any school would approve . At least on one point the old-school economists and the new economists canagree ? you can not successfully exert planning and control in behalf of separate interests when these interests are opposed to one another . You must either have a much more complete laissez-faire than we have had or a much more integrated control . The horses must either run wild or , if they are driven , be driven as a team . Let us remember that laissez-faire is not the only program which can be urged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the world has blundered into . How about the nationalism of autarchy ? If it could be achieved it would have certain advantages . Since the economic system of each nation would he completely closed , there would be no need any more of worrying about exports and imports , foreign debts and foreign exchange . Bismarck , North Dakota , would no longer be in want because East Prussia won power in the German government or Mussolini decided to drain the marshes and grow more wheat . We should doubtless pay more for what we had , we should have less in the long run , and we should work harder for it . We should be more secure from influences under the political control of foreigners . We should not , however , be secure from any misuse or lack of use of our own political control . Bismarck might be in want just the same . We might be as happy as Eskimos in Greenland or as miserable as peasants in China . If it were any satisfaction to know that foreigners did not cause our troubles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially a negative conception , and has the faults of all such conceptions . Without a sufficient geographical and economic base , and without sufficiently good management of the resources at hand , it would merely reproduce in miniature and in separate units the miseries of a whole world . deleted material by the Iola ' of the engineers . It probably helped to hasten recognition by the United States . All observers agreed that the one important result of the conference was the drawing of closer ties between Russia and the nations of the West . The reason for this is simple enough . The Soviet Union , having planned her internal economy , knows that she needs certain things from other countries . She knows when she needs them , and how much of each . Having abolished freedom of international trade , and having set up in its place a government-owned concern both to buy and sell abroad , she is able to buy what she wants most and to sell what she thinks she can best spare in exchange . To such an institution it is immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to pile up unused money but to get the foreign currencies required in order to buy abroad what the Russian people need . Trade assumes its basic aspect of barter . And it is also obvious that if the value of the goods sold is not great enough to cover the value of the goods which the nation wants to buy , and can not be made so by selling more or charging higher prices , then the only way to obtain the extra goods is to borrow abroad enough money to pay for them . This is already clear in theory to all economists in all countries , communist and non-communist alike , but in most countries except Russia it is not applied in practice , and fearful tangles result because there is no single agency to apply it . A peasant comes to the marketplace needing new tools , a horse and cow , cloth for winter clothing . He knows that in order to get these things he must take with him the pigs and grain he can spare . He dickers with others who need his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cloth . The basic purpose of his trading is to supplyhis own needs . The emphasis is on what one receives , not on selling as much as possible . If a nation 's trading were governed as sensibly as that of a peasant and his family , there would not be a general surplus of goods for sale accompanied by a shortage of goods bought . We should not see nations engaged in the silly process of trying to dispose of their real wealth abroad without taking anything in exchange . By means of planning and trading as nations , and of doing these things in the interest not of special groups but of all the people of the nation , we can get back to the simple objectives taught by Adam Smith . The way to achieve the perfectly sensible aims of laissez-faire is to stop trying the methods it advocated . One may , of course , question the specific decisions made by the Russian planners . It is often said that the Soviet Union inaugurated too ambitious a program of factories , machinery , railroads , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deprived the people of too much food and clothing . But this does not alter the principles of nationally controlled foreign trade . If the Soviet Union had bought less machinery abroad it would presumably have wanted to buy more consumers ' goods . The possibility that wrong decisions can be made as to what a nation needs most and what it can best spare leaves intact the principle that under a socially planned economy a nation will sell not for the sake of selling but in order to buy . An international market composed of nations whose trade is so adjusted will be a market , not exclusively of sellers , but of buyers and sellers . In such a market there must be a strong drive toward adjustment of interests and toward expansion rather than contraction of trade . It may also be objected that the Soviet Union , however much it may desire to buy at present , is in fact looking forward to a self-contained economy , that , indeed , it is buying the sort of things it needs in order to achieve that very aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The policy of working toward self-containment was adopted , not because it is inherent in planned economy , but because the Soviet Union has been the only socialist state and has not felt safe in relying upon other nations , not socially planned , to supply it with necessities . It lived , too , in constant fear of military attack ? and with good reason . Originally the Bolsheviks were convinced that socialism in Russia was doomed unless there should be a world revolution . When world revolution did not come , it was believed necessary to make Russia as economically self-contained as possible in order to save the Russian revolution . Autarchy , then , was conceived not as a desirable goal in itself , but as a difficult and dangerous necessity . It is worth noting , too , that in spite of Russia 's tendency toward autarchy , and in spite of her immense military preparations , she is everywhere recognized as a power from which there is no danger of aggression . Those who plan in behalf of the economic welfare of the masses know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will fight if they are compelled to do so in defense , but the defense would be not of oil or steel or trading or banking profits , but of the national economy . No sooner had the United States begun tentatively to plan nationally than it began to plan international trade at the point where it was most seriously disrupted . What could be done about the foreign markets for American wheat ? The Agricultural Administration could not rely on vague hopes that this market would be restored by a conversion of foreign nations to free trade . It had to decide what was to bedone with the existing surplus , and how much American acreage was to be devoted to wheat this year . The wheat-exporting nations were gathered in conference . They had first to find out how much wheat the import . ing nations could be persuaded to take . With this information in hand , they could allot among themselves the required exports . They could work out price arrangements . And knowing something about the probable exports of each country which was in the habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take measures to control domestic production . The resulting agreement ? still a very imperfect one ? was the only specific agreement which came directly out of the London conference . It was an approach to a rational solution of a definite problem , and it was made possible only because , in this realm , laissez-faire was abandoned in favor of national planning . In the process of international trade among nationally planned economies there would be bickerings , the disputes about prices and quantities , which occur in any market . But there would be a continual pressure to agree , caused by the requirements of obtaining larger supplies . The disputes would be formulated in definite and rational terms . Each nation , having its own economy under control , would know what it wanted . It would have a schedule of imports and exports which were required . It would know its needs for lending or borrowing , its currency policy . These things could be fitted together . At present , most single nations have foreign wade practices which are internally inconsistent . It is impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it does not agree with itself . The first requisite for threading through the tangle of obstacles to foreign trade is to know what we want . When disputes are formulated , there is some chance of settling them . Begin with national planning , and you are sure to end with international planning . The absence of national planning does not rid us of international complications ; it simply insures international confusion . The aims of the planned economy which Adam Smith set down are , for the most part , sound aims for any planned economy . Goods should be produced where they can be produced most efficiently ? so long as we mean by efficiency not exploitation of labor but skillful use of natural and human resources . It is better to produce a great deal at a low price than a little at a high price . Wide markets are an advantage . There should be flexible and prompt adjustments among demand , supply , and price . What we are in the process of learning is that these aims can not be achieved in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The searchof business for profit soon negates the freedom . It fixes certain prices while allowing others to be flexible . It controls output principally by restriction rather than by increase . It sets up barriers in the middle of world-wide markets . It uses governmental powers , not for the interest of the whole people of a nation , but for the divergent interests of minorities . This is what prevents that very internationalism which the doctors of laissez-faire prescribe . If we are to achieve internationalism not in theory but in fact we must achieve it on the basis of a true nationalism . National governments based on the economic interest of the majority of their several peoples , and controlling internal economic life in pursuit of that interest , would find it relatively easy to agree and trade with one another . National governments not so based , and not exercising such control , are certain to hamper trade and are likely to destroy themselves by war .                     