@@221323

In Houston , Tex . month ago Scripps-HowarcTs up &; coming Press bought its photographer , Francis ( " Nig " ) Miller , a Zeiss Contax camera , turned him loose on the city to get " candid " shots . Bold little Cameraman Miller went about snapping the usual pictures of backstage doings and unwary citizens . His best layout was ' ' Houston at Lunch Time , " displaying Houstonians munching salad , picking their teeth . <P> One morning last week Ed . M. Pooley , the Press 's managing editor , sent his candid cameraman to Houston 's well-equipped Memorial Hospital to get some operation pictures . Robert Garland Jolly , the hospital 's publicity-wise superintendent , gave Photographer Miller a warm welcome , clapped him into a sterile white gown , cap and rubber gloves , ushered him into the operating room . There he snapped a series of run-of-the-mill slicings while Superintendent Jolly , surgeons and nurses gave him every assistance . Toward the end of the morning , as a patient was being wheeled away , Superintendent Jolly turned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special you might want to see . The next one is a Caesarean section . " * Photographer Miller clicked eagerly while the patient was anesthetized , her abdomen opened , her baby drawn out feet first ; followed through while the baby , a healthy 7 lb. boy , was removed , washed , footprinted for identification . When Editor Pooley shuffled through the results of the morning 's work , he immediately pounced on the Caesarean pictures as most newsworthy . Well he knew that if he published them many a shocked busybody and upright citizen would berate him soundly . But he also knew that the pictures would be exciting news to almost all his readers , including the busybodies . Forthwith , Newsman Pooley splashed over the first page of his second section what were , so far as he knew , the first photographs of a Caesarean section ever to appear in a lay journal . Down on his head that day and for several days thereafter beat the expected storm of criticism . Irate citizens charged him with bad taste , with needlessly shocking his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intimate incident . Especially voluble were mothers including one whose small son had brought the pictures into her bridge club meeting , asked for an explanation . But an equal number of citizens , including physicians , told him how interesting they had found the pictures , congratulated him warmly on a first-rate news beat . Editor Pooley remained convinced that he had made the right decision . <P> *The Caesarean section , for removal of a baby from the womb by means of abdominal incision when normal delivery is dangerous or impossible , is one of the most famed and spectacular of major operations . The classic Caesarean involves an incision from the umbilicus to the pubis , through the abdominal wall , peritoneum and uterine wall . The Caesarean section is named for Julius Caesar , who by legend was thus delivered from his mother . First actually recorded Caesarean on a living woman was performed about 1500 by a Swiss pig-gelder on his wife .                     