@@141341

Last week Enrico Fermi had his picture taken holding a hollow globe of paraffin as big as a pumpkin , standing beside a piece of apparatus that looked like stovepipe put together with baling wire ( see cut ) . Said Dr. Fermi : " The most obvious application of artificial radioactivity which can be foreseen is in the medicinal field . Radium , naturally radioactive , is used for the treatment of cancer . The completely new radioactive substances created in the laboratory should give medical men new tools , some of which may prove more efficient than radium . " <P> Dr. Fermi had arrived in the U. S. to take charge of summer work in physics at Columbia , and that University was eager to let the world know that it was harboring for a few weeks Italy 's foremost researcher on the physics of the atom . Since artificial radioactivity was discovered by the Curie-Joliots of Paris ( TIME , Feb. 12 , 1934 ) , Dr. Fermi by bombardments with neutrons has induced radioactivity in more elements ( about 40 ) than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the heart of a hydrogen atom , but they are much smaller . Dr. George Braxton Pegram and his associates at Columbia have set the neutron diameter at one ten-trillionth of an inch . Unlike electrons , positrons , protons and deuterons , neutrons have no electric charge . Hence they make splendid projectiles for bombardment since they are not repelled by the positive charges on the atomic nuclei . Alpha particles knock neutrons in quantity out of beryllium and other light elements at speeds up to 30,000 miles per second . When the neutron hits a nucleus it either bounces off , transforming the atom instantly into another element , or is captured , producing a swollen , unstable atom which spits out the awkward excess for seconds , hours , sometimes days in the form of radiation or particles . Dr. Fermi found that slow neutrons were more easily captured than fast ones , worked out the equation for the slowing effect of hydrogen nuclei . Since the hydrogen atom , having only one outside electron , consists almost entirely of nucleus , it is excellent for braking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , paraffin and oil are commonly used for this purpose . <P> Thus Dr. Fermi holding a ball of paraffin in his hand symbolizes a matter of immense importance to biology . Organic substances are rich in hydrogen . Professor Ernest Orlando Lawrence of the University of California , whose huge apparatus produces a beam of 10,000,000 neutrons a second , finds that on the white blood cells of rats neutrons exert ten times the destructive effect of X rays of equal intensity . As laid down last month in the American Journal of Roentgenology and Radium Therapy , the biologic neutron problems now confronting science are these : <P> 1 ) Effect of neutrons on cancerous growths . 2 ) Use of neutrons to kill harmful bacteria . 3 ) Possibility that neutrons may produce new mutations ( sharp hereditary variations ) in animals and plants .                     