@@470200

ONE of the fallacies about Fascism which still maintains a tenacious existence in many quarters is that it is the shield of private property . How has this worked out in practice in National Socialist Germany ? What has happened to the business man there in the six years which have already passed since Hitler came to power ? It may be said that he is still ? if he be full-blooded " Aryan " ? nominally master of his business . He is Fuehrer of his own shop or factory . His orders must be obeyed by all of his employees , or " followers , " as they are dubbed under the new dispensation , even should some of these be old Party members and he not at all . But he himself has to obey thousands of instructions , decrees , laws , and regulations , covering ? and interfering with ? all of his business activities . He is still the proprietor of a business intent on making a profit . At the end of every year he still makes out a balance sheet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no longer an independent operator ; no longer may he run his business the way he wants to . No day passes in which he does not have to petition numerous State Commissars , Control Commissions , or other organizations , to find out how much raw material he may have , how he must operate his factory , at what price he may sell his product and to whom , whether or not he may build an addition to his plant , and how he may invest his surplus funds , if any . A greatpart of every day is eaten up in such official conference and correspondence . Of the latter alone a member of the Reich Government recently admitted that it now made up sixty per cent of the entire correspondence of a German manufacturer . What is really happening to German business is a gradual fusion between private enterprise and State bureaucracy . Nor is there anything accidental about this process : it is an essential element in National Socialist economic practice . Under this new order the whole form of business , its accent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is not so much to buy cheaply , gauge the right production , and sell well . The most important thing is to win and retain the favor of the local Party chieftains and the State bureaucrats who control your line of business , to secure State orders , State permits for raw materials or foreign currency , and State authorization of a selling price which will allow you to make a profit . Business men who have been able to adapt themselves to this far-reaching change have survived . Others who could not do so , or not in time , have gone under . Only those engaged in the armaments traffic or enjoying very special Party protection have prospered . In former days the purchasing agent and the sales manager were among the most important members of a business organization . To-day the emphasis has shifted , and all-important now is a curious new business aide , a sort of combination " go-between " and public-relations counsel . This person , not the least interesting outgrowth of the Nazi economic system , makes it his job to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin , to which city he is constantly traveling ; he studies all the new regulations and decrees , knows how to interpret them in his firm 's case , and can guess at what is allowed or forbidden , or , in other words , how far one can go without being caught . Any firm wishing to remain in business must have such a contact man . If possible he should be endowed with a good personal acquaintance with some high official . If a firm can not find a man with such qualifications they will have to content themselves with a man having contact with a lesser official , who can in his turn bespeak their interests with his superiors , and inform them of how the wind is blowing . Should a firm fail altogether to find a contact man and otherwise have had luck in establishing good working relations with officialdom , purest " Aryan " though they be , they are liable to be forced out of business . In no field of German business does this apply so much as in the importing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin is so full every day of Hamburg import and export agents or their contact men going to Berlin for permits and authorizations of various kinds that it has come to be known locally as the " Permit Express . " You have but to take a seat in a compartment of this train to hear , in the three and a half hours of the journey , a fair cross-section of the story of German foreign trade under the Nazis . Your companions are men filled with a great common sorrow and , German-like , need only the encouragement of a sympathetic hearing to bleat it all out ; provided of course they know one another , and you do n't show too much curiosity as to their identity . Take first the story of this plump , bald , rounded-headed gentleman whom we shall call Herr A. He is the head of a MAGAZINE wool-importing firm of fifty-six years ' reputation , with a good standing on the London Wool Exchange . Recently , after obtaining permission from the Commissar for Wool Importation and Distribution , the Control Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain quantity of wool from a London firm . The wool arrived in Hamburg , but the Reichsbank failed to release the foreign currency to him punctually , so that he was unable to pay for it . The wool was therefore put in storage in the " free port , " where it piled up charges . Now the Reichsbank has given him the money , butsince the London firm naturally insists that he pay the storage charges , in accordance with international usage , the original amount is not enough . To get the small additional amount of foreign exchange , however , Herr A would have to make fresh approaches to the Commissar for Foreign Currency , the Control Committee , and the Reichsbank . His application would not be decided upon immediately ; it would take time . There would be numerous inquiries and considerable correspondence before he would know their decision . In the meantime the wool would be accumulating further storage costs , and if he finally received the money on his second application , he still would not have enough . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vicious circle which seemingly oilers no outlet . Any profit which he might have made on the deal has already been eaten up with the cost of correspondence and running round from Commissar to Commissar ; he has just consumed two fruitless and aggravating days in the latter process , and all he has to show for his trouble is a thick bundle of letters , application forms , and introductions . Now he is going to make a supreme effort to cut through the entangling red tape : he is going to Berlin to see the Fuehrer of his Business Group , to get a letter of introduction to an influential official of the Reichsbank , who has close relations with the Commissar for Foreign Currency , who might clear aside the obstacles and give him his wool ' Herr B 's is a quite different problem . He specializes in export trade to South America . He has worked up a considerable business in Solingen steel products there , but is able to beat foreign competition only with the aid of a generous governmental subsidy . This suhsidy comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute , but which is an absolutely confidential matter . The exporter must , in fact , sign a declaration that he will maintain complete secrecy concerning the subsidy , on pain of being branded a " betrayer of State secrets . " To obtain the subsidy the exporter must first prove that he actually has a market for the goods under consideration but ( because of the artificially high rate at which the German currency is maintained ) only at a price which will mean a loss to him . If his petition is accepted . he will be granted a subsidy , which will usually run from 25 to 40 per cent , but may in extreme cases be as much as 80 per cent of the selling price . ( In early December it was established at a flat 40 per cent , or just the difference between the German mark and the British shilling . ) The Commissar in charge of the subsidy now tells Herr B that he has been selling at an unnecessarily low price , that according to the experience of other importers he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintains his present pricescale his subsidy will be curtailed . He may even be accused of having obtained the subsidy in the first place through a false declaration . Friends in Hamburg who have been through a similar experience have given him an introduction to a certain official in the Ministry of Economics who may be able , as a special favor , to help him out of his trouble . Still another problem is Herr C 's . His firm would . like to buy cotton from a foreign exporter who is willing to accept German machinery for the full amount . Therefore no foreign exchange will be necessary for the deal , but merely a permit to carry through such a barter under the Clearing Arrangement . Until re-cently such barter deals were very easily arranged ; now a flood of decrees and restrictions has rendered them very difficult . In the first place , no transactions involving less than 50,000 marks will be even considered . Then , both the goods received and the goods given in return must be handled in one lump , equal to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be possible to manage this . But he hopes to surmount his difficulties through a personal chat with an important personage in the Ministry of Economics , to whom he carries a letter of introduction from a friend in the Economic Section of the War Ministry . With his ability to reach such people Herr C is a valuable ? one might almost say an indispensable ? man to his firm , and he knows it . Last week the simple intimation to his employer that a competitive firm had offered him a higher salary was sufficient to secure him an immediate and most satisfactory increase in pay . Such is the life of that once most independent of German business men , the Hamburg import and export agent . In the old days he decided for himself what he should buy and where he would sell it without asking anybody 's advice ? especially the advice of anybody in Berlin . To-day he can not move hand or foot without permit or certificate , quota or allowance . He can not make the smallest purchase abroad without first noting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forwarding a score of application forms and petitions . No longer his the pleasure and profit of buying raw materials abroad when they arc cheap ; he can buy only when he can get foreign currency . If while he is waiting for this the foreign market goes up he must console himself with the hope that the Price Commissar will allow him to raise the price to the home consumer . Usually this authorization is forthcoming and , since there is never any difficulty in finding a buyer for imported raw materials , so scarce are they in Germany , in practice the importer who can secure a grant of foreign currency has virtually insured himself of a profitable deal without any risk . The free trade for which Hamburg was so long famous has become a myth , and her important agents are to-day little more than State-employed distributors . But there has been this compensation , for those of them at least who are engaged in such lines as cotton and wool , where there is a quite regular allocation of monthly or quarterly quotas : their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a well-paid government servant . II Turning to the wholesale trader we come to a business man whose field appeared to be entirely doomed at the time of the advent of the Nazis to power : for according to National Socialist theory trading is unproductive and to be eliminated as far as possible . Yet there are still wholesale dealers in Germany who do a good business and make a handsome profit . Just as with the foreign traders , however , this is only possible through good relations with the State authorities . Firms which do not enjoy such contacts and protection get less business and labor under a crippling load of correspondence , taxation , and " voluntary " contributions to Party and public causes . In a way , the scarcity of many lines of raw materials and manufactured goods has strengthened the hands of the trader who is in possession of such goods or knows how to get them . Yet he is constantly being harassed or hemmed in by new State restrictions . The Reich Food Estate , for example , which has control over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over to favor the farmer that it has reduced the food dealer 's profit almost to the vanishing point . But ingenuity is no monopoly of democrats , and restrictions can be evaded even in totalitarian states . One of the ways of doing this in Germany is by means of " combination deals " ( Kopplungsgeschaefte ) . Goods in Germany may be divided into two general classifications , those such as food products which are completely State-controlled , usually scarce , and may only be sold at fixed prices allowing a minimum profit , and those , including all " luxury goods " and Ersatz ( substitute ) ware of a hundred varieties , which may be marketed freely and without price restriction . Through " combination deals " the wholesaler tries to force the retailer , in order to get a supply of standard consumer goods , which are scarce and in steady demand , to take a certain amount of luxury or Ersatz ware , which will secure the wholesaler a certain profit on the transaction . Such combination deals are forbidden , but in practice they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and even flagrant violation of the law become the everyday rule of business in Germany . They are dangerous for those lacking strong support in the right quarter , and sometimes the Government , in a show of interest in the consumer , will make an example of some unfortunate trader , but they go on . This is the new business risk which has replaced the former one of rising and falling prices . III But the most depressed and the most restricted business man in Germany will not be found in the ranks of the importers or the wholesalers . He is the retailer , more especially the small shopowner ; the man who has to take the squeeze between the steadily rising cost of raw materials and production and the rigidly governed retail price level dictated by political exigency ; the man who supported Adolf Hitler most staunchly in his fight for power and hoped to gain the most by his triumph , but instead has been the most bitterly disappointed in the development of the Nazi economy . It is n't that his business routine has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesale house and sells to the general public in competition with other merchants . But wholesale prices have crept constantly upward all along the line and the Price Commissar keeps a hawklike eye on him to see that he does not pass this on to the consumer . What little he does make , he will tell you , is grabbed by the tax collector . Again , it is n't that his tax rate has increased so much , as that the tax officials watch his sales and purchases as never before and require him to record the smallest amount . There is not even open to hint the petty evasion which used to lighten his tax load ; he works only for the State to-day , he complains . But this complaining must be done very circumspectly , for of all business people he is most under the eye , and at the mercy , of the Party . Nor does the Party man whose good-will he must have live in faraway Berlin . He lives right next door or just round the corner . This local Hitler gets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schultz 's bakery and Herr Schmidt 's butcher shop . Should he learn that these gentlemen are doing too much complaining about the quality of the food products which they handle or the rise in taxes he may mark them down as " enemies of the State . " ' I'hat would mean at the very least the cutting of their quota of scarce , and hence highly desirable goods , and it might mean the loss of their business license . The following story may illustrate the trials of the small shopkeeper under the new regime . It tells of a Berlin locksmith , whom we shall call Herr Z. His is a small but long-established shop ; his father owned it before him and his grandfather before that . He had a modest but very steady trade in the neighborhood , consisting mostly of contracts to keep the locks of apartment houses in order . He had never engaged in politics . About two years ago another locksmith , Herr Y , came into the district and opened a shop directly opposite Z 's . Now Y was an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black Guard . He was a regular attendant at Party functions , and many of the neighbors even suspected him of being connected with the Gestapo , the dreaded Secret State Police . It wasremarkable how suddenly a little neighborly complaint gathering would break up when Y came along to join it . Owing to his strangeness and to this aversion Y 's business did not prosper particularly at first . Then gradually a change set in , and it was brought about in this way . In each of the apartment houses with which Z enjoyed a repair contract lived a Nazi house-watcher or blockwatcher . These are reliable Party members whose job it is to keep their eye on all the people in their apartment house or their city block and report on anyone who may be suspected to be a " dangerous element . " Y knew the local Party secretary well and , waiting his time , denounced Z to him as a " dangerous element " who was always going around criticizing the system and stirring up his customers against it . As a result the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State " to instruct the Nazi housewatchers to transfer all their repair business to his friend Y. It might be thought that considering the conditions facing shopkeepers in Germany to-day there would not be many anxious to join their ranks . Yet there are always some , elderly employees who have saved for years with the dream of making themselves independent in their own shop and raising their family out of the laboring class , and young artisans confident in their ability and enterprise . The Latter , as will be seen , stand a far better chance than the former . The opening of new shops must be proved to be " economically justified , " but in practice if the young man is " politically reliable " and well-connected in the Party he stands a good chance of getting the financial backing of the Labor Front in setting up his shop . The elder-employee type of would-be entrepreneur , however , has to apply for permission to the National Socialist Association of shopowners for the line of business concerned . This group usually take the only opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by promptly vetoing the request . If they do sanction the new venture it will only be in consideration of a very nice " contribution " to the Association . Schacht 's economic organ , the Der Deutsche Volkswirt , in its long rearguard action for the retention of some freedom of enterprise in the German economy , has often taken up the cause of these thwarted elder employees . To no avail ; Party connections and political " soundness " continue to prevail over the older qualifications of adequate savings and long experience . This limitation on the opening of new shops and the final elimination of all Jewish merchants from business have been the only steps taken by the Nazis toward fulfilling the promises so glibly given during election days , to relieve the small shopkeeper from competition . The little man 's real competitors , the large department stores and the redfronted chain stores , have weathered all the threats of destruction once poured on them by Nazi radicals . They have been " Aryanized , " and that is all . IV Not so easy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varied and peculiar have been the experiences of different firms and industries . One statement at least may be made , however , which covers the whole of German industry , and that is that the manufacturer has had to do what the State wants or close his factory . The functions of the factory-owner , like those of the export-import agent , have been vitally affected by the new economic order . His main preoccupation is no longer how much to produce and to whom to sell . Now he must concentrate on securing Emergency Certificates for raw materials , allowances for foreign currency with which to buy goods unobtainable in Germany , and permits for an increase in his sale price to make up for the higher costs of operation . Chief of his worries is his raw material supply . Practically all raw materials are now controlled by Supervisory Committees , which establish the supply quotafor each firm or grant certificates of special " urgency , " and issue recommendations to the Commissar for Foreign Currency for permits for the importation of foreign raw materials . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establish his " political reliability " with the Party , and then make the rounds of numerous government bureaus . When it comes to production he may be held up for weeks through raw-material shortage , or he may suddenly be ordered by the Four Year Plan Commission to step up production immediately . If he fails to satisfy them in this a State Commissar , perhaps an officer from the Economics Section of the War Ministry , may be sent in to take over the management ? and at a handsome salary which he will have to foot . When in consequence of all this bureaucratic interference he finds his costs of production mounting , he must submit his accounts to an exacting examination by the officials of the Price Commissariat in order to gain permission to raise his selling price . Should he feel moved to complain about a competitor receiving special privileges he has to register his protest in the appropriate form with his Group Association which will in turn make representations to the State office concerned . And if , in spite of all this , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year ? if he is in any way connected with the armament business he probably will ? and should want to invest it , he will have first to provide proof to the State financial authorities that his proposed investment is " in the national interest . " All this correspondence and dealing with the State has meant a tremendous increase in administrative staff . Large firms have added hundreds of clerks who do nothing but fill out questionnaires , forward monthly returns to the Group Association and the Four Year Plan Commission , apply for raw-material certificates , and study the never-ending flood of new decrees . The State , on its side , has matched and far exceeded this bureaucratic extension . Such an administrative colossus as was not even achieved during the last war has grown up in Berlin . All State organizations have their headquarters there . So do all business and industrial associations . All big firms which are not located in Berlin and did not previously maintain a branch office there have had to open one ; while smaller firms keep a special representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance sheet at the end of the year may often depend more upon the success or failure of this Berlin representation than upon the efforts of its entire technical staff . The small manufacturer who can not afford such representation in Berlin is at a great disadvantage , as he has to spend most of his own time running there and back . What has happened to production costs under such conditions may best be imagined . Yet there are German industrialists who would be well pleased with their year 's profit showing could they forget all their other worries and banish thought of the future . Those firms which have been drawn into the vast German re-armament effort have learned that in National Socialist Germany , just as elsewhere , the State 's purse-strings are looser when it concerns arms than some other , more prosaic , expenditure . In these days of crisis , where quick delivery of planes , anti-aircraft guns , or cement for fortifications is provided , there is not likely to be much quibbling over the costshee ts . Thus firms such as the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1932 , have made a complete recovery , have cleared off their bank debts , and even have something to spare . Some of these have changed over from peacetime machinery or motor production to fabrication of the implements of mechanized warfare . Others produce raw materials such as iron , coal , or cement in great demand for guns , forts , or strategic highways . Still others have launched into the production of Ersatz materials which have the aim of making Germany selfsufficient in wartime , like synthetic gasoline , rubber , textiles , and a hundred other ingenious but expensive substitutes . New difficulties and complications aplenty they certainly have to face , but at least the bogey that nearly vanquished them in 1932 , lack of demand , has disappeared . To-day the State gobbles everything they can produce . Alongside the opulent armamentsmaker the manufacturer of consumer goods appears as an unhappy Cinderella . Always a poor second in the scramble for raw materials , he has to take the left-overs or use Ersatz . This will usually be of a poorer quality , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . To complete the contrast , while the armaments-maker gets his price almost without question if he gives quick delivery , it is extremely hard for the consumer-goods manufacturer to obtain permission for a compensatory increase in his sales price . For political reasons it is not desired to have the price of the goods which the masses buy , such as food , clothing , and textiles , raised noticeably . In consequence of this discrimination and restriction it is not uncommon for a consumer-goods manufacturer to turn from the making of standard fixed-price mass products to " luxury " goods , which have a more flexible price range . The Nazi periodical Der Aufbau in its issue No. 1 for 1938 expressed resentment at this . " While in principle , " it said , " no increase has taken place in clothing prices , in practice the cheaper lines of men 's and women 's clothing have become very scarce and the citizen has to accept higher price goods . This is due purely to the passion for profit in the manufacturer and dealer . It must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distributed to them are not to be used in this perverted way . " In the food field the Reich Food Estate maintains a rigid control over products and prices , dictating the quantity which each food-products factory shall turn out and even closing down individual factories at its discretion . A good deal of such elimination has been carried out in the dairy business , causing no little suffering and discontent . In its issue of July 22 , 1938 , the Molkereizeitung , organ of the Association of Dairymen , gave cautious expression to this dissatisfaction , disavowing before its members all responsibility for the official policy which it was forced to carry out . V Of all the battle cries of National Socialism during the years of its climb to power none rings out so fiercely and often as : " Down with interest slavery " They would make short work of banking for private profit . What , in actual fact , have they done ? They have sold back into private hands a number of banks which were " rescued " by the State and left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The great iron , steel , and coal magnates of the Ruhr have been the purchasers . Flat on their back in 1932 , these industrial giants have picked up such profits from the arms traffic as to be able not only to clear off their bank debts but to buy the banks . They have achieved a control of the latter such as even that magnate of magnates , Hugo Stinnes , did not possess . Now the industrialists are casting about to found some other type of financial institution to handle their surplus funds . For " private " though their banks may be again , they have no shred of independence . They are a part of the State machine for sucking up credit to finance the Government 's spending . The better to do this their presidents must watch over their depositors ' investments , to see that these are in line with official policy . They can back no new enterprise , float no share issue , without the permission of the Four Year Plan Commission and the Reichsbank . Allowed no freedom and little profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all the risk . The big industrialists , and the big agrarians as well , are none too pleased with affairs , in spite of their seeminglymiraculous financial recovery and their strengthened monopolies . They have been forced to throw all of their fine profits and sometimes their original capital too into Four Year Plan enterprises , which they consider extremely risky . One example of these ventures is the vast Hermann Goering Iron Works , organized to exploit exceedingly low-grade German iron-ore deposits . Others are the great plants rushed up to make synthetic gasoline , rubber , and textiles , which may or may not turn Germany into an " economic fortress " in time of war , but whose peacetime usefulness is certainly hard to see , with costs of production running to two and three times the world market price for natural raw materials . The industrialists wonder how long the State will be able to go on financing the armaments boom , and what will happen to them if it collapses . They are much more anxious about the future than about the present , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money so as to tide them over the next crisis . But the State does not allow them to do this . These big business men , accustomed to ruling over great trusts , have become as dependent on the State power as the small shopkeeper . If they disobeyed it they would be forced out of business . There was a time when the German civil service was a model of incorruptibility and German business maintained a certain code . That time has passed . The development of the Nazi economic system has led to a decay of business morality in the Reich . The reader will have already judged , I think , that there was bound to be corruption in a system where powerful political protection is needed to prosper , where State bureaucrats hold the life or death of an enterprise in their hands , and where the basis of that system is still private property and profit . The business man has gradually learned that those who stuck to the old rules of honest and open dealing simply could not survive the economic struggle in conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial contracts and treaties has virtually disappeared . Experience has taught that the right of ownership as such no longer exists , but can be variously interpreted by the application of the criteria : " interests of the State " and " welfare of the community . " Business men no longer hurry to prosecute for breach of contract ; for , sound as their case may be , the defendant may turn out to have better political connections , and in Nazi Germany judges are as responsible as anybody else to Party secretaries . Should they themselves be prosecuted by a foreign firm , however , they are quick enough to adopt the same defense slogan , " interests of the State , " and thus it is almost impossible for a foreign firm to win a case in a German court . And even if it be given the decision the foreign firm has won only a technical victory , for the Reichsbank never releases foreign currency to pay such claims . In practice , therefore , German firms may break buying contracts abroad at will , or on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world price drop , and repurchase elsewhere at a lower price . Under the circumstances most German business men have become cynical . They despise the Nazi bureaucrats who piously claim to be " defending State interests , " but at the same time they have to keep up a pretense of respect and good fellowship . Often they adopt the same hypocritical phrases , " welfare of the community " and so on to cover their own deals , and end up by despising themselves . But they can see no escape , and when in public still take good care to speak of conditions in the country as wunderbar . What conclusions can one set down about the position of business and of business men in Germany ? Has the individual operator any private role left at all ? Or has he become a mere cog in the State machine ? According to National Socialist doctrine " private gain must yieldto the welfare of the community . " Private property can be , and is , expropriated with or without compensation , with the sole justification that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretext has sufficed for the confiscation of the huge Jewish property throughout the Reich and large Catholic properties in Austria . Occupation of new territories such as Austria and the Sudetenland will always be accompanied by the wholesale expropriation of the property of those declared to be " enemies of the State . " The same convenient phrase has served to cover the confiscation of many a coveted property in the old Reich . This insecurity of private property has produced consternation among those capitalists who thought that the Nazis would merely protect the rights of private property and halt there . Yet private property still exists in Germany , as we have seen . It has even grown , as in the resale of the former private banks and the State 's interest in the Steel Trust . In the same way , competition has been greatly limited , yet there are still firms struggling against one another for very existence . From business men like this the Nazi economy has taken all the profit and zest and left only the risk and worry . The Iong-term tendency in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the struggle of the conservative industrial and financial interests for a return to freer enterprise becomes more and more feeble . For a time they enjoyed the powerful support of Dr. Schacht , but his influence has long been on the wane . Recently the chief Party organ Der Voelkische Bevbachter predicted that " a new type of individual will arise in the economic field who will enjoy living dangerously and who by his individual efficiency will create real freedom of economic action for himself . " To Germany 's business men , harassed by the Party , dogged by State Commissars at every move , insecure , worried about present and future , the Nazi " economists " can only toss the slogan " Live Dangerously ! "                     