@@486443

THE electric-power interests are like a dragon which , as soon as one head is cut off , promptly pushes out another without ever a quiver of the torso . The public needs to keep an ax handy all the time to lop off new heads as they appear in the guise of politicians and financiers seeking to embezzle the country 's natural resources . Especially is it necessary this winter to attack the strong lobby which is forming against the development of the St. Lawrence River for the benefit of the public . It is now evident that a secretly directed campaign has begun not only to see to it that the public does not get cheaper current from the greatest electric development planned on this continent , but actually to have the project carried out at government expense and then detoured to the enrichment of private interests . The St. Lawrence development , it will be recalled , is part of the scheme for a 27-foot waterway , deep enough for practically all seagoing craft , from the Atlantic Ocean to the head of the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as shallow as 14 feet . By the treaty between this country and Canada signed on July 18 , 1932 , the United States undertook to deepen the channel at necessary points in the four upper lakes , Canada promised to improve the Welland Canal between Lakes Erie and Ontario , and the two nations agreed to attack jointly the impediments to navigation in that part of the St. Lawrence River which constitutes the international boundary . This amounts to 1-15 miles , separating New York from Ontario . Between Ogdensburg and Massena-48 miles  --  the famous St. Lawrence rapids drop 85 feet . It is proposed to convert this into a series of dams and pools , developing in connection with them 2,200,000 horse-power in electricity , more than the amount so far projected at Muscle Shoals and Boulder Dam combined . The power is to be divided equally between the United States and Canada . This country 's heritage , if scheming financiers and crooked politicians have their way , would go to the companies now controlling the field on their own terms and be sold to domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour , although private corporations are distributing electricity at a profit in St. Louis and the city of Washington at three to four cents a kilowatt hour and in Ontario a government agency sells it at two cents . It was thought at first that the protection of the American consumer was guaranteed by the arrangement whereby the federal government intrusted its quota of 1,100,000 horse-power to the Power Authority of the State of New York . This body , with an able and public-spirited personnel , was set up in 1931 , and in return for the rights which New York receives , the State has undertaken to pay $89,000,000 of the $258 , - 000,000 which will be this nation 's share in the cost of the St. Lawrence development . But the Power Authority is not authorized  --  as it should have been  --  to sell direct to the consumer . It must make contracts with distributing companies . This arrangement was dictated by the New York power interests , dominated by the Niagara Hudson Power Corporation . Holding a monopoly of distributing facilities as they do , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for new power except on their own terms . The only way to beat them is through municipal distribution  --  or at least the possibility of it . To this end bills were introduced in the New York Legislature in 1930 , 1931 , and 1932 , backed by Franklin D. Roosevelt , then Governor , to permit municipalities to go into the power business if authorized to do so by a referendum vote of their citizens . New York is one of only six States today in which municipalities lack that power . The Republican-controlled , corporation-bossed legislatures did not even report the bills out of committee . But in 1933 , with a small Democratic majority in the senate , a better result was hoped for . It did not materialize . A bill , supported by Governor Lehman , with difficulty reached the floor of the senate , where it was beaten . Four Democrats voted in the negative and two refrained from voting , proving that the utilities can find friends in either party when needed . The campaign of the power companies at the forthcoming session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead of waging a fight primarily on the power issue , which might arouse too much public resentment , the utility interests are making their attack , in part at least , on the navigational aspects of the waterway project . They are reviving old local jealousies , especially the argument that the commerce of the New York Barge Canal , the Hudson River , and the port of New York will suffer by the completion of the Great Lakes-St . Lawrence waterway . The argument is probably unfounded , but even if true should be disregarded in the face of the wide national benefits of the Great Lakes-St . Lawrence project . It seems evident that if the power interests fail to mold the legislature according to their hearts ' desire , they will turn to Congress and seek to block the ratification of the amplifying treaty between Canada and the United States upon which the work on the St. Lawrence River depends . Masked behind the present opposition is the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York , representing all the most sinister and selfish financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , the power companies of New York and Westchester counties . Chairman Maltbie of the Public Service Commission showed lately that their dividenis were 25 per cent higher at the end of 1931 than in June , 1929 , and in 1932 were 16.5 per cent higher than in June , 1929 . Meanwhile , during the depression , salary increases have been made to various utility officers already fabulously paid for mulcting the- public . Work can not begin on the St. Lawrence development until the Power Authority can make contracts for the sale of electricity upon which revenue bonds can be issued . Not only is it important that a great continental navigation and power project be not delayed , but it is equally essential that American workers and industries be not deprived at this time of the advantage of the proposed expenditures . It is esti-mated that the St. Lawrence project means the expenditure by the United States of $30,000,000 annually for seven years . The voters of New York State need and deserve the support of the entire nation in their fight for legislation permitting municipalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it is essentially a national battle . The effect of the Great Lakes-St . Lawrence waterway will be felt across the continent , while power from the St. Lawrence River can be transmitted economically for 300 miles , which means over practically all of New York , Vermont , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Connecticut , and Rhode Island , and part of New Jersey , Pennsylvania , and Maine . The New York League of Women Voters has already lined up in favor of the enabling act for municipalities , a course which may well be followed elsewhere . Progressive newspapers throughout the country should lose no time in getting into the fray . A Journalistic Blunder THE people of New York City were treated to an amazing journalistic spectacle in the New York World-Telegram of December 15 . Both editorially and in a long news story the World-Telegram confused the issues of free speech and lynching . Two days earlier Westbrook Pegler , a former sports writer who is now conducting a column opposite that of Heywood Broun in the Scripps-Howard press , wrote a vicious defense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Scripps-Howard chain , undoubtedly did as much harm as Governor Rolph 's statement . That same evening the executive committee of the Writers ' League Against Lynching , whose roster of members , according to the World-Telegram , reads " like a ' Who 's Who in the Literary - World , ' " sent the following telegram , in the names of all its members , to Roy Howard , president of the Scripps-Howard chain : We were astounded and outraged to read in the World-Telegram Westbrook Pegler 's defense of lynching . We trust that this wire will appear in full , with all signatures , as a letter in all your papers in which the Pegler article appeared , so that it may be clear to the American public that there are those in the writing profession who abhor Mr. Pegler 's attitude on lynching . Mr. Howard chose to interpret  --  we understand not through malice but through excitement  --  this clearly worded telegram as an attack upon free speech . Going over the head of the secretary of the committee and over the heads of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Howard communicated hastily by telephone and telegraph with various members of the league throughout the country , asking if they had protested against the printing of Mr. Pegler 's article and implying definitely that the telegram to which their names were signed called for the censorship or removal of Mr. Pegler . Mr. Howard failed to read to them the telegram in question . Fannie Hurst , Bruce Bliven , and others among those questioned naturally disclaimed any wish to have Mr. Pegler censored or removed . " Whereupon the World-Telegram ran an irrelevant editorial defending its columnist 's right to free speech , and a long news article which gave all the signatures to the telegram , statements from various signers who very properly declared that they were not against free speech , several fanciful elaborations on this theme  --  everything , indeed , except the telegram itself . After the secretary of the league , Suzanne La Follette , had objected to this hysterical handling of a news story , the telegram was embodied in later editions . Its appearance made all the pother about free speech look silly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ league were not idle . When Fannie Hurst was informed of the contents of the telegram , she declared that the issue had been misrepresented to her as one of free speech . Mr. Bliven declared likewise . Many members of the league telegraphed to Mr. Howard , protesting against the mishandling of the story and the unwarranted confusion of the issues of free speech and lynching . The Nation is aware that the Scripps-Howard newspapers have been a powerful influence against the spirit of lynching and mob violence in this country . Therefore it seems to us peculiarly unfortunate that Mr. Howard should have dealt so confusedly with a group of nationally known writers whose sole purpose is to further a cause to which his newspapers are also devoted . A Polite Conference THE unanimity and good temper of the Pan-American Conference at Montevideo are a measure of its failure . They prove , as the correspondents have indicated , how successfully controversial issues have been kept off the agenda and provocative speeches reduced to a minimum . By avoiding , and thus failing to resolve , any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . particularly between the United States and its economic vassals , the conference has moved smoothly toward a satisfactory conclusion ; for in international assemblages a successful conference is one which adjourns with everybody still on speaking terms , while an unsuccessful conference is one which blows up because real issues are discussed on which no two nations can agree . Not that the Pan-American meeting has been wholly serene or wholly without accomplishment . Its sessions have been enlivened with brief bursts of plain speaking  --  generally about the United States . The Cuban delegates have stressed on every occasion the reality of American intervention despite the fact that armed forces have not yet been landed . Haiti has openly and repeatedly opposed our continued financial control ; the leader of the Haiti delegation was able most effectively to expose his country 's financial enslavement when , in approving Secretary Hull 's proposals for reciprocal tariff arrangements , he made the pointed reservation that he would have to refer the matter to the American Financial Adviser who controls Haiti 's financial life . As to accomplishments , resolutions have of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Hull 's tariff proposals called for a new indorsement of the mostfavored-nation principle with certain modern improvements designed to introduce a new measure of reciprocity in agreements containing that famous clause . This modest achievement is , far from Mr. Hull 's dfeam of drastically lowered tariffs , but at least it is an acknowledgment of the obvious fact , which American politicians have for so long refused to face , that we can not hope to sell in markets where we are unwilling to buy . Already we are beginning to negotiate bilateral treaties based upon a rather simple theory of barter ; and Secretary Hull 's proposals at Montevideo undoubtedly express the Administration 's present tariff policy . By far the most concrete , as well as the most dramatic , act of the conference was its decision to submit to the member nations a convention guaranteeing equal nationality rights to women and a recommendation that the nations grant equal civil and political rights " as soon as possible . " The Inter-American Commission of Women , headed by Doris Stevens of the United States , submitted these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee which reported on them converted the convention on the general status of women into the milder form of a mere recommendation . In this final shape the two measures , together with a third continuing the existence of the commission , won the support of the entire conference with the notable exception of the United States delegates , who abstained from voting . It is true that the United States has gone far toward removing legal inequalities between men and women in regard to nationality . This fact , however , is not sufficient to explain the refusal of the United States to record itself in favor of the nationality convention . Not only as a matter of justice to women but also as a convenience to the nations themselves , it seems wholly desirable that the inequalities and variations regarding women 's nationality be wiped out . This question , unlike the question of women 's rights in general , seems an eminently suitable matter for international negotiation and action . But the opposition of the United States to both proposals , and to the continuation of the Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite outside the ken of the nations gathered at Montevideo . The leadership of the commission in the United States is controlled by the left wing of the feminist forces . Doris Stevens and Alice Paul and other survivors of the militant suffrage movement are responsible for the foundation and policies of the commission . Their proposed convention governing civil and political rights is merely a rewriting for international purposes of the Susan B. Anthony Amendment to the Constitution for which they have so long agitated . It is well known that the present Administration is strongly opposed to this blanket bill of rights , which admittedly would render unconstitutional much of the protective legislation which such persons as the Secretary of Labor , Miss Perkins , and Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt have supported . Thus a long history of division of opinion and bitter political hostility lies back of the attitude expressed to a puzzled Pan-American conference by the United States delegation . That about sums up the substantial . achievements at Montevideo to date , although the conference deserves a certain amount of credit for the conclusion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimously agreed to adhere to such of the five existing peace pacts as they have not already signed . As for the vital questions of inter-American relations , they remain for the most part unasked and wholly unanswered . The American delegation has repeated again the familiar technique of polite evasion . There has been perhaps less bombast than is usual on such occasions , but no greater frankness or boldness or disinterestedness . In spite of Secretary Hull 's disarming honesty and personal charm , it is hard to believe that the nations of South and Central America and the Caribbean have been given any reason to hope that the new era promised by President Roosevelt is likely to bear any immediate tangible fruit . Food for Squirrels THE gray squirrels , or at least a considerable number of them , are reported to be leaving Massachusetts , Connecticut , and eastern New York . Now squirrels may not seem very important in a world full of unemployment , revolution , and the threat of war , but then , it must be remembered , unemployment , revolution , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squirrels . No one seems to know for sure why they are leaving or just where they are going , and some have been unkind enough to suggest that the squirrels themselves have only a hazy idea . Oldest inhabitants are sure that it presages a hard winter , or even that the knowing little creatures have advance information of something worse than the chestnut blight which is about to destroy all the nut-bearing trees of the region , but Dr. H. E. Anthony , curator of mammals at the American Museum of Natural History , is inclined to take a less romantic view . Other observers remember that there was an equally great trek in 1866 and agree with Dr. Anthony that it is merely the result of overpopulation and an attendant shortage of food . This immediately raises the question of what would be gained if the excess population of the East moved West while the excess population of the West moved East , but we will come to that later in the discussion . Tidings of the migration first appeared in the newspapers several weeks ago and were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coming back again . News was then scarce for a while until the whole thing started over again when it was reported that some 700 had been seen crossing the ConnectiCut River , and Captain CharlesSimms , of the Pauteck ferry , added the information that a dozen effete individuals had preferred to be carried across on his boat . It is barely possible , of course , that the reds are responsible  --  the reds being , in case you do n't know , literally red and , though smaller than the grays , so much more ferocious that they are perpetually making it pretty difficult for the latter , and even causing hard feeling against America among the English because some of them emigrated and are acting the part of gangsters over there . As originally planned , this editorial was intended to have no moral and to be written exclusively from the squirrels ' point of view , but we can not help finding lessons no matter where we look , and we come back to a question suggested above . It seems that all this migrating does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and does not overpopulate the West because most of them do n't get there anyway . Mr. Goodwin , also of the American Museum , says quite cheerfully that they tend to get drowned or disposed of in other ways , so that the migration is more or less like that of the famous lemmings of Norway , which periodically and cheerfully drown themselves by the thousands in the sea while , presumably , looking for some island which has not been there for several hundred thousand years . In other words  --  we have got to the moral at last  --  squirrels are not very much more intelligent in the management of their affairs than men are . They go on multiplying until there are too many of them and then go in for getting themselves killed in more or less wholesale fashion . 