@@469583

N. ATOLE FRANCE pointed out that the law in its majesty gives the rich and the poor an equal right to sleep under bridges . By the same token , the rich and the poor have an equal right to become destitute ; but by some strange quirk in their natures , the rich rarely avail themselves of the privilege . It is the poor who make use of it . Poverty seemingly being the essential prerequisite to destitution , it is necessary to establish the nature of the poverty from which the destitute suffer . Is it , as the hostile and hard so frequently assert , a poverty of the spirit ? Or is it , as the sociological insist , an economic matter in which physical , psycho-physiological , and cultural deficiencies may or may not figure ? When more than twenty million persons find themselves in a state of destitution in America these questions are of more than academic interest . They are , on the contrary , of the very first importance , not only to the understanding of current conditions , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to correct the conditions . One 's point of view toward the present relief population determines , in large measure , one 's general outlook on the American economy . It is not likely that anyone completely convinced that the families and unattached persons now on relief are there because they all are , in the many senses of the words , " marginal people " will be much con-cerned about them except to see that they get minimum assistance in keeping alive . On the other hand , if one is convinced that in the overwhelming majority of cases they are the ineluctable victims of forces which operate on the chronic dependents , the marginal and the supra-marginal alike , then minimum assistance seems a shabby thing and maximum changes in the economy the only right and logical answer to the problems posed . Before either attitude can be taken with any grace it is necessary to establish who these persons are , how they differ , if at all , from those who to superficial view seem similarly circumstanced , but who have not applied for relief , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessity of applying for relief . It is not a pretty story in any of its aspects . It is more fit for Emile Zola than for Kathleen Norris ! Broadly speaking , the effects of the depression have resulted in the division of the American population into four groups : 1 . Those who have suffered little or not at all in income or employment ; 2 . Those still employed whose incomes have been reduced somewhat drastically , necessitating an adjustment downward of the standard of living ; 3 . Those who are unemployed and who have been compelled to take extraordinary measures to remain " independent persons " ; 4 . Those who in addition to being unemployed ( other than in exceptional instances ) , have been reduced , in spite of extraordinary measures , to subsisting on public relief . It is not with the idea that the deprivations and sufferings , whether psychological or material , of those who have remained in employment but at lower rates of income are unimportant and insignificant from the social point of view that I have excluded them from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them out of calculation because these persons have , in spite of all , remained members of the employed and income-receiving part of the population and hence independent persons . My present concern is with the unemployed not on relief and with the members of the relief population . It is out of a study of these two groups that we shall arrive at some rational understanding of contemporary destitution . In spite of the fact that America has been wrestling with the problem for more than five years , we still know surprisingly little of a precise nature about the incidence of unemployment . It is impossible to find a figure for the number of unemployed at any given date which will be universally accepted . A little calculation reveals though that of the number unemployed at any time in recent years at least half of them will be on the public relief rolls . Since many people appear not to understand the figures , it is perhaps wise explicitly to state that , whereas the figure for the total number of unemployed includes the gainful workers only , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their dependents . This should make it clear why , when it is stated that 13 , - 000,000 persons arc unemployed and 20,000,000 are on relief , it is still true that only about half of the unemployedworkers arc subsisting on public aid . Roughly , one person in three on relief can be reckoned a potentially gainful worker , so that in a relief population of twenty millions there may be about six and two-thirds millions of potentially gainful workers or , as it is put in technical jargon , persons " working or seeking work . " This figure is not , however , strictly comparable to the unemployment figure , which usually excludes certain types of people who are quite eligible for relief and who are unquestionably part of the " gainfully employed " population . The farm population is undoubtedly under-represented in the current unemployment figures . A farmer on the land , whether as owner or tenant , is not , technically , unemployed even though his condition may be such as to make him eligible for government relief , a situation particularly true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unorganized group , are also under-represented in unemployment figures , though they swell the relief rolls in all farming areas . On the other hand , there are on the rolls considerable numbers of individuals and families who can not be reckoned in the gainfully employed population and who should be cared for by old-age pensions , mother 's aid grants , and other relevant kinds of public assistance . All these considerations contribute to limiting the comparability of the two figures . Nevertheless , it is fairly certain that at least one-half of all the unemployed are now on relief . Offhand , one would expect the incidence of unemployment to be greatest in those industries where production has declined most sharply and , therefore , it is a fair assumption that the producers ' or durable-goods industries make the largest contributions . Consumption-goods industries would , if this line of reasoning is sound , make relatively small contributions to unemployment . Yet a study of all available data makes it clear that in rolling up a relief total of twenty million persons there is no industrial or agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population . Unemployment is a universal phenomenon . Income , moreover , is a somewhat better indicator than production ; for with the technological changes of recent years , production can actually rise simultaneously with a decline in employment . The distress of the farmers , for example , can not be determined by reference to the production figures : their difficulties , in so far as they are not attributable to drought , are reflections of income declines of a drastic nature . The broad pattern , except for agriculture , is established by the following remarks taken from Robert F. Martin 's recent article , " The National Income , 1933 , " a fall in income implying a fall in employment : The data for 1933 show the greatest declines in income paid out from 1929 to have taken place in the producers ' or durable goods industries . The construction industry , which was already slackening activity in 1929 , has fallen off the most , with a decline of 76 per cent In the mining industry , which produces mainly fuel and raw material for industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total decline of 64 per cent . In the manufacturing industries the greatest declines were registered in the heavy goods branches . The industries which have shown the smallest falling off in incomes paid out since 1929 were those that serve consumers directly , and especially those of a monopoly nature whose revenues were protected from full competitive pressure . . . Income payments by the electric light and power industry have been maintained by the stable demand , especially of individuals and governments , rather than industrial consumers , and also by a relatively inflexible rate structure . . If , then , we could take a miscellaneous collection of " gainfully employed " persons who could be divided into several categories according to the type of employment normally followed ? proprietary , professional , clerical , skilled , semi-skilled , and unskilled ? and throw them out of employment at the same instant of time , which group would require relief first ? Naturally , you will say , the group which had in times past the lowest income and hence the least opportunity to acquire reserves as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the larger the number of persons from the higher income groups who will apply for aid . This is but ordinary common sense , a commodity singularly scarce in certain quarters when relief is under discussion . It is not surprising , therefore , that the urban relief population of December , 1934 ( which accounted for 60 per cent of the total relief population of 20,000,000 ) was distributed as in the table which follows . ( If you compare the percentage for the population on relief with the percentage for the total urban population , you will see how relatively hard the groups at the bottom of the list were hit ) : The distribution of the rural relief population ( 40 per cent of the total for the country ) falls in a somewhat different pattern , as would be expected . ( In the following table 5 per cent of the total number of " workers " is deducted to care for those who have never worked . ) ( In December , 1934 , there were 1,372 , - 000 rural workers usually engaged in agriculture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 238,000 , tenants 420,000 , croppers 98,000 , and laborers 616,000 . These figures should be related to the discussion of possessions and other resources . ) These tables follow the patterns most informed people would establish by applying logic , controlled by well-known social facts , to the relief population . What worries certain people , however , is the fact that many persons and families in these several groups , even the unskilled , are also unemployed but do not apply for relief . Why should this he so , they ask , if those who apply for relief are not in some respect inferior ? Does not their presence on the relief rolls argue that they are lacking in that virtue so dear to the American mythologists , self-reliance , and is their condition not directly attributable to improvidence in times past ? If some can weather the storm , why not all ? To answer these questions we must compare the relief and non-relief unemployed . II The data for a full and exhaustive comparison are simply not available , but such partial indications as can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insufficiency . A study made in Chicago by Helen R. Wright admirably illustrates the point . To start with the crucial matter of income , it immediately appears that non-relief families , though suffering from unemployment , still have employed or partially employed members to a greater extent than relief families . This is so important a matter that Miss Wright 's statement of it may profitably be quoted in full : lief , 369 , or 56 per cent of the group , had had no period in which some member of Of the 658 families who had not had rethe family had not worked at least on a part-time basis , and 147 families , or 22 per cent , had had one or more wage-earner steadily employed at full-time work for the entire period Among the 345 families on re-lief , however , only 49 , or 14 per cent , had had no period of total unemployment and only 18 , or 5 per cent , had had any wage-earner who remained at work for the entire period . There is also the important fact of family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward meeting them . The differences between the two groups in this respect further illustrate the fundamental disadvantages suffered by the relief families . A little study of this table , taken from Miss Wright 's report , will make it clear that families are driven to relief because of the existence , in the group , of dependent children whose support can not be encompassed by the wage-earners in the family . This is a simple and obvious fact which should be accepted by anyone without question . Conversely , the fact that the non-relief group had more wage-carnets and fewer children certainly goes far to explain the fact that they did not require relief . The same size-of-family differential operates in the rural population . In twenty-four selected counties where seven major types of farming were represented , the median size of the relief families was 4.8 persons and of non-relief 3.9 ? a difference of a person . The earlier conclusion is , therefore , reinforced : lack of income when combined with extensive family responsibilities brings people to relief . Unless we choose to indict persons in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be perilously similar to indicting the weather , since the State hampers the spread of birth control information , it is impossible to make out any case for the inferiority of the relief families on the basis of these data . A study made in Dayton allows us to bring two more points into the picture : length of time unemployed and past work history , both of which have direct bearing on the need for relief , while the latter may perhaps be taken as an indication of the quality of the households involved . Taking up the first point on a family basis , the report presents the following data : These figures are very significant and highly pertinent to the matter being discussed . They show that ( a ) the relief households have a longer record of unemployment than the non-relief , which is of great significance in the light of the fact that ( b ) the responsibilities of the relief households are greater , as previously pointed out , and their incomes smaller . Moreover , since the relief households have been without employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their reserves for a longer time and have exhausted them as a consequence . When the non-relief households studied have been out of work as long , the presumption is that they too will apply for relief . Only by gaining employment will they escape that fate . There is nothing in these figures , be it emphatically said , that indicates any inferiority on the part of the relief households . They simply measure objectively the incidence of economic pressure . Moral inferiority may appear in the data on work history , though it is unwise to be too hasty about assuming so . Let us , therefore , look at the Dayton figures on experience at usual occupation , which cover both those employed and those unemployed at the time of the study . The remarks in the report at this point are especially pertinent : " the median length of experience for all experienced workers receiving relief is 115 months and for experienced non-relief workers 113 months . . . workers on relief appear about as employable as the non-relief workers . " Turning , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be cited : The text which comments on this table is as follows : " The median length of the longest job for all workers in the relief population who have worked for one employer is 55 months , and in the non-relief 83 months . This difference may indicate that the non-relief workers have a record of greater work stability , or may simply be a product of the difference in occupational distribution of relief and non-relief workers . Some occupations intrinsically involve short-length jobs and , as a consequence , length of longest job with one employer is by no means a uniformly reliable index of work stabilTHE ROAD TO ity . " The report is absolutely correct in insisting , when summing up all the data ( including a good deal not relevant here ) , that " the differentials are rather small . " When they seem to weigh against the relief population , a consideration of the relevant sociological and economic data leads one to withhold moral condemnation . The objective data seem thus to give little support to glib generalizations about the inferiority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal knowledge of " inferior " individuals being given aid , he must remember that in the total picture a few individual cases will influence the figures but little , and that only by studying large groups can any valid judgment be formed . A tiny minority of the American people are gangsters . Do we condemn all Americans as being gangsters ? III It can be dogmatically asserted , on the basis of numerous objective indications that have passed under my eyes during the Iast ten months , that the present relief clients did not come willingly to the relief offices . Even in those sections of the country where the receipt of public relief does not require the taking of a pauper 's oath ? an effective deterrent to the application for aid ? there is plenty of evidence that in the vast majority of cases the necessity is resisted to the last possible moment . It is even resisted beyond the point which humanitarian social workers consider the uttermost margin of safety . From the standpoint of individual and social health it would be a good deal better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the struggle sooner , for there are some indications that the relief population is better off than the unemployed non-relief population in the matter of nourishment . But there comes a time when a family suffering from unemployment is forced on relief willy-nilly . The first landmark on the downward trek to relief is , of course , stoppage or catastrophic reduction of income from employment . After that happens , there are usually three phases in the downward progress . First comes the exhaustion of positive resources . How long this takes is dependent of course on the previous economic status of the family . But bank accounts and other savings ordinarily are not large enough to keep a family going for very long , as may be determined by figuring how long a family with an income of say $30 a week and regularly putting away 10 per cent of it would have to save to live without income for six months at the $27 level ( answer : 4142years ! ) . Neither can much be realized on insurance policies . In the low-income groups industrial insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the loan value very much less , as any insurance holder will understand . The usual procedure for the worker seeking to turn his assets into money , is to borrow to the limit and then let the policy lapse by not paying the premiums ? realizing little by the first step and making but a pitifully small " saving " by the latter . The ownership of a home , however desirable it may be under favorable circumstances , is of little value to a family facing destitution if it is being purchased on the installment plan or is mortgaged . In fact it is a distinct liability , for the installment or mortgage payments are hefty timbers which contribute to breaking the family back : and when the disaster finally comes the descent required by foreclosure may well be more destructive of morale than eviction is to a renter . Under these circumstances home ownership is a negative asset the value of which is quickly exhausted . The turning of chattels into money ? such things as an automobile , a radio , a fine piece of furniture ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have depressed the market is hardly likely to prove a solution either . And anyhow , the available statistics show that homes , automobiles , and other relatively costly assets are not ordinarily found in the possession of people who later come on relief . Especially is this true in the cities . When it is apparent that the stoppage of income is not , as in good times , a strictly temporary affair , the families so affected naturally turn to economy . There is little quantitative data on the types of economies to which people resort ; but from a reading of whatever qualitative material ( not obviously fictionized ) has come to my attention , it seems that economies are first effected in medical care , followed by clothing , food , and finally living quarters . As to medical care , the economy comes not so much from resorting to cheap substitutes for adequate care as from abandoning care altogether until such time as it can not be avoided , and then resorting to such free services as may be available . Yet it is not clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction of income is directly a consequence of this economy or is the end product of economies in food , clothing , and shelter . It must be emphasized , however , that as the contributing causes to a rise in the illness rate become more important , the sums spent on medical care decline ? an illogical procedure socially but obligatory in terms of personal economy . Newspaper readers will recall that it is frequently announced that the death rate is falling and that this is a cause for optimism about the condition of the people . What it really means has been cogently stated by Mr. Edgar Sydenstricker of the Millbank Fund : Whatever may be the reasons for a low death rate during an unusually severe economic depression , the fact that the death rate has continued on a low level must be accepted as a most encouraging sign . It is indubitable evidence that up to this time unemployment , diminished purchasing power , altered standards of living , even privation , have not killed very many of the population .. .. But this indication should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sign of good health . The death rate is not an adequate criterion of the extent of sickness and impairment . . . . It does not promptly reveal decreased resistance to disease . It is not an accurate measure , for example , of malnutrition . Furthermore , the gross mortality rate for the nation as a whole or for any large group of the population does not tell whether or not certain elements of the population are suffering from ill health . That economies in medical care assist the spiral in its downward course seems indisputable . The economies in clothing are at first negative : people forego replacements and the purchase of new articles . The time comes , however , when replacements are demanded but can not be undertaken , and the deterioration in appearance ? a disastrous thing if job hunting is still being undertaken ? is obvious to the most casual observer . Thus it is that many families arrive on the relief rolls in dire need of clothing . In the matter of food , there is an immediate abandonment of luxury foods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a cutting down in the consumption of foods indispensable to a balanced diet and health , even though as the income available goes down the proportion of it spent on food goes up . A balanced diet is reckoned to include milk and other protein foods , fats , cereals , sugars , vegetables , and fruits . On the basis of extensive studies Miss Dorothy Wiehl has stated : As income declined , the average consumption of each type of food in the dietary was reduced , but the greatest reductions were in the use of milk , meat , fish , eggs , vegetables and fruits . . . . The foods necessary to maintain good nutritional balance were reduced , on the average , below the level of accepted requirements and in some cases below the safe marginal level . This is not , of course , a matter of choice ; for while millions of families eat unhygienically from the exact scientific point of view , when income is normal most Americans do fairly well by themselves . While Miss Wiehl makes clear where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implication , what families in reduced circumstances do cat . It seems likely that they turn to " filling " dishes , feeling that it is better to eat badly and rise from the table " full " than to eat scientifically and rise hungry . There is probably a substitution of starchy foods , like potatoes , for meat and green vegetables . The result is widespread malnutrition . This has been determined statistically for school children . In the light of the rising illness rate discussed earlier , it seems likely that it is also true for adults . The families arrive on the relief rolls in a very depleted condition . Miss Wiehl , therefore , is undoubtedly right in stating that " the relationship between diet and sickness . . . would seem to be . . . a matter of lowered vitality and resistance to disease . " The remark of J. Prentice Murphy should be recalled : " You can starve a long time without dying . " There are two outstanding points to be made about the efforts which unemployed people make to economize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a retreat downward in the standard of the dwelling occupied , but there is also ( b ) the matter of " doubling-up , " with the consequent unhygienic ( and frequently unmoral ) crowding . In Philadelphia , as Tong ago as the fall of 1931 , Karl de Schweinitz reported that " there is house after house in certain parts of the city , six-room houses , wherethere is one family to each room , " a statement supplemented by Raymond F. Clapp who said , " Usually the overcrowding occurs when the family is trying to get along ' on its own ' . " Overcrowding is an economy measure . It should be kept in mind , however , when it is stated that there is a decline in housing standards , that the occupational and income groups contributing most heavily to the relief population do not have far to fall . They fall from slums to sub-slums . Unemployment , since it bears down most heavily on the low-income groups , is uniformly reported heaviest in the slum areas of any great city . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly that , to quote a release of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce , " The greatest per cent of rent delinquency occurred among those families paying one-fourth or more of their incomes for rents . . . . Delinquency was greatest among families having the lowest rent bills per dwelling unit . " Families perforce occupying the lowest types of dwellings experience the greatest difficulty in holding on to any dwelling at all ! It may surprise those who persist in romanticizing the country folk to know that the same housing differential operating against the relief clients is also observable in rural areas . After all , poor housing is a consequence of poverty , not a matter of choice . There remain the thousand and one minor economies effected under the stress of diminishing resources which can better be imagined than reduced to statistics or even described in qualitative terms . Anyone who has ever had his income drastically reduced for an extended period knows very well how many things , previously reckoned indispensable to living , one can get along without if need be . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foregoable necessities and had to begin to curtail the absolute necessities , that the pinch really comes . I know of no better summary of the dreadful extent to which this can go than the following , part of the text of a radio address by a representative of the Minneapolis Community Chest : Furniture . . . wears out , chair rungs break , upholstery wears through , bedding , especially comforters , wears out , stoves need new grates , ovens need to be relined , stove pipe rusts , tubs , boilers , and kettles spring leaks , dishes break , and brooms wear down to the handle . . . finally there are not even the few nickels and dimes necessary for incidental and miscellaneous expenses , such things as needles and thread , buttons , matches , pins , tooth brushes , shoe polish , newspapers , and carfare . Finally , there is the accumulation of obligations . Credit is an asset difficult to measure ; it is one of the intangibles in the possession of most families who have resided in a neighborhood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " wage workers . Moreover , it extends into odd corners not visible to the outsider : to relatives , immediate and remote ; to more prosperous friends ; to various helpful folk who are glad , perhaps , to give a lift to an acquaintance who is down . All of these sources of money must be numbered among the invisible assets of a family suffering from unemployment , but there will inevitably be some families unable to use any of them . In Rochester , according to a study made by the relief officials , just short of one-quarter of the clients noted that they had got along , previous to coming on relief , by resorting to " trust or credit . " In the Chicago group studied by Miss " Wright credit was a much more important item : 88 per cent of the relief families reported using this resource as a means of living before resorting to relief , and , moreover , 48 per cent of the relief clients reported that they had contracted loans , while 35 per cent had help from friends and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ten thousand persons out of work in Philadelphia and found that they fell in the following categories : back rent , money loans , groceries , building and loan payments , interest on mortgages , taxes , installments , back premiums on insurance , doctor and hospital bills , fuel , gas and electricity . Apparently anything that could fall in arrears was allowed to do so . Borrowing , it must be emphasized , is an expedient , a stop-gap , not an answer . This was beautifully brought out by Mr. Jacob Billikopf in briefly reporting an experiment in Philadelphia whereby it was hoped to keep unemployed families off relief by advancing them money . In surveying 2,400 schedules on which the information was given in full , it was found that debts to landlords , butchers , grocers , and milkmen were recorded to a total of $1,300,000 or an average of about $540 per family . In all 3,200 applications for aid were received , but only 513 loans ranging from $25 to $125 each were made when the whole project was abandoned . Mr. Billikopf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the others it was felt that it would be an unfortunate imposition to burden them with loans when they were so heavily in debt , without the least possibility of ever meeting their obligations . " It turned out to be folly to try to lend money to families whose principal trouble was the lack of an income , not any incapacity to get along when an income was available . IV We have traced the road to destitution almost exclusively , thus far , in material terms . Naturally this slow exhaustion of assets which in most instances it has taken years to accumulate , pitifully small though they may THE ROAD TO be , is not accomplished without disastrous psychological effects . From European studies , particularly that made by Dr. Paul LaLatsfeld in Austria , we know something of the deterioration that sets in when unemployment becomes a " normal " thing . The family turns in on itself , the empty days are " occupied " with fruitless tasks that come to consume more time than a busy person would imagine at all possible , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function only ? they cease in any true sense to live . It is senseless to prate about the use of leisure to these people ; for even those who have deep-seated aspirations to knowledge and who have always enjoyed such theatrical and musical pleasures as they could afford while working , are unable to find in these things , even when they are made available free of charge , a substitute for lack of a job and income . As a study of unemployed women workers puts it , " Some of the workers who had long wished for the time to study said that they were too anxious to concentrate their minds on books . " This formal statement will open up long vistas to the imaginative . Moreover the long-continued deprivation which throws a family in upon itself can not fail to result in aimless senseless bickering and the building up of tense situations the issue of which is too frequently the utter disintegration of the family . When the father has traditionally been the breadwinner , all the pent up exasperation is vented upon him ; his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forces beyond his control , is likely to heap on his shoulders the blame for the whole situation . This is admirably brought out by what an applicant said to a relief worker after she had told him there were no jobs available : " Have you anybody you can send round to my family to tell my wife you have no job to give me ? Because she does n't believe that a man who walks the street from morning till night , day after day , actually ca n't get a job in this town . She thinks I do n't want to work . " It is perfectly plain that only a rare individual or family can go down this road to destitution and arrive with torturing reluctance at the relief office and not show the effects of the journey . That some individuals and families do , I am not prepared to dispute , but that any considerable proportion do it is difficult to believe . Rather it seems to me that in this history we have an important clue to the strange apathy which afflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly before they arrived on relief , it does not seem at all likely that they would have made so little " trouble " for the administrators as they have . It is not a tribute to the American people that they have " taken it " without protest ; it is rather a distressing symptom of the disintegration of spirit which has been the inevitable accompaniment of widespread destitution . As more and more people have been engulfed by it , we should , had not all the revolt been beaten out of them in fending off this unwanted and unwonted end , have had demonstrations and protests galore . It is a bad sign that we have not . The relief population is not to be described as a patient group of patriotic Americans who would not think of storming the citadels , but as a collection of dispirited , beaten , exhausted individuals who have been racked to pieces on the road to destitution and who , now they have arrived at the end of it , take what respite the relief grant offers and say nothing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destitution on'a minimum food , clothing , shelter basis . Back in 1932 , before the Federal Emergency Relief Administration was established , Mr. William Hodson , until recently relief administrator in New York City , pointed out that " charity can never be substituted for the pay envelope . " The drop in wages which has been experienced over the years has created a gap which relief has never come even remotely near filling . That is obvious . Vary it as one likes , put everyone on direct relief at a maximum subsistence budget ( something never yet achieved ) , put everyone able to work at work at an average of $50 a month , put them to work at going wages and let them earn " budgets " by restricting hours ? figure up any number of variations in the methodology of relief administration and it is always the same thing : the maintenance of destitution . Work relief may have a therapeutic value not to be found in direct relief , but it can not be rehabilitative unless the work is of the kind to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , factory employment ) and at wages at least equal to those normally earned . Moreover , destitution breeds deeper destitution . You can not maintain a family at low ebb without having it slip lower . Unless clothes are provided nakedness will creep upon them ; unless fully adequate , balanced diets are provided bodies will deteriorate and resistance to disease will be lowered ; unless medical care is available sickness will raise its ugly head in some acute form ; and the mere resort to public aid does not keep furniture from wearing out , furnishings from breaking and disintegrating . Bad housing remains bad housing . Relief solves nothing ; rather it creates problems . As Mr. Walter West succinctly put it , " Those who need relief one year , need it even more the next , and even more than that the next . . . . " Nor can we complacently say that industrial revival will solve the whole business . People do n't go down the road to destitution and spend even short periods on the relief rolls with impunity . We know perfectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies had finished cleaning up the effects of the relatively minor depression of 1921 . " Social workers have known from long experience , " said Mr. Linton B. Swift in 1932 , " that the peak of their jobs comes not merely in the giving of relief during a period of unemployment but in dealing with family disintegration which continues for a long period afterward and is reflected not merely in the health and well-being of the families themselves but in the effect upon the children that is going to be seen for years afterward . " And if our economy has definitely turned its nose downward as far as employment opportunities are concerned , as more economists than those who are radical believe , we must face the prospect of a permanent relief population in large part made up of relief persons already with us . No one knows who will be selected for employment ; but if European experience is any guide those who have been on relief longest will be the least likely to be absorbed as opportunities open up . It will be from the workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from those who have been on relief for short periods only , that the needed hands will be selected . Their skills will have deteriorated least , their employment records will appeal to personnel managers most , and to those who have had will be given . This is a dismal postlude to a dismal . story . Relief is not a cheerful subject . It must be faced resolutely or not at all . It is the asinine and inconsequential optimism of the prosperous overlying population that is making it impossible really to deal with the problem in a resolute fashion . When to the supineness of the relief population is added the egregious fatuousness of the employed and employing population , a combination is effected which can only lead to a dreadful social disaster . The existence of a destitute population in excess of twenty millions is a social portent of disturbing implications . Shall we nonchalantly let these people sink deeper and deeper into the social mire or take the steps to rescue them once and for all ? The mere existence of the relief population is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before faced . The future of this population is in the hands of the American people ; but that future can be bright only if it is recognized that those who seek relief are even as you and I , normal Americans who have fallen on evil days . As time passes with no change in the fundamental conditions of our economic life , the drab and beaten crowd will absorb more and more persons from the higher occupational and income brackets . At this very moment the records show that clerical , professional and proprietary groups are coming on the rolls in rising proportions . When the white-collar groups begin to slip , not into the manual working class , but into the relief group , it is time for all , high and low , to take alarm ? and action !                     