@@220981

No one has more right to be vexed at the impudence of a San Bernardino Naturopath named Emerson B. Hartman than William Bradley Coley , mightily esteemed Manhattan cancer specialist . Naturopath Hartman advertises himself : ' ' CANCER SPECIALIST using the ANTITOXIN that has CURED the worst cancers known . " Although his " antitoxin " is the stuff which Dr. William Frederick Koch , a discredited Detroit physician , exploits , the specious idea behind it skulks in the shadow of the very real cures of certain kinds of bone cancer which Dr. Coley has been able to make with a toxin . <P> Medicine suspects any theory that germs cause cancer . Likewise Medicine is stubbornly skeptical of any theory that germs can be advantageously used to treat cancer . Dr. Coley invented his anti-cancer toxin , Coley 's Fluid , 40 years ago . It is a mixture of the toxins produced by the germ of erysipelas and a harmless germ called Bacillus prodigiosus which grows on food . Prodigiosus toxin fortifies the action of erysipelas toxin . Together they have cured an appreciable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have in numerous instances prevented the spread of cancer to remote parts of the victim 's body . Some patients whom Dr. Coley treated with the good old Fluid 40 years ago are still alive . Because indubitably Coley 's Fluid cured some people who were dying of this type of cancer , the righteous Doubting Thomases of the American Medical Association hesitantly approved it as a " New &; Nonofficial Remedy " 24 years ago . Last week , with much less hesitancy , the A. M. A. reaffirmed its approval , advising in a three-column report and a two-column editorial in its Journal that Coley 's Fluid be used as a prophylactic in conjunction with surgery and in inoperable cancers " as a desperate attempt to combat the inevitable . " Dr. Coley is 72 , and still in active practice . For 41 years he was attending surgeon in Manhattan 's Memorial Hospital . He has written extensively on cancer . He still believes that an invisible germ prepares the way for cancers of the bone . But he does not know just how his mixture of erysipelas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fluid works . Not a cureall , it has proved effective in a large percentage of inoperable bone cancers . According to last week 's AMA Journal , Dr. Christian Jacobsen of Lbeck seems to have discovered that the Coley Fluid works because , like typhoid vaccine , it fortifies the entire body . Significant is the fact that few people who have cancer ever had typhoid , diphtheria or other infectious diseases which create a lifelong immunity .                     