@@470230

HE CAME to the hospital one Monday : a man with a bothersome skin disease . The dermatologists made a thorough physical examination . They tested the patient with various allergenic substances : food , pollens , dusts . Nothing showed up . All the tests were negative . But the rash itself was not negative . His arms were pimpled with it . " Almost every Monday I have a breaking out like this . " " What do you do on Sundays ? " asked the hospital physician . Usually , said the patient , he went visiting in one of the suburbs . " Why ? " " There 's a young lady I go to see . " It developed that for eight years the couple had been engaged to marry , but the woman repeatedly postponed naming the wedding day . The man had been saving money , he was prepared to assume his new responsibility ; each Sunday he pressed for a decision ; each Monday was the day after a frustration . And " almost every Monday " his skin protested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another experience is that of a young woman who was disturbed because of an affliction of the fourth finger of her left hand . Its tip looked like chalk . It felt cold , numb , asleep . The condition , commonly called " white finger , " is a disorder of circulation known to medical men as Raynaud 's disease . The cause is a prolonged constriction of muscles surrounding certain small blood vessels . Usually Raynaud 's disease symmetricallyaffects the body 's extremities , the toes of both feet or the fingers of both hands ; but in this instance the trouble was sharply localized . There was only one white finger , and the fact that it was the ring finger seemed to point to an emotional involvement of some kind . Eventually the patient told of a crucial experience in her personal life which showed , only too clearly , that such indeed was the case . It seems that a few months previously she was the happy fianc ? e of a young man . But there had been a misunderstanding , a quarrel developed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engagement ring and " threw it at him . " That night she became aware of a curious tingling in her ring finger . She rubbed the finger awake . Later the sensation returned . Finally exercise and rubbing were of no avail . The circulatory disorder grew more pronounced and alarming and at last caused ulcerations which drove her to the doctor . A third example is that of an asthma patient , a man who had been brought to the hospital in a critical condition . After several weeks of treatment he was relieved , and a day was set for his discharge . Railroad tickets to his home down South were purchased and all arrangements for the trip had been made to his apparent satisfaction , when suddenly , on the night before his scheduled departure , a violent paroxysm of asthma occurred . Within a few hours all the dangerous symptoms had returned , and it was clear that he could not be discharged next day . Treatment was resumed ; again his breathing became free ; again a day was appointed and arrangements made for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asthma returned in full force . The record showed that this patient was a teacher in a Southern agricultural college . Some years earlier he had become embroiled in a faculty fight which ended with the resignation of his chief . Under the new administration promotion did not come , and now the teacher feared for his job . Here was a situation of uncertainty such that it seemed better to remain within the protecting walls of the hospital than to go back to the scene of former strife and face the likelihood of dismissal . These experiences ? all taken from recent case histories of a large hospital in the eastern part of the United States ? recall the numerous instances , reported during the World War , of symptoms connected with emotional shock . A man would be sent into no-man's-land to bury the week 's dead , and on his return from the disagreeable task his sense of smell suddenly ceased to function . Even in the homelands , far from scenes of battle , strange mental fixations would occur . Dr. Ernest Snowden , of the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in training camp in England in 1916 preparatory to joining the army in France . During an exercise one night another member of the squad landed on top of him , apparently injuring the man 's spine . His legs thereafter were useless . Six years later , in 1922 , the man was still a paralytic and his case came before the medical authorities on a recommendation that he be transferred to a hospital for the totally disabled , The examining doctor noticed that the patient 's legs were not withered , and sent him to a clinic for observation . There his story emerged . The patient and his wife were simple working people . Several years before the War there came a season of unemployment and , to tide over , the wife took in washing . Soon she had more work thanshe could care for , so she employed some of her neighbors . The business prospered , her husband joined in its management , and they were on the road to easy circumstances when the War came in 1914 ? with consequences that were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed materials became scarce ; then the workers left for the munitions factories ; finally , the husband was called up for the army . In the training camp he received pathetic letters from his wife . At last there came the critical episode , the accident . It occurred during a practice attack one night when the squad was being taught how to storm a trench . He was the first to reach the trench ; he jumped down into it , and a moment later the man running after him took a leap in the darkness and landed roughshod on the back of the first man . There was no question that a painful injury had been inflicted . But did this injury cause the paralysis , or was there something else ? something for which the accident provided a trigger ? Obviously there was more than the physical injury ; there was also a pre-existing mental or emotional disturbance which had its counterpart in the physical mechanism . The years of frustration , fear , and uncertainty had inflicted their wounds long before the hobnail boots of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outcome of his examination , declared that he could find nothing organically wrong , and explained the idea of body-mind relationships , the patient was overjoyed . " It was like a reprieve offered to a man who has been condemned to a life 's sentence . " He began to move his legs at the first interview . He stood on them at the second and took a few cautious steps . At the third visit he was walking freely , and such was his eagerness that he over-exercised his unaccustomed feet , they became swollen , and the doctor deemed it necessary to send him to bed for a fortnight 's rest . Complete recovery came within a few weeks ? recovery from six years of helpless invalidism ? as authentic a miracle as was ever reported of a pilgrim at Lourdes . Medical men have been accustomed to call certain ill-understood symptoms " functional , " thereby segregating them from the more physiologically reasonable " organic " diseases in which the ailing organs show anatomical defects . A headache that can be correlated with a brain tumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this kind that have generally enlisted the interest and engaged the best skill of the practitioner . But a headache that just is , and that inexplicably plagues its victim without traceable connection to any identifiable structural fault ? this pain , in common medical parlance , is " merely functional . " How many a baffled doctor has disposed of one of these cases with the pronouncement , " You only imagine you are sick . Quit worrying , go home and forget it . " Such advice rarely is effective ? except in ridding the office of the patient , which often is a consummation devoutly to be wished . For these " cases of nerves " are the bane of much medical practice . As Dr. J. C. Yaskin described them in the Medical Times a few years ago , " They tire and exhaust the general practitioner , and are the stumbling block of all specialists . When all ordinary means fail to disclose definite lesions , and when special laboratory and clinical studies do not reveal abnormal functions , the cases are generally dumped into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a detested category does not dispose of the patients . They drift from one doctor 's office to another 's , eventually perhaps to the chiropractor 's or the faith healer 's sanctuary , and some Wednesday evening may show up in the Christian Scientists ' testimonial class , healed . It is possible , on the other hand , that the neurotic patient may chance to apply to a physician who practices Thracian medicine . I say Thracian because of a quaint Socratic anecdote . It seems that Socrates was sent to a distant land for a period of military service , and while there observed that in one respect the barbarous Thracians were superior to the Greeks . For they knew that the body can not be healed without the mind . " This , " he explained , " is the reason why the cure of many diseases is unknown to the physicians of Hellas , because they are ignorant of the whole . " The idea of considering the patient as a whole appears in the teaching of Hippocrates and other leaders during the centuries of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Thracian school . Dr. S. Weir Mitchell was a shining practitioner of its art in the nineteenth century . But it is only within recent years that study of the emotions as factors in illness has received serious attention in general hospitals , medical schools , and research centers . Although doctors who practice Thracian medicine are a growing guild of scientifically trained physicians , their number is not yet legion . Wide is the range of diseases in which emotional states show themselves to be a complicating , often a controlling , influence . " Fully fifty per cent of the problems of the acute stages of an illness , and seventy-five per cent of the difficulties of convalescence , have their primary origin , not in the body , but in the mind of the patient , " says Dr. Edward A. Strecker . In 1934 Dr. Flanders Dunbar and her group at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York thought it would be useful to select some types of illness that are generally related to organic impairment and see to what extent emotional disturbances were also represented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kinds of organic disease : ( 1 ) those afflicted with diabetes , and ( 2 ) those afflicted with diseases of the heart . A third group was desired to serve as a control , a sort of norm by which to check and compare the other groups , and for this ( 3 ) the choice was fracture cases , i.e. patients who had come for treatment of broken bones . Those whose injury was a fractured skull were not included , for obvious reasons ; but it seemed equally obvious to assume that a broken leg , a broken arm , or a broken rib was an illness imposed from outside and presumably involved no psychogenic factors . Thirteen hundred cases have been studied in this way . In each of the three groups emotional factors were found to affect more than half of the patients . The great surprise was furnished by the control group . They proved to be quite as involved as the others , and it was shown that not only impaired hearts and disturbed glands , but also broken bones may trace their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In case after case , although the hospital recorded that the injury had been come by through accident , an intimate discussion of the experience with the patient showed that there was more than accident in the occurrence . Thus , a twentynine-year-old servant had been sent by her employer to tic , some marketing . On the way to the store she slipped , sprained her knee , and thereupon telephoned that she would send a friend to do the housework while she went to the doctor . But her employer said , No ; she must return to the house at once . The servant was " so mad I could have killed her , " and in returning fell down again , this time breaking her knee bone . " Now I guess she 'll learn how to treat somebody , " said the woman to her nurse , and when her employer visited the hospital she repeatedly reminded her , " If you 'd just had a little more patience ! " Another case was that of a man who had injured his back . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's boy " previous to his marriage , and was not reconciled to what he regarded as indifference on the part of his wife . " She 'll have to take care of me now , " he said hopefully , " I guess it serves her right . " A girl of seventeen had injured her knee playing football . It came out that she was an unwanted child whose divorced mother was trying to send heraway to school while she married again . The girl looked and acted much like her father , the divorced husband , and her presence was a constant reminder of him . " But she ca n't possibly send me away now , when I 'm so sick , and may be crippled for life ? can she ? " Note that the diseases on account of which these thirteen hundred persons had come to the hospital were all organic . The investigator had purposely avoided functional complaints , and actual checkup showed that all but five per cent of the patients studied showed organic damage . What could he more organic , i.e. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And yet the inquiry disclosed that eighty per cent of the persons in this fracture group were marked by long-established anxiety hysterias with various phobias : fear of being alone in the open , fear of confined spaces , fear of falling . Anxiety neuroses showed with marked frequency as an aggravating factor in the patients with diabetes and in those with diseases of the heart ? though here again the ailments were catalogued organic . In times of emotional disturbance the diabetes was worse and the heart pains and other cardiac symptoms were intensified ; in times of emotional calm and freedom from anxiety , the organic symptoms receded or became less troublesome . More than a dozen years ago Dr. Felix Deutsch , then practicing in Vienna , pointed out that in patients suffering from organic diseases it was noticeable that their symptoms were the more abundant and the more distressing just in proportion to the amount of dammed-up anxiety that was present . in their systems . Anxiety is of many kinds and derives from many sources , but there is evidence for believing that anxiety which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of disease . To a degree , therefore , as Dr. Deutsch points out , every disease is an anxiety disease . A person remains ill because he can not get rid of his anxiety . To be healthy is to be free of anxiety . " There is no heaviness like unto the heaviness of the heart , " wrote the author of Ecciesiasticus . Not only literature , but colloquial usage down through the ages teems with references to anxiety , joy , and other emotions as specific experiences of the heart . Medical researchers have sought to find a scientific basis for this , and among them some years ago the German Dr. Walter H. von Wyse reasoned thus : " Since circulation is that function the cessation of which means instant termination of life , the heart has become one of the most important organs of inner expression . It is for this reason that the heart has such close relationships with the emotional life and has become the symbol of what is really individual in man , the symbol of his virtues and vices . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the borderland of our knowledge , to the question of what in the last analysis binds psyche and soma into a unity . " The Viennese Dr. Ludwig Braun goes farther . It is his teaching that anxiety is of physiological origin , and that its place of origin is the heart . As the eye is the specific sense organ of sight , so , he believes , the heart is the specific sense organ of anxiety . I have not been able to find many medical men who agree fully with Braun 's thesis , but it is a fact that a diseased heart is the organ which , above all others , characteristically causes not only pain but anxiety . " Almost all unpleasurable sensations arising from the heart are accompanied by anxiety , " observes Dr. Theodore P. Wolfe of Columbia University , " and there is no anxiety so overwhelming as that accompanying an attack of angina pectoris . But , " as Dr. Wolfe hastens to add , " anxiety also produces cardiac symptoms . " In the early stages of angina pectoris an incautious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " Your blood pressure is high , " may accentuate uneasiness to actual anxiety . Contraction of the heart 's blood vessels may then occuras a physiological effect of the anxiety . Thereupon , experiencing the pain , the victim feels that his anxiety was justified , and so he becomes more anxious , with still more spasm of the blood vessels as a consequence . Many doctors agree that the establishment of a hopeful attitude is one of the principal tactics in the treatment of these patients . Dr. Karl Fahrenkamp calls attention to two types of angina pectoris . In one type , the attacks usually occur during or immediately after exertion , whereas in the other the attack comes like a thief in the night , usually during repose , often in sleep . Oppressive fear of death occurs most frequently in the second group , but in all cases , next to physical exertion , emotional excitement is the activator most likely to bring on an attack . " If a neurotic patient is stricken with his first anginal attack , his further reaction will depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first attack . But even the non-neurotic patient may retain from his first attack such a degree of fear that he is unable to free himself from a secret anxiety . Even if he does not let others notice his chronic anxiety , or perhaps denies it even to himself , this anxious psychic condition inevitably brings about unfavorable physical changes . " As to treatment , Fahrenkamp says that in the victims of no other disease is the emotional attitude of the patient more important ; under no circumstances should anything be said tending to raise in the mind of the patient or in the minds of those associated with him the apprehensive idea that he is in danger of death from moment to moment . There are various kinds of high blood pressure . Some are correlated with hardening of the arteries , some with allergic conditions , recently a malfunctioning of the kidneys has been found responsible . But when all cases of hypertension have been identified , a large percentage of sufferers remain for whom no organic causation of the condition can be traced . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wonders why it is essential . Now this heightened blood pressure , whether it be of organic origin or simply and inexplicably " essential , " often responds with remarkable directness to changes in the emotional state of its victim . Dr. Erwin Moos reports the case of a man with a systolic blood pressure of 280 , who was also afflicted with a lung disorder , and whose urine analysis showed traces of albumen . Rest and drugs brought no beneficial effect , but one day the patient remarked that he had done great wrong to his wife . The doctor immediately arranged a meeting between the estranged husband and wife , and after a friendly discussion between the two , the blood pressure fell to 150 , the lung symptoms abated , and the albumen disappeared . Several years later the patient was in good health , with a blood pressure of only 130 . Dr. G. Canby Robinson tells of a patient in Johns Hopkins Hospital , a laundry worker whose condition was remarkably bettered simply by shifting her to the other side of the washing machine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of a group of younger workers whose carelessness vexed her and who openly teased and laughed at her . After the shift her breathing ceased to be labored , her engorged neck veins receded , her chronic hoarseness disappeared , and the feeling of tension lifted . This happened in 1936 , and up to 1939 there had been no recurrence of the symptoms ? though , strangely , her blood pressure remains high , above 210 . This Johns Hopkins case is especially interesting because the patient actually had an organic disease , hypertension related to arteriosclerosis , which seemed sufficient to account for all her symptoms . The adjustment of working conditions was made with the idea that it might have a beneficial effect on her blood pressure ? and yet the result brought no change in that , though it eliminated the symptoms . Such cases provide strong evidence thatthe causation of the distressing effects was psychic . It also brings up the question of the individuality of blood pressure , and casts doubt on the hypothesis of a rigid standard . What is high blood pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not dangerous , pressure for another . Thousands are living comfortably with blood tension anywhere from 20 to 30 points above levels that in persons of different constitution and emotional responsiveness would be in the danger zone . Iv At the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston Dr. Stanley Cobb and a staff of clinicians and research workers have been studying patients afflicted with such widely contrasting disorders as asthma , arthritis , and mucous colitis . In each of these groups they found that a large proportion were dominated by anxieties , phobias , and various forms of chronic emotional tension . It was noticed of the colitis group , for example , that only one-half the patients actually had diarrhea , but all had abdominal gripes . In personal interviews it came out that 96 per cent of them showed resentment , 75 per cent were depressed in spirit , and 68 per cent expressed feelings of guilt . Conscience was worrying many of them . They were indignant against employers , teachers , and parents , and reacted to these antagonisms with their bowels . Another group of anxious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background is not so much a feeling of resentment as it is a sense of inadequacy . Dr. Franz Alexander , of the Institute for Psychoanalysis in Chicago , has made studies of peptic ulcer patients and has identified tendencies in their emotional lives which seem to have a near affinity to the operations of the stomach . " If certain wishes and claims of a receptive nature , the wish to be loved , to be helped , to be taken care of by others , a longing for the maintenance or revival of the infantile relation of the child to the mother , are repressed in the unconscious , they have a tendency to influence the functions of the stomach . Such tendencies , if present in adults , have to he repressed because they are incompatible with the dominating ambitions of the conscious personality : with the strife for independence , masculinity , or activity . Repressed and thus excluded from gratification , they maintain a permanent tension which can be considered as a chronic unconscious psychic stimulus . " But why should tendencies of this kind focus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the psycho-analyst , answers Dr. Alexander , and explains : " The child experiences the first gratifications of its receptive tendencies in being nourished . Thus the emotional association between the passive wish to be loved , to be taken care of , on the one hand , and the physiologic functions of nutrition , on the other , is established in the very first period of postnatal development . " Is n't it said that the way to a man 's heart is through his stomach ? Now " if the wish to be loved by a protecting woman according to the infantile pattern is excluded from consciousness because it hurts the self-esteem of the personality , it mobilizes the emotionally associated wish to be fed . The dependence of the secretive functions and of the stomach 's motility on psychic stimuli is well established through the studies of Pavlov and his school . The wish to be fed , which in such cases is independent from hunger and serves as a substitute for the wish to be loved , may serve as a specific and chronic stimulus which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposed to this chronic stimulus behaves as it normally does only during periods of digestion . Naturally , only experiment can decide the correctness of this assumption . But no doubt , in this way , a chronic hyper-secretion or hypermotility may arise which justifiedly can be called a psychogenic disturbance no matter in which special way the psychic stimulus changes the normal functions of the stomach . " Another disease which has been studied intensively at this Institute is bronchial asthma . It has been recognized from earliest times that asthmatics are often affected by nervous and emotional influences , but in recent years the identification of various allergenic substances as provokers of the disease has largely dominated medical practice . The Institute has therefore concentrated its study on asthma patients who are definitely allergic , and has attempted to learn the extent to which their asthma attacks are related to emotional factors . The results seem to indicate a dose relationship . Even in those who are extremely sensitive to allergens , it is noticed that the asthma attacks regularly occur in reactions to situations which seem to threaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom he is emotionally dependent . The attacks are most frequent during periods of struggle over a decision whether or not to leave home . Often these patients have become free of asthma for considerable periods when they have succeeded in severing themselves from parental and family ties . This study is still in progress , but the results to date suggest that the allergic and the emotional factors probably stand in a somewhat complementary relation to one another : " in some cases asthma attacks may be precipitated by emotional factors atone , in others by allergic factors alone , and in still other cases the co-operation of emotional and allergic factors may be necessary to induce the attacks . " It is common knowledge that excitement will frequently relieve an asthma victim . Dr. Alvan L. Barach of Columbia University tells of a youth who developed the disease shortly after his father married a young woman . His condition became chronic , and got so serious that he was rarely able to pass a night without four or more injections of adrenalin . But one night his father became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambulance and go with him to the hospital , and after the excitement he realized that he had gone through a night without asthma . Later the asthma returned , and soon it was plaguing him as before . He had been unable to find employment , indeed , was too sick to work much of the time but when a place was found for him in a research group as technician , the severity of his disease immediately abated . This improvement has continued for two years now : a former invalid has become a cheerful , active individual , able with suitable medication to handle the little persisting asthma that remains . He is a reconditioned person . A business woman who had been highly capable as an assistant was suddenly promoted to an executive position . " It took my breath away , " she said , describing her surprise , and apparently the remark was more than figurative , for three months later she developed asthma and there were times when it seemed indeed that the breath had been taken from her . The doctor sensed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'd be ashamed to give it up , " she protested when the idea first dawned that the new job might be to blame . But during the following two months she became increasingly aware that her old inner sense of security had gone . After that realization she took decisive action . She resigned the executive post at a financial sacrifice , resumed her old place as assistant , and the asthma moderated . It became sufficiently mild to be controlled by an occasional inhalation of adrenalin or a tablet of ephedrin . " Perhaps it is only occasionally that psychotherapy can completely cure asthma , " said Dr. Barach , " but I can cite a number of patients in whom it has transformed a state of helpless invalidism into a comparatively mild and bearable form of the disease . " Dr. Warren T. Vaughan tells of a young woman who had broken out with a violent skin eruption , showing giant wheals on her arms and neck . He made skin tests with various allergens , tried elimination diets , ran the gamut of diagnostic aids , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then he discovered that the patient was trying to terminate an affair with a young man . There , presumably , was the trouble . The doctor explained that until she arrived at some definite conclusion of the situation the skin eruption was likely to continue . So she quit being tactful , be ? came brutally frank ; and within a week her skin was normal . Three months later the swellings uprose again . The doctor learned that the young man had recently created several unpleasant situations , refusing to accept the relationship as ended . Through the intervention of a court official the suitor was warned that his next annoyance would be followed by arrest . That disposed of him . Though five years have passed , the woman has experienced no recurrence of her urticaria . Dr. Vaughan explains this result on the hypothesis that the allergic reaction represents a failure to adapt oneself to an environmental influence . The influence may be a material factor , like dust or pollen or crabmeat . Or it may be an emotional factor , as in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not solve , and her response appeared in protective tissue , i.e. the skin . The problem having been solved , her symptoms were relieved and disappeared . " Sometimes the allergic response is a reaction to a maladjustment involving both material and emotional factors . A middle-aged man suddenly developed urticaria , and on skin tests showed sensitivity to house dust . A month 's treatment with dust extract cured him . But several months later the swellings appeared again , and again the desensitization treatment was successful . After the lapse of a year the man showed up for the third time , all broken out as before , and once more dust injections restored his skin to normal . The doctor recorded this as an example of allergy associated with the breathing of dust , but some time later learned of additional details which certainly belong in the case history . It seems that the first skin eruption appeared when the patient discovered that his young wife was dangerously interested in another man . Either the husband adjusted himself to this situation or dismissed the suspicion as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was leaving and would apply for a divorce ; the second allergic attack followed . The third was brought on by her letter instructing him to send the bedroom furniture which was her property . Protection appears to be the watchword of these responses . The swellings characteristic of urticaria are produced by exudations of lymph or blood serum , and may possibly be explained as an attempt of skin tissue to dilute and render harmless the invading dust or other allergen . Even if the disturbance , as in the case of the young woman , is predominantly emotional , the physiological mechanism , once it is set in motion , operates as though the provocation were wholly material . Certain studies of asthma patients have shown that a fair percentage of them were consciously afraid of water , and that many had had experiences involving the idea of drowning . It is well known that dampness distresses most asthma sufferers ; they improve on removal to dry climates . The asthmatic reaction , in which muscles surrounding the bronchioles contract and so reduce the size of the air passages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guard the lungs against a dreaded invasion by water . V The physiology of anxiety is bound up with the idea of protection , and has its origins far back in the history of the animal kingdom . How to save one 's skin was a supreme problem of primitive man . Food had to be got , often by violence , frequently in competition . Daily there was the necessity of taking strong action , either in fighting or in fleeing . These repeated demands beat upon , bent , and molded the nervous system , and gradually built into the body an automatic scheme of swift adjustment for action . In time of fear or anger the face blanches , the pulse quickens , breathing deepens , the hair stands on end . These are outward signs of powerful changes going on within , all directed by the involuntary nervous system . One of its nerves stimulates the heart muscles to more rapid pulsations . Others contract the muscles of arterioles in the skin ( thus causing the blanching effect ) , thereby conserving blood for parts where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidentally , raising the blood pressure . By other muscular controls circulation is shifted from the stomach and intestines to the heart , the brain , the lungs , and skeletal muscles ? all resources must be mobilized for the extraordinary demands of fight or flight . Other involuntary nerves stimulate the liver to release sugar , thus providing extra fuel for the muscles . Others command the spleen to launch additional red blood corpuscles , thus increasing the fleet of oxygen carriers . At the same time , nerves relax the muscles of the bronchioles so that the air passages are open wide , while others speed the muscles of the diaphragm to deeper breathing . The restriction of circulation from certain areas shuts off the heat-regulating service of the blood , and to conserve body heat the smooth muscles of the skin contract , thereby raising the hairs of the body and better insulating the surface against heat loss . Finally , it is noticed that the blood has an increased capacity for coagulation on exposure to air ; it clots more quickly than it does in times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bleeding . Dr. Walter B. Cannon and his associates in research at the Harvard Medical School have explored the mechanisms of these reactions and identified them as largely chemical . The endings of the nerves are found to secrete a substance which Dr. Cannon named " sympathin " ( so named because these particular nerves belong to a group of the involuntary nervous hook-up which is called the sympathetic system ) . It is this sympathin which calls the muscles to react in the ways described in the foregoing paragraph . Moreover , the adrenal glands are also under control of the sympathetic system and under its nervous stimulus they secrete adrenalin , a substance which parallels sympathin in its excitatory effects on heart , blood vessels , bronchioles , liver , spleen . By cutting the nerve connections to these organs and stimulating the adrenal glands to secrete adrenalin , Dr. Cannon demonstrated that the glands alone can call all the fear-rage reactions into play . By leaving the nerve connections intact and cutting out the adrenals , he has shown that the nerves alone can accomplish the same results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the sympathin exuded directly into the muscles from the nerve endings . This initial effect is then reinforced by the glandular secretion of adrenalin reaching the muscles through the blood stream . There are many fascinating aspects of this intimate biochemistry . It was recently discovered ( largely through the work of Sir Henry Dale and his group in England ) that the opposing system of involuntary nerves ? those of the parasympathetic system , whose effect is to relax the muscles which the sympathetic system contracts ? also releases a potent substance from its nerve endings , a something which produces effects similar to those induced by acetylcholine. sympathin speeds the heart , acetylcholine slows it ; sympathin relaxes the muscles of the bronchioles , acetylcholine constricts them . Thus an excess of sympathin , or of adrenalin , may cause high blood pressure ; an excess of acetylcholine may cause asthma . And so with all the physiological reactions to the fear-rage complex : some accelerate , others retard , and in each instance they are initiated , apparently , by specific chemical compounds released from the nerves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that they are released automatically . By an act of the will a man can restrain his arm from striking the object of his wrath ; but byno act of the will can he restrain his sympathetic nervous system from exuding its powerful sympathin into the musdes of organs . Every impression from the outside world that threatens the security of the individual , that provokes him to anger or inspires him to fear automatically calls into play this complicated biochemical mechanism . The cerebral cortex , the organ of reasoned thought and intelligent action , has no power of veto here ; the involuntary nerves have their central switchboard in the lower brain , in the hypothalamus , a very ancient part of the central nervous system which man shares with the tiger and the crocodile and the long line of vertebrates back through the fossil fishes for millions of years . The higher brain , hearkening to the promptings of custom , folkways , and expedience , may restrain an action ; but it is not able to restrain the involuntary nervous system from preparing the body for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this : that the nature of his conflicts has changed , but his neuro-chemical mechanism for protection has not . The man who has just lost his fortune in a bank failure is terrified but he can not give release to his emotion in any physical way . His fear is just as real as was the fear of a caveman confronted by a wild beast . The caveman was served by the swift and elaborate adjustment which instantly took place in his body . Whether he turned and ran or stood and fought he needed the stronger heart beat , the change in blood distribution , the additional red corpuscles , the extra sugar , and all the rest . But these adjustments are superfluous to the victim of the bankruptcy . They prepare him for action which does not take place . They glut his system with substances which he does not need , and leave him with a prolonged constriction or secretion which further aggravates the perversion of function . The end effect is an internal conflict . Such conflicts tend to be suppressed , but the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innocuous . Quite the opposite . The poisoning effect of a source of anxiety seems to increase in inverse ratio to the victim 's awareness of its identity . Often the experience responsible for the emotional upset is so buried that it can not be recalled without assistance . Dr. Frank Fremont-Smith tells of a woman who was swept by storms of uncontrollable weeping whenever she saw a funeral passing , even though the persons involved were strangers . The emotional tension responsible for these outbursts was relieved when she was led by the doctor to remember her childhood behavior at the death of her father . The event had been a staggering blow , and affected her profoundly . Others wept ; she was silent then , suppressed her grief , only to have it break out years later in these exaggerated misdirected expressions . It seems likely that the stresses of life affect one individual differently from another because of differences in constitution , in the relative weakness of certain organs which ordains which shall give way rather than others , and in the conditioning experiences of early childhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saul of the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis . " One child may be allowed to express his rages quite freely , as compared to another . Later in life he will allow himself to become very angry , while the other gets a headache . Again , a person who has been overprotected in childhood will more readily feel the stress of a highly competitive society which demands extreme aggressiveness and independence , and such a person will more readily develop symptoms . " The aggressive type of business man , who has repressed longings for a retreat to love , care , and protection , often has a tendency to express his hidden conflicts in a gastric ulcer . The contrasting situation is that of chronic rage hidden beneath the surface of a gentle , considerate personality ? a repression that frequently expresses itself in high blood pressure . Such studies point the way to the question " why some individuals act out their drives through the voluntary nervous system and become men of action , while others manifest certain symptoms chiefly referable to the sympathetic nervous system ( such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefly parasympathetic symptoms ( such as asthma ) , while in still other cases the main disturbance is in the sphere of mental functioning , i.e , the higher levels of the brain . " Still a fifth type of response to chronic emotional conflict is known : that in which the total behavior of the individual is affected , and he becomes a dullard at school , or a rebel to discipline , or a criminal . vI Psychotherapy , as illustrated by the practices related in this article , ranges all the way from the elaborate and intimate process of psychoanalysis to the simple act of transferring a misfit to a different job . Dr. Walter D. Alvarez once cured a case of chronic vomiting by going to the tax collector and paying the patient 's overdue tax of $3.85 , an item that had been the subject of a threatening letter . The wise physician takes into account all the circumstances . He may use drugs , surgery , suggestion , psychoanalysis , social readjustment , anything that will get at the root of the anxiety . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " psychotherapy is the treatment of a performing person in trouble . " Physicians " do not treat hearts , lungs , intestines , or kidneys lying between two bed sheets . They are now being taught to treat not only that which is sick but also him or her who is sick . " These psychosomatic studies are making an end to the distinction between body and mind . Dr. Stanley Cobb has said that the criterion for calling one disease organic and another functional is artificial , since the deciding factor is the instrument with which the observation is made . If lesions or other defects are found it is customary to call the trouble organic . " But suppose , " says Dr. Cobb , " that some physicist to-morrow invents a microscope with a much greater useful magnification . At once abnormality may be seen where none was previously visible . And in all probability diseases formerly said to ' have no pathology ' ( hence called ' functional ' ) will be found to have microscopic variations from normal and will be accepted as ' organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between physical and mental is fictitious . " The body acting as a whole is an organism . Anything that happens to that organism is organic . Structure and function are inseparable . " We have seen that changes in the " structure " of the blood are wrought by minute quantities of added substance . The denervated heart responds to as little as I part of adrenalin in 1,400,000,000 parts of blood . Muscles in the presence of adrenalin are different from muscles in whose blood no adrenalin exists , and different still are muscles in the presence of acetylcholine . Blood may be regarded as a fluid organ . As this circulating organ is changed by slight alterations in its chemical content , so are the larger and more stable organs of flesh changed as they are bathed by these altered fluids . Anxiety thus becomes a biochemical factor . Through its stimulation of secretions from nerve endings and from glands it may release materials as upsetting as the poisons of bacteria . Bacterial invasions themselves seem to be aided by mental tensions . Dr. C. P. Emerson has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer rated as the " cause " of typhoid fever . It is , to be sure , the only known infectious agent of the disease , but the infection is conditioned by other factors such as " immunity , " " resistance , " " susceptibility , " andthese are often critically modified by the emotional state of the patient . It was perhaps not chance that the great influenza epidemic of 1918 coincided with one of the most anxious periods of the World War . Even the common cold seems to strike with maximum virulence when its victim is in a state of anxiety . During psychoanalysis of nine patients , extending over many months , Dr. Saul noticed that they developed colds in connection with certain emotional situations , and that as they gained insight into and relief of these problems , their colds disappeared . Recently Dr. Arlie V. Bock made a study of 1,667 Harvard students who were patients in the university infirmary for colds and other infections of the upper respiratory tract . Dr. Bock concluded that the main principle of treatment was rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes , irritative substances in the atmosphere , and contagions , must be taken into account . But granting these , under ordinary circumstances , the role played by the tension of living must be recognized more generally in our assault on the problem . " As the nineteenth century brought insight into the nature of contagions , and provided the powerful tools of antisepsis and immunology , so it may be that the great contribution of the twentieth century will be insight into the nature of anxiety states and the attainment of technics for the prevention and control of their ill effects . It seems likely , as Dr. Flanders Dunbar has suggested , " that psychosomatic studies of diverse diseases , painstakingly carried on over a number of years by diverse investigators , will in time transform medicine as we know it to-day . "                     