@@493770

The Week POINTS of diplomatic procedure this reek threatened the success of what otherwise seemed the most likely basis for a settlement of the halo-Ethiopian hostilities yet evolved . Premier Laval of France and Sir Samuel Hoare , the British Foreign Secretary , on Saturday reached complete accord on a new ? and presumably final ? pcace plan to be submitted to Mussolini , and Sir Samuel went off to a holiday in Switzerland . News of the terms leaked out prematurely , indicating that Ethiopia was to cede approximately half her territory to Italy , receiving in return guarantees of her nominal independence and a seaport in Eritrea , with a corridor leading to it . These terms , representing a major concession to Italy and going far beyond anything offered by either the League or Great Britain before the conflict began , aroused great resentment in England . The Conservative government was accused of betraying its pro-League campaign promises , and Captain Anthony Eden , Minister for League Affairs , was said to be threatening to resign because Laval and Hoare had made the agreement and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No official comment was forthcoming from Italy , but Mussolini was reported to be in a receptive mood . France was said to be hopeful that a basis for settlement might be reached before the League Committee of Eighteen took up the question of extending sanctions against Italy to include oil . In Ethiopia , Emperor Haile Selassie protested to the League against repeated air raids on Dessve , his field headquarters , in which Italian planes bombed the American Hospital and Red Cross tents , killing more than fifty civilians , many of them women and children . GREAT BRITAIN and the United States last week presented a united front in opposition to Japanese expansion in China . Secretary of State Hull , in a carefully worded statement that did not mention Japan by name , and Sir Samuel Hoare in a virtually simultaneous speech in the I louse of Commons that did mention Japan , both called attention to the Nine Power Pact guaranteeing China 's territorial integrity and expressed concern over recent threats to that integrity . Meanwhile the move for autonomy in North China , tinder Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chahar , including the Pciping-Tientsin area , with considerable uncertainty as to the exact degree of separation from the Nanking government . Japanese military-mindedness was further reflected by the announcement from her delegation , on the eve of the opening of the London Naval Conference , that Japan must be granted parity with the fleets of Great Britain and the United States before she will even consider any other questions to be brought before the conference . This deepened still more the gloom surrounding a conference practically doomed to failure before it opened . Its chance of success was not aided by Mr. Roosevelt 's suggestion for a 20-percent cut in navies , a proposal he has made several times before without any result . AFTER a prolonged and bitter fight , delegates representing the member organizations of the Amateur Athletic Union of the United States , meeting in convention in New York , voted in favor of American participation in the Olympic Games to be // held in Germany next year . The final vote was very close , and opponents of participation announced that the campaign for American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Warm SpringS , Georgia , journeyed to Chicago , where on Monday morning he made a speech defending his farm and tariff policies . In the afternoon he went to Notre Dame University to receive an honorary degree and made another speech discussing foreign policies . Other speeches this week included copious and bitter outbursts at the convention of the National Association of Manufacturers attacking the New Deal from the extreme reaction- ary point of view ; Secretary Ickes ' speech saying it is the fascist-minded big business men who are the real enemies of American institutions ; and Senator Borah 's anti-monopoly , pro-Constitution radio address setting a middle course between reactionary Republicans and the New Deal . Major George L. Berry , coordinator of N.R.A . activities , called a conference between industrial and labor representatives in Washington to consider recovery measures . Its first session broke up in a near-riot . THE curious statement by Secretary Hull last week regarding Japanese aggression in China has some disquieting implications . Despite official denials , it is obvious that the United States and Great Britain are acting in concert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated and along lines whose general nature can only be surmised . Many Washington observers had assumed that the Stimson policy of sending notes to Japan had been ended ; but it turns out that we were only waiting to obtain British coOperation , which was so conspicuously lacking at the time when japan was seizing Manchuria as she is now seizing North China . Some cynical persons suggest that perhaps the difference lies in the fact that the present Japanese drive promises to affect far more important British interests than did the earlier one ? British interests which , by the way , are enormously more valuable than our own . We are now carefully told both from Washington and London that there is no thought of applying League sanctions against Japan , first because she is no longer a member of the League , and second , because the Ita.lo-Ethiopian situation is as much as the League can handle at any one time . These are both good reasons ; but they cast a somewhat curious light upon the effectiveness of the League 's general policy of enforcing peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion , anxiety regarding the part the United States is ultimately to play in the Far Eastern mess . FASCIST leagues in France are speaking open defiance of government moves to disarm them . was thought that pressure from the left on Premier Laval , driving him toward more stringent disarmament regulations than he was willing to accept , would result in the overthrow of his ministry when the question came before the Chamber of Deputies on Friday . Quite unexpectedly , however , a deputy who is a member of Colonel de la Rocque 's Croix de Feu offered a resolution that political leagues be deprived of their arms . With customary adroitness , Premier Laval seized the opportunity to gain e- ) - pressions of assent from both right and left factions , interpreted this as a show of confidence in his ministry , and hastily prepared decrees to he voted into law . In the debate on the actual decrees , the People 's Front used its parliamentary majority to add amendment after amendment , putting real teeth into the decrees and providing for not only the disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end , the Chamber of Deputies voted the amended decrees and Laval stayed in power , but his position remains extremely Precarious . Fascists are resentful at their " betrayal , / by the left and say they will not obey the amended decrees , while the decrees themselves still have to be brought before the Senate . THE administration 's attempt to find a substitute for the N.R.A . by calling a conference of labor and industrial groups under the chairmanship of Major Berry struck a reef at the very first meeting . The administration 's plan was for the various groups to separate and elect delegates to a council . But of course many of the industrial forces do not want such a council and wish to destroy the whole enterprise . When Major Berry declared the general meeting adjourned , one of their spokesmen tried to raise this fundamental issue . The chairman worrlttr not recognize the speaker , and declared that the attempt to speak was really an attempt to break up the conference . Both sides thereupon called each other liars and the meeting broke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anybody has thought him if he believed that reluctant industry could be coerced into cooperating with labor and the government merely by strong-arm parliamentary tactics . Industry , in the main , does not want to revive the N.R.A. , and that is the end of any program of so-called coOperation . COMPLETION of the first scheduled flight over the new trans-Pacific route of Pan American Airways-16,000 air-line miles in going from San Francisco to Manila and return ? was in many ways aviation 's most impressive performance since its inception . What distinguished this flight was its almost inhuman adherence to schedule . Planned months In advance to start on such-and-such a date , follow through and return by such-and-such a date , it did precisely that ? regardless of local weather conditions , human fallibility or possible delay . Nothing could have given a more complete demonstration of the reliability of modern trans-oceanic craft . The performance of the " China Clipper " gave point to a meeting in Washington of representatives of the United States , Canada , Ireland and Great Britain to make preliminary arrangements for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along the southerly Bermuda-Azores route , which is open the year around , with a Newfoundland-toIreland route as a later possibility . In any event , regular trans-Atlantic service will probably be inaugurated within another year . THE same week that saw these great forward steps also brought reminders that the risk of flight is by no means eliminated . Sir Charles Kingsford-Smith , by many considered the greatest of all long-distance flyers , was officially declared dead after he had been missing for more than thirty days on a projected flight from England to Australia ; and the three weeks ' search for Lincoln Ellsworth , American explorer missing on a flight over Antarctica , continued fruitless . IF YOU do n't like an alien , send him back where he came from . Under three Republican Presidents , that was the policy of the United States government , and it is somewhat disconcerting to find a similar case today . Walter Baer , whose case has been described in earlier issues of The New Republic , is now awaiting deportation at Ellis Island , where , however , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with some hope that his case may be reopened . Baer believes , though he is unable to prove it , that he was born at Calexico , California ; the government says he was born in Germany . At any rate , his parents lived in Germany when he was a small boy , and he entered this country with his father at the age of nine . In early manhood , he got into trouble and was arrested and convicted for forgery and burglary . On coming out of prison he reformed , became an engineer in the United States Geodetic Survey , married an American girl ( they have three children ) and for fourteen years lived an exemplary life . Now after fourteen years the government has suddenly decided to deport him to Germany , a country he hardly remembers and from which he is alien in every possible way . The real reason for his deportation seems fairly clear . I le became active in work for the unemployed in Oregon , and also advocated a sewage-disposal system to which powerful private interests in that state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a well known Red-baiter , and so is the Governor of the state , who refused to intervene on his behalf . To the credit of Oregon be it said that many of its leading citizens , and half a dozen of the state 's best known newspapers , have intervened , bitterly protesting an action that seems so Utterly at variance with traditional American ideals . THE murder of Walter Liggett , crusading Minnesota editor , inevitably brings to mind the similar shooting of Don Mellett , also a newspaper editor , who was killed in Canton , Ohio , on July 16 , 1926 , after he had exposed the control of the city government by the underworld . Though Liggett was a bitter foe of Governor Olson of Minnesota , he Was also the enemy of bootleggers , gamblers and other rulers of vice and crime in that state , where he had utilized successfully the skill and knowledge he had obtained through investigations of crime in other parts of the country , many of them published in the magazine , Plain Talk . All evidence now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coin the gangsters whom he was engaged in exposing . Liggett had also charged , however , that these gangsters were protected by Governor Olson , and unless the latter can demonstrate that these charges were without foundation , it will jeopardize his future political career . ANGELO HERNDON is a free man for at least twenty days , and a Georgia judge has given evidence of both legal learning and a humanitarian viewpoint . Judge Hugh M. Dorsey of the Superior Court in Fulton County last Friday handed down a decision that Georgia 's anti-insurrection law , passed in 1866 to prevent disturbances among newly freed slaves , violates both the state and United States Constitutions , and accordingly released Herndon in $8,000 bail . Judge Dorsey gave the state twenty days in which to file an appeal , and if none is filed or if the higher courts uphold judge Dorsey 's decision on the constitutionality of the law , Herndon will be fully and finally free of all charges against him . This is a heartening turn of events ; there is at last reason for hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was leading a demonstration for more adequate relief for the unemployed in 1932 , will be spared the savagery of the sentence of eighteen to twenty years on the chain gang . THE People 's Press , the new left-wing weekly in Chicago , publishes an extraordinary story about conditions at Gaulev 's Bridge , West Virginia , where , it charges , 476 persons are known to he dead and probably 1,500 more will die , as the result of silicosis . The disease was produced by the lack of safeguards among workers building a tunnel nearby through silicate rock as part of a power project constructed by Rinehart and Dennis , contractors for the New-Kanawha Power Company . This , according to The People 's Press , is a subsidiary of the Electro Metallurgical Company , and behind this in turn is the Union Carbide and Chemical Company . The men working in the tunnel , for a maximum of $3.60 a day , were not given masks , although some of them asked for this protection , nor were ventilating shafts created . It is charged that 169 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open field without coffins or any identification of the bodies . It is also charged that compensation given the families of those killed has been grossly inadequate or entirely lacking , that every effort has been made to keep the facts from being published , and that government officials have cooperated with the contractors and their backers to these ends . If the facts arc even one-tenth so serious as they arc reported by The People 's Press , or by The New Masses which some time ago published articles on the same subject , they call for a congressional investigation , full punishment to the guilty officials and such reparation as is possible to the families of the men who died . CONTINUING his effort ; to find a prltcfili way out of the contradictions of our economic system , Secretary Wallace proposes the r reation of a Council on General Welfare , to be composed of " eminent economic statesmen " and clothed with the same prestige now enjoyed by the Supreme Court . It would be the Council 's duty to examine laws passed by Congress on economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national welfare . In case it decided adversely , it would have the power to submit the question involved to a national referendum , the result of which would thereafter he regarded as a statement of permanent economic policy . This plan shows great imagination , but since it is likely that the Council would at once be forced to challenge private industrial interests ? on the question of the tariff , for example ? it would probably not be effective . Once social control has been established over industry and banking , it will he a relatively simple matter to devise democratic administrative machinery ; until then no amount of administrative devices can be depended on to provide a solution of our economic problems . NAZI propaganda in America now turns up with a story that the assassination of I hey Long was the result of a Jewish plot . ' Hie charge is made in a lurid mimeographed " magazine , " The American Bulletin , which is circulated anonymously from headquarters in New York . The Bulletin is filled with the most savage kind of race prejudice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Long story , which praises Huey and his dictatorial methods , is , of course , a complete absurdity in that it fails to bring forward any shadow of evidence of a Jewish plot other than the circumstance that the assassin , Dr. Weiss , a Roman Catholic , had a Jewish-sounding name ( though he was , to the best of our information , seven-eighths gentile by descent ) . The Bulletin , scurrilous and furtive , pretends to he " American , " although its Nazi inspiration is obvious . Aiitch more pretentious are the bulletins sent out by World Service , biweekly releases described in their own phrase as " leaflets intended to be passed on from hand to hand amongst Gentiles . " These are mailed to an extensive list of newspapers , magazines , organizations and individuals . With a great show of pseudo-learning and world-coverage of Jewish plots , World Service upholds such threadbare forgeries as the Zionist Protocols and retails the most towering falsehoods with a perfectly straight face . This service comes quite frankly from Germany , with headquarters in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's unofficial ambassadors to America , in one respect they represent a fair choice ? they give an accurate indication of the intellectual level of the Nazi movement . 