@@701012

txt The eagerly awaited decision in the government 's gold clause cases will not be handed down by the Supreme Court Monday , Chief Justice Hughes announced today . kfter the nine justices had conferred for several hours , behind guarded doors , this official statement was made in late afternoon : " The Chief Justice , in order to avoid an unnecessary crowding of the court room on Monday , directs the clerk to announce that the court is not ready as yet to announce a decision in the gold clause cases and hence there will be no announcement on that day . " While there is nothing to prevent the court from handing down its verdict on Tuesday , or any other weekday , the long-established custom that Monday is the decision day makes it almost inevitable , according to court attaches , and general belief is that the opinion will be deferred at least until Monday , Feb. 11 , and possibly until Feb. 18 . It would now appear that the ruling would be made on one of those days , as ordinarily the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again for a fortnight . Course Is Unprecedented . Officials connected with the court for years said the announcement was unprecedented , so far as , they knew . The court seldom departs from its prescribed routine for any cause ; therefore , issuance of the statement from Chief Justice Hughes caused great surprise . No inkling of the announcement came before it was received from the Chief Justice by J. Elmore Cropley , clerk of the court , and handed to newspaper men . The justices had been holding their customary Saturday meeting in their Capitol conference room . There was nothing to show whether or not the gold cases were under discussion . The conference continued for about four hours , and luncheon was served . There was nothing unusual , so far as the public knew , except that one of the window shades was drawn down . News of the postponement made Securities and Exchange Commission officials lay aside proposals to give the security markets authorization to close their doors Monday , when reading of the opinion had been expected . This plan had been suggested if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil " case , hold up the opinion until stock markets automatically shut down at 3 P. M. Speculation Is Renewed . Involved in the cases to be decided are not only the abrogation of the gold-payment clauses in government and private contracts but the value of more than $100,000,000 , - 000 of such contracts . If the court should rule against the government every dollar of these might be worth $1.69 unless corrective legislation , or another drastic step , were immediately undertaken . The words " the court is not ready as yet to announce a decision " renewed guesses that the court is widely split and divided , perhaps as it was in the Minnesota moratorium and the New York milk cases , when the so-called liberals won in each instance by a vote of four-to-five over the conservatives . In those decisions the five liberals , headed by Mr. Hughes , held a public emergency paramount to private contracts , while the conservatives viewed the acts as flagrant breaches of the Constitution . The unexpected delay added to the tension felt by government officials . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court might tend to keep the security markets inactive . Administration officials continued to express confidence that abrogation of the gold clauses would be upheld as a public policy . They ap- pear to have little fear that the court will not rule against private contracts and the terms of government bonds . But there is trepidation relating to obligations between the United States and other governments . Although the administration is generally optimistic over the ultimate outcome , plans to counteract an unfavorable opinion are said to be proceeding . What the administration might do in such an event is undisclosed , but Congressional leaders are said to have legislation in mind which would meet the various possible situations . Speaker Byrne said today that the public exaggerated the importance of a possibly adverse* decision . Congress , he stated , could easily deal with any situation .                     