@@703775

txt Congress undoubtedly will take action soon to relieve the Treasury Department of any theoretical obligation to undertake to collect back income taxes from the employes of state and municipal governments and agencies whose immunity from such levies has been more or less uncertain since the Supreme Court 's decision last year in the Port of New York Authority case . The court ruled . in that dispute , that an employe of the Authority was subject to federal income tax and , in so doing . beclouded the tax status of many state government and quasigovernment workers . Congress will also remove the more remote possibility that income from outstanding securities of state , municipal and quasi-public corporations hitherto considered tax exempt will be taxed . President Recommends Action In P special message to Congress yesterday , President Roosevelt recommended such action and there is virtually no opposition in sight . A number of bills to prevent retroactive taxation along these lines have already been introduced in both the House and Senate . Chairman Dough , toi. of the House Ways and Means Committee said yesterday afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive , however , coupled his suggestion for this simple protective legislation with a controversial proposal that Congress undertake , without a constitutional amendment , to apply regular federal income taxes to all state and municipal salaries hereafter earned and to all income received by private individuals from future issues of federal , state and municipal securities . At the same time , Congress would waive all immunity with respect to non-discriminatory state and , local taxes on future U. S. securities and salaries hereafter earned by employes of the federal government . This same proposal was made by President Roosevelt in April , 1938 . Preliminary and necessarily incomplete surveys of Congressional opinion on the matter indicate that this question will be the subject of a hot fight on Capitol Hill . and that the chances are slightly against the enactment of such " legislation this year . Considered by itself , there seams to be no great opposition to the elimination of tax exemption privileges on future issues of Treasury securities . However , the idea of applying federal taxes to future state and municipal issues will not readily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Washington observers , organized opposition from the states would kill this proposal , and such organized opposition has become apparent in the form of the Conference of State Defense , consisting of the attorneys general of 42 states , and other state and municipal officials . If this organization reflects actual sentiment " back home . " it will be difficult for the Administration to muster a majority in both houses for its tax scheme . It was recalled , in this connection , that a Securities and Exchange Commission proposal last year , to effect certain regulations with respect to the marketing of municipal securities , brought forth a storm of Congressional opposition , and this proposal was relatively unimportant compared with the present New Deal tax program . Prevailing belief in Washington today Is that the levying of regular income taxes on a government worker 's salary is approved " in theory " by a clear majority in Congress and that eventually such action will be taken in some form . However , the almost traditional unwillingness of legislators to vote what amounts to a salary reduction for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speedy action along these lines . There is a good deal of sentiment on Capitol Hill for a constitutional amendment to achieve the end of reciprocal tax immunity between the state and federal governments with respect to employes ' pay and securities . Part of this sentiment arises out of the belief that this is the only permanent solution to the question and one that would obviate a period , pending a Supreme Court decision , during which the tax status of many government workers and government security holders would be in doubt . Part of it undoubtedly arises out of a belief that action by Congress on proposing such an amendment will indefinitely delay the issue since states would act slowly in accepting it if , in fact , they could be induced to accept it at all . New Deal lawyers have convinced the President that a constitutional amendment is not necessary . They base their opinion on the behef that the Supreme Court would approve federal taxation of state employes and state instrumentalities under the Constitution as long as such taxation was not discauninato , -y . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immunity of its employes and its instrumentalities from state and local taxation . Private legal experts agree with govZrnment attorneys that the Supreme Court ' aas gone a considerable distance in recent opinions toward restricting the field of tax immunity . Contractors for federal public works proJects , for example , have been held subject to state franchise taxes , for example , and employes of state agencies not directly concerned with strictly governmental functions have been held subject to federal income taxation . It is an open secret in Washington , however , that the complete elimination of tax immunity through a simple federal statute would have to be put to a final Supreme Court test and no definite advance determination is possible . This is one of the arguments that will be used against the President 's proposal . There would necessarily be a period of . say , a year during which the tax status of new state and municipal securities would be in doubt . They would be taxable under a federal statute whose final validity would remain to be determined . Such would not be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Against the arguments of Administration officials to the effect that the present system of graduated income tax rates is inconsistent with a tax-free " haven " in the form of government securities , the representatives of state and local governments will contend that the change will cost them more in new borrowing charges tnan it will net them in increased tax receipts and they will particularly stress the probability which they see of a rise in the real estate tax burden . This argument may go on for several years .                     