@@702224

txt It was reported at nightfall that bridges to Toledo and Segovia over the Manzanares river have been blown up by the loyalists , who retreated , and that the rebels crossed to the Madrid side . BY ALEX SMALL . EChicauro Tribune ' Press Service . ( Pic.tures on back page . ) WITH SPANISH REBEL ARMIES ON THE MADRID FRONT , Nov. 9 . ? After hours of fighting today in which machine gun fire from both sides played the chief role , the rebel columns attacking Madrid from the west were prevented by government militia from crossing the Manzanares river . However , on the southwest insurgents drove to within 500 yards a the Angel gate and Toledo bridge . Either because they were forced to fight by file closers , or in desperation , . the government troops in their well prepared trenches on Casa de Campo , west of the Manzanares , facing the former royal palace , potiredheavy rifle and machine gun fire on the attacking Tercio foreign legion : Trenches Filled with Dead . The insurgents were forced to halt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hn front of the big military hospital to the west of Madrid . The loyalist survivors raised . the white flag and surrendered . The trenches were found filled will . dead , among them boys no more than 14 years old . The foreign legion then occupied the hospital , which was one clearly authenticated conquest in what has become house to house warfare . In the afternoon the rebels in Casa de Campo , the former private park of kings , renewed their terrific attack . Farther to the north of the hospital hot action also took place in which loyalist trenches were defended by militia women , large numbers of whom were killed . Smoke Obscures Buildings . It is reported the government has withdrawn its artillery and troops from the Guadarrama front because during the day Col. Castejon and his rebel troops attacking on a line between Casa de Campo and Puerta Dehierro were shelled from a point north of Las Rozas on the Madrid-Guadarrama road . Another big action today took place farther east , in a spot north of Getafe where the rebels rained bombs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most terrific air bombardment which has taken place in this war . The artillery joined in the attack and despite the crystal clear atmosphere , clouds of smoke from exploding bombs and fires caused by them completely , obscured Madrid 's tall buildings . Some loyalist artillery replied , but feebly . Locate Loyalist Batteries . It is now possible to get some fairly accurate notions of what is taking place on the other side . For instance , a wild jam of trucks , taxis and vehicles of every description was seen along the Valencia highway , loaded with people and , their possessions . The inhabitants were fleeing to the southeast from Madrid . The rebels have learned the position of loyalist batteries set up within the city itself . One is believed . to be in the gardens of the former royal palace facing Casa de Campo , and another in the Paseo de la Casteilana , Madrid 's fashionable residence avenue . Rebel air raids have been directed to silence these batteries , it was asserted . Offer Place of Refuge . To reassure Madrid citizens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northwest section of the city from the air unless rorced by military necessity . Citizens were urged by radio and leaflets dropped from planes to take refuge in that section . Gen. Francisco Franco , rebel commander , in an official proclamation , also said that only those will be punished who have misled the people . In certainty a their victory , the rebels already have prepared an or ? ganization for bringing Madrid back to normal . They intend to prevent an influx into Madrid of people seeking news of relatives until they have as ? sured a food supply . Cars of their special police service already are running about the streets of Toledo ready to proceed to the cap5tal . The civil administration also is organized and ready to be installed as well as a corps of expert telegraph and telephone operators ready to take over offices and begin work as soon as the conquest is complete .                     