@@701011

txt Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh will be recalled to the stand as a rebuttal witness at the trial of Bruno Richard Hauptman , it was definitely announced by the prosecution today . This was decided upon after Peter H. Sommer , a New York municipal employe , appearing yesterday as a surprise witness for the defense , identified pictures of Isidor Fisch and Violet Sharpe , both now dead , as the man and woman he saw with another man and a baby at the West Forty-second Street ferry house in New York about midnight of March 1 , 1932 , the night that Charles A. Lindbergh ' Jr . was kidnapped . Miss Sharpe was the 28-year-old English housemaid in the home of Mrs. Dwight W. Morrow , Colonel Lindbergh 's mother-in-law , at Englewood , N. J. , who committed suicide during the kidnapping investigation , and the prosecution believes that the introduction of her name presages a determined effort by defense counsel to try to convince the jury that the kidnapping was an " inside " job , in which servants of the Lindbergh household @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Defense Theory of Crime . According to this defense theory , the baby was not taken out of the nursery window and down the ladder found outside the house at all , but was carried down the back stairway and out of the house through the servants ' quarters . Mrs. Morrow , it was learned tonight , is ready to testify as a rebuttal witness to clear Violet Sharpe 's name if it should be necessary . It is understood that she can testify that Miss Sharpe returned home before midnight on the night of the kidnapping . The State believes that it will so successfully attack Seminar 's story when his crossexamination IS resumed on Monday morning that it will not be necessary to call Mrs. Morrow , but final decision will be deferred until after the cross-examination is completed . Colonel Lindbergh , who has attended every one of the twentythree court days of Hauptmann 's trial on the charge of murder since it opened on Jan. 2 , had not intended originally to be present every day . His original intention was to appear in court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night of the kidnapping . He changed his plans when Edward J. Reilly , chief defense counsel , in cross-examining State witnesses early in the case , made it clear that he intended to try to put the blame on some of the Lindbergh and Morrow servants . This prompted the Colonel to become a daily spectator at the trial , in order to protect the members of his household staff , in whom , he has made it plain , he has every confidence . Mr. Reilly has already directed suspicion in cross-examination of Lindbergh servants against Oliver Whateley , Colonel Lindbergh 's English butler , who was in the house at Hopewell the night of the kidnapping and who died two years ago in Princeton Hospital . Mrs. Whateley , widow of the butler , who also was in the house the night of the crime and is still employed by the Lindbergbs , indignantly denied the suggestion that her husband had been " going around " with Violet Sharpe before the kidnapping . Betty Gow , the kidnapped child 's nurse maid , who came back from her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the target of Insinuations in Mr. Reilly 's crossexamination . The fact that Miss Sharpe com- mitted suicide during , the kidnapping investigation is expected to be emphasized by the defense . She drank poison in the Morrow home at Englewood on June 10 , 1932 , when she was told that Deputy Police Chief Harry Walsh of Jersey City , who had previously questioned her , had called at the house to question her again . Miss Sharpe refused to account for her whereabouts on the night of the kidnapping , but it was learned after her death that she had merely visited a certain road house or speakeasy in the Oranges , from which Mrs. Morrow had warned her servants to stay away , and that she had been afraid to tell for fear of losing her job . After news of her death was published a young man came forward and told the New Jersey State police that he had been her escort on the night in question , and that they had visited the banned resort . The authorities checked his story carefully , and long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Miss Sharpe had had nothing to do with the kidnapping . The young man who accompanied her to the resort has kept in touch with the authorities , and will be called by the State as a rebuttal witness if he is needed . Dr. John F. Condon , the " Jafsie " of the negotiations that led to the payment of the $50,000 ransom by him as Colonel Lindbergh 's agent on April 2 , 1932 , in a Bronx cemetery , also may be called as a rebuttal witness against the defense effort to involve the Lindbergh and Morrow servants . Mr. Reilly indicated his intention in cross-examining Mrs. Whateley of trying to show that Dr. Condon , Whateley and Violet Sharpe had been together in New Rochelle before the kidnapping . In cross-examining Colonel Lindbergh. defense counsel also insinuated that Dr. Condon might have been the " master mind " of a plot involving both servants and outsiders . To Contradict Ex-Convict . In addition to defending the reputation of his servants , Colonel Lindbergh probably will testify on rebuttal that he did not meet and shake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day after the crime . Harding is the young ex-convict from Trenton who testified for the defense that on the afternoon of March 1 , 1932 , on a road near Princeton , where he was working , he was stopped by two men in an automobile which contained a ladder , and that the men asked him for directions to the Lindbergh estate . Neither of the men was Hauptmann he said . This witness also said that he told his story to the local police the day after the kidnapping , and was taken immediately to the Lindbergh home , where he was received by Colonel Lindbergh and questioned for two or three hours by members of the State police . He pointed to a State trooper in court as having been one of those who questioned him , whereupon Attorney General David T. Wilentz announced that that particular trooper had not been in the Lindbergh house . Although negative , Harding 's testimony fits in with the defense attempt to convince the jury that somebody other than Hauptmann committed the crime , that the authorities , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Harding 's , and that they are now trying to cover up their own failure to investigate the case properly by " railroading " the accused man . Pincus Fisch to Testify , When Mr. Reilly brought Fisch 's name into the case in connection with the woman and the baby on the night of March 1 , through Sommer 's testimony yesterday , he also made it certain that Pincus Fisch , brother of the late Isidor , and other members of the Fisch family would testify as rebuttal witnesses for the prosecution . A New York police detective recently brought Pincus Fisch and , other relatives of the dead furrier to this country from their home in Leipzig . Germany , where Isidor Fisch died last March , for the special purpose of meeting such testimony as Sommer gave when he said that he saw Fisch on a ferryboat going from Weehawken , N. J. , to West Forty-second Street just before he saw Fisch and another man help the woman with the baby onto a crosstown street car in front of the ferry house the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ransom money found in his Bronx garage after his arrest last September was in a shoe box left in his keeping by Fisch before the latter sailed for Germany in December , 1933 . The prisoner has also explained his large Wall Street speculations and bank deposits after the ransom payment as due largely to advances from Fisch to the joint stock account Hauptmann operated with the furrier and Hauptmann 's profits from the joint fur business which Fisch operated with the carpenter . Mr. Reilly also has charged that Fisch was the man who collected the ransom money from Dr. Condon in the Bronx cemetery . Although the only defense handwriting expert to take the stand so far has admitted that he could not connect Fisch with the ransom notes , defense counsel have insinuated that Fisch wrote the ransom notes , imitating Hauptmann 's peculiarities in handwriting , spelling and grammar , and copying the words from something prepared by a better-educated " master mind . " When Sommer returns to the stand at 10 o'clock on Monday morning he will be subjected to an even more severe cross-examination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday with questions that kept him saying , " I would n't say yes and I would n't say no , " like a refrain for a full half hour . Over the week-end lawyers and investigators for the prosecution are checking every detail of Sommer 's story and his past activities in an effort to destroy the value of his testimony to the defense effort to shift the blame from Hauptmann to a plot among Fisch , the servants and other outsiders . Defense counsel are expected to call Thomas H. Sisk , special agent of the Department of Justice in charge of the Lindbergh investigation , who has already testified as a . State witness . Mr. Reilly had indicated , his belief that Sisk 's testimony about a phonograph record and a footprint will help the defense effort to create doubt in the jury 's mind that Hauptmann was the man who called himself " John " and who talked with Dr. Condon on two occasions ? on the night Of March 12 , 1932 , on a park bench near Woodlawn Cemetery , and on the night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Raymond 's Cemetery , where the $50,000 ransom was paid . Under cross-examination by Mr. Reilly Sisk admitted that the Department of Justice had a phonograph record made by Dr. Condon in imitation of the kidnapper 's voice , and a plaster cast of a man 's footprint taken from a fresh grave a few feet from the place where Dr. Condon and " Cemetery John , " as Attorney General Wilentz calls the ransom collector , talked in St. Raymond 's Cemetery . Intimating that the phonograph record and the footprint would show that Hauptmann was not " Cemetery John , " despite Colonel Lindbergh 's testimony that he had recognized Hauptmann 's voice as that of the man who called " Hey , Doktore " in a foreign accent to Dr. Condor : just before the ransom payment , while the Colonel was in a near-by automobile , Mr. Reilly demanded during the State 's case that Sisk produce official records of the Department of Justice in connection with this part of the case . Sisk had to get permission from Washington to produce the department 's records @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's case while this was done it was agreed that Mr. Reilly could call the agent as a defense witness . Woman to Be Recalled . Another rebuttal witness for the State will be Mrs. Ella Achenbach , who testified recently that a day or two after the kidnapping the Hauptmanns called at her home , then a few doors from the Hauptmann home in the Bronx , and that Mrs. Hauptmann said that she and her husband had just returned from a trip . Mrs. Achenbach also testified that Hauptmann limped and that Mrs. Hauptmann said he had hurt his leg on the trip . The State contends that the baby was killed when the ladder broke , causing Hauptmann and the child to fall to the ground . Mrs. Hauptmann rose in court and denounced Mrs. Achenbach as a liar when the latter testified about the visit of the Hauptmanns . Later Mrs. Hauptmann in her testimony said that the visit was in 1931 , after she and her husband had returned from an automobile trip to California . In rebuttal , it is understood , Mrs. Achenbach can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kidnapping because she and Mrs. Hauptmann discussed the kidnapping at that very time . It was said in prosecution quarters that she also could testify that Hauptmann went into her house and rubbed arnica on his leg . Mrs. Achenbach also will tell about a visit she made to Hauptmann in the Bronx County , jail after his arrest , when he failed to recognize her at first but didd recognize her after she took off her hat .                     