@@697891

txt Mr. HENDERSON , the British Foreign Minister , is already starting a campaign in preparation for the Disarmament Conference next year . He has been chosen to preside over it , but is well aware that if it is to be fruitful a great deal of preliminary work has to be done . As still a sort of lay preacher , Mr. HENDERSON declared with fervor that world peace can not - be merely a passive thing , but must be rendered active and even aggressive . If he had taken a text for his latest speech , it would probably have been : " Seek peace and ensue it . " This is the reason why he is so earnestly appealing to the peace-loving peoples of the world to push their Governments forward into more hearty support of all the agencies for settling international controversies , and into practical measures for reducing both the burden and the threat of competitive armaments . It must be for similar reasons that the projected visit of Secretary STIMSON to various European countries is there regarded as of such high import @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go , and the belief is that he will join sympathetically in consultations looking to better understandings and to fuller cooperation , from which the United States can not stand apart with an air of being entirely disinterested . More specifically , it is felt abroad that the American Secretary of State must have in mind and on his heart the question of international disarmament . The conference at Geneva next year will be a supplement to the London Conference in which Mr. STIMSON bore a prominent part . The results he then helped to attain were meager , though gratifying as far as they went . He must desire a much large advance at Geneva next year . With the full backing of President Hooves , who but lately emphasized his conviction that the great cost of armaments stands in the way of recovery from the world-wide depression ? as well as recovery from diplomatic suspicion and friction  --  Secretary STIMSON can hardly fail to confer with the authorities of the countries which he goes to on his tour , with a view of smoothing away the obstacles which many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , it is a general rule that international congresses are successful in proportion to the agreements which have been quietly reached before they meet . It was commonly remarked that the London Conference of 1930 met without the necessary spade-work having been done beforehand . If there are no confidential exchanges in advance between the interested Governments , if no plans are worked out , even tentatively , before the delegates assemble , their work is slow in getting under way , and they appear too much like : nen who have been instructed to present and defend nationalistic programs , without having previously sought to reconcile them . It was obviously the case at London , for example , that the naval viewpoints of France and of Italy had not been sufficiently studied by either the British Government or the American . At Geneva . it is to be hoped , that mistake will not be repeated . There are various ways of preparing for peace . One is to do away with as many causes of misunderstanding as possible ; to promote the interchanges of commerce as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendship a steady official concern and not merely a theme for banquets and ceremonies . fettnother mg is to prove sincerity by action . Just now , for instance , President Hoovsa is working hard to reduce Government expenditures . The latest cuts which he is reported as seeking are in naval appropriations . Doubtless a few millions can be saved , by economies here and there . But the big question is what the President will do with the great naval building program which is in reserve . If the United States is to reach theoretical " parity " with Great Britain on the sea , we shall have to spend vast sums in enlarging our cruiser strength . But if the President , before the budget is submitted to Congress next December , and two months before the meeting of the Disarmament Conference at Geneva , were to announce that this Government would hold that program in. abeyance , and out of it manage to find a large American contribution to the cause of disarmament , the effect could not be doubted . It would mightily strengthen and confirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary STIMSON . It would be a move for world peace which all the world would be bound to recognize as unselfish and highminded .                     