@@704062

txt The date of Great Britain 's annual naval manoeuvres in the North Sea was advanced today from September to August as a part of the effort to guard against a " danger period " in Europe later in the Summer . This announcement had no direct bearing on anything but the European situation , but it threw additional light upon British patience in the Far East and British anxiety over the slow progress of negotiations with Russia . It served as a reminder that the German danger outweighs all others in British minds and that the probability of a challenge by Chancellor Adolf Hitler this Summer is seen clearly in London , although nobody can be quite sure where , when or how it will come . ' 750,000 to Be Under Arms Already thousands of reservists are undergoing training in all branches of the fighting forces ; the first 35 , - 000 of Britain 's conscript " militiamen " will receive their summonses for compulsory training at the end of this week . while thousands more reservists will report for duty with the colors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men will be under arms in Great Britain before the end of this Summer ? that is to say , by the time the expected crisis in Europe becomes acute . The object of all this is to man front-line trenches before any attack comes and perhaps to avert an attack by letting Germany know Britain is ready . The early naval manoeuvres are part of the same process . It will he no surprise if the naval reservists who were called up by public proclamation at the height of the crisis last year are summoned for duty again , but this time before a new crisis breaks and without any preliminary publicity . Today 's Admiralty announcement explained.that the normal Summer leave period of ships of the Home Fleet had been advanced to July " to enable dockings and refits to be completed during that month preparatory to carrying out exercises in August . " This decision will mean cancellation of the fleet 's usual July visits to seashore resorts ; it will also mean cancellation of " Navy Week , " usually the first week in August . Situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Admiralty likes to pretend that these things are just accidental ? it swill be the most striking coincidence since Winston Churchill , then First Lord of the Admiralty , sent the whole British fleet to its battle stations in the north of Scotland the week before war broke out in 1914 . There is no thought now , any more than in the Summer of 1914 , of detaching powerful units of the fleet for service far away or of letting the attention of the armed forces De diverted in any way from the essential job near home . The Cabinet 's subcommittee on foreign policy met today to discuss : he Far Eastern situation and the state of the Russian negotiations . The impression tonight was that the Ministers had needed to devote comparatively little of their time to : he Far East . Prime Minister Neville Chamber.ain told the House of Commons today of British protests " in the strongest terms " already delivered n Tokyo and of discussions now gong on between Foreign Minister 4achiro Arita and Sir Robert Leslie 3raigie , the Britilh Ambassador . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to a settlement ) f the Tientsin affair , " Mr. Charnierlain added , " and therefore , while insisting that such treatment If British nationals by local.Japatese soldiers must cease , I do not vent to say anything which would ) rejudice the prospect of a satis- factory issue to conversations with the Japanese Government . " Utmost Patience Indicated This was the clearest indication yet given by the British Government that it regards the Tientsin affair as another of the recurring trials of strength between Japanese Army chieftains and civilian leaders in Tokyo and that it will not take any action against Japan as long as there is a chance of getting an agrAment with the Japanese Government . Answering a questioner , Mr. Chamberlain repeated that the Toyko Government had not officially put forward the demands already made upon Britain by a Japanese Army spokesman at Tientsin . When former Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden reminded him that " promises in Toyko are not always fulfilled as might be hoped , " Mr. Chamberlain replied that he was quite aware of that but hoped the Japanese Government " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir John Wardlaw-Milne , a Conservative business man active in Indian trade , then suggested that Mr. Chamberlain 's " patient conciliatory policy will be just as much misunderstood in the Far East as in Germany . " He urged that the Prime Minister threaten " definite economic reprisals . " In reply Mr. Chamberlain simply asked his questioner to " exercise what patience he can "  --  a patience which , incidentally , is wearing thin among many members of the House of Commons as they read of continued " insults to British residents in Tientsin . " There was some loose talk today of an Anglo-French naval concentration at Singapore as an alternative to economic reprisals . None of this , however , emanated from the government . Naval Gesture Impractical The Ministers and their advisers know only too well that a concentration at Singapore would be 1,500 miles from the South China coast and 3,000 miles from Tientsin and that a similar show of force at Hong Kong might land British warships in a trap . They know , too , that Britain has only six cruisers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far Eastern waters at the present time  --  a force so small , compared with the Japanese , that its appearance would cause no shivers in Tokyo . Britain can not concentrate an impressive force in the Far East now without detaching precious battleships from Europe  --  and , as today 's news of the North Sea manoeuvres shows , she keeps Europe in the forefront of her mind . It was reported tonight after a long meeting of the foreign affairs subcommittee of the Cabinet that it was agreed the Russian demands , including specific guarantees for the Baltic States , must be met . This report was not confirmed , and it was understood that new instructions had not yet been forwarded to Britain 's negotiators in Moscow . On the question of the Baltic States it is believed here the British Government will have to name these States specifically in its gearantee if it is to meet Russian wishes . It is true that Finland , Estonia and Latvia have said they do not wish to be named , but competent authorities here have come to believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to satisfy Russia 's little Baltic neighbors . It remains to be seen whether the Ministers will listen to their advisers on this point or will try to resist still further . Delay Increases Uneasiness Mr. Chamberlain showed in the House of Commons today he was increasingly uncomfortable over the effect of the Moscow deadlock upon the European situation . " Is it not clear , " asked Hugh Dalton , a Laborite , " that these outstanding difficulties are causing great satisfaction in Berlin and increasing the risk of a new German aggression and a general war in Europe ? " " That may be so , " Mr. Chamberlain replied , " and I hope that is in the mind of the Soviet Government also . " In reply to another suggestion that he send a Cabinet Minister to Moscow to speed up the negotiations , Mr. Chamberlain simply answered , " I do n't think that would help matters . " Prevailing opinion here continues to be that the Russian alliance will come  --  partly because Britain and Russia both need to check Herr Hitler and partly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past twenty ... years . As the Summer " danger period " comes closer , it is fair to guess that the British will give up more and more to bring Russia into an alliance . They are already trying to pile up deterrents to war by quietly mobilizing their man power and by advancing their naval manoeuvres to the middle of the " danger period " ; but even Tory leaders seem to believe now that an alliance with Russia may prove to be the biggest deterrent of all , No Activity in Moscow MOSCOW , June 26 ( JP ) . ? Although William Strang , special British envoy , is still here , there was no new activity apparent today in connection with the British-French-Soviet mutual assistance pact negotiations . It was indicated that the British diplomat was awaiting new instructions from London which the British hoped would hasten signing of the pact . Berlin Disavows Crisis Idea BERLIN , June 26 ( JP ) . ? " There will be no August crisis unless the encirclers provoke it , " officials here said today in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August holidays for officers and men to July in order to keep the fleet at full strength during August . " Whether there Is a crisis or not does not depend on us , " they added . " Poland and her friends must be considered . If it affords the British any amusement to keep their fleet at full strength during August , then let them do it . "                     