@@699599

txt The general lines of a solid European front in the form a a pact by the four chief powers to assure an era of world peace were evolved at a two hour conference at the British embassy today betweeil Prime Minister of Great Britain and his foreign secretary , Sir John Simon , and Premier Mussolini of Italy . The project , which calls for the collaboration of England , France , Ger . many and Italy , is described as founded on the spirit of the Kellogg pact and as an international agreement to outlaw war . Leave for Paris Today . The British ministers , who came to Rome yesterday , will leave for Paris at noon tomorrow to Jay the proposal before Premier Daladier and to recommend it strongly to tho French government on Tuesday . The plan for an agreement of the four European powers was put forth by Mussolini , according to an official communique issued tonight . The statement said : " After a full and exhaustive exchange of ideas of the general situation the ministers examined in these conversations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government for an understanding on larger political questions , with the object of securyArllaboration of the four west'hi an effort to promote , in the spirit of the Kellogg pact and a ' no : force ' declaration , a long period of peace for Europe and the world . " Equality-and Security . The " no force " agreement mentioned in the communique refers to a declaration signed at Geneva by Britain , Germany , France , and Italy last Dec. 11 indorsing a principle of simultaneous equality of status for Germany and security for France . Part of the agreement was signed by , the United States . This agreement induced Germany to return to the international disarmament cont erence which she had bolted . The solid front of the four powers , it is implied , would be for collaboration in European affairs , but such an understanding would also promote a more unified action in dealing with other international problems confrontlng Europe . The collaborative agreement , it is inferred , is to be complementary to 's plan for disarmament issued at Geneva on Thursday . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy 's attitude toward it was made in the communique . Strengthens Locarno Treaty . The nature of the collaboration between the four nations is also left to generalities , but it is suggested that it involves the strengthening of the Locarno treaty by assurances whereby England and Italy guarantee the frontier between France and Germany . By strengthening and extending pos ? sibly those guarantees it apparently Is hoped to remove French objections to Britain 's drastic disarmament proposals . Mussolini has been hatching the four.power project since his speech last fall at Turin and will be his messenger for laying the plan for its concrete application before the French . Recall Turin Speech . When he first made the proposal In Turin the Italian premier said : " If on a basis of justice , which will preserve Italy 's rights , necessary and sufficient premises for the collaboration of the four great western powers can be reached , Europe would be politically tranquil and perhaps the economic crisis which torments it would come to an end . " It is assumed that Mussolini expressed his views on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to advices tonight Italy has ' accepted the plan generally , but objects to the section which provides French and Italian armies on home soil with 200,000 men each , nut awards France 200,000 soldiers for duty in its colonies to Italy 's 50,000 . Curiously , however , the details of 's plan have not yet been made public in Italy . Whether anything comes of the " Mussolini plan " or not , today 's conversations are believed to have at least overcome , any immediately pending crisis . It is reported that is more assured a Dmsounrs peaceful intentions mince Il Duce 's proclamation to the grand council of Fascism ? wttli reference to exploiting ? Hitterism in , Gerrintak and arming the nations of Central ' Europe in opposition to the Little Entente . Expect Peace ' Treaty Revision ; It is also taken for granted here that the application of the four power exellaboration to the future politics of Europe will mean a peaceable but certain revision of peace treaties through negotiations . It is pointed out that the British disarmament plan in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Germany , Bulgaria , Hungary , and Austria . The French and the Germane goy , ermnents have been kept fully in , formed of the conversations and already have received copies of the Italian premier 's project , which they  --  are studying . It is understood that if - the French premier indicates he is willing to sevent the project and desires to discuss the details , will ask his views regarding a four  --  premier conference , including Chancellor Hitler of Germany , at some city in northern Italy . The visiting Britons gave a dinner for Mussolini at the embassy tonight . United States Ambassador John W. Garrett and Mrs. Garrett were present . After the dinner the French and German ambassadors were Invited to meet and discuss Mussolini 's plan , Received by Pope . Pope Pius received and his foreign secretary in private audience late this afternoon . The pontiff congratulated them on the steps they had taken in interests of peace . The two ministers chatted with the pope for forty minutes . The pope spoke in French and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 's first visit to the Vatican . Later the statesmen called on Cardinal Vatican secretary of state . England has just- recently named a new minister to the Holy See , the post being left vacant for a long time after the Malta divergence with the Vatican . This morning the British prime min , ister and his daughter , Ishbel , visited Capitoline hill , the Forum and the Palatine , and also paid s. visit to the exposition of Fascism under the guidance of Secretary Achille Starace of the Fascist party . At noon and Sir John were received at the Quirinal palace by Bing Victor Emmanuel , who was their host at luncheon . sat at the king 's right and Mussolini at the king 's left . France Sees Hope of Progress . PARIS , March 19.  - -  - M  --  The four power peace plan discussed at Rome by Prime Minister of Great Britain and Premier Mussolini of Italy brought to government circles a hope of real progress . A pronouncement On the plan , however , awaits consideration at a cabinet meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . LONDON , March 20 Monday. ? ( Q ' )  - -  Premier Mussolini 's proposal for world Peace was cordially welcomed today by the majority of London morn , ing papers . They said the plan was an important step toward removing the dangerous tension of the last few weeks and Insuring peace . The essential condition to the success of the Italian premier 's plan was regarded by the newspapers to be the assent and ? Operation of Germany and France , On this point several of the journals expressed doubt . With one exception the papers approved the plan . The Herald attacked the proposal as being an attempt to undermine the league of nations and ettbatitute for it a- self-appointed junta with great powers . Turkey Opposes Air Force Limit . ISTANBUL , March 19 . ? GP ) ? Ter -- key 's first reaction to the new disarmament plan proposed at Geneva last week by Prime Minister MaeDonald of Great Britain is one of uncertainty . An official bulletin from the capitol today said that information so far received did not reveal what idea has of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to plans for limitations on her air force . " The number of airplanes fixed by the titan is unduly low for Turkey compared with the number assigned to other nations of similar rank , and considering Turkey 's situation as a neutral power , " the bulletin concludes .                     