@@701599

txt The size and impressiveness of the naval delegations now preparing to descend upon London have darkened the prospects of next month 's naval conference still further until it is impossible for observers here to see the slightest hope of its success . The outlook was gloomy enough with the new Mediterranean rivalries added to the deep-seated conflict in naval policy between the United States and Japan . Tonight it appears that nothing can happen at the conference except a series of clashes among delegations , with little or nothing salvaged from the wreck of existing limitation treaties . Until last week the British had hoped to make the conference a quiet affair in which naval experts of all five countries would have had a chance during the six or seven months ' negotiations to reach at least a number of " gentlemen 's agreements , " limiting the types and possibly the numbers of the world 's warships . Now the British have had a rude awakening . The United States has appointed Norman H. Davis , Ambassador at Large , and William Phillips , Under-Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a delegation as unwieldy as that which came to London for the 1930 conference . The Japanese have enlarged their delegation at the eleventh hour by appointing Matsuzo Nagai , Ambassador to Berlin , as a member . The French Minister of Marine , Francois Pietri , scenting a battle from across the Channel , has decided to come to London himself to watch what he foresees as a " head-on collision . " Series of Collisions Seen . All indications tonight are that Mr. Pietri is right . The conference , as seen here , now threatens to develop into not one but a series of collisions , with a clash between the United States and Japan almost certain to occur in the very first stages . The result is that British officials have admitted that they are " taken aback , " and they are bringing up their own heaviest artillery in men like Prime Minister Baldwin and Foreign Secretary Sir Samuel Hoare to take an active part in the conference . It was found necessary today to hold a technical meeting of Admiralty and Foreign Office officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will soon be swarming in the lobbies of London hotels . In place of a long , leisurely conference during which there might have been a series of useful bilateral talks among the experts , the British are now showing a desire to get the whole thing over before it does serious harm to international relations . It would be no surprise if the British were to drive for final adjournment before Christmas after committing to paper such slight agreement as already exists among the chief naval powers . As the preliminary fanfare grows louder and louder it threatens serious harm to American as well as British interests . For there was a good chance , if the conference had been allowed to proceed quietly , Ithat Britain would have borne the brunt of a collision with France and Italy at the outset and would have had the thankless task of bringing Germany and Russia into the European naval picture at some later date , Open Conflict Certain . The fundamental conflict between the United States and Japan would have been allowed to remain on the sidelines , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Americans , might themselve8 have locked horns with the Japanese when the right time came . Now , with Mr. Davis and an imposing delegation in London , the United States is bound to come into the open against the Japanese once more . A conference which promised to start as a European affair with the United States happily out of the firing line , is being magnified at the outset into a world conference , with a repetition of all the old disagreements which wrecked last Winter 's three-power conversations between the United States , Great Britain and Japan . Any one who remembers the proceedings of last Winter can be forgiven for dreading a repetition of them this year . The British , at any rate , are doing all they can to deflate the naval conference before it opens . The quiet talks they have had with the French and Italians in recent weeks have produced only slight agreement , but they were amicable and convinced the British that that method at least was right . The experts behind the scenes and out of the glare of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do either at the London conference of 1930 or the threepower talks last year . British and even foreign observers here are certain that a full-dress conference can only magnify every disagreement , embitter every issue and endanger the last remaining vestige of naval limitation for the future .                     