@@702614

txt Justice Willis Van Devanter , one of the most frequent dissenters from New Deal legislation on the Supreme Court , announced today that he would retire on June 2 from " regular and . active " service . This spurred the determination of President Roosevelt 's opponents to fight his judiciary reorganization plan to the end . Shortly after information reached the Capitol that Mr. Van Devanter would soon step down , the Senate Judiciary Committee voted . 10 to 8 to report adversely the President 's court bill , commissioning three of its members to draft a recommendation to the . Senate that " it do not : pass . " - Mr. Van Devanter 's resignation was made known in a letter to the President , witch was released , with a reply , at the White House . No Word . on President 's Plans Mr. Roosevelt will now have his first opportunity since he took office in March , 1933 , to appoint a. member of the Supreme Court . This fact , coupled with Mr. Van devanter 's prominence among the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenge to New Deal acts , was regarded as greatly altering the circumstances surrounding the court bill . This was particularly so as regards the provision for appointment of six new justices to replace or supplement those now over 70 years of age . Mr. Van Deventer passed his seventy-eighth birthday a month ago yesterday . As a. result of today 's developments , many friends of the President argued that his goal to remake the court with more liberal personnel was already within reach , what with the Van Devanter retirement and the apparent switch from the conservative to the liberal section of Justices Hughes and Roberts , They wondered , therefore , if the President would persist in the efforts to pass the full six-justice bill . But there was no word from Mr : Roosevelt . Asked at a press conference whether Mr. Van Deventer 's announced retirement would cause him to alter his course , he simply replied : " I have no news on that subject today . " Silent as to Successor Opponents of the court bill were greatly heartened by the turn of events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outright in the Senate if and when it came to a vote . The prevailing view in Washington tonight was that compromise on the President 's plan was now a virtual certainty unless Mr. Roosevelt elects to take the issue to the country , as he has recently intimated to some of his Congressional leaders . The President WAS silent as to a prospective appointee to fill the vacancy . Those mentioned by informed persons as possibilities included Senators Robinson and Wagner , Representative Simmers of Texas , Judge Florence Allen of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals , Solicitor General Stanley Reed , Robert Jackson , Assistant Attorney General ; Professor Felix Frankfurter and James M. Landis , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , and John P , Devaney , former Chief Justice of Minnesota . I Under an informal rule made recently by the President against appointing to the judiciary any one over 60 years of age , and a provision of the Constitution prohibiting a Senator or Representative from taking an office whose emoluments have been increased during ? the term for which he , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress members , might be barred . Mr. Roosevelt indicated today , however , that these rules might not operate in the present case . His answers to some questions gave the impression that he might not hold rigidly to his own rule against appointing judges over 60 , and he added that he was not sure whether Congress 's recent passage of the Sumners-McCarran . Retirement Act , under which Mr. Van Devanter will retire on June 2 , increased the emoluments of the office in the sense meant by the Constitution . The suggestion wag again heard that the President would have an opportunity to- make further appointments before the new court term began next October . Reports persisted that one or two other justices would retire during the Summer recess and the names of Justices Brandeis and Sutherland kept cropping up in the rumors . Justice Sutherland authorized a statement by his secretary , however , that " the justice has no present intention of retiring , " and persons close to Mr. Brandeis said he had hired his law clerk for another court term . Mr. Brandeis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon , but later reports said that he had been urged by various groups to remain . Hope More Judges May Quit No further retirements are seriously expected until after the court bill has come to a vote in the Senate or its fate has otherwise been settled . In the absence of word from the White House strictly administration followers held to day in public statements that the picture had not been materially changed by Mr. Van Devanter 's announcement . Many felt , nevertheless , that if the President persisted ? in ? his fight , the ' controversy would grow more bitter and the task for his leaders close to impossible . These administration spokesmen were ' apparently trying to maintain for , the bill whatever advantage of position they could under the circumstances . Their fondest hope was that two or three other justices would retire , especially among the conservatives , and that the bill in so far as it affects the Supreme Court would then be withdrawn . The coming opinion of the court on the Social Security cases is likely to have a distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , the chances of enacting the court plan and the enthusiasm of the leaders to drive it through may wane still more . If the decision is unfavorable , however , the court plan 's chances may rise . Regardless of the effect of today 's developments on the prospects for the court bill , the net result was regarded by some as a gain for ' the administration . With Mr. Van Devanter 's retirement , and assuming that the ' new conservative-liberal alignment of the court as shown in recent decisions is maintained , they argued that the President could depend in the future on a six-to-three division in favor of his general policies . The President gave no intimation , however , that he intended to be diverted from his court bill by events to date . He was represented as feeling that Mr. Van Devanter 's retirement left the program to enlarge the Supreme Court with a score of " one up and . five to go . " Ashurst Sees Chances Bettered Senator Ashurst , who has been handling the court bill as chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the committee voted to report it unfavorably , said that the fight for a six-justice bill would go on . " The retirement of Associate Justice Van Devanter immensely promotes President Roosevelt 's bill for reorganization of the Supreme Court , " he said . " The justice 's retirement certainly means the bill will pass . I do n't believe in surrender until after you are defeated . I would n't walk as far as that door for a compromise on five additional justices . This bill when it came out was as popular as a polecat at a picnic , but everything that has happened since has strengthened its support . " He added that he had always had " the highest opinion " of Mr. Van Devanter . Senator Wheeler , leader of the Senate opposition to the bill , demanded that the " President withdraw it , in light of ' today 's developments . " It 's time for the President to withdraw it , but I do n't think he will , because I think they want to make the Supreme Court entirely subservient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now that there 's a no man 's land ' or a ' one-man land . ' " The general coercion now being practiced by the Postoffice Department and the entire administration indicates to me that they are trying to dominate everything , and that if they continue there will be scandals equaling the Harding-Daugherty scandals . " Comment on the Retirement Among other comments were the following : Senator Johnson of California  --  This ought not , to end the contest . It is fundamental in character and goes to the very existence of the Republic . It ought to be fought out on the - floor to determine whether the Senate is to be subservient to the demands made upon it or whether it will preserve the independence of the Supreme Court. , Senator Borah  --  The retirement of Van Devanter will not likely affect the Supreme Court Bill icontroversy . Senator Van Nuys ? I believe Justice Van Devanter retired for the sake of the court  --  to preserve the court . His retirement will not hinder the opposition to the Court Bill . Senator Hatch ? It could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number on the bench . Senator King  --  Justice Van Devanter would have resigned long ago except for the unfortunate situation created by the President . He probably felt it was an assault on the court and in the face of an attack was not willing to leave the bench . Senator McCarran ? I feel a personal pride in having assisted in making his retirement possible . My wish is father to the thought that the President now will *ithdraw the bill . Otherwise , I see no change in attitude as a result of Justice Van Devanter 's retirement . Senator Neely ? I hope some others will follow his good example ? promptly . Senator Minton  --  Justice Van Devanter 's resignation ought to have no efect on the President 's court plan .. There . is a principle involved in that plan that ought to become law of the country . Senator Burke ? It could n't have any effect . When a bill is dead nothing else could happen to make it more dead . We have this bill defeated now . Senator Connally ? It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ragged edge . If he was wavering it might decide him to vote against the bill , but do n't know anybody- who 's on that edge . Senator Logan ? I think it 's a very good thing . I wish some of the others would follow his example so we could end this present controversy . It undoubtedly will have some effect on the pending struggle ? strengthen the opposition would be my judgment of the effect . Senator Hughes ? It ought to advance a compromise proposal . But if the opposition has said , as I understand it has , that they will take no compromise and really feel that way about it they can go to the bow-wows as far as I 'm concerned . Senator Copeland ? It means the loss of a very able man . It must be a great disappointment to the President . It certainly helps the opposition to the bill . Senator Vandenberg ? We now have an opportunity to see just what kind of a judge it is Mr. Roosevelt has in mind for the Supreme Court . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pittman ? I am very happy Van Devanter retired . He needs a rest . Senator  --  The retirement and the fair and friendly attitude of the Supreme Court in respect to New Deal legislation should persuade President Roosevelt to withdraw his bill . Cummings Praises His Career By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , May 18 . ? Attorney General Cummings , commenting on Justice Van Devanter 's retirement , praised his " long and distinguished judicial career , " but added that his resignation had " no logical bearing on the merits of the President 's proposal . " Speaker Bankhead doubted that the resignation would have " any material effect " on the President 's plan . " It appears to me the present attitude of the President to go forward with the court plan is not based on any such contingency , " he said . ' " He is fighting for the larger principle of fresh blood in the court . " Representative Maverick of Texas , who introduced the Court Bill in the House , suggested that by additional retirements the court itself " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reasonable time and can retire with dignity on full pay of $20,000 annually , he argued . Representative Celler of New York said : " I believe the resignation should have a very quieting effect on all this controversy . This resignation solves the difficulty . " Representative Martin of Massachusetts said that the retirement " unquestionably will weaken the President 's forces , as he has no argument at all left . "                     