@@702768

txt President Roosevelt is today pledged , as he was four years ago , to a " hands-off " policy toward New York city 's quadrennial mayoral Jamboree . He has no official interest in the result of the Democratic primary , which finds the down-state organization split into two hostile camps expressive of the schism in the national party , and he is supporting no candidate , according to Marvin H. , of the White House secretariat , in a statement issued palpably at the President 's behest . The repudiation of reports that Mr. Roosevelt was playing favorites in the New York city race followed the publication of reports attaching political significance to the presence of Edward J. Flynn , New York Secretary of State and chief lieutenant of the Roosevelt forces tn New York city , where he is " bosA " of the Bronx wing of the five boroughs , at the President 's Sunday luncheon table at Hyde Park . Mr. Flynn is espousing the . mayoral candidacy of Jeremiah ' " Mahoney against the Tammany designee , United States Senator Royal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Smith faction . His visit provoked caustic criticism by the Senator in Washington . who charged that Its purpose was wholly political ; that President Roosevelt was disrupting the Democratic Party and intervening in the city night as reprisal for the Senator 's opposition to the New Deal program in Congress . The president , he declared , really wanted to see Mayor Morello H. LaGuardia re-elected and saw In a divided down-state democracy the surest means to this end . Mr. denied the charges categorically , with explicit reference to the Sunday luncheon as " a wholly social party " at which " no political subjects were discussed " and classifying all stories to the contrary as " outdo out of whole cloth . " " The President repeated for the thousandth limo that ho has not taken part , is not taking part , and will not take part In any local primary election , except in his home town ( Hyde Park ) and his home county ( Dutchess ) , " his statement continued . " It Is , of course , necessary that from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business , wholly disassociated from local political events , some individuals actively Interested In primary Or local elections . " It is hoped that readers of newspapers will give little or no credence to stories which purport to print assumptions based on such VInits , " Senator Copeland took exception to the Flynn call in an Interview In Which he referred to the Bronx leader as a " political cowboy " who had " lassoed " ; 22,000 worth of jobs and salaries . His attack brought a similar outburst from Mr. Mahoney , who opened with equally specific reference to the role Mr. smith is playing in his open sponsorship of the Copeland slate . This intervention , according to Mr. Mahoney , could only be interpreted as a continuation of Mr. Smith 's efforts on behalf of Liberty League partisans against the Now Deal . He predicted no more success for the current venture than attended Mr. Smith last fall , " when ho tried to turn the party over to the enemies of the principles of democracy . " Ho also said : " This is merely an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spite on President Roosevelt and on the Democratic party . " he continued . " I am doing my best with my colleagues to uphold the New Deal and to hayo It , demonstrated that the Democratic party is bigger than any one man . " Meanwhile , with the time limit for filing designating petitions for the primary expiring nt midnight tonight , it remained uncertain whether Mayor LaGuardia would enter the Republican lists . Petitions for him have boon circulated by the New York County Republican chief , Kenneth P. Simpson , but the Mayor has given no public intimation of his attitude toward the undertaking . Party opinion on his espousal is at widest variance , with many Republicans openly enlisted for Senator Copeland. who will run In both party primaries .                     