@@703316

txt Using the full powers granted to him by Parliament last month , Premier Edouard Daladier today issued , in accord with his Cabinet , his first series of decrees tending toward economic recovery and stimulation of production . All State taxes , direct and indirect , were raised 8 per cent . This first series deals also with measures aimed to increase the production of , and to facilitate credit for , national defense contractors through the establishment of a clearing-house fund discounting their paper , the consolidation of all budgetary items , and legislation to encourage " good " foreign ; ers to come to France as tourists and to force " bad " ones to leave or to discourage them from coming . A subsequent series in the near future will , it is reported , concern the 15,000,000,000-franc national defense loan and an additional 10,000 , - 000,000-franc advance to the State by the Bank of France , an adjustment of customs tariffs and steps planned to improve the foreign trade balance . The government 's main hope to stimulate production seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of working hours , " but within the framework of the 1936 social legislation . " This will be achieved by a scheme authorizing men to work additional hours until they have caught up with the total time lost in sit-down strikes , as well as conditionally allowing overtime To Increase Production Other means looked to for increasing production are aiding building contractors and generally stimulating construction by tearing down slums and lightening the tax load for companies spending part of their profits on additional and more modern equipment . The establishment of the clearing house fund to handle drafts underwritten by national defense contractors and other purveyors to the State is designed to obviate former difficulties in obtaining capital and . to speed up deliveries . While these contractors are thus favored in pbtaining credit , there is impose ct- a surtax on their profits . A ** fund is created to accompany undesirable foreigners to the-border , but a still larger sum is appropriated to attract tourists . The check on undesirables will be extended to include French nationals who thrive on the traffic in faked passports and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ( P ) . ? The increase of 8 per cent in all national taxes decreed today by Premier Edouard Daladier 's " national defense " government is a " temporary and exceptional " measure to raise 4,000 , - 000,000 francs . Although only eighteen decrees were signed by President Albert Lebrun in the initial batch presented by the Cabinet , they were so long and so involved that the manager of the Official Journal print shop said he doubted whether they could be included in tomorrow 's issue of the publication . The decrees do not become law until they are published in the Journal . To the average Frenchman the greatest shock of all was the 8 per cent hike In income and other direct taxes . The increase , however , strikes all hidden taxes as well . Taxes on radios , dogs , bond and stock transactions , banking operations , unfurnished apartments and a host of other items were raised a flat 8 per cent . Increased taxation.was only a part of the long list of decrees . Other measures provided for : 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pensions , for public works and railroads into the general budget , increasing it by 3,730,000,000 francs . 2 . Tightening up of the government 's check on ' expenditures by various departments and Ministries . 3 . Various measures to encourage France 's tourist trade , including a special reducti-m In railroad , fares , the price of gasoline and other advantages to tourists spending over six days in France . Last-Minute Changes Made The Cabinet , meeting with President Albert Lebrun , made a number of last-minute changes in the decrees . Among the decrees was one aimed to solve France 's pressing problem of what to do with men without a country  --  including members of the Spanish Government 's International Brigade . To the Interior Ministry was given the right to designate residences in France where " undesirable foreigners " who have no nationality must live under surveillance . The decree laws were reported to provide for measures to snuff out large scale strikes such as those that recently paralyzed defense industries . The strike measure was said to require a secret vote for every factory where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a majority vote would be prosecuted as would employers who locked workers out after a legal strike .                     