@@701539

txt A fire that they thought had been extinguished killed two of five children at play yesterday at 673 Tenth Street , Brooklyn , and caused serious injuries to a third who jumped from an upper window to escape the flames . Of the remaining two , one escaped by dashing through a fiery hallway . The other , a girl , crawled from window ledge to window ledge at the front of the house , more than thirty feet above the street , until she reached a ledge of the house next door . She was rescued by a fireman just as she seemed ready to release her hold . The children were playing shortly after 6 P. M. in the apartment of Nicholas Vlattas , on the top floor of a three-story and basement brownstone dwelling . They were Patrick Vlattas , 15-year-old son of the occupant ; his brother , George , 13 ; a sister , Elizabeth , 12 ; an adopted son of the family , George Gates , 10 , called Georgie to distinguish him from the other boy of similar name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Street , Jackson Heights , Queens . She had been taken to the house Friday by her father , Andrew Perdikakis , to spend the weekend with the Vlattas children . Two Boys Found Dead . Patrick and George were later found dead of burns and asphyxiation in the flame-swept dining room of the apartment . Elizabeth was found unconscious in a yard beneath the rear windows and was taken to Methodist Episcopal Hospital suffering from third-degree burns , possibly internal injuries and possibly a fractured skull . Georgie escaped by running through the hallway , braving a rush of fire that caused the other children to turn back in panic . Athena was the child who crawled to safety along the front windows . The two survivors were taken to the Fifth Street police station , where they gave the police an account of the fire , but were unable to tell its cause . The father was at work in a neighborhood fruit store , and the mother , Mrs. Mary Vlattas , had gone shopping , the police learned , leaving the five children alone . Two older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 19. were absent at work also . Anna is employed in a Manhattan restaurant ; Emanuel , like his father , works in a fruit store , the police said . Heard Crackling Outside . At about 6:3D o'clock , Georgie and Athena said , they heard crackling outside the door of the apartment dining room . The children opened the door and discovered a small fire under a stairway leading to the roof . They decided that they could put it out without bothering others in the building , the survivors said , Patrick and George ' Matta. , found an old apron and used it to smother the flames . Elizabeth took a tea kettle from the kitchen and poured water on the fire . Then the children returned to the dining room , closed the door and went on playing , Georgie and Athena *told the police . At about 7 P. M. they heard another crackling and again opened the dining room door . This time a burst of flames swept into the I apartment , driving them back in fright . Georgie , taking what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall and downstairs , reaching the street unharmed . He could not tell the police what happened to 11Patrick and George Viattas , whom he left in the dining room . Athena declared that she called to the other children to follow her , and ran toward the front of the house , but that they did not follow , and she heard Elizabeth crying to them to come to the rear windows . Athena then crawled out to the roof of a bay window , thence across the ledges of two more windows , and to the ledge of a third-floor window of a house at 675 Tenth Street , occupied by James Brahny . Members of his family were at home , but were on lower floors , the police said , and did not know of the plight of the Perdikakis girl until firemen arrived . . Pulls Girl to Safety . Fireman Joseph Dougherty , driver for Battalion Chief Thomas Lyons , who was the first to reach the house , saw that the girl seemed about to fall either through panic or weakness , and shouted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the fireman entered the house , and Dougherty raised the window and pulled the girl through . Patrick had left school after obtaining working papers and was looking for employment . George Vlattaa was a pupil in Grade 7A , Public School 124 , Fourteenth Avenue and Thirteenth Street , Brooklyn . Elizabeth is in Grade 6B , Public School 154 , Eleventh and Prospect Avenues , Brooklyn , and George Gates in Grade 4k , Public School 107 , Eighth Avenue and Thirteenth Street . Athena attends Junior High School 126 at Van Alst Avenue and Broadway , Jackson Heights .                     