@@698789

txt The modified Glass-Steagall banking bill , now before the Senate , proposes the i most extensive revision of the basic American banking structure since the Federal Reserve System was en- , acted . As explained by Senator Carter Glass ( DJ of Virginia , the bill would curb the power of member banks to engage in speculation : restrict so-called banking affiliates ; strengthen the overlordship of the Federal Reserve Board , as well as change its membership ; permit national ' banks to engage in branch banking in a restricted field , and would establish a giant liquidating corporation to free sound assets of closed banks from the red tape of receiverships . Mr. Glass served notice that he would resist to the utmost modification of Sections 3 and 8 of the new bill , atteeked by New York bankers . One section reaffirms the supreme power of the Reserve Board , while the other strikes at the speculative activities of certain members and gives the board authority to determine the eligibility of paper to be discounted . The Reserve System was originally Science Monitor Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Glass said , and to remove the country 's reserve trust funds from speculative purposes . The latter object has not been achieved . he said . The money is being used " for stock market gambling . " Some banks protesting wider branch banking , now themselves hold " as many as 5000 correspondent banks In such servitude , " Mr. Glass declared . He charged the big banks with filling the portfolios of their correspondent banks " from Maine to California , " with $8,000,000,000 of worthless Latin-American ant : other securities , and assailed the State Department for " culpability " in tacitly recognizing the system by passing on these foreign loans , though not entitled to take such action by law . Mr. Glass also assailed the prominence given to carrying through the open market provision of the act , rather than the rediscount features and in particular attacked the New York Reserve Bank for its efforts to stabilize European banks , to the neg- lect , he charged , of American institutions . He declared that governors of the Reserve Banks had revolted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimized the Pitaent campaign of the Reserve System to produce credit inflation through open-market purchasing of government securities , " They have not moved up the price of one commodity one stiver , " he declared . " Ten member banks borrowed $1,000,000,000 from the New York Reserve Bank in six months chiefly for stock market transactions , " Mr. Glass at one point told the listening senators . " This bill proposes to put a stop to that , and if it does n't , it is not worth the paper it is written on . " Mr. Glass made plain that the proposed liquidating corporation ; will not guarantee bank deposit : , Turning to affiliates , Mr. Glass in esentec1 for the iecold a hitherto un- ; published opinion piepared by Mr. ; Frederick W. Lehmann , General in the Taft Administiatton , under Mr. George W. Wickersham . Attorney-General , 21 years ago , declaring bank affiliates to be illegal . The speaker charged the opinion " was suppressed , " and this action he described as evidence of the ' Toner and blindness of inordinate wealth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this time a Democrat , who was later promoted to a higher office , likewise refused to permit publication of the opinion . The only Democratic Attorney-General since the Taft Administration promoted to a higher office was James C. , first attorney in the Wilson Administration , and 119W ** Justice or the Supreme Court . Had the Lehmann opinion been adopted as the policy of the Government security , affiliates by national banks would have been outlawed .                     