@@704254

txt News of the sinking of the Royal Oak by a German submarine is greeted with great elation throughout Germany and is the leading topic in the press and conversation . The official announcement here of the latest German naval success merely stated : " The English radio announces that the English battleship Royal Oak 29,150 tons has been , sunk as the result of an attack by a German submarine . " The revelation coincided with the first day of the " War Winter Relief Drive , " and collectors , who were everywhere , did their soliciting by proudly asserting that the torpedoing of the Royal Oak merited extra contribution . Editorially the sinking of the British battleship is used as a publicity weapon against the efficacy of the British " hunger blockade . " The blockade can not be enforced indefinitely if German submarines continue to be so efficient , it is maintained here . Since Sept. 3 , - German naval authorities estimate , more than 70,000 tons of British warships have been sunk by Germans . Other Claims Reiterated It is insisted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft carrier Courageous , another British airplane carrier , which they suspect was the Ark Royal , has - been destroyed , a heavy cruiser damaged and a considerable number of small craft sunk . A German report that a British capital ship , " reputed " to be the Hood , largest war vessel afloat , was damaged by bombers in the North Sea on Sept. 26 was given by The United Press . What particularly delights the Germans is that their modern submarines are proving capable of attacking first-line enemy naval ships successfully . During the last war German submarines were able to sink only old enemy ships and did not succeed in sinking a single modern one . The success against the Royal Oak , recently rebuilt with the most modern anti-torpedo defenses , further reduces the po- tential effectiveness of the British fleet in the North Sea , in the German view . BERLIN , Oct. 14 ( UP ) ? Nazis tonight reported that another British capital ship , " reputed " to be the Hood , world 's biggest and most powerful fighting ship . was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Sept. 26 . There was every indication that Chancellor Hitler , his " final " peace proposals rejected by the Allies , was determined to throw the full strength of the Reich 's submarine and air weapons against Britain and France . The 46,200-ton Hood , built at a cost of $29,000,000 and launched in August . 1918 , is 860 feet long and carries 1,341 officers and men . She is armed with every modern type of gun and her armor is fifteen inches thick in some places . The Hood 's speed of thirty-one knots is eight knots faster than that of any other warship of comparable size and armament . The British Admiralty reiterated that there was " no truth " in Nazi claims that the Hood had been put out of commission through German inflicted ? damages , The Associated Press reported . Air-Force Aid Stressed It was reported unofficially here that the Royal " Oak was torpedoed off the Spanish coast , but it was not said whether the battleship was in the Atlantic or the Mediterranean . " This great new success represents a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were able to wage a war of starvation against Germany without any great risk , " says the Boersen Zeitung . " The crews of German U-boats already have shown themselves worthy successors of their World War comrades . " In combination with the German air force , ? they are able to give the British Navy some very painful moments . " The Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung said that the sinking of the Royal Oak and the aircraft carrier Courageous was in addition to " the losses and punishment " inflicted on the British fleet by the German air force , particularly in the North Sea . There was no. comment , , official or semi-official , in Berlin regarding the British announcement that three German submarines were sunk Friday in the sharp renewal of warfare on the high seas .                     