@@703765

txt A significant development in Pan-American relations , which may have farreaching and beneficial effects on international relations , was announced today when the State Department gave out the text of an invitation from President Roosevelt for Dr. Oswaldo Aranha , Foreign Minister of Brazil , to make an official visit to Washington early in February as the guest of the United States Government in order to discuss relations between the two governments , and a message of acceptance of that invitation from President Getulio Vargas . Dr. Aranha is expected to arrive here about Feb. 9 . In his message to President Vargas extending the invitation , Mr. Roosevelt pointed out that " there have arisen during recent months various questions of great importance in which our two governments are equally interested . " " It would be particularly gratifying , " he adkied , " if these matters could be discussed in direct conversations between high officials of our respective governments in that frank and friendly manner and in that spirit of mutual helpfulness which fortunately are traditional in the relations between Brazil and the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Foreign Minister . In accepting the invitation , President Vargas recalled that " cooperation of their governments in the solution of continental and international problems is a pleasing tradition in the life of our nations . " He welcomed the opportunity " to seek the adjustment of any problems , even internal ones , which may aid directly or indirectly in the reaffirmation of this friendship and of the interdependence of the interests Df our nations . " In response to his request , the State Department will soon send him proposed agenda for the discussions . Until they have been accepted it will be impossible to give in detail the subjects that will be considered . However , it seems probable that they will be divided into two general.categories , one reluiring conversations by the For  --  ign Minister with the United States Treasury , and the other discussions at the State Department . Among the topics to be considered will probably be exchange matters , ways for implementing the existing reciprocal trade agreement in order to provide more trade where Germany and the United States are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural experts , and similar questions . eign Minister for a quarter of a While the project for letting Brazil century . have United States destroyers is not Mr. Aranha probably will take to be revived , the broad national advantage of his stay here to go defense picture will undoubtedly be to New York and inspect the considered from the standpoint of Brazilian pavilion at the World 's hemisphere needs and cooperation Fair . of the two governments in this special field with an eye on the totalitarian States and their ideologies . All that the State Department would say about these possibilities today was that it seemed desirable that " various questions of common interest to the two governments " should be discussed . It was felt that as close cooperation as was possible should be achieved and that this was a good way of accomplishin that end . It is quite possible that the visit may be followed by others from a number of LatinAmerican governments in order that Pan-American understanding and good feeling may be cemented , although no arrangements of this character have been made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance of questions entering into the relations of the two countries and the fact that Brazil traditionally is a firm friend of the United States . Mr. Aranha is especially so . Before becoming Foreign Minister he was Ambassador in Washington , where he was exceedingly popular and regarded as one of the ablest members of the foreign diplomatic corps . He was a sympathetic collaborator with Secretary of State Cordell Hull at the recent Pan-American Conference at Lima but the idea of his visit to the United States did not originate , nor was it considered , there . It arose out of the situation itself and in consequence of other accept this invitation and to visit Washington where he gained so many friends during his service as your Ambassador to this capital , and where it would give MC and the members of my government the greatest pleasure to welcome him . Please accept the assurances of my highest consideration , together with the expression of my warm personal regard . FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT . REPLY FROM VARGAS President Vargas replied as follows : Rio de Janerio , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt , President of the Republic of the United States of America , Washington , D. C. I derived great pleasure from Your Excellency 's telegram of the 9th instant . As Your Excellency rightly recalls , cooperation of their governments in the solution of continental and international problems is a pleasing tradition in the life of our nations . No less valuable and deserving of welcome will be our decision , in this era of confusion , animated by the same spirit of cooperation , to seek the adjustment of any problems , even internal ones , which may aid directly or indirectly in the reaffirmation of this friendship and of the interdependence of the interests of our nations . This will also be true in this new meeting which Your Excellency proposes between the Minister of Foreign Relations , Mr. Oswaldo Aranha , and some members of your government . My government thanks you for the kind wording of the invitation and Minister Aranha will take much pleasure in visiting Washington early in February . I suggest , merely as a practical matter for the study of the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America at Rio de Janeiro furnish me as soon as possible with an outline of them so as to enable me to consult my assistants and instruct the Minister of Foreign Relations in such a way as to meet Your Excellency 's wishes . It was particularly pleasing to me to hear from Your Excellency such flattering references to the mission which Mr. Aranha performed there as my Ambassador . I present to Your Excellency the assurances of my high consideration and beg you to believe in my sentiments of appreciation and cordial esteem . GETULIO VARGAS. circumstances , such as the recent visit of Warren Lee Pierson , president of the Export-Import Bank , to Brazil , where he studied business conditions . Presumably , means for facilitating trade through credits from this bank may enter into the considerations here . Mr. Aranha will remain as long as necessary to complete his mission and will be received with official honors . While Presidentselect of Brazil have come to this country in recent years , and other Cabinet officers have made visits , this will be the first official visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The text of the invitation from President Roosevelt follows : THE WHITE HOUSE Washington , Jan. 9 , 1939 . His Excellency , Getulio Vargas , President of the United States of Brazil , Rio de Janeiro , Jan. 13 , 1939 . There have arisen during recent months various questions of great importance in which our two governments are equally interested . It would be particularly gratifying if these matters could be discussed in direct conversations between high officials of our respective governments in that frank and friendly manner and in that spirit of mutual helpfulness which fortunately are traditional in the relations between Brazil and the United States . For this purpose I am extending through Your Excellency an invitation to your distinguished Minister for Foreign Affairs , Dr. Oswald() Aranha , to visit Washington as the guest of this government . If it is agreeable to Your Excellency and convenient for him I would suggest that the visit take place as soon as possible after the first of February . I hope very much that it may be possible for your Minister to      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      