@@698362

txt A new economic and financial plan for Colombia was announced in tt manifesto Issued yes-:witty by President Olaya Herrera . Tile President will carry out the plan by using the extraordinary vowels recently conferred upon hint by Congress to deal with economic conditions . The Government Is negotiating with the Bank of the Republic , the manifesto said , to increase monetary circulation sufficiently to warrant the bank lending the Government up to 15,000,000 pesos ( about $5,700,000 ) , which would be used to wipe out the Treasury deficit , cancel the National Government 's debts to the provinces , initiate or complete public works , and amplify the credit of the Agricultural Bank . The Government proposes to vest control of foreign exchange thins-actions in the Bank of the Republic , which also would have supervision of all exports . On the subject of the nation 's external debt , President Olaya said that the interest at least will continue to be paid in cash unless extraeldinary events should considerably affect exports or prevent the purchase of foreign currency drafts . In connection with foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Government is discussing with creditors a plan whereby bondholders would be paid In scrip during the next two yea 's , the scrip bearing 0 per cent interest and payable within 10 years . This step , sold the manifesto , might be necessary , in view of the Impossibility of obtaining foreign cut rency , and the necessity for giving preferential attention to the service of the national debt . The Government 's recent decree restricting imports will be modified to some extent , the President said . Import of certain articles of low cost abroad on which heavy duties were collected before the deer cc which banned certain impel LS , will be allowed in order to increase customs revenues . The manifesto concluded by saying that the Colombian Government , will maintain a balanced budget through reorganization of the various government services and rigorous reduction of expenditures.                     