@@702358

txt Shortly before the only power plant in operation failed tonight , plunging the city into darkness , Louisville appealed to President Roosevelt t o r United States soldiers to help its flood con-MA.x OR NEVILLE MILLER . uttered 330 ; 000 residents , while from Frankfort came reports thit ' fifteeri. maddened convicts in the flooded state refornia. tory had been killed in riots . Prison officials declined to diktiss the ' reports which came from Guardsmen there . F. B. Tetzel , engineer at the power plant , said he believed that all employ ? s who had been struggling for hours to keep the lights going , escaped without injury when the flood drowned out the motors at 11:37 o'clock . The city Is in complete darkness except for ' candles and kerosene lanterns . Tetzel said just before the lights went out they were attempting to dismantle one of the large generators and remove it to higher ground so that when the flood subsided it could be put into service . The appeal to the President was sent by Kentucky 's governor and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remainder of the state was hardly known here due to communications being cut off . Refugees Crowd Trains . The mayor appealed ? to all who could to leave the city and thousands heeded his warning . Trains along the only railroad line open , that north into Indiana , were jammed with refugees when they splashed across the water covered track onto the bridges . From Fort Hayes , 0. , came word that Brig . Gen. William K. Naylor M command of the 4th Army Corps area , was , en route from Fort Benjamin Harrison , Ind. , to survey the Louisville situation . Kentucky officials appealed for regular army soldiers to rescue , reassure and rule , tinder civil authority , the desperate citizens here . The flooded Ohio already covering more than half the city continued to rise " tonight at city hall where Mayor Miller kept vigil .. A thousand sandbags were brought to safeguard the building . 200,000 Homeless . Mayor Miller estimated that in Louisville and its suburbs some 200 , - 000 persons were homeless . The streets hi-Louisville were dark and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit . The rain ? that had come down relentlessly all day , stopped tonight after 2.94 inches had fallen since 1 a. m , and the forecast was for generally fair and colder ? weather . The flood stage in Louisville at 10 p. m. was 54 feet-26 feet above flood  --  and the river continued to rise at the rate a .2 of a foot per hour . Meteorolo. gist J. L. Kendall said he expected 56 feet by temorrOW'meining and possibly ; a higher stage .. Mayor , Miller telephoned Marvin . , : : . President Roosevelt 's sec- ? retary , and told him 200,000 persons , as a conservative estimate , are home-. less or floodbound in this city alone . The mayor requested several regiments of the United States army , engineering detachments , pontoon equipment if possible , coast guard crews with surf boats , amphibian planes , two way portable radios , and an ambulance plane or two . " Our people are behaving remark . ably well , " the mayor told . " We do n't want troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help and more help such as a disciplined force only can give . " By tomorrow night between 20 and 30 square miles of Louisville will lie under water . Get us help as soon as possible . " Louisville has forty square miles of area . Gov . A. B. Chandler talked over long distance with the President tonight and said he had been assured all possible aid would be rushed to Kentucky . Refugees Seek Aid . The governor appealed to the President for two engineer units to patch up the rain crumbled streets , the flood shaken bridges , and the totter . ing homes in the half of Louisville yet free of one to thirty feet of flood that topped the remainder . He wanted two infantry units to reinforce National Guardsmen , city police , and thousands of volunteers who have moved an estimated 50,000 refugees from their homes . While the city 's wan , tense faced executives held continuous counsel at the city hall , hundreds of soaked , destitute refugees stood dripping in its halls . Rainfall since 1 a. in. was two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stroke that turned Louisville 's survival into a rout . Every inch of rain meant an extra foot of flood , meant a few square miles more made uninhabitable , and meant a few thousand more hungry , homeless victims . The 5 p. rn. reading was 53 feet even , with the rise a relentless twotenths of a foot an hour . The highest previous record in the city 's history was the 46.7 reading , which has stood unchallenged since 1884 , until now known in Kentucky lore as a catastrophic flood year . " We are not thinking about property any more , " remarked Meteorologist J. L. Kendall as he predicted a 55 foot level by 6 o'clock tomorrow . " What we are worrying about is human life . " Own Wife Is Refugee . Kendall dismissed his regrets over destruction of his own home , on a Jeffersonville , Ind. , hill , and pored ceaselessly over charts , scales and readings , ever and again sorrowfully revising upward his judgment of the flood 's Monday level . Kendall 's own wife was a refugee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up a new gauge at the base of his skyscraper workroom , so that he could keep track of the rise after power failure made communication with the official gaugemen impossible . Within the flooded half of Louisville rescue boats tonight continued to speed between the houses , taking off hungry , terrified persons . Soldiers and policemen patroled the widening borders of the flood zone . " Shoot to kill the looters , " were their orders . Mayor Miller commanded relief and rescue from his office in the city hall . In and out rushed nurses , soldiers , police . Haggard , worn , sleepless since Thursday night , but quiet voiced , the six foot two mayor answered them all and kept the wheels of government turning . Only he seemed unmoved by the noise and disorder into which his once solemn chambers had been turned . Refugees Crowd City Hall . The way to the mayor led through mud swollen hallways , crowded with refugees and littered with desperately snatched bedclothing . Old women huddled in corners with shawls clutched round their heads . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her baby the breast . A stocky boy of 3 dozed at her side , one hand limply grasping her skirt . Upon every one of these faces was the same expression , a dazed wonder that this disaster could happen to their city . " What century are we Iliving in ? " their brooding eyes questioned . " This ca n't happen to us , not in 1937 . " Higher Districts Safe . Fatigue was too much for many of them and they crumpled in sleep , unmindful of the muddy booted relief workers who threaded among them to the headquarters of the former Princeton football player in whose hands is their fate . In a statement the mayor said that a survey showed that residents of the Highlands and Crescent Hill in the eastern outskirts of Louisville and of Beechmont to the south were safe . All three are large residential sections and already poetically cut off from travel to downtown Louisville . The Louisville Courier-Journal announced late today that it would not publish any of its regular Monday morning editions . The statement said this was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Electric company in order to conserve power . Lisle Baker , secretary , said it was impossible to say whether the Times , jointly owned , would publish tomorrow . Louisville residents were asked not to use the telephone except in emergency cases . Rising at Frankfort . At Frankfort the Kentucky river which started to fall yesterday began to rise today . Relief agencies estimated the city 's homeless at more than 30,000 with still hundreds of persona appealing for aid . Gasoline was being used for relief work only and sightseers were ordered to stay out of the flood area . Police officers had orders to shoot all looters and , augmented by members of the 138th Field Artillery of the National Guard , patroled the flooded districts . Persons were asked to stay off the streets unless on urgent business and soldiers stopped all persons approaching the flood zones . The city health department opened emergency stations to give typhoid inoculation shots and hundreds of persons were given first shots yesterday . Gas company officials warned of danger from water creeping into eelJars , flooding gas heaters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relief work and kept workers and stricken families informed of the progress of the river . Reports from the state were vague and meager today . Telegraph communication to a large number of points was out and the Louisville office of the telephone company swamped with calls . Hours were required to complete calls as weary operators worked to push as many messages through before power failure . Many Thousands Homeless . Paducah in the southwestern part of the state was isolated tonight . A large part of the city was under water and nearly 10,000 persons were homeless at last reports . , Other Kentucky towns were similarly hit . Mayfield was without communication . A large part of the population of Greenup has been sent to Ashland when the city 's water supply was cut off and food became scarce . Carrollton , flood bound for over four days , appealed for food , clothing , and medical supplies . Jeffersonville and New Albany , Indiana , across the Ohio from Louisville were almost completely under water . Many Sections Isolated . Yesterday an estimated 50,000 Kentuckians were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day of rain this number had been increased by many thousand more . Many rural communities through the Ohio valley were completely under water . Louisville radio stations broadcast bulletins to them notifying the citizens that relief was being sent them . Outside of Louisville two known deaths attributed to the flood had been reported . The Green , Barren , and Cumberland rivers all were out of their banks spreading over thousands of acres of fertile farm land and marooning hundreds of rural families . Business and industry throughout the state was almost at a complete standstill . Churches Aid in Relief . Protestant churches in Louisville abandoned services today placing all their resources in the hands of relief agencies . Many churches opened their doors last night to refugees . Hundreds of small animals  --  many household pets  --  forgotten or lost in hurried departures from stricken homes roamed the streets hungry . Virtually every community in the state was hit by the flood . Many not on any river suffered from loss of communication facilities caused by Friday night 's sleet storm . Others fought rising creeks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shut down and the eastern Kentucky mines were unable to ship their coal into the flooded areas . Rail service was badly curtailed . Occasional trains ran south and north , but service west across the Ohio was stopped . The entire state presented a dismal picture Sunday as the rain continued to heat down and the forecast was for continued rain tonight and Monday .                     