@@701983

txt As the first step in a proposed shakeup of his much-criticized staff of assistants , District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan of Brooklyn is awaiting today the resignation of William W. Kleinman , the alleged conspirator in the Drukman murder plot , concerning whose guilt the blue ribbon jury was unable to agree last week . In deciding to drop several other of his aides , Mr. Geoghan is understood to be acting entirely on his own initiative . But in the case of Kleinman , who is scheduled to be re-tried on the conspiracy indictment next September , it is known that strong pressure was brought to bear from the Brooklyn Democratic organization . The District Attorney officially would neither deny nor confirm the shakeup reports yesterday , but he plainly implied that they are true . Certain of his assistants whose names figured in the Drukman case , but who never were formally accused of wrongdoing , will be the first to go , it was indicated . Charges to Be Aired Again Meanwhile two developments In I the Brooklyn courts yesterday demonstrated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next few months . The three defendants who were convicted last week and sentenced to a year each in the penitentiary received certificates of reasonable doubt , which means that they will not have to start their jail terms until their cases are again reviewed by the Appellate Division and the Court of Appeals . This probably will not be until next Winter . The Appellate Division in Brooklyn yesterday designated two lawyers to prosecute the Drukman special grand jury 's charges against Joseph A. Solovei , the lawyer who represented Meyer and Harry Luckman and Fred J. Hull , convicted killers of Samuel Drukman . The grand jury on Tuesday sent a report to the court saying that Solovei 's conduct in the conspiracy rendered him " unfit to be a lawyer . " Mr. Kleinman last evening denied that he bad submitted his resignation yet , and expressed surprise that such action had been reported . He refused to say whether he intended to resign . He lives at 3,816 Neptune Avenue , Seagate , Brooklyn . Asked to Quit Some Days Ago Kleinman 's resignation was demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not explained , but the District Attorney said he expected to " make an announcement " today . He has not made a final decision as to the other changes in his staff . Among those assistants who were active in the Drukman case were William F. , Hyman Barshay , Harry Sullivan and Frederick L.1 Kopff . None of these , however , has been- specifically accused of wrongdoing . Mr. Geoghan himself is not accused of personal dishonesty ; in fact , the special prosecuting agencies have expressly mentioned his personal integrity . Nevertheless the grand jury sent charges to Governor Lehman asking his re- moval on the grounds of laxity , negligence and incompetence , and for associating with Leo P. Byk , the Brooklyn slot-machine man and alleged conspirator in the murder case . Not only Mr. Geoghan but the entire Brooklyn political organization is awaiting with unconcealed interest , or anxiety , the Governor 's decision as to the demand for Geoghan 's removal . Some word from Albany is expected . almost ) hourly . Governor 's Action a Factor In the event the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the next few days , or otherwise indicate his attitude , the District Attorney might delay makingthe proposed shake-up at this time , it was indicated . The certificates permitting the ' three defendants their liberty in bail pending the outcome of the appeals were granted by Supreme Court Justice Charles C. Lockwoodl with the consent of Special Deputy Attorney General Franklin S. , Pollak , acting in behalf of Hiram C. Todd , the special prosecutor . Thel defendants are James J. Kleinman , father of the Assistant District At- I torney ; Henry G. Singer , former Assistant United States Attorney and an office associate of Solovei , and Jacob Silverman , bakery prod- I ucts dealer and friend of Leo P. Byk . Mr. Pollak said that the prosecution was convinced they would hasten to perfect their appeals , and he pointed out that should they be compelled to start serving their terms now , they might serve six months and then in the end have convictions reversed by the Appeal Court . Late In the afternoon Presiding Justice Edward Lazansky of the Appellate Division signed an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Charles J. Buchner of 16 Court Street , Brooklyn , to serve Solovei with the formal charges against him . The lawyer is allowed twenty days in which to reply . Upon receipt of his answer the court will give further directions as to its next step , which may be either to order hearings or to dismiss the charges .                     