@@702631

txt The Communist Party , it was charged here at the opening of the American Federation of Labor Conference , in its efforts to capture the trade union movement , has found a back door into the American labor world through the Committee for Industrial Organization . And Communists . the charge continued , are aggressively working in the C. I. 0 . in the hope of eventually controling it , and from its labor power stepping over into power in government . Because of rebuffs to communism characteristic of the A. F. of L .. the communists , it was declared , are exoloiting. the . C. I. 0 . in part for the purpose of tearing down the A. F. of L. , their great obstacle in the labor movement . ? The radical angle of the C. I. 0 . movement which has been simmering in public for nearly a year was brought to a full boil by John P. Frey , president of the metal trades department of the A. F. of L. , and for many years secretary of the resolutions committee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense made at an A. F. of L. national gathering by one of the C. I. 0 . officials , Charles P. Howard , C. I. 0 . secretary . belittled the Communist danger , saying that at present he saw none at all . " Leaders of the C. I. 0 . have no more connection with the Cornimunists than the officers of the A. F. of L. , " he answered , " and I do n't believe any of you Wive any such connection . " In the crossfire following Mr. Howard 's criticism of policy in a conference strongly against him , Mr. Frey rose from the floor to press him for a more detailed reply on communism . " Do you know , " demanded Mr. Frey. spokesman for-half a million metal workers . " that 300 members of the Communist Party are serving as organizers in the C. I. 0 . " " I know nothing about the Communist Party , " responded Mr. Howard , president of the powerful International Typographical Union . " 1 know something about the C. I. 0 . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has begged the question . " The problem of the Communists comes up in the A. F. of L. again at a time when they are said also to be causing some disturbance within the C. I. 0 . In the automobile strikes , the C. I. 0 . used all the help it could get from anywhere , and accepted services of communists , knowing them as such . In return the communists worked energetically and enthusiastically . This was their first great chance within a major labor organization in America . The C. I. 0 . also . drew substantially for its organizational leadership on socialists , giving veteran socialists important posts . After the auto strikes , auto workers ' union leaders suspected the communist minority of planning to capture the presidency of the union at its next convention , and the majority is now backfiring against any such attempt . According to Mr. Frey 's investigation of communist association with the C. I. 0. , the C. I. 0 . ' s policies have been discussed in Moscow and in the American section of the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. 0 . have been placed there by the Communist Party . The total of communist or- ganizers , credited at 60 last summer . Party leaders of the since has increased to 80 or more . C. II 0. , and will largely control . " It is not plain yet whether the A. The balance of the 300 organizers F. of L. is going to fight the C. I. 0 . Mr. Frey numbered to Mr. Howard are said to be voluntary workers , by invading the jurisdiction of new Mortimer Named and old C. I. 0 . Unions , such as automobiles , coal , metal mining , etc . Mr. Frey asserted that Wyndham Daniel .1 . Tobin , president of the Mortimer , first vice-president of Teamsters ' Union , and a pillar of the the United Automobile tWorkers federation , spoke yesterday against Union , had been active in an in- the A. F. of L. competing in conference of the Com-indus-dustrial munist Party in Cleveland , Ohio , with many local unions affiliated last summer , and had planned with with the A. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor hitting back by matching the Communist Party to break down the C , I. 0 . industry by industry . the A. F. of L and start a political Hence , how organizing work will be party to bring Communists Into done which this conference is asked power . ' to finance makes a significant query . In a Communist meeting in Paris last month and Communist conIn any case . the automobile in- a industry is lost to the A. F. of L .. in ference in New York a few days the judgment of some leaders , who ago , steps were considered to expect to see the C. I. 0 . obtain sole weaken the A. F. of L. in the in- collective bargaining in General dustrial field and build up the C. I. 0 . , Mr. Frey continued . Motors . Others do not concede this i ndustry , nor steel , to the C. I. O .. Communists were instructed to but believe the time may come later make use of labor 's Non-Partisan for the A. F. of L. to go in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which keeps Communists in the background , he added . By The relation of government to this maneuver , Communists have labor came out unexpectedly in sev- . eral ways during debate . Mr. Frey been elected to office as Democrats pointed out that the Supreme Court 's in the State of Washington , and endorsement of the National Labor will run as Republicans in Wiscon- Relations Board meant that it was sin . within the power of the board to deThe A. F. of L. has kept the Comtermine what the structure of the munists out , ' the metal trades leader American trade union movement recalled , largely because the Corn- will be . munists in Russia voided the free Through its authority to fix the trade union movement there . " Findelection unit for a vote on collective ing there was no hope of infiltrating bargaining , the board can rule for or into the A. F. of L. trade union against the industrial union or the movement , they saw their chance in craft union , to the exclusion of one the C. I. O. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Z. Foster . former ComWhile not criticizing the board , munist candidate for President , said Mr. Frey observed that for the first recently in New York the time had time outside of Russia , Italy and come when the Communist Party Germany an authority had been must assist the C. I. 0 . in every way . set up callable of such results . Now we have the Communist Party " It is a serious menace to have as part of the labor movement . any law on the statute books which " The C. I. 0 . is taking steps to can be used to change the whole put an end to the justified criticism industrial structure the workers of the many Communist organizers have set up . " he declared . urging if is using . The C. I. 0 . ' s effort to union officials to have their memweed out Communists has proved in- bers write to Congress for ' early effective . It ca n't get along without passage age of a counteracting amend- them . Ultimately the Communist ? ss m e n t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Paul Scharrenberg , its legislative representative at Washington , D. C. , declared that " on every occasion agencies of the Federal Government have given at and comfort to seceding groups , " which he expected to see go into the C. I. 0 . The secession movement in New York was encouraged and fostered by the regional office of the National LAJor Relations Board , he charged . The Federal Trade Commission , he added , refused to help In requiring a secession group to desist from using the name of the Seaman 's Union in the title of its periodical , and finally the Seamen 's Union got an injunction , Mr. Scharrenberg endorsed the proposal of a maritime transportation department within the A. F. of L. coming from Joseph Ryan . president of the International Longshoremen 's Association . Mr. Tobin surprised the conference by saying that if the C. I. 0 . group of unions had stayed within the A. F. of L. it could control with the votes it had , plus the addition of new members , Another wheethorse declared that if the spht @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have increased beyond the joint members of the A. F. of L. and the C. I. 0 . The field for union organization is calculated by the A. F. of L. to include nearly 38,000,000 wage and salaried workers . The list included 7.409.000 salaried employees , 6.043. - 000 skilled wage earners , 19.407.000 other wage earners , 1,383.000 professional workers , and 3,700.000 added to the working population since the 1930 census on which previous figures were based , William Green , president of the federation , and Frank Morrison . secretary-treasurer , were expected to play important roles in any poticy decided upon by the A. F. of L. council . d                     