@@701786

txt Before a I madly cheering audience of 300,000 Chancellor Adolf Hitler declared in an election speech in Munich tonight that Germany acknowledged as judges of her actions only herself and God and therefore would never permit herself to be dragged before any international tribunal for anything that she has done . He made this pronouncement after having been notified that the League of Nations had invited the German Government as a Locarno power to participate in the consideration of the declarations submitted to the League by the French and Belgian Governments , which accuse Germany of having violated the Treaty of Locarno through her occupation of the demilitarized Rhineland zone . The invitation was immediately considered by Baron Constantin von Neurath , the Foreign Minister , and his aides and then forwarded to Hitler , who was already en route to Munich , so he spoke advisedly when he said : " We are ready for any kind of understanding , but always on the condition that we do not crawl into it through the back door but enter through the front door like the others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constantly before international tribunals , especially not When the right is on our side . Calls People 's Voice God 's " If in London or elsewhere men meet to sit in judgment upon us , then I can only say that above every earthly judge stands Almighty God . He is the eternal judge . He alone has the right to decide what is right and wrong , and God 's voice is in this case the voice of the people . " On March 29 election day in Germany the people will make their own gesture understandable by the entire world , and that gesture will be for German freedom and German equality and therewith for world peace . " At the Foreign Office it was stated tonight that for the present the question of accepting or rejecting the League 's invitation was entirely open and that no decision could be expected before tomorrow afternoon , which would still permit the delegates to reach London in time . At the same time there were indications that the wires between Berlin and London were being kept busy with a constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be put before the League Council . Germany , it seems , was anxious to ascertain in what capacity she was expected to appear in London , which , together with the tenor of Hitler 's speech , was taken to indicate that she would refuse to attend if she was to be adjudged a culprit but was willing to attend , if the Council was prepared to get down to practical negotiations . British Plan Reported In that connection Berlin heard that a comprehensive British plan embodying Hitler 's own proposals had been announced , and welcomed this news , inasmuch as the reported plan was expected to be much more acceptable to the French than anything coming from Germany . Even the announcement of such a plan , it is believed here , would have eased the tension and made not only warlike complications but even sanctions remoter than ever . For that reason sentiment at the Foreign Office was for attendance , but it . was considered unlikely that Baron von Neurath would go himself , the tip being that Joachim von Ribbentrop , Hitler 's special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the third highest man in the Foreign Office , were the likeliest delegates if Germany accepted the invitation . Nevertheless , Hitler 's own speech tonight sounded much more truculent than his more pleading speech in Karlsruhe Thursday night . Germany , he insisted , di6 not care for the world 's sympathy ; what she wanted was respect . The new Germany , he declared , was a big power that depended on her own strength to safeguard her rights , not a Negro tribe nor the Germany of old , which could be treated as an inferior . He reiterated his view that through the Franco-Soviet pact and a possible Bolshevist revolution in France Moscow could come into the position of being the judge of an aggressor in a conflict , for which reason Germany had to take precautions . Refuses to Make Gesture ' As for the " gesture " of withdrawing part of the German occupation troops demanded of him by Britain , Hitler replied : " Gestures seem to me something deceptive and I want to be honest . I make no gestures . But I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gesture . I have submitted a proposal that would give Europe peace for twenty-five years and that gesture is the biggest that any European statesman can make . But I do not want to make a gesture that would show German dishonor in a new light . " In this ; connection Hitler made a remarkable personal statement that illustrates his present frame of mind . " I am indifferent , " he said , " to compliments , threats , warnings , disrespect or disapproval . With trance-like surety I go the way on which destiny guides me for my people . " At the same time Hitler repeated his offer of friendship to France and his offers of non-aggression pacts to ali Germany 's neighbors and particularly repudiated any correction of borders that must be purchased with blood . " One year 's birth surplus corrects much more than some peace treaties can take away or a war win back again , " he explained . But he also insisted that " Germany is ready for everything except to renounce her honor , and part of this honor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " This statement was greeted with riotous applause , and it was perhaps the more significant because previous to Hitler 's arrival Adolf Wagner , Bavarian Interior Minister and Nazi district leader , had made the following pronouncement , which indicates the sentiment of the National Socialist rank and file : " What Adolf Hitler has done is and remains right into all eternity . It is right because it has profited the German people , and whatever profits the German people profits the entire world . "                     