@@702682

txt Pa. , Saturday , necessary to declare martial law Michael Boyle of I and order the closing of the plant for the sake of peace . The proposed miners ' march on Johnstown was announced by P. T. Fagan , president of District Two of the United Mine Workers of America , of which John L. Lewis , chairman of the C. I. 0. , is national president . Mr. Fagan said that 40,000 was a " conservative estimate " of the number of miners who would come here from Western and Central Pennsylvania and West Virginia coal fields to attend a mass meetinf of C. I. 0 . steel strikers tomorrow afternoon , at which Philip Murray , vice president of the United Mine Workers and chairman of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee , will be the principal speaker . It was reported here early today that the coal miners might also make a demonstration on the picket lines at the gates of the Cambria plant in support of the three groups of Bethlehem strikers  --  steel workers , coal miners in the company 's // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Earle in Harrisburg early this morning asking him to send troops here under a declaration of ' martial law . The Sheriff told . the Governor that the local authorities could not guarantee the maintenance of law and order in view of a threatened invasion of this city by 40,000 coal miners today and tomorrow . He told the Governor that the temper of both sides was " at the breaking point " and that the influx 1 of 40,000 partisans might cause a serious situation with which the city and county police could not cope . Governor Earle refused to declare martial law " except as a last resort , " but asserted that law and order would be preserved " under any circumstances . " He then telegraphed to Eugene G. Grace , president of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , in New York , requesting him to shut down the Cambria plant here in order to avoid bloodshed and make it unJOHNSTOWN PLEADS FOR AID OF TROOPS // " captive " coal mines and railroad workers on its private railroad . These developments followed an open break between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the Governor had ordered the State police to fall back to " a reasonable distance " from the mill gates to give the strikers more opportunity to carry on " peaceful picketing and persuasion " of nonunion workers . As a result of the order the police stood back when shifts changed at 11 o'clock last night and allowed pickets to swarm across the sidewalk and street in front of the gates , which for the past few days had been kept clear except for a small number of pickets . Order Follows Inquiry Governor Earle gave the order by telephone to Major Lynn G. Adams , superintendent of State police , in charge of the 200 troopers here . Major Adams previously had been allowed to use his own judgment . The Governor 's order followed a report to him from an investigating commission sent here in the morning from Harrisburg . The commission included Ralph M. Bashore , State Secretary of Labor , and E. W. Prendergast , secretary to the Governor . Mr. Prendergast announced that the Governor 's order provided that the State troopers remain " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any disorders . Mayor Shields protested against the new order in a telegram to the Governor , predicting that it would cause " civil war " in Johnstown and urging that the hands of the State police be " untied . " He also telegraphed to President Roosevelt , appealing to him to stop the " reign of terror " he said was threatened here by the C. I. 0 . He said he had information that the dynamiting of bridges was planned and that his own home arid family had been threatened with bombing . Police Chief Harry Klink announced that he was investigating a series of threats against the Mayor and his family , including a threat to " Your order to State police tonight will have a demoralizing effect and civil war is all we can expect . Ninety per cent of our people are opposed to the C. I. 0 . We will resist the importation of communism , regardless of the political aspirations of any man . Would any good American cause blood to run in our streets just for political advantage ? Mr. Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are our State police . " In his telegram to the President , Mayor Shields said : " Ninety per cent of my citizens are opposed to the C. I. 0 . Its con -- tinuance in our community can only mean blood in the streets . Personally I am firmly convinced that it is a Russian Red organization gaining prestige by use of your name . Numerous non-citizens are found in the picket lines . " Rule or ruin , control or murder , is the policy of the C. I. 0 . " Confidential information in my hands warns me of certain dynamite explosions now planned . Certain major bridges may be blown up . Warnings have been received by me that I and my family are to be destroyed . Kidnapping has taken place . My city is so isolated that the Department of Justice will not come and expose the kidnapping . " Mr. President , I fought for you , I talked for you , and caused others to do likewise just because I looked to you as a real American . Now are you going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " Bashore Reviews His Studies Mr. Bashore before returning to Harrisburg said that members of the commission had visited the picket lines and talked with strikers , company officials , the Mayor , leaders of the citizens committee , which has offered to raise " vigilantes " if needed to aid the Mayor maintain law and order , and about fifty others . He declared that he believed the strikers were justified in complaining about the restrictions placed upon picketing . The fact that all except half a dozen pickets were forced to remain across the street at certain mill gates , while State police were posted directly at the gates and city police and deputies in automobiles preceded and followed street cars , he added , made it impossible for the strikers to exercise their rights to legal picketing . Under such restrictions , he went on , pickets were unable to talk to non-union workers as they arrived or left the scene and try to persuade them to join the strike . He said that he saw between 2,000 and 3,000 workers leave the Franklin Mill gate at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it was obvious the six pickets allowed on the sidewalk in front of the mill , while the police kept a path open at the gate itself , could not do . any " missionary " work to speak of . Says 10,000 Are on Strike According to Mr. Prendergast , members of the citizens committee admitted that the claim of the union leaders that 10,000 Bethlehem employes were on strike was correct , and that only 5,000 were still working . Mr. Prendergast indicated that Governor Earle might take some aftion toward mediating the strike after he received the full report of his investigating committee tomorrow . S. D. Evans , management representative in charge of labor relations for the company , who escorted reporters on a three-hour tour of the plant , pointed out twelve open hearth furnaces operating and two more being heated up out of the row of twenty-one . He explained that at this time of year sixteen are normally operated . Under yesterday 's rigid police control , which kept strikers from attacking or intimidating when who ' wanted to work , the back-to-work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporter , on a visit to three of the largest units of the plant in the afternoon , saw thousands of men at work in the open hearth . rolling mill , and rod and wire mill departments , hundreds of workers ' cars parked inside the mill gates , and crowds of workmen entering and leaving the plant at the 3 o'clock change of shift , in their own automobiles , in street cars and on foot . Outside the gates , with State troopers mounted , afoot , and in pa-1 trol cars , wearing their steel helmets and chin straps which make them look like English bobbies , keeping the crowd at a ' distance , where hundreds of silent pickets stood , obviously worried and angry at the growing influx of workers , but afraid to challenge the united forces of the State , city and citizens aroused by the rioting which occurred early this week . Calculates Operations Rate Mr. Evans and other company officials declined to state the number of men who have remained or re turned to work or the rate of production now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant was operating at about 75 per cent of the normal rate , on the basis of the number of open-hearth furnaces in operation . Observers who were here when the strike started late last week said that as many men appeared to be working as at the beginning of the strike , before the picket-line violence , which began last Sunday , frightened non-union workers and drastically curtailed production until the State police took charge of the picket lines and the city police , with its several hundred special deputies , began patrolling the city day and night to protect the nonunion men at their homes and on their way to and from work . Judging from previous visits to steel mills under normal conditions , it appeared to this reporter that the departments which the company opened to inspection today were well supplied with workers and bore out the company 's expressed satisfaction with the course of events . In all departments visited the men at work seemed to be predominantly middle-aged or , older , whereas most of the men on the picket line were younger . Both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " league of nations , " with many nations arid several races indicated in their faces . More Negroes were working than walking in the picket lines . Women were seen both in the picket lines and , sorting out nails in the wire mill , at work in the plant . The trip revealed make-shift eating and sleeping accommodations for thousands of workers , who received food brought by refrigerator cars , and cots from freight cars on the company 's private railroad . It was explained that many of the men who remained in the plant day and night earlier in the week , were now going home on their off-time because of the better police protection afforded them .                     