@@701060

txt Samuel Marcus , counsel of the Society for the Prevention of Crime , was sworn in yesterday as special Assistant District Attorney to take charge of the grand jury , investigation , which will begin tomorrow , into conditions revealed at the recent bail-bond hearings before Commissioner of Accounts Paul Blanshard in the policy racket , commercialized vice and the narcotic traffic . The ceremony took place in the office of District Attorney William C. Dodge just before noon . A clerk administered the oath to Mr. Mar cus in the presence of the District Attorney . Mr. Dodge promised Mr. Marcus that he would have a completely free hand and could do as he liked in presenting evidence to the grand jury . " You wo n't be hamstrung in any way , " Mr. Dodge told the 60-yearold anti-vice crusader . " I am too much with you in cleaning up the town . You will have every opportunity to produce . As you say , you will be up against it if you do n't . " Mr. Marcus issued a statement calling on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy racket must cease and that they would not protect racketeers who were caught hereafter . He also called on the courts to fix heavier bail and impose longer sentences and to watch for " dummy bondsmen " ; on the newspapers to stop publishing horse race results that are used in the " numbers " game , which is the basis of the most popular current policy racket , and on the general public to come forward with information . Marcus Ends Row With Mayor . The special prosecutor also called at City Hall and made his peace with Mayor La Guardia a few hours after he had issued the last of a series of statements attacking the Mayor for having ignored the efforts of the society to enlist the city 's aid in a crusade against the policy racket . Mayor La Guardia and Mr. Marcus agreed to cooperate in the inquiry , and the Mayor asked both Mr , Marcus and District Attorney Dodge to notify him if they found any information that would indicate a connection between police officers and policy , narcotic or vice racketeers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public a preliminary report by Commissioner Manshard on the results of the bail-bond inquiry . The report showed that the inquiry , besides exposing the extent of the policy racket in New York , had adduced definite proof that seventy-seven bail bondsmen had committed perjury . Mayor La Guardia announced that he had sent copies of the report to the district attorneys of the city 's five counties . Police Commissioner Lewis S. Valentine transferred the Police Department 's entire confidential investigating squad . of sixteen men , headed by a captain , with all equipment , from the Chief Inspector 's office to his own office at Police Headquarters so it Could operate under his personal direction in looking for connections between high police officials and " big shot " racketeers . The squad will concentrate on this detail for the duration of the investigation , it was revealed . Dodge Praised by Counsel . Mr. Marcus 's statement , issued when he was sworn in as special prosecutor , said : " In accepting the appointment by District Attorney Dodge as aid in the effort to stop the policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of evidence to a grand jury which will justify indictments and subsequent successful prosecution , . I fully realize my responsibility . " Failure spells subsequent ridicule . " The Society for the Prevention of , Crime and its agents have no more power than a private citizen . It has limited funds . " Several years ago , desiring to arrest numbers gamblers , it tried to obtain warrants . Mr. Dodge , then a stranger to me and a city magis- trate , examined our complaints , signed the necessary warrants and delivered them to me as counsel to the society . Neither he nor I had the slightest notion he subsequently would be elected District Attorney . He was a Democrat . Nevertheless , he did not hesitate to sign and deliver warrants to me , a reputed reformer  --  something other magistrates refused . " This and subsequent action by him and contacts justified my belief that this man could be trusted to act when facts demanded it . For that reason the society has permitted me to accept his designation of myself . I do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me my training . " There are assistants on his staff with a number of whom I have been intimately acquainted many years . I have complete confidence in them . District Attorney Dodge has placed all these at my disposal . I trust them and I know they will actively cooperate . Voices Faith in Valentine . " The society has complete confidence in the integrity of Police Commissioner Valentine , and most of the police force knows that he and others are anxious to stop this and other criminal business . " The desire to gamble is inherent in human nature and has and always will exist . None of us can cause it to disappear . All pulling together , including our dynamic Mayor , his hard-working Commissioner of Accounts Blanshard and energetic Special Counsel Cooper , constitute the nucleus of an army which must succeed . " I call upon every person having information to furnish it to me or any of the above-mentioned officials . My , office address is 270 I Broadway . " I call upon our many efficient newspaper scribes to help . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results on the race tracks which at the present time furnish the necessary vehicle which enables this vicious racket to continue . " If the misguided persons , many of them in poverty , will not voluntarily stop this form of gambling , then making of numbers plays can be made more difficult and perhaps prevented if the newspapers will comply with this request . " At least we will then not have to await indictments , convictions and I possible disciplining of police of , ficers who may have been negligent and perhaps worse , or of politicians who interfered . " Finally , if political leaders will give the necessary word that the business must cease , that they will no longer aid persons caught in the meshes of the law , and if from now on the magistrates will fix heavier bail , cooperate in trying to detect dummy bondsmen , and if the Court of Special Sessions will impose heavier sentences when the facts justify it , we will at least rid our city of a condition which makes us hang our heads in shame . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the program for tomorrow , when the March grand jury will be sworn in to investigate the iacket situation , will be for Mr. Wahl to present evidence dealing with the bailbond situation . Mr. Marcus will present his evidence later . The special prosecutor suggested that Mr. Dodge check the political and other affiliations of members of the grand jury panel , to make certain that none is connected with any political leader or any one else who might have an interest in the case , Mr. Dodge and Mr. Marcus were asked if they had any evidence that the policy racket and commercialized vice were under one head . Mr. Marcus declined to answer , but Mr. Dodge said : " We have suspicion , but no legal proof yet . " Asked if Arthur ( Dutch Schultz ) Flegenheimer , former head of the ' policy racket , would be taken before the grand jury if he refused to waive immunity , Mr. Marcus said : " Yes , if he would tell the whole truth . " Mr. Dodge said : " I do n't know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prospective defendant , " Mr. Dodge added when asked if he had sub , poenaed Schultz . Mr. Dodge announced that several young lawyers had offered their services free as special investigators during the investigation . " I would like to build up with these young lawyers , " he went on , " a sort of bureau of investigation , like that of the Department of Justice . " Mayor to Check on Police . Declaring that he had promised ? Mayor La Guardia to forward to City Hall any information of police collusion or neglect of duty which the investigation revealed , Mr. Dodge added : " There is full cooperation between the Mayor and me . I think the Mayor is honest and is trying to do a good job . " Mr. Dodge conferred with Magistrate Jonah J. Goldstein , whom he asked for suggestions as to how information could be obtained from women prisoners that might help to break up commercialized vice . " I hope in this , manner to be able to convict the men who trap these women and cause them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The District Attorney expects tomorrow to question two men in the Tombs who have indicated they are willing to disclose the names of " higher-ups " in the vice racket . It was learned that reports published in tabloid newspapers yesterday about wiretapping by the District Attorney 's office in an effort to break up the vice ring referred to incidents that occurred six months ago . The authorities at that time questioned many women caught by means of wiretapping , but they refused to give any information about the " higher-ups . " Mr. Marcus left the District Attorney 's office for City Hall , expressing himself as indignant at a statement questioning his good faith which had been attributed to Mayor La Guardia by a morning newspaper . The special prosecutor had already issued a statement from his office at 270 Broadway , characterizing the Mayor as " unfair " for having waited until Friday night to send a telegram to the Rev. George Drew Egbert , president of the Society for the Prevention of Crime , inviting Mr. Egbert to bring his evidence and witnesses to a conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that Mr. Egbert , who is pastor of the First Congregational Church in Flushing , did not receive the telegram until 10:30 o'clock Friday night , and that Mr. Egbert could not accept because he had to prepare his sermon yesterday for today 's church service . Makes Peace With Mayor . The Mayor was not present when Mr. Marcus went to City Hall , but the attorney was ushered into the Mayor 's office , from which he telephoned to the Mayor . After the telephone conference he came out smiling , and said : " I came down to go two rounds with ; Elie:Mayor , but we kissed and made up over the telephone . We are going to work together and clean up the rackets . My statement was unfortunate . At that etime Satan was behind me . The Mayor should n't have sent that telegram and I should n't have made the statement . " Mr. Egbert sent a telegram to City Ball saying it was impossible , because of professional duties , to accept the Mayor 's invitation . Mayor La Guardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lor send his evidence to City Hall . Mr. Egbert replied that all data held by him had been turned over to Mr. Marcus . The Mayor next telephoned to Mr. Dodge with the request that any information affecting the police be turned over to City Hall . " Mr. Dodge told me , " the Mayor said , " that he has no evidence as yet that police officials were guilty of any conduct constituting a crime or in violation of the rules of . the Police Department . " The Mayor said ? Mr. Valentine had informed him that he had found , after investigation , " no evidence of crime or official misconduct in the Police Department . " Mr. Valentine said no changes in the higher officials of the department were to be made " at present . " He said that-charges would be preferred within a few days against Captain George M. Renselaer , now in charge of the Oak Street station , for negligence in permitting the improper use of his rubber stamp at the West 123d Street station two years ago , in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Seized at the time of the arrest of Henry Miro , an employe of Schultz in the policy racket . If investigation showed that Captain Renselaer 's stamp was used in his absence or without his knowledge , however , the charges would be " filed , " which is a departmental way of saying quashed , and no trial would be held , according to the commissioner . 10 SEIZED AS COLLECTORS . Negroes Arrested in Policy Raid in Harlem Apartment . Ten Negroes were arrested on the charge of being collectors in the policy racket yesterday afternoon in a police raid on a second-floor lapartment et 124 West 130th Street , Harlem . The raid was made by detectives on the staff of Inspector John J. De Martine , commanding the Sixth Inspection District . One man was arrested inside the apartment , and the others were caught one by one as they attempted to enter while the police were there . All had policy books and , slips in their pockets , according to I the police , who said the haul was sone of the largest ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a bench warrant yesterday for the arrest of - Freddy Jacks , a former boxer , who failed to answer a charge of possessing policy slips . Jacks was arrested last Thursday in front of 161 West Forty-fourth Street and was released the same day in $100 bond , which was forfeited yesterday . One of twelve men held by Magistrate Brodsky in Night Court Friday on policy charges was said yes ' terday to be a " pay-off " or " pickup " man , a higher rating In the racket than ordinary collector , and a brother-in-law of a witness at the bail bond hearings held by Commissioner of Accounts Paul Bienshard . This prisoner , who identified himself as William Robinson of Jersey City , was held in 000 bail , while collectors were held in $200 each .                     