@@700688

txt For practical purposes Germany 's gold coverage is now non-existent , today 's Reichsbank report showed . During the past week , it was announced , Germany lost 24,000,100 marks more in gold and foreign exchange . This reduced her total gold holdings to ? 72,487,000 marks , her gold exchange reserve to 4,005,000 and her metal note coverage in these media to the merely nominal figure of 2.3 per cent . The term used by Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , president of the Reichsbank , to describe a slightly higher coverage figure was " ridiculous . " It is now a question whether the remaining gold and gold exchange is sufficient even for " till money " for the day-to-day business of a nation of 65,000,000 people . The only effective note coverage consists of 344,894,000 marks ' worth of domestic securities , chiefly governmental , which again reduces the alleged gold standard of the mark to a euphemism . Telling Argument in London . The Reichsbank statement will no doubt form the most telling . argu- ' ment of the German transfer dele. gation that - arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened by the British in a determination to enforce . payment of interest on the Dawes and the Young loans irrespective of consequences . From a purely financial ppint of view the argument is hard to an= swer unless other items in the Reichsbank ? statement , such as 2,967,942,000 marks in bills or 56,500,479 marks in " other assets , " contain exchange reserves hidden ) from ordinary mortals . The Reichabanic has always denied such reserves and many developments are rapidly becoming visible to support this denial , irrespectivel of whether Germany got into her present tight place through fate or her own fault or whether Dr. Schacht does or does not play a daring game to throw off Germany 's foreign indebtedness as a remnant of the " mar tribute . " Facing Desperate Situation . The fact is that , despite the domestic boom financed with treasury bills and drafts , Germany faces a situation that many Germans themselves call desperate . The domestic boom , started artificially as " labor-creation " measures , consumed more foreign raw materials than German exports , hit by the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular , could pay for . To continue the boom Germany must continue buying foreign , raw materials . For this she has no cash and is unable to obtain credit . As a result , her imports have been reduced even below the World War blockade levels and at the moment are completely at a standstill pending erection of the cumbersome machinery necessary to ad- minister the latest restrictive regulations . A. further result is a growing shortage of raw materials , which threatens curtailment of many industries , which in turn threatens to reduce employment . But Nazism stands or falls on its promise to eliminate unemployment , which promise can not be kept with " substitute " employment or more or less compulsory migration to the land . Consumers Are Stocking Up . Already something of a buying panic is under way . Housewives are stocking up on coffee , for which new import restrictions were announced today ; as well as on other household goods , while both men and women are already making reservations for next Winter 's clothes . Many governmental warnings against such " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious in the textile and leather industries , in which the shortage of raw materials is accentuated by the vast amount required . Present supplies are figured to last four to five months , but despite governmental rationing and price control , prices are rising rapidly and deliveries are slowing up , less wellknown firms being unable to obtain any raw materials at all . As a result there are reports that ' industries may be on a 36-hour week by September so as to stretch the supplies and prevent wholesale dismissals . Despite this , dismissals are regarded as unavoidable an assurances have been given to companies that they will be required to give employment only in proportion to the raw materials obtained . Curbs on Copper Extended . Carl Friedrich von Siemens , head of the vast Siemens electrical interests , is also reported to have informed the government he would have to lay off men or shorten working hours if raw materials became scarce . The export embargo on copper , which is essential to the electrical industry , was extended yesterday . Raw material difficulties are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , director general of the Continental Rubber Works of Hanover , largest rubber works in Germany . On the other hand , reports that for similar reasons Dr. Gustav Krupp von Bohlen and Halbach had resigned as head of the Reich Estate of German Industry were denied today by both the Estate and Dr. Krupp 's own office . Despite these difficulties the Nazis , as has been reiterated by their leaders , are ready to defy the world if necessary . Their solution of the problem  --  if other solutions fail  --  is Ersatz , that is domestic raw material substitutes , for , which they are already mobilizing German industry and science .                     