@@702873

txt Administration officials within the next few weeks will warn that failure of the Maritime Comission 's construction program may Lead to more stringent government regulation and control of the shipping industry  --  including labor . ' rnis was disclosed yesterday when officials said that a request for a revision of the 1936 Maritime Act was already being discussed within the Administration and that such a revision would probably take the form of increased powers for the commission . Labor Difficulties Hamper Program This action is being contemplated as a result of what these officials term inability or failure of the industry to " cooperate " with the commission and the increasing labor difficulties which are hampering the government 's program . Another question being discussed , it is said , is the advisability of granting rate-making authority to the commission . Some officials believe that the merchant narine owes a definite responsibility to shippers in the matter of equitable rates , and they point ou ? that in other countries failure in this respect has inevitably resulted in increased government regulation . By way of example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1936 the government intervened and by official action concluded what is believed to be the world 's largest single freight contract , amounting to more than 354. - 000.000 . Again , they point out that the Union of South Africa recently reduced freight rates by government fiat . It is expected that hints of the move for increased regulation will be given public utterance by responsible officials within the next two weeks . Pail to Utilize Loans and Grants The present program , officials state , has been checkmated thus far by the " inability or unwillingness " of shipping lines to take advantage of the construction loans and grants . Further , such construction as has already been planned has been hampered by the uncertainty of the labor situation which has made it impossible for the construction companies to present bids in line with what the commission believes to be reasonable ? costs . The possibility of remedial action by the Administration . how-cvcr , Is not altogether new . Shortly after his inauguration as chairman of the Maritime Commission , Joseph P. Kennedy told a group in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only alternative would be complete government ownership and operation . Plan to Rebuild Merchant Fleet The program contemplated by the Commission would involve the expenditure of approximately $400,000,000 for ship construction and operation during the next five years . According to Mr. Kennedy . it had been planned to spend the larger portion of this sum on a systematic building program to give the United States a rejuvenated merchant marine Under the terms of the 1936 Maritime Act , the necessary vessels would be built by private shipyards or private lines with the aid of liberal governmental loans and grants , but the operating line would be required to deposit 25% of the cost of the vessel , with the remainder to be repaid to the Government over 20 years . Additional subsidies would be granted to the line operating the vessel to enable it to compete on an equitable basis with foreign lines . These subsidies replaced the old mail-payment system , the latter payments now being made on a strict poundage basis . The labor difficulties faced by the construction companies , and hence passed on to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the commission to award bids for the construction of a large liner to replace the Leviathan in trans-Atlantic service failed because the commission believed the bids to high . The bidding companies explained that it was difficult to gauge costs accurately because of the indications of rising material costs and labor uncertainty . Awarded on Cost Basis The last set of bids resulted in an award on adjusted cost basis , allowing for increased labor charges . Moreover , the commission has been plagued by a series of operator-labor disagreements , the latest being the CIO dispute over bonuses for seamen on vessels entering war zones . Another consideration is the complaint by the operating companies that the 25% down payment . which is required on each constructed vessel by the terms of the Maritime Act , is too heavy . The companies have contended that if this could be reduced , the commission would find them more " able and willing " to cooperate . A number of devices for avoiding this downpayment requirement by means of technicalities have been broached to the Commission , according to Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deemed legal . Most officials appear to believe that this could be avoided only by amendments to the act . The nature of these amendments , however . is still under discussion . According to relivable reports , some officials believe that a mere reduction in the down payment requirements would provide sufficient emphasis to the program , while others contend that the Government should take a still more active part in building and operating the vessels . No Control Over Shipping Labor With regard to labor , the Commission at present has no real control over shipping workers except for its authority to set minimum wages on Government-owned vessels . It has no authority over labor in construction plants or on vessels privately owned and operated . One group of officials believe that the granting of such a power to the Commission would remove many obstacles from the path of the building program , and , further , that by giving the operating companies a sense of stability it would increase their voluntary " cooperation . " U. S. Shipbuilding A slight decline was shown in the amount of shipbuilding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a month earlier , but the volume of work continued well ahead of the rate of the preceding year , according to figures reported by the American Bureau of Shipping . On October 1 a total of 128 vessels of 100 gross tons or more were under construction , aggregating 324,500 tons against 138 vessels aggregating .26,335 tons on September 1 , 1937 and 88 vessels aggregating 207,955 tons on October 1 , 1936 Oil tankers make up the largest part of the new ship construction amounting to 202.600 tons on October 1 , or 62.4% of the total work under way at that time .                     