@@702958

txt An industrial equivalent of his ever-normal granary plan in agriculture was proposed today by Secretary Wallace as a means of bringing about , greater stability of industrial production and employment and as a protection to consumers . The Secretary of Agriculture set forth his views in his annual report to President Roosevelt , in which he departed from the usual form of such documents " to emphasize *Certain principles that five years of agricultural and industrial recovery have clarified and demonstrated . " Agriculture , labor and capital must cooperate to bring about a higher , but balanced level of production and increasingly steady employment , on which the . country 's welfare depended , if it was to solve " the dilemma of prices , wages and profits , " said Mr. Wallace . The great problem confronting the country was to discover a formula for bringing about a balanced expansion in the various economic groups , he asserted , so that labor , capital and natural resources could be employed and at the same time be conserved . His own concept of what the national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : " Our national economic goal must be increased balanced production of the things that people really need and want ( 1 ) at prices low enough so that consumers can buy , but high enough so producers can keep on producing , ( 2 ) with income so distributed . that no one is shut off from participation in consumption , except those who refuse to work , ( 3 ) with scrupulous regard for the conservation of our remaining natural resources and ( 4 ) by means characteristic of our traditional democratic processes . " As agriculture 's contribution to the national goal , Mr. Wallace suggested his ever-normal granary plan , designed to protect both producers and - consumers from a recurrence of violent price and production cycles , and give non-agricultural workers security in their jobs through a reasonably stabilized farm purchasing power . The Secretary suggested that , while it might prove difficult to find the exact industrial counterpart for the ever-normal granary plan , " socially minded business men , with the assistance of industrial engineers and economists , will not be slow in attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , had a right to expect as great-a contribution from industry as from agriculture . On the need " to solve the dilemma . of prices , profits and wages , ' ' Mr. Wallace said : " This particular problem is not one with which our founding fathers were confronted . As long as there was a frontier and free land , the problems of labor , agriculture and capitalism were simple . " Today the fundamental principles of the founding fathers are as good as they ever were , but the details of the problems to be met ? are completely outside the range of vision of the founding fathers or beyond any of the precedents to which the Supreme Court may refer . Urges New " Guiding Principle " " We must take the guiding principle of unity of purpose and reconciliation of diverse interests for the purpose of preserving democracy , and project it forward as a powerful light by which we may discover the methods of enabling farmers , laboring men , consumers and capital to work together in a harmonious way , to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opportunity and that democracy which the signers of the Declaration of Independence and of the Constitution visioned as the very essence of the nation which they had conceived and brought into being . " In his discussion of the granary plan , which the Administration is now trying to push through an apparently unwilling House Agriculture Committee , Secretary Wallace deviated farther than ever before from the principle of production control in agriculture . He did not discard it altogether as a remedy for agricultural ills , but repeatedly emphasized that the device would rarely be used and never unless emergency surpluses threatened price disasters . Further , he said : " Permanent agricultural prosperity implies a full utilization of our farming resources , consistently with the proper conservation of our human and material resources . It follows that the coercive restraint of production should only be a last resort . Cotton , some types of tobacco , and certain other products depend so heavily on export outlets that to restrict their production- for " a rational crop adjustcessively would be very unwiachent , which will correctly balance " Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prices of these commoditieErlargest net farm income . " any length of time and would taotton acreage adjustment in the world market over more Pa United States should be a ble , changing adaptation to the ging domestic and world marsituation , with allowance for ecessity of-selling abroad each something like 40 per cent of surpluses will involve recurringPors-cottnn crop , " he said . aster . " Foreign Trade Conditions In discussing the application of the granary plan to corn , Mr. - vAfic . Wallace 's annual reports have lace remarked that " occasioittillY noted for their penetrating measures might be necessardisecussions of ? American foreign compel the compliance of minoII problems , and this one was with the general program ; butukhexception . Tracing back our exmain dependence should be onpunt- difficulties to the country 's untary adjustment methods . " transfer from a debtor to creditor Agriculture Linked to Induseus ' he said that , as an internaonal creditor , the United States Much of Mr. Wallace 's reportnwaiet be prepared to buy from devoted to establishing the istlbeltrad relatively more goods than relation of agriculture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that facilities for the onstration that neither could prosper at the expense of the o Farm income and factory payaiti go up and down together , it shown , factory payrolls dro $6,500,000,000 between 1929 and and farm income declining $5,000,000,000 during the sameia riod . " Farmers and city dwellers best promote their common ests by cooperating to bring abo a continuous balanced increasWrfrIgn goods to give foreigners the the national production , " sammemns of buying our farm products Secretary . on the scale that prevailed before " Many consumers could use ialitedePression , " he concluded . farm products than they do todaWhen we have the same volume if they had more purchasing potWeiexport again , foreign countries But an increase in the purchase : Mg not be able to take It if the power of the urban **27;121;TOOLONG relationship has not tion group can come about chrlyiged. " through increased industrial rm4+10 ' - ity and increased wage payments . " What he termed " middle-course " programs for the two great export crops , wheat and cotton , were outlined by Secretary Wallace . " Wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parity prices over a period of years , unless they reduce their acreage to domestic requirements or unless the Federal Government subsidizes wheat growing more than it has done heretofore , " he said . " Domestic requirements can be met on about 55,000,000 seeded acres . That is 25,000,000 acres less than the area seeded for the 1937 crop ; it is 12,000,000 acres less than the average for the 1928-32 period . Adjustments drastic enough to place the United States wheat crop on a domestic basis . do not seem practicable , and any attempt to make them would probably dislocate the farming system in wheat areas . " The wiser national policy would seem to be a middle course . It would aim to produce enough for domestic requirements and about 50,000,000 bushels for export . That would require on the average about 60,000,000 seeded acres . With seedings held to that level , the evernormal granary could stabilize the supplies and avoid burdensome carry-overs . " The retention of our place in the world 's cotton market , the Secretary said , would require vigorous action along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations and a more liberal attitude by the United States toward imports . The second would more to foreign producers . it would be necessary to re production in this country more . Nevertheless , crop-a meat powers should be avai for emergency ; otherwise recuiliglil PBStable interchange of what we to export and import " have et-been fully explored . " Wallace noted that the . rela.7 closer balance between cornZty exports and imports during past few years had resulted ? eiy from a curtailment of farm ucts exports due to droughts 34 and 1936. e did not import enough more                     