@@702191

txt On several occasions recently President ROOSEVELT has seemed to be on the very point of replying specifically to Governor LANDON 'S question as to what he intends to do about NRA in case he is re-elected . The Chicago speech was a case in point . Repeatedly and insistently the President declared that he believes in private enterprise as " the backbone of economic ' wellbeing in America , " and that he regards " huge monopolies stifling independent business " as a threat to private enterprise . It would have been entirely logical for him to go one step further and to add that he has no intention of attempting to revive a code system which was specifically intended to prevent free competition . The Republican theory of why the President did not add this assurance , and why he does not mention in any of his speeches the letters " N-R-A ; ' is that he is planning a coup in case of his re-election : he recognizes that the whole conception of NRA is highly unpopular with the farmers , with the small business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except in labor circles ; therefore he dares to say nothing of it during the campaign ; but the moment he is re-elected he will at once move to revive the old plan , with or without the benefit of a constitutional amendment . This theory leaves much to be desired from the point of view of its inherent logic . For it implies that Mr. ROOSEVELT would not only be willing to embark on a post-election course which the Republicans themselves describe as highly distasteful to a large majority of the electorate , but that he would actually be able to carry with him , on this politically hazardous course , a Congress responsible to the wishes of a majority of its constituents . If NRA is , as the Republica , - say , so unpopular that the President does not even dare to talk about it in October , 1936. how would he drive it through Congress in February , 1937 ? And , even on the assumption that he could drive it through Congress , how would he make it work ? It seems possible that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain Mc . ROOSEVELT 'S apparent reluctance to mention NRA by name . One is a matter of prestige : in 1933 and 1934 the President put an enormous emphasis on the importance of NRA to the whole recovery movement ; the recovery movement subsequently showed that it could do better without NRA than with it ; even so , it is perhaps not easy to admit that the original emphasis was mistaken . The second factor is that NRA , now disowned by the industrialists who helped to sponsor it in the days when they deplored " excessive competition , " still remains a symbol for the labor groups  --  a symbol of the Administration 's interest in wages and hours and conditions of work . This would not be the case , in the same degree , if the President , immediately after the Supreme Court 's decision invalidating NRA , had taken the position that there are many ways in which the Government can help to raise the standard of living , without resorting to the code system , and had pointed out that it was pursuing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the President did not take that tack . Instead , he chose to imply that the code system was an essential part of labor 's charter of economic well-being , and to let that impression stick . Perhaps that is why the ghost of NRA now hovers over the campaign of 1936. and why , to many voters , the President 's position seems uncertain . This uncertainty Mr. ROOSEVELT could end , and should , by a clear statement of his views .                     