@@700600

txt Senate leaders , composing the steering and policy committee met in joint session to arrange for the program for the remainder of the current session of Congress . Senator Robinson , acting as chairman for the group of about 25 senators , announced the following program for this session : Tariff and airmail bills , stock exchange measure , corporate and municipal bankruptcy bills , communications bill , amendment to agricultural adjustment act , and probably the pure food and drug bill , a revised labor board bill , if ready in time , and bills on the calendar relating to the operations of the REC . " It is recognized that the bill authorizing the President to enter into reciprocal tariff agreements is a strongly contested measure . A conference of Democratic senators has been called for next Monday evening to discuss this and perhaps other proposals for legislation , " Senator Robinson said . The absence of any mention of silver legislation was noticeable . It is understood that the silver question will be discussed at the Monday evening meeting arranged for the discussion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to look as if only two or three pieces of major legislation are likely to receive final consideration , " at this session of Congress . : . aid Senator Arthur Capper , Representative of said in a radio broadcast Tuesday . The Senator expected the tariff bill , empowering the President to make reciprocal tariff agreements , and the stock exchange regulation bill to receive such congressional attention . ' I had hoped there would be similar legislation for regulation of the commodity exchanges , particularly the wheat and cotton exchanges , " he continued . " There probably will be some silver legislation but indications are that this will not go anywhere near the lengths desired by advocates of remoneUzation of silver . " President Roosevelt is anxious to get through at this session of Congress the stock exchange control bill , extension of bank deposit guarantee , and crime bills , it was learned following a conference between the Chief ' Executive , Speaker Rainey of the House and Representative Joseph Ryrns , Tennessee , House majority Speaker Rainey , declared that the President supported the present House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             