@@704256

txt More than one sign today points to an early resumption of the German offensive on the Rhine-Moselle front which was halted on Monday evening after scattered French outposts had withdrawn on a line of resistance . It is insisted here that this withdrawal was by order of the High Command and at no point was compelled by the enemy . All last night there was what was officially described as " intense traffic " both on the highways and railroads behind the enemy lines , while today there was incessant scouting , raiding and ambushing . The infantries between the lines were in close contact and there was much hand grenade fighting . Nevertheless , the front remained unchanged . " Intense traffic " implies the arrival of reinforcements , since the railroads would scarcely be used for routine reliefs , which are normally supplied by troops in reserve positions . Nor is it supposed here that the enemy would concentrate large forces merely to force a line of scattered outposts to withdraw , which , as admitted in the German communique , was the sole outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The French line of resistance , moreover , is , for the most part , still established on German soil . From details now available the attacks resulted as follows : Between the Moselle and the Saar Rivers , where the lesser thrust occurred , the French now occupy positions in the proximity of the frontier protected by the deep valley of the Manderen stream . The second , or main thrust , occurred between a point ' slightly south of Saarbruecken on the west and a point in the vicinity of the German village of Hornbach to the east . There the frontier juts into French territory for some twenty miles . The line now occupied by the French is close to the frontier at the two extremities of this pocket and at a slightly greater distance in the center . Reading the map from east to west , the German towns of Bergzabern , Zweibruecken , Saarbruecken , Saarlautern and Merzig remain within the range of French guns . Outside the two sectors that were active on Monday the positions remain unchanged . In particular , the Warndt Forest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The net result , therefore , has been to ascertain , at a great cost , the exact location of the French line of resistance in these two key sectors . The method employed presented some unusual features . The artillery preparation , in either case , did not exceed some thirty minutes ; no tanks were used , and there was very little aerial cooperation . Strangest of all , the main attack was not begun until 5 o'clock in the evening , only a short time before dusk and in very overcast weather . This rather leads to the belief that the Germans , despite their intensive patroling of the last fortnight , were still in the dark regarding the nature of the French positions . They possibly expected to meet a first line stronger than the scattered French outposts , but did not anticipate a line of resistance that was so strong . The forces used would lead to the supposition that it was intended to exploit the first success , but that this proved impossible . As to losses , it appears that the German divisions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battalions each , with the remainder in reserve ready to intervene . So that of the 100,000 men participating in the operation , only about one-third were actually on the line of fire when darkness intervened . The French estimate the enemy casualties at 12 per cent of the units engaged or about 4,000 . Some speak of 6,000 to 7,000 , but nothing is more difficult to compute than the other side 's casualties , and it is very easy to exaggerate . The French losses are declared to have been light . This claim seems justified by the circumstances . Apart from the outposts that were in actual contact with the enemy as they withdrew , the troops on the line of resistance were strongly entrenched and well concealed . Moreover , the German artillery , ignorant of the exact location of this line , had not accurate ranges . Since Monday night the Germans have been doing precisely what the French did as they , advanced in September  --  rectifying their line by removing salients and digging trenches before attempting the next move forward . In other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of resistance just as the French laid siege to the out- i works of the Westwall before the High Command decided to change from an offensive plan to a defensive plan . It was learned today that this change was ordered on Sept. 29 after a council of war in Paris , when Premier Edouard Daladier conferred with Commander-inChief General Maurice Gustave Gamelin and commanders of the land , air and sea forces . The movement began forthwith and was completed on Oct. 3 . The Germans strove to discover what had happened by sending out scouting parties in the two weeks intervening before Monday 's operation . In the light of this information there appears full justification for the French contention that all movements of their troops were according to a plan devised two weeks ago . At certain predetermined points units in contact with the enemy resisted without yielding an inch ; at others they withdrew , conformably with instructions . Nowhere can it be said that they were compelled by the enemy . The German communiqu ? tends today to confirm this by referring merely to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communiques here follow : " No. 89 . Morning . During the night there was activity on both sides on the part of the elements In contact . There were ambushes and raids . " There was intense traffic on highways and railroads in the enemy rear zone . " " No. 90 . Evening . The general front remains unchanged . " There was great activity on the part of reconnoissance groups , notably between the Moselle and the Saar Rivers . " Weather Conditions Bad PARIS , Oct. 18 ( UP ) ? Bad weather prevailed today on the entire Western Front , where conditions could not have been worse for offensive operations . The Germans were obliged to use railroads for massing reinforcements , With the result that all lines of communications were clogged throughout the day . Rain and fog kept allied planes grounded . French artillery whipped the German front line positions and roads and railroads with shrapnel to hamper the concentration . The rains increased the Rhine flood and forced evacuation of several Westwall blockhouses opposite Strasbourg . They also caused the Moselle to rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Blies and other small streams flowing into the Saar River were flooded and the terrain , badly pocked by artillery in Monday 's bitter fighting , was covered with water holes . Reich Report Not Clear Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . BERLIN , Oct. ** report of the German Army High Command today for the first time gives a hint that larger scale actions are taking place on the Western Front . Laconically it announces that French troops have evacuated further stretches of German territory between the Moselle River and the Palatinate forest . " German troops pushing after them occupied the territory and took numerous prisoners . " it says . Whether the Germans are pushing an advance or whether the French are retreating voluntarily is still not clear in Berlin . Today , however , as yesterday , it was denied that any large scale offensive was taking place . That Germany is prepared to attempt an offensive , however , is evident from the fact that there are now , according to rough estimates , about 1,500 , - 000 men stationed along the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no evidence here , however , that Germany is planning to hurl them against the Maginot Line now or in the near future . Yesterday German anti-aircraft and fighters were declared to have shot down five more of the enemy planes over German territory . In the course of the last two days , it is claimed , ten French and British machines were brought down , five by anti-aircraft and five by German planes .                     