@@701400

txt An impression was current at the Capitol today that Congress might adjourn as soon as the Tax Bill wds disposed of , and some estimates from trustworthy sources set the date as early as next . Tuesday night . Such a sudden quitting would involve jettisoning many elements of the session 's legislative program , but it was represented that the temper of the legislators , and of the Senators in particular , was such that leaders could not hold members in Washington any longer . Unless the strongest kind of pressure from the White House brings a change of heart to Capitol Hill , victims of the heat and the legislative confusion would include the Guffey-Snyder bill for the regulation of the bituminous coal industry , the Banking Bill , the Utility Holding Company Control Bill and the amendments to strengthen and enlarge the Tennessee Valley Authority . Reminders that the United Mine Workers have postponed their thrice-threatened national coal strike until Sept. 16 only on direct promise from President Roosevelt that Congress will at least act upon the Guffey-Snyder bill have apparently had no effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Death of Bill Predicted . It was privately asserted by some Senators in close touch with the general situation that the coal measure would not be considered in the upper branch . If this estimate is believed in the House , it Is likely that administration leaders there will abandon the fight for the bill and neglect to bring the measure to the floor . Chairman Doughton of the Ways and Means Committee said today , however , that he understood the agreement with Senate leaders to consider the bill still held good . He planned to report the bill to the House tomorrow and bring it up on the floor in an effort to pass it before week-end adjournment on Saturday . Yet in the face of such considerable opposition that even the stanchest administration supporters are doubtful of enough votes to push the measure through the House , it was regarded as unlikely that Mr. Doughton and colleagues would risk their prestige to jam it through , only to have the Senate force adjournment without having acted upon it . Six of the seven Republican members of the Ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the measure , opposing its passage . They were Representatives Treadway of Massachusetts , Bacharach of New Jersey , Crowther of New York , Knutson of Minnesota , Reed of New York and Woodruff of Michigan . " In his advocacy of this legislation , " the minority report said , " the President continues to show his apparent disregard for constitutional limitations and his desire to institute fundamental changes in our governmental system looking to the establishment of a centralized , bureaucratic autocracy under Executive control . " Few Big Bills Enacted . If the projected sudden adjournment should take place it would leave the first session of the Seventy-fourth Congress with a record for little positive achievement . Thel $4,000,000,000 works relief appropriation , the Tax Bill when passed and the Social Security Bill , would be the only accomplishments of major importance which Congress , after more than seven months , would have to its credit . Amendments to the Agricultural Adjustment Act , to provide against ' the possibility that the Supreme Court might declare the processing tax invalid , might be salvaged before adjournment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only slight modifications , which the Senate would probably accept , if it accepted the report itself , without much debate . The alcohol control measure , which is considered to be essential to prevent the liquor traffic of the country from falling into confusion under repeal conditions , was sent to conference only today . Fast Work would be needed to complete action on it in time for adjournment Tuesday . The major legislative projects of this session have been delayed , both in the House and the Senate , by the gradual breaking away from administration control of the more conservative elements of the Democratic majority . Counter to Roosevelt Policy . ' On such questions as the " death sentence " for utility holding companies , centralized control for the banking structure of the country , and continuance of the President 's power program through the TVA , factions have sprung up and fought the bills off . The policy of an adjournment undel-the circumstances envisaged today would be directly counter to Mr. Roosevelt 's political strategy in connection with the elections of 1936 . It has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader to dispose of all reform and controversial legislation at this session , so that the session starting next Jan. 3 can be short and barmonious , permitting all concerned to prepare for their campaigns in a comparative calm . It is believed to ' be the wish of the President to be able to give an account of the four years of his stewardship without the troubled atmosphere of bitterly fought legislation still hanging about . There are those who believe he would prefer to turn the attention of the country in 1936 to a general overhauling of the Constitution , to make possible national reform under the auspices of the Federal Government , rather than to keep it centred on the details of particular laws forming only a part of the whole picture he and his advisers see of our future .                     