@@701653

txt Leaders of the three major veterans ' associations , seeing eye to eye for the first time since the bonus question became an issue , completed today the draft of the new Legion-Vinson measure calling for a cash outlay of about $1,000,000,000 . They virtually abandoned Representative Wright Patman of Texas , who has gained national prominence as an inflationist and bonus protagonist , and they planned to invade the Capitol tomorrow to confer with Chairman Doughton of the House Ways and Means Committee on the possibility of early committee approval . These leaders hope that the committee , in an effort to forestall a vote on Jan. 13 on the Patman bill , will bring the new measure to the House about next Wednesday . They have been told that a final vote would be recorded before the end of next week . Moving with speed in pressing the bonus program , Ray Murphy , national commander of the American Legion and James E. Van Zandt , chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars , spent the day with Representatives Vinson and MacCormack of Massachusetts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the World War , took part in the conference by telephone from his home in El Paso , Texas . Legislative Experts Help . Several of Mr. Patman 's supporters were called in and participated in the discussions for a while . Legislative experts were summoned to help prepare the draft . When Representatives Vinson and MacCormack left the hotel room they carried the draft , ready for the final scrutiny of the House legislative expert . They will jointly present the bill to the House tomorrow . The measure will be introduced in the Senate by Senator Clark of Missouri , a veteran and long prominent in Legion affairs . It will carry the name of all three of the veteran organizations . The measure provides as follows : Immediate cash payment of the bonus certificates for those who wish to take advantage of the opportunity , and for those who wish to retain their original certificates interest of 3 per cent from the date full payment is authorized by the bill . Refund of all interest previously paid on loans and cancellation of all interest on loans that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' groups propose that special government obligations be issued in lieu of adjusted service certificates to the value of about $500,000,000 now held by the United States Life Insurance Fund as liens on loans . Furthermore , they contend that about 500,000 veterans who so far have not borrowed on their certificates , aggregating $500,000,000 , would retain them if the inducement of interest were added . These two factors would reduce by a billion the amount of cash required now for immediate payment of the bonus , it is contended . Thus the actual cash outlay would be about $1,000,000,000 , Commander Murphy said , and the bill would leave to the Treasury and administration the method of raising that amount . Recalling that he predicted passage of a bonus bill in the coming session of Congress , Senator Robin= son , Democratic leader , expressed optimism today . " It is my expectation , " he said , " that this proposal ( he had not then heard of the new VinsonLegion measure ) will be carried forward during January . The details present some difficulties and conferences will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be expected to sign . " Of course , I can not speak for the President , but it seems to me , in view of the history of the subject , it should be possible to reach an agreement that will meet with Executive approval . " Patman Group Will Meet . A last fight was promised by the so-called " Patmanites , " however , when the Patman steering committee met today to decide upon a course in getting the Patman bill up for a vote on Jan. 13 . Sufficient signatures have been attached to a discharge petition to force a vote on that day . The committee agreed to call a caucus of the 218 members who had signed the petition , and notices were immediately sent out for the meeting at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning . There was some doubt tonight that many of those invited would attend the caucus . Surrounded by his colleagues , Mr. Patman issued the following statement : " The committee has extended the olive branch . We want to cooperate to the end that the veterans will get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the sentiment of the committee , 218 members having signed the petition to discharge the Ways and Means Committee and bring the bill up on Jan. 13 , that we have not the authority to defer action on the Patman bill . In the absence of specific authority , we will permit the bill to take its natural course . Speculation on Roosevelt Stand . " If the House votes to discharge the Ways and Means Committee and the bill is considered , we will not change our views , but if a majority of the House sees fit to amend the bill by striking out the method of payment , we will abide by the decision of the majority and support the bill to final passage , provided , however , we reserve the right to oppose the imposition of taxes or the issuance of non-taxable interest-bearing bonds for the purpose of paying this specific debt . " This action left the remaining bone of contention between the two camps that of the method of payment . Mr. Patman and some others insisted that the gold now held by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is contrary to the Legion " mandate " of last September , and opposed to the action of those who have reached a general agreement for the veterans ' organizations . " I wo n't stand in the way of any plan that provides for full and immediate payment , " Mr. Patman said tonight , but the same attitude was not in evidence among some others of the Patman group . The organized , harmonious drive of the veterans , which thus far has been successful , caused wide speculation about what President Roosevelt may say regarding the bonus when he addresses the joint session tomorrow night .                     