@@697742

txt An intensive drive against New York gangsters , smugglers , bootleggers and other racketeers , through the medium of income tax law enforcement along the lines which resulted in the conviction of Al and Ralph Capone and others in Chicago , was begun yesterday at a conference of Federal revenue officials With United States District Attorney George Z. Medalie . The campaign , which is expected by local political observers to draw much material from current investigations and the forthcoming legislative Inquiry , will assume definite form early next week with the arrival of a special squad of about fifty Federal operatives , whose work in Chicago produced results satisfactory to the Washington authorities . David Burnet , Commissioner of Internal Revenue , and Elmer L. Irey , head of the Revenue Department 's intelligence division , were among those who came from Washington for yesterday 's conference . Hugh , head of the intelligence unit here , also was present . It was said that he would receive full cooperation from the agents and accountants of the special Chicago squad . Smashing Blow Is Planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into details of the " clean-up " campaign , it was reported that the Dep  --  rtraent of Justice was anxious to deliver a smashing blow at the flourishing industry of racketeering , which , as in other large cities , is said to have obtained a firm hold here , especially in connection with bootlegging , operation of speakeasies , lottery and pool ventures and smuggling . It was pointed out yesterday that the activities of former United States District Attorney Tuttle had given indication of the manner in which racketeers might be brought to book through income tax violations . Federal officials declared that the government is deprived of huge sums each year because of failure of racketeers to report their true incomes or to make any report at all . Mr. ' and his agents , in cooperation with the squad from Chicago , are expected to find plentiful material for their work in the inquiry into magistrates ' courts , which has already revealed that several members of the Police Department have received large sums for which no accounting is said to have beefi made to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income tax law provisions in these cases would make possible a more searching inquiry into the sources of such funds ' than would be possible in investigations ? where the State ' laws afforded certain safeguards to witnesses who elected to stand on their constitutional rights . Close Cooperation Planned . Leaders in both the Democratic and Republican organizations were said to feel that the coming legislative investigation of the city administration probably would disclose cases where individuals have received income not accounted for in their Federal tax returns . There is little doubt that the Federal authorities will ask for explanations of any such discrepancies . It was predicted that the Federal investigation and the legislative inquiry , both under Republican auspices , would cooperate closely in running down all matters with an income tax angle . In Chicago , where a similar drive extended over a period of eighteen months , Ralph Capone was sentenced to three years in prison for income tax violations , while such lesser lights in the Chicago underworld as Frank Nitti , Terry Drugan and Frank Lake , received shorter terms . Al Capone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appear before a Federal judge for examination on income tax matters . United States Attorney Medalie also ebitferred with G. Aaron Youngquist , Assistant ** Attorney General in charge of.iirohibition enforcement , who came from Washington to attend a luncheon at the ' Lawyers ' Club , where he talked with Judge Julian Mack of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals and District Court Judges John C. Knox , Henry W. Goddard , Alfred C. Coxe , Robert P. Patterson , William Bondy , Frank J. Coleman , John M. Woolsey and Francis G. Caffey . Assistant United States District Attorney Arthur H. Schwartz , in charge of local prohibition prosecutions , was . also present . ? Dry Enforcement Pushed . This conference was seen as a forerunner of a " tightening up " of the local machinery for prosecuting violations of the Volstead law . The activities of the padlock division and the work of the criminal division with respect to trials and pleas of guilty , it was understood , were also discussed . Although Federal officials declined to connect the two sets of conference* , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the income tax investigators and the officials charged with prosecution of liquor law violatiqns . The income tax drive , it is understood , has already made some headway under ' the direction of Mr. , who is reported to have subpoenaed bank accounts of policemen and racketeers involved in the pending local investigations .                     