@@697731

txt The wheat situation continues to hold the attention of the world . Thin interest has been quickened by the recent action of the Federal Farm Board in the United States to discontinue the purchase of wheat in an effort to stabilize the Market by Deemed prices . In the United States this Is greeted by the farmers with an appeal that the board refrain from dumping its 200,000,000 bushels on the market in the face of the 1031 harvest . On the other hand the farm board puts it up to the fanners to bolster the market by planting lees wheat . Only in this way , they say , can the surplus be reduced and the ratio between supply and demand be reestablished . The farm board 's action is viewed in London as perhaps the best way out of a bad situation . it adopts the attitude that it is best to have the worst known and sees the decision of the board as throwing a light on what had been looked upon as a decidedly dark spot on the world 's wheat situation  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Government agency . The preliminary wheat conference opening at Rome tomorrow promises to throw still further light on the world situation and may result in a well-defined plan for international organization to control farm production . it is admitted that now the United States has taken a step into the open , the attention of the world centers on Russia and what it may do with its huge wheat production . The conference is expected to grapple with this problem . SPECIAL 1110/4 MONITOR Duezee WASHINGTON , March 25 The question of farm relief has revived suddenly into a major political issue by action of the Federal Farm Board In announcing that it would discontinue wheat stabilization purchases with the new crop . Efforts of Congressmen from the wheat belt turned today to exacting a promise from the farm board that the 200,000,000 bushels of wheat now held or contracted for will be kept off the market for a period of two or three years . Long-term efforts of the same Con- gi  --  essmen and farm leaders are turning to an intensified demand for some form of direct government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or a modified form of the equalization fee proposal , Arthur M. Hyde , Secretary of Agriculture , issued a reassuring statement pointing out that the " bottom has not dropped out of wheat prices " and that the price of wheat covered by present stabilization operations has not fallen off . The prices which have fallen on the Chicago market , he pointed out , are those of wheat futures in the 1031 crop which has not yet come to market , and which the farm board announced would not be pegged through stabilization operations . Although it was known some time ago that the farm board would probably not consider further stabilization operations , the effort of the formal announcement hero came as a shock to growers and political leaders alike , who hoped that a way could be found to buoy up the market indefinitely . The farm board , it is revealed , has enough money to hold the wheat v ) hich it now controls , but not enough to continue purchases of new wheat . The board is planning long-term storage of its wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. , have left Washington for the West whore they will look over the storage facilities . The high cost of storage is the chief problem faced , it Is said . Gerald P. Nye ( R. ) , Senator from North Dakota urged that a special sessfon of Congress be called to deal with the farm relief problem In the light of the board 's announcement . Mr. Hyde said in his statement : " There seems to be a general hepression'that the bottom has dropped out of wheat prices . The fact Is that the Chicago market at 1:15 p. m. , March 24 , was three-eighths of a cent lower on May wheat than it was at tile close , Saturday : no change whatever on March wheat ; only 2% cents on July ; and 2% on September . The last two futures are the new crop . " An erroneous impression has spread duo to the fact , that Juno wheat dropped Monday from 76% cents to 67 cents or 96 cents in one day . ' This drop was due , to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at ' 76% close to the price of the stabilized futures , and of cgurse had to be adjusted to levels of the next crop . " London Feels It Best to Have Worst Known About Wheat Surplus Br %tow room MONITOR 11111111A0 LONDON , March 25 ? A short , sharp slump In wheat followed by the eventual return of prices to a normal level was expected here as a result of the American farm board 's decision to abandon its policy of buying wheat to stabilize prices . The first result noted In the London market was a generally developed weaker tendency in commodity and security prices . But on the whole London displayed little excitement , Many market authorities felt I was as well to face actual selling as to live under the threat of a huge surplus awaiting release . But it is expected here that ' the decision , combined with the increase In the world 's visible supplies of wheat as recorded March 1 , 1931 , the prospects for a larger 1931 winter crop , and the likelihood of the continuance of Russian exportations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although disturbances over a wide area are expected to be the inevitable consequences of the farm board 's decision , London authorities on the whole feel that improvement will eventually result from the cessation of the American Government 's attempts to stabilize wheat prices . During the immediate slump In prices It is realized that the farmer ' will suffer from a reduced buying power which will lessen the demand for manufacOres and temporarily retard the general economic recovery . If the result of the farm board action is to compel the farmer to market his produce and stand any losses , the recovery of values is believed certain . The end of the long decline in prices will , therefore , be brought nearer if the United States and Canada both decide to cat their losses . No change in the Russian policy is anticipated , but it is considered that in the process of marketing , America and Canada might diminish the prospective flood of new Soviet wheat . It Is not considered likely that Ainerica will attempt to dispose of its huge stock in Europe since it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retaliate by a general boycott of American goods . It is felt , however , that America may attempt to dispose of Its surplus by offering cheap bupplies to the Far East . Preliminary Conference , on Wheat at Home Holds Attention of the World MY MARIO TO Till ? CURIRTIAN NCIRNCII ROME , March 25 ? A conference preliminary to the second world wheat conference which will be held probably in Canada In 1932 opens tomorrow at the International Institute of Agriculture here , The parley will be attended by more than 160 delegates representing 28 Eulopean governments including Soviet Russia , nine transoceanic countries , eight colonies as well as representatives of various international bodies and farmers ' associations . , The conference has a distinctly political , as well as economic character , as several countries are represented by members of their governments . The agenda of the conference includes the following problems : First , international organization of agrarian production ; second , ? international agricultural credits for cereal culture ; third , International traffic in wheat . The International Ipstitute of Agriculture heti prepared %everal interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural crisis through which the world is now passing , containing suggestions and reeominendations for a united effort to overcome the crisis . ' The primary object of the conference Indeed is to devise measures for reducing of wheat on a large scale has further aggravated the world crisis . Disequiltbrium between supply and demand has been more marked during the last five commercial 3ears . In comparison with the pro-war period , there has taken place during this time ; an important increase ? in the ? average production of Wheat due to the extension of areas cultivated with this crop in America and Australia , Despite thisincrease in production , quantities available for consumption during this period have not increased its copipared with the pit-war level , in proportion larger than . that . ' of the consuming population . Mdreover ; the avertIge wheat consumption per capita is pow lower than before the war and therefore quantitia available for eensumption exceed the world demand ter wheat . Disequilibrium between demand and supply has led to the accumulation of heavy  --  stocks , and Is the chief cause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past five years the average world production of wheat , ex-. eluding Russia , China and Turkey was 960,000,000 quintals ' against 822 , - 000,000 during the five years preceding the war , representing an increase of 13 per cent .. The accumulation of stocks of wheat in Canada , the United States , Argentina and Australia have increased from 51,000,000 quintals 1927 to 214,000,000 last year . The situation caused by the circumstances mentioned above have beefs rendered more difficult during the current commercial year by the revival of wheat export from the United States of Soviet Russia , Russian exports before the war amounted to an average of 45,000,000 quintals , More than a quarter of the world 's total Imports .                     