@@699339

txt As legislative machinery got in motion in Albany today to implement huge payroll economies in New York City and initiate a study looking to far-reaching reforms in its government and a state-wide plan for the financial , rescue of local governments that default on their financial obligations , forces for administrative reorganization here are pressing for changes which the city 's financial straits now show to be imperative . Acting Mayor Joseph V. , whose program of retrenchment was deliberately wrecked by the Tammany-controlled board of estimate last October , precipitating the city 's present financial plight , took the first step in this direction by bringing before the board a bill which would restore to the Mayor the budget-making powers of which it stripped this office when Mr. attempted- his budgetary relief plan . This is in line with recommendations before the joint legislative committee hearings on governmental reforms and would set up s bureau of budget directly under the Mayor. , The budget-drafting power has been in the hands of the board of estimate since its action against Mr. . Simultaneously , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative inquiry body , whose public hearings terminated on Thursday , called on the independent political elements in the city to organize for proportional representation . Judge Seabury Is now engaged in drafting his summation of inquiry findings to the committee for report to the 1933 Legislature , in which are to be included recommendations for remedial changes In the city 's Tammany-controlled mayoralty . He will embody in his final report a draft of the revised city charter and hopes to have It ready for consideration by the special session . Charging Tammany with " gross waste and mismanagement " of the city 's affairs and with responsibility for the present financial predicament , Judge Seabury urged all citizens to rally behind the proposals of witnesses before the committee for a system of minority representation on the city 's governing boards .                     