@@698212

txt Confidence in the dollar and in its maintenance on the gold standard is being slowly under ! . mined here by the use of the same methods as were employed to destroy confidence in the pound sterling . These methods have no official encouragement and are in no way of official origin . On the contrary , they are denounced by every responsible person , but there is no official control of the campaign of ignorance and insinuation which in this country , as probably in many others , is slowly undermining public confidence in the dollar and in American finance . The story cabled yesterday to THa Nsw YORK Timm about the Frenchman who took $38,000 in bills to an American bank in Paris and changed them into francs is only typical of what is being done by those who are subject to that panic which is being insidiously spread by those who in recent days have been commenting on President Hoover 's proposals for the relief of the business situation in the United States . Warn of Wholesale Inflation . The French public is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wholesale inflation , and that in such inflation there is immense and immediate danger to the dollar . What is written means little or nothing to the public . Its memory of inflation is that of 1926 , when the circulation of francs in France exceeded the legal limit of 42,000,000,000 and publication of the news produced grave results .. Now the circulation is 81,000,000,000 francs , but no one thinks any more about it , the gold cover being at the exaggerated figure of 57 per cent , while 33 per cent is not only what is legally required but what is regarded as- economically sound . Ever since the first announcement of President Hoover 's plan to relieve the banking situation was made , French comment has harped on the assertion thaw it amounted to inflation , whatever else it might be called . In virtually all this .. comment it has become customary to describe the American situation as " critical , " and as if there were likelihood of a forced departure from the gold standard . Under the guise of commiseration with this " critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extensively , just as was done some months ago with regard to sterling . Comment in the Press . One midday paper today carries an article showing how at the rate of 25.39 francs to the dollar , which is the present rate , instead of the 25.52 francs , which is the legal rate , there is a profit for those who export gold from the United . States . An evening newspaper , La Liberte , carries this three-column banner over an ' article by , its director , Camille Aymard : , " Not knowing how to get out of difficulties , the United States goes joyously toward inflation . " Naturally there is emphasis in most of such comment on how gold is coming to France , with photographs of its arrival in barrels . La Lumiere , a weekly paper , gives the other side of the picture . " There are already hundreds of directors of industries in France who have no other wish than that England should get back to the gold standard , " it says . " They have no desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Normandy , in the North , and at Lyons should feel the full force of the catastrophe which is threatening . The abandonment of the gold standard by England has broken the artificial and perilous equilibrium of French economy . " Finland Due to Go Off Gold . wireless to Tins Irzyr YORK Trues . HELSINGFORS , Oct. 10 . ? After vigorous efforts to maintain the gold standard at least nominally , Finland will now evidently be obliged to abandon it and the decision of the government is expected tomorrow or Monday at the latest to relieve the currency market . The situation has become very serious owing to the banks ' inability to obtain foreign currencies in sufficient amounts , so that imports are threatened by stagnation . A contributing factor is said to be rumors that the United States plans to suspend the gold standard . It is estimated that - the Finnish currency will be devalued by about 15 per cent . Stocks have risen considerably in anticipation of suspension of the gold standard . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Oct. 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department today that the Latvian Government had concentrated all foreign exchange transactions in the Bank of Latvia , forbidding under penalty forward transactions and export of precious metals and all other ' means of payments . This restriction went into effect yesterday , and further restrictions are expected ,                     