@@697777

txt President Hoover caught the limit of twenty trout prescribed by the Virginia State game laws on " his first day at fishing this season at his Rapidan camp . When he returned for luncheon after a little more than two hours in the pools of the little mountain river Mr. Hoover had twelve fine trout in his fish basket . Eating a quick luncheon , he hurried back to the stream and by a little past midafternoon had landed eight more . He quit fishing then and played around a while in the stream before returning to the lodge to find that Mark Sullivan , the writer , and Lawrence Richey , Mr. Hoover 's secretary , likewise had made good catches , but neither so good as he . The President maintained , by today's1 performance , his reputation as the best fisherman to frequent the Rapidan camp . The President arrived at camp this morning for his first visit to this region since the cold weather of last Fall stopped his trips to his fishing lodge . He was accompanied by Mrs. Hoover , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old fishing cronies . Within a few moments atter the party arrived , President Hoover and the male guests , including Associate Justice Harlan F. Stone , Secretary Hyde , Ferry K. Heath , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury ; Ernest L. Jahncke , Assistant Secretary of the Navy ; Mr. Sullivan , newspaper writer , Mr. Richey , Walter H. Newton , Secretary to the President , and Captain Joel T. Boone , White House physician , had changed to rough clothes and were on their way to the little pools . Mrs. Hoover Drives Own Car . As the men made away down the stream , the women members of the party began to accustom themselves to the camp . The 100-mile trip was made from the White House in about three hours , which had been established as the motoring time during the two previous years the President has used the Rapidan camp as a retreat from his busy desk in Washington . The trip was without particular incident , except that in the women 's party Mrs. Hoover took the wheel of her own car for most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good fishing party , but the air had just enough of a bite to cause members of the party to look with a great deal of pleasure on the stacks of cordwood piled up for the camp fires . Along toward night big fires were built in the cabins , and a still bigger one in the great fireplace of the recreation hall , where the men guests were expected today to follow the usual custom of spinning yarns about " the big ones tiat got away . " The President found conditions around the Rapidan camp much better than when he stopped his visits last Fall . At that time this section of Virginia , and the Page and Shenandoah valleys to the west were in the throes of the distastrous drought . Fields were parched and dead , cattle loitered wistfully at the watering places and even great patches of forestry along the mountain sides had begun to wilt and die . Today it was encouragingly different . Snows of last Winter , termed in this section " the poor man 's fertilizer , " and recent rains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole countryside to present a freshness that was heartening . The sight of newly tilled fields , the smell of freshly plowed ground and the appearance and fragrance of orchard and forest blossoms along the roadside were to the President a sign of renewed hope as well as frank evidence of a new and better season . Personally encouraging to Mr. Hoover were the increased water levels in the Rapidan River where last Summer 's drought endangered the lives of thousands of his fish . It had not been determined definitely tonight whether the President and his party would return to Washington late tomorrow or early Monday . The decision rested jointly with developments of the weather and the situation in Nicaragua , the latter of which he was keeping in touch with by private telephone wire through the White House to the State Department .                     