@@702739

txt The greatest battle of the Spanish civil war raged through its fifth day today os the insurgents poured thousands of fresh troops against the government 's newly won lines west of Madrid . One hundred thousand men were believed to be fighting on each side , No longer was it a tactical struggle for position or a few miles of territory , but the bitter clash of two armies trying to destroy each other in what is now called " - the battle for Madrid . " Rebel Generalissimo Francisco Franco hurled his greatest strength against the salient which the loyalists have driven into the rebel line around Brunete , 11 miles west of the capital . Artillery Adds to Din . The insurgent drive evidently was designed to wipe out the government 's recent gains , which , in a two week offensive , had been driven far enough to constitute a grave peril to the insurgent forces besieging Madrid . The battle raged over a 30 mile front , Hundreds of airplanes were aloft . The roar of artillery  --  hundreds of guns of from 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Over the 100 square miles of the Brunete sector captured by the government ten days ago hung a heavy curtain of smoke , broken by flashes of cannon and bursting air bombs . Rebels Mass 150,000 Men . Realizing the great danger to their Madrid front unless the government 's wedge is wiped out , the insurgents have drawn men from their Bay of Biscay front and as far away as Coruna in the northwest . Government officers estimated the insurgents have not less than 150,000 men concentrated on the MadridSierra front . They said at least 4 ? , 000 men had been sent to Sevilla la Nueva , Cerebros , Navalgamela , and Boadilla del Monte , towns behind the insurgent lines facing Madrid . In addition to thrusting at Brunete from the south , . the insurgents were driving toward Villanueva del Pardillo from the east . Scores of Planes Lost . Violent air attacks were the most striking feature of the operations on both sides . Planes by the score savagely bombed enemy positions , while battles in the air were numerous in which 60 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory , struggling to establish supremancy in the airs Scores of planes already have been shot down , but insurgent losses were reported larger than the government 's . NOW air squadrons were being thrown constantly into the struggle , for both sides appeared to consider this battle of vital importance for the destiny of% ' the war . Loyalist observers said they saw 320 planes over a 30 mile front . Bomber Is Struck ; Explodes . One fleet of bombers tried to attack government positions in ? the Casa . de Campo , just west of the City , but anti-aircraft fire exploded one of the ships with a roar heard over most of Madrid . The battle is being fought i ? intense heat , which experts said ii.ight soon affect the staying powers of the men engaged . The amount of war material used up was described as staggering . Barrages of world war intensity were laid ? down by both sides . Infantry advances were possible only after a great weight of metal had been hurled on the objective . pushing toward El Escorial and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today after twenty-four hours of hard fighting . More attacks were launched by Gen. Francisco Franco 's forces this morning , with aviation and artillery figuring heavily in the movement which extended over a line of about 12% miles running roughly from Boadilla south around Brunete to Quijorna . The insurgent attack was launched at 5 o'clock yesterday morning , preceded by the heaviest aerial and artillery bombardment , which has painted the whole panorama of the mountains in a haze of lire and smoke over the battlefield , making a livid spectacle in the burning heat . Writer Watches Battle . Attack and counterattack went on all day again today , with Franco 's infantry sweeping progressively forward in a flanking movement to the left of Brunete up the road toward Villeneuve de la Canada . From an advanced observation post today this correspondent was able to watch the progress of battle in its st.ccessive phases . The most picturesque feature again today was the aviation duels . In the course of the day eleven Madrid planes were shot down and one insurgent plane . We watched four loyalist planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flames on the battlefield . The whole stretch of the front was hectic with the movement of men moving up ambulances and dashing back with the wounded , while from the left and right the artillery pounded and bombs crumpled across the plain , sending up fire and smoke through the shimmering heat of the Castilian landscape . BATTLE FOR MADRID RAGES ( Story Starts on Page 1. ) 200,000 MEN AND HUNDREDS OF PLANES FIGHT ALONG 30 MILE FRONT REBELS STRIKE FROM 2 SIDES TO CUT OFF BRUNETE SALIENT Shaded portion on map covers the thirty mile front along which 200,000 Spanish loyalist and rebel troops and hundreds of fighting planes were locked yesterday in the fifth day of a struggle for supremacy in the Madrid area . Bearing the brunt of an insurgent counter attack was the Brunete salient , west of Madrid .                     