@@697633

txt Alexander Legge , chairman of the Federal Farm Board , will retire from that body soon after March 4 to resume the presidency of the International Harvester Company , from which he resigned in July , 1929 , to head the Farm Board at the request of President Hoover . At that time he intimated that he could not absent himself from the company ' for much more than a year , and his appointment was regarded ' simply as a " loan " of Mr. Legge to the government . Almost from the day Mr. Legge took up his duties as chairman of the Farm Board , he has been the centre of attacks from political and grain trading quarters . While he met these onslaughts with a vigorous defense of the board , it was conceded here tonight that his decision to relinquish his duties with the government was influenced by the violent controversy his policies aroused . Public service , Mr. Legge has contended , does not always receive the popular support it merits . Stabilizing Policies Opposed . For almost a year Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market . Opposition arose in Washington and in parts of the grain belt to the purchasing by the government of millions of bushels of surplus wheat to steady the market and maintain prices . The chairmanship of the Farm Board revealed a side of Mr. Legge that his business associates had not hitherto seen . From a retiring man who refused interviews he " emerged from his shell , " as one associate put it , took up the cudgels in behalf of the assailed Farm Board and became the big news of the day in interviews and speeches . He made a speaking campaign throughout agricultural States to outline the policies of the board and sought the aid of farm organization leaders . Mr. Legge 's defense of the board brought him into sharp conflict with members of the Chicago Board of Trade because he advocated reduced wheat acreage . A number of Board of Trade members , led by Arthur Cutten , transferred their trading activities to Winnipeg . Will Await End of This Congress . Mr. Legge 's resignation is scheduled soon after Congress adjourns . While he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known that the administration had been given to understand that he feels he can not itemain longer in the government service . President Hoover prevailed upon him to continue on the Farm Board after the year he had promised to serve had expired . Mr. Legge sought to resign last Fall , but was again ' urged to stay by Mr. Hoover . He has delayed his resignation until Congress adjourns , so that it will not be made the occasion for speeches by critics of the administration . Asked concerning Mr. Legge 's resignation tonight , Herbert F. Perkins , president of the International Harvester Company , said : " Several dates have been set in the past few months for Mr. Legge 's return to the company , but each time the date has been put off at the request of President Hoover . We are not at all certain when he will take the step . " The understanding here Is that James C. Stone , present vice chairman of the Farm Board , will succeed to the chairmanship . Mr. Stone is the tobacco representative on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He gave up a salary of $100,000 a year with the Harvester Company for a $12,000 salary from the government . Legge Refuses to Comment . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Feb. 14 . ? Chairman Legge of the Federal Farm Board refused to confirm or deny reports from Chicago that he would leave the board by March 4 to rejoin the International Harvester Company . " ' That is something I ca n't talk to you about , " Mr. Legge declared tonight . " I do n't care to make any comment . " Previous reports as to the probable date of his resignation placed it at June 1 . He has stated on several occasions that he would continue In office only as long as was necessary . He was prevailed upon to remain fn October because of the agitation against the board in Congress over the $500,000,000 revolving fund for the Farm Board ,                     