@@701633

txt Sir Samuel Hoare resigned as British Foreign Secretary tonight under pressure of public indignation because of his agreement with Premier Pierre Laval of France on the proposal to dismember Ethiopia and also because he could not agree with his Cabinet colleagues that he should placate public opinion by expressing some regret in the speech that he was scheduled to make in Parliament tomorrow . The Cabinet has now decided not only to abandon those Hoare-Laval proposals but to condemn them , and that will be done by Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin in the House of Commons tomorrow in defending his government against a Labor motion of censure based on Sir Samuel 's deal with Premier Laval and its approval , for the time being at least , by Mr. Baldwin and the Cabinet . Resignation Accepted at Once . Sir Samuel 's resignation was immediately accepted . It is the opinion in government circles tonight that his successor will be Sir Austen Chamberlain , who was Foreign Secretary in the Baldwin Cabinet from 1924 to 1929 . His halfbrother , Neville Chamberlain , the Chancellor of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that Mr. Baldwin himself will take the Foreign Office in connection with the Prime Ministry . Anthony Eden , Minister for League of Nations Affairs , is probably out of the running because in public opinion he too is associated with the Hoare-Laval scheme . Incidentally , the government would greatly appreciate having one more scapegoat in the person of Sir Robert Vansittart , Permanent Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs . His resignation would be welcomed , but there is no desire to dismiss him , for he is a civil servant and the discharge of an official of that status for disagreeing with the government would establish a precedent that would be most useful to the Laborites the next time they control the government . It was generally expected that Sir Samuel Hoare would retire soon , either to save the government embarrassment . or because of his sensitiveness to . adverse criticism by Conservative newspapers and many members of his own party ? a sensitiveness made more acute just now by his impaired health . Move Causes Amazement . But his resignation on the eve of tomorrow 's debate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government 's case , has caused fully as much amazement and almost as much shock as did the Paris proposals that have caused his tempnrary downfall . Prime Minister Baldwin had no warning and Sir Samuel himself had not the slightest intention of taking this precipitate action until this afternoon , when some of his Cabinet colleagues vigorously objected to the draft of the speech that he had prepared to make in the Commons tomorrow . That speech was the last straw . Despite their disapproval of the Hoare-Laval plan and their serious misgivings as to its effect on the Conservative party and government , the members of the Cabinet finally had to back Sir Samuel and share responsibility with him . On that understanding the Foreign Secretary went ahead with the preparation of his speech . It explained the peace proposals but expressed no regret for them . Sir Samuel 's colleagues begged him to amend the speech and add something that would placate public opinion . They told him that if it were delivered as he had written it it would compel many Conservatives to vote tomorrow for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baldwin government despite its majority of 250 . The four Simonite Liberal members of the government said that they would resign anyway if Sir Samuel remained in the Cabinet , no matter how he revised his speech . It was under these circumstances that he resigned . Nevertheless , he will speak tomorrow , not as one of the King 's Ministers but as a private member of the Commons from a back bench , and he will do the best he can to explain his share in the disastrous Anglo-French diplomacy of the last ten days . He can do this in accordance with the traditional right of a retiring Cabinet member to state his own case when circumstances force him out of the government . This privilege is not supposed to cover the right of any recriminations and it certainly does not offer an opportunity to diSclose Cabinet secrets , but according to friends of Sir Samuel who have talked with him tonight , he has no intention of making accusations against Mr. Baldwin or any other member of the Cabinet . This sensational break in the ranks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debate , in which Sir Samuel was to have opened for the government in reply to the motion of censure . As it is , the retiring Foreign Secretary will take no part in the actual debate . He will make his personal statement immediately after the question hour and then Clement R. Attlee , the Laborite leader , will offer a Labor motion condemning the Laval-Hoare proposals and demanding that the government repudiate them . Amendment to Be Offered . Then , in behalf of the government , Earl Winterton will offer the following amendment : " That this House , holding that any terms for settling the ItaloEthiopian dispute should be such as the League of Nations can accept , assures His Majesty 's Government of its full support in pursuing the foreign policy outlined in the government manifesto and endorsed by the country in the recent general election . " The amendment , which was framed with the approval of the Cabinet , will enable Conservative members to express their disapproval of the Hoare-Laval program without voting against the government . It will be in line with their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government and Parliament to support League principles , whereas the Paris agreement to which Sir Samuel committed this country violated all those principles . Sir Samuel had seen the proposed government amendment to the Labor motion and it was one of the minor factors that induced him to resign . He declared that it was by implication a motion of censure against himself just as much as the resolution of the Opposition . Although the Cabinet will no doubt now receive a full-strength party vote tomorrow and will also purge itself of its inconsistent but not persistent backing of the Foreign Secretary , the government 's troubles are evidently not over . Other Ministers May Quit . There may be other resignations from the Cabinet . Sir Samuel is not the only man to blame for the present situation , but thus far he is the only voluntary scapegoat . There may be compulsion during or after the Christmas recess to have others follow his example . Commenting editorially on his resignation , The Times of London will say tomorrow : " The Foreign Secretary has decided to conform to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most closely associated , if only technically , with an abortive step should resign his office . " There will be general sympathy with Sir Samuel Hoare , who has to suffer for failing to prevent and not Mr failing to modify indefensible proposals ; but his decision is the inevitable consequence of an error excusable in a man but not in a Minister . " The proposals for which by his resignation he has accepted responsibility were in any case doomed . The tone of the French and British statements to the Council of the League of Nations yesterday made clear that the authors of the proposals were submitting them to the unfettered verdict of the League , which can hardly do other than condemn them even as a basis for discussion . " The editorial adds that the Labor motion of censure is now out of date because " the government have admitted by the resignation of Sir Samuel Hoare and by its instructions to Anthony Eden in Geneva that a very serious mistake has been made . " The few irresponsible voices that are still urging that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost , and their pleading owes much to a wellknown desire to destroy all forms of international cooperation . ' What the government has now admitted in fact should be admitted in words , so today 's debate could hardly begin with anything better than a plain admission of grave error . The House of Commons will fdrgive much to a candid confession , particularly if it is accompanied by the strong case which can be made out for having committed a mistake with the best of intentions . " The Conservative Daily Telegraph says of Sir Samuel 's resignation : " It is a lamentable interruption of an honorable career , yet we are convinced that the best public opinion will agree that he has come to the right decision . The plan to which he committed the government has found scarcely more support among its friends than among its opponents . " The Liberal News-Chronicle de-clares : " The plain truth is that nobody has succeeded in imagining a convincing explanation of the whole discreditable business . Looked at from any angle , the government 's action gives evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Viscount Rothermere 's Daily Mail says : " If the Cabinet throws out the peace plan , the nation will be back in the old trap . We shall revert to the old position in which the small League States , themselves with nothing to lose and no war planes or battleships to send into the fray , urge us forward to measures which would provoke Italy to certain war , the risk of which has been increased by Mussolini 's speech . " The Conservative Morning Post writes : " The League broke down less through the fault of its agents than because the burden placed on it was heavier than its structure could bear . The real explanation of this crisis is that ideals have been shattered by realities . " We have the less inclination to blame Sir Samuel Hoare because he wag the instrument of a policy for which not he alone but the British and French Governments were also responsible . " Lord Beaverbrook 's Daily Express says : " Such a cynical sacrifice of a leading Minister is utterly unprecedented . Why should it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Prime Minister escapes not only the prime responsibility but even an equal share therein ? " The Laborite Daily Herald declares : " It would be the sheerest hypocrisy for us to express regret or sympathy . What now of Baldwin ? Is he hoping by the sacrifice of a colleague and friend to evade his own share of blame and shame ? "                     