@@696977

txt Ex-Secretary BAKER 'S speech in the Metropolitan Opera House on Sunday greatly stirred his vast audience . It was a fine illustration of the definition of eloquence as being logic set on fire with emotion . Yet , in the case of Mr. BAKER , it was not so much logic as it was fact , history , the great sweep and movement of civilization during the past hundred years , the spirit of humanity and of true Americanism , the very travail of the soul of the world on the way to better things  --  all caught Up and fused in his noble utterance . Besides being an orator , NEWTON BAKER is a lawyer and a man of practical mind . He addressed himself particularly to the establishment and work of the International Tribunal of Justice , and to the door into it which has now been opened wide for the entrance of the United States . With detailed and persuasive arguments he showed how all the original reservations and objections of the Senate have ceased to be obstacles to our adherence . The World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations in settling their justiciable disputes , and for America longer to remain out of it is to mark her as a laggard . By a coincidence , at the very time when Mr. BAKER was speakii in New York , the leader of the Democrats in the Senate of the United States was speaking much to the same effect in Philadelphia . Senator ROBINSON agrees that this country ought to join the World Court , and that there is no longer any solid reason why it should not . For years we have professed belief in such tribunal , and have longed for its creation . It came into life largely under American inspiration , and its constitution was due in good part to the skillful devising of an American jurist , Mr. ROOT . There is nothing partisan in its advocacy . By chance the two men who lifted up their voices for it on Sunday were Democrats . But at least three Republican Presidents have favored it , and many eminent members of that party are foremost in urging ratification of the new statute of the Court by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there delay ? President HoovER has taken the first needful steps . Acting upon the advice and report of Secretary STIMSON , he directed our agent at Geneva to sign for the Government of the United States the protocol of the World Court . This fact he announced to the Senate and promised to lay the whole matter before it in a special Message . But since that time a sort of panic of political expediency has seized upon many Republican leaders in Washington . They fear a Senate debate on this subject . They dread anything which may even appear further to divide their party , already so unhappily torn by faction . So they have , according to the reports , besought the President not to bring the World Court up until after many months have passed . Especially do they desire its postponement until after the Congressional elections this year . Whether the President will long listen to these counsels of timidity we do not know . But there is never anything to be lost by a policy of directness and honesty and courage . Even if there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next House of Representatives would not be worthy to be mentioned compared with the importance and dignity of the United States in going to the seat ready for it in the World Court . The trail of mere politics never looks so abhorrent as when it is seen running over a great work of justice and peace between nations .                     