@@703823

txt Foreshadowing an intensified effort by federal authorities to eliminate identical bidding on government contracts , the Department of Justice disclosed here yesterday that it will file suit today against the 18 principal tire manufacturers to recover alleged damages incurred by the government in. procuring tires during the period from October 1 . 1936. through March 31. 1938 . An indication that the action against the tire manufacturers is designed as a warning to manufacturers in many other fields to eliminate identical bids was offered by Thurman Arnold . Assistant Attorney General , who cited a long list of products on which identical bids had frequently been submitted and who referred in particular detail to identical bids submitted to the government on certain steel products . The suit against the tire manufacturers , which will be filed in the Federal District Court in New York today , is a civil action asking judgment for $1,053,474. representing treble damages for the losses of $351,158 allegedly sustained by the government in p tire purchasing as the result of identical bids submitted by the manufacturers . Civil Action Seen Neeem .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Murphy , Mr. Arnold asserted that a civil action under Section 7 of the Sherman Act is the only form of anti-trust proceeding whereby the government may recover damages " it believes it has sustained by reason of the defendants ' alleged combination to fix the prices of tires " and pointed out that a ' criminal action would not compensate the government since the maximum fine in such a proceeding iA $5.000 . " If the department 's position in this case is sustained by the court , the decision should serve as an effective deterrent to further noncompetitive bidding on government contracts . " Mr Arnold declared . The Assistant Attorney General declared that competitive bidding on many government contracts is " simply unknown " and that in the opinion of the Department of Justice , identical bidding " whether or not supported by other evidence , creates a presumption of a combination to fix prides " " Bids identical to the last penny are not normally the result of identical cost of manufacture , identical marketing cost and identical profit percentages independently arrived at , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion of the Department that devices used by supposedly competing sellers , whereby identical and inflexible prices result , are harmful not only to the federal government in making its purchases but also to state and local governments and , what is more important , are prejudicial to the interests of the general consuming public , " he said . Mr. Arnold asserted that the practice of identical bidding " embraces products as numerous and as varied as cement , iron and steel products , petroleum products , explosives , radio supplies , electrical appliances , paper products , lumber , scientific apparatus , disinfectants , office supplies , plumbing supplies , cables , wire goods , cordage and twine , nails , machinery , salt , blueprint and photo finishing , fire hydrants , matches , fire extinguishers , pliers , denatured alcohol , shoe laces , law books and Innumerable miscellaneous items . " Mr. Arnold conceded that the tire manufacturers no longer are submitting identical bids and that the suit for damages , therefore , relates only to past actions . Identical Tire Bids He asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six-month procurement periods ended September 30. 1937 and contracts placed by the government on the basis of these prices . After identical bids were again submitted for the sixmonth period to March 31. 1938 , the Treasury Department , after consultation with the Attorney General , rejected these bids and asked for new bids which again were identicil and again were rejected , Mr. Arnold said . The Treasury thereupon negotiated a contract with Sears , Roebuck &; Co. to meet its tire requirements for that period at " substantially lower prices , " he continued . After this award , on the next bidding the tire manufacturers submitted non-identical bids which were substantially lower than the prices paid to SearsRoebuck , Mr. Arnold declared . " Meantime , there had been no drop in the retail prices of tires to the general public throughout the United States , indicating that the drop in prices to the federal government was due to the elimination of the price-fixing conspiracy ana the advent of competitive bidding , " he said . " The government , therefore alleges that it was injured by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices it paid for tires during the period April 1 , 1938 to September 30 , 1938 and the higher prices it paid during the three preceding sixmonth periods , " he declared . The Department 's suit will name as defendants the Cooper Corp. , Dayton Rubber Manufacturing Co. , Dunlop Tire &; Rubber Corp. , Falls Rubber Co. , Firestone Tire &; Rubber Co. , Fisk Rubber Corp. , General Tire &; Rubber Co. , B. F. Goodrich Co. , Goodyear Tire &; Rubber Co. , Kelly-Springfield Tire Co. , Lee Tire &; Rubber Co. of New York , Mohawk Rubber Co. of N. Y. , Norwatlk Tire &; Rubber Co. , Pennsylvania Rubber Co .. F. G. Schenuit Rubber Co. , Selberling Rubber Co .. United States Rubber Products , Inc. , and U. S. Tire Dealers Corp .                     