@@698952

txt A new understanding of the meaning and function of liberal culture in its relatiou to the world of affairs may come out of a conference of universities that will be held here in the fall , according to Dr. Elmer Ellsworth Brown , Chancellor of New York University . The conference , which will be , held on Nov. 15-17 , will be on the general topic of " The Obligation of Universities to the Social Order . " " Out of the speeches and discussions , there should come something that is germinal to a more adequate higher education , " Dr. Brown told a Monitor correspondent . " I hope the deliberations will yield constructive ideas that will be of interest and importance not only to educators but to society as a whole . " There is abundant evidence that the academic world needs to understand ways in which science can be applied to a higher usefulness in a larger sense  --  not merely in the sense of training for immediate occupation  --  to the larger task of molding the kind of society that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away from the wholly cloistered idea of higher education , we must avoid preoccupation with that which is immediately practical . There is no doubt that the conception of liberal culture needs a new definition , a more competent understanding , in its relation to the world of affairs . The conference should help ' to sketch in more definitely the relation of culture to the whole of life , g-i includints spiritual , moral , governmental , and economic aspects . " Leaders Invited Leaders , both in the United States and abroad , who have been invited . " Educational leaders on both sides of the ocean seem to be reaching out in a very keen , open-minded way for light and to find means by which higher education can be made more serviceable to the public , " he added . The wide scope of the conference , which is to be held under the auspices of New York University in cooperation with other institutions of higher education and research , is indicated by the highly diversified interests of members of the advisory committee . Besides the presidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , the committee includes Mr. Thomas W. Lamont , internationally known financier , who will preside at one session ; Dr. Robert Andrews Milliken , one of the most eminent physicists in the world ; Prof. Paul Monroe , director of the Institute of International Education , Teachers College , Columbia University ; Dr. Henry Suzzallo , a specialist in higher education of the Carnegie Foundation , and Mr. Newton D. Baker , Secretary of War during the Wilson Administration and later a member of the Court of International Justice at The Hague . Six hundred institutions of higher learning and associated groups have been invited to send representatives to the convention to discuss the peculiar responsibilities of universities to changing world conditions . Early Conference The preliminary announcements of the conference recalled that 100 years ago the " fathers of New York University invited the foremost men of that day in education and public affairs to meet in convention in the City of New York with a view to discussion of the question , What does our country now require in the way of higher education ? " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as important today as it was then , " the announcement continued . " It is perhaps even more insistent and more important in view of the fact that the scientific achievements of universities during the last generation have had much to do with producing the present situation in world affairs , and their work in the coming generation will inevitably have to do with the amelioration of the present situation . " The need for the conference had been made startlingly evident by the economic situation and unemployment and the feeling that " something ought to be done that could be done in the field of education , " Dr. Brown explained . " It is generally agreed that the rapid advance in this century of scientific knowledge and ? scientific invention has entered largely into the situation , " he said , " that science has released forces in human society which have not yet been mastered for the common good : and that the universities of the world in which science has been chiefly cultivated . have accordingly had their part in producing the maladjustments which disturb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 