@@702829

txt In a note delivered to the British and French charges d'affaires at 7 o'clock this evening the Italian Government refuses to give its adherence to the conclusions of the Nyon conference unless Italy participates in patrolling the Mediterranean on a footing of perfect equality with Britain and France . This conditional refusal came as a pleasant surprise to most , since the whole attitude of the Italian press and the opinions expressed by authorized circles in the last few days had given the impression that the Italian Government would take a much more extreme position and . reject the Nyon deliberations completely . The Italian reply instead not only leaves the door open for an understanding with Britain and France but lets it be understood very clearly that the government is more than willing to talk things over and eventually cooperate with Britain and France in the Mediterranean if its conditions can be met . The phrasing of the Italian reply is such that it opens the immediate possibility of Italy 's appearing at the side of Britain . and France patrolling the Mediterranean . Sole Basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , only on the score that they give a more important share of the patrol duties to Britain and France than to her . The . inference is obvious that if this difficulty were removed Italy would have no further reason for refusing her adherence . It is therefore felt here that it is now up to Britain and France to show whether they truly want Italian cooperation or not . The importance of the phrasing given to the Italian note is rendered particularly apparent if it is read in conjunction with the paragraph of the Nyon resolution stating that the limits of the zones entrusted to the surveillance of the various powers are subject to revision at any time . The Nyon resolutions just as they stand , therefore , already contain a provision that could permit the Italian wish to be met . What is not clear from summaries published here is what procedure must be adopted to effect revision of the surveillance zones  --  whether Britain and France as the two powers entrusted by the others with patrolling the Mediterranean may on their own initiative invite a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consent of all the Nyon participants must first be obtained . In the latter case it must be seen whether the matter can be taken up through ordinary diplomatic channels or whether the Nyon conference must be convoked again . The Italian reply is quite brief , Iconsisting of only three short paragraphs . The first states that the Italian Goveinment has examined the conclusions of the Nyon conference as well as the memoranda the British and French charges d'affaires delivered yesterday . 1 The second points out that if Italy should adhere to the Nyon agreeIment only the Tyrrhenian Sea would be entrusted to her surveil ; lance , whereas all the rest of the i Mediterranean would be entrusted Ito Britain and France . The third paragraph reads : " The situation which would result for Italy appears unacceptable . Italy 's vital interests in the Mediterranean and the fact that the greatest traffic takes places along her lines of communication bring 1 about the necessity for Italy to have a condition of absolute equal ; ity with any other power . " ? A communiqu ? accompanying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consultation with the German Government . That this is so was brought out by a curious and rather amusing I episode that accompanied the delivery of the note . The British and French charges d'affaires were asked to call at the Palazzo Chigi ' ( shortly before 2 P. M. to receive the Italian reply . When they arrived , Count Galeazzo Ciano , the Foreign Minister , told them that he was very sorry I but he could only let them read the Italian note and could not give them the official text in writing because he had been unable to get hold of Baron Constantin von Neurath in Berlin on the telephone . ' At 7 P. M. , Count Ciano having at last succeeded in talking to the German Foreign Minister and obtaining his approval of the Italian I note , it was officially delivered and it was issued to the press about two hours later . Cheerfulness Is Tempered The cheerfulness spread by the unexpectedly conciliatory tenor of the Italian reply is tempered by the painful impression created by Geneva 's failure to decide that Ethiopia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was with undisguised surprise that Italians read in the newspapers today that Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden of Britain had himself taken the initiative in proposing that this question be shelved for the present . Every one here agrees that Ethiopia 's continued League membership is one of the main obstacles standing in the way of true friendship between Italy and Britain , wherefore it came as something of a shock to learn that the British Foreign Secretary had personally declared himself opposed to immediate consideration ' of the Ethiopian problem . Well-informed Italian circles , however , were at pains this evening to declare that Italy does not care particularly what the League - does about this or any other problem . They said that the League once again had behaved like the traditional ostrich and that its prestige had suffered as a consequence , but that Italy was totally unaffected by its lack of courage since to participate in the work of the League or continue to remain aloof as at present was a matter of complete indifference to her . Nine Powers Sign Accord Wireless to THE Nsw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? With Italy absent and officially silent , the " Nyon arrangement " to end submarine attacks on all but Spanish ships in the Mediterranean was signed here today by Britain , France , Russia , Turkey , Bulgaria , Rumania , Greece , Yugoslavia and Egypt . Foreigg Minister Yvon Delbos of France , presiding , declared : " It will be translated into action tomorrow . " The British said tonight that the Anglo-French Mediterranean patrol would begin in the morning with sixty destroyers and " a large number . of scouting aircraft , " the French supplying 40 per cent of the destroyers and " a substantial proportion " of the aircraft . M. Delbos 's only reference to Italy , from whom no word had been received at the time he spoke , was that they had " invited Italy , a great Mediterranean power , to participate in the work undertaken , as we invited her to participate in the work of this conference . Her help , aside from its own efficacy , would happily complete the work of appeasement we desire to pursue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Britain , who spoke very briefly , saying that he wished to , make " no commentary now , " merely expressed the hope of " close collaboration among all the interested nations , whether they are here or not . " The conference was not closed but merely adjourned indefinitely . M. Delbos stated that the parties reserved the right to reinforce the arrangement if necessary and would consider " other forms of aggression in Geneva in the next sessions . " According to the British understanding , Secretary Aghnides has been authorized to reconvoke the conference to consider action as regards surface craft and possibly aircraft attacks when necessary or " ripe . " Some interpret this as meant to be a loophole also for further arrangements with Italy , which this arrangement leaves possible . M. Delbos emphasized that the accord had been reached in a few days " with a rapidity whose moral effect is one of the main guarantees of its success . " The idea is widespread here that if Italy is not sufficiently impressed by all this for the submarine attacks to cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , expressed the " conviction " that the arrangement " would put an end to the acts of piracy and fully re-establish the freedom and security of navigation in the Mediterranean without the need of reinforcement . " British quarters privately exhibit similar confidence that there will be no more submarine attacks , though some seem to expect that Premier Mussolini will try something else now or at least show his displeasure vocally . Maxim Litvinoff , the Soviet Foreign Commissar , thanked the others at the conference for their " considerate attention " to the Soviet viewpoint and said Russia 's object tions to zones in the Mediterranean were overcome by the Anglo-French e ' aoreement to patrol the whole sea . He stressed that Russia , while again as in the non-intervention patrol of Spain renouncing the exercise of her right to join in the patrol , did not mean thereby to renounce her right to have nitval forces in the Mediterranean when she deemed this necessary . Eden Broadcasts to U. S. Describing submarine piracy in the Mediterranean as " a kind of gangster terrorism of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared yesterday in a special international program over the National Broadcasting Company networks that he believed the agreement reached at the Nylon conference would speedily bring it to an end . " We believe we have put a stop to submarine piracy in the Mediterranean , " he said . " We have set up in that sea a police force . If any submarines attempt to embark on evil purposes they will , I hope and believe , receive , the punishment they deserve . "                     