@@703716

txt ? President Roosevelt accepted today the resignation of Daniel Roper , Secretary of Commerce , effective Dec. 23 . Speculation as to a successor dealt primarily with the name of Harry L. Hopkins , WPA Administrator and close personal friend of ? Mr. Roosevelt . The President said in a letter , made public by the White House , that he knew the " impelling personal reasons " which prompted Secretary Roper to ask to be relieved of his duties and " I accept your resignation with very sincere regret . " Secretary Roper 's resignation was the second among Cabinet members within recent weeks . Attorney General Homer S. Cummings has resigned to resume law practice . Rumors of other changes in the Cabinet have circulated ever since the Nov. 8 election . Among those who have been mentioffed in that connection are Secretary of War Harry H. Wodring and Secretary of the Navy Claude Swanson . The White House announcement said that Secretary Roper wanted to return to private life to attend to personal affairs . His letter of resignation disclosed that he had expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1937 , " my desire to return to private life in order to give needed attention to my personal affairs and which I have not been able to do while in public office . " Until a successor is appointed . leadership of the Commerce Department will fall to Richard C. Patterson , Jr. , a former Executive Vice-President of the National Broadcasting Company , who joined the Department a few months ago . The text of the President 's letter to the secretary follows : " I have your letter asking to be relieved of your duties as secretary of commerce effective december 23rd . Knowing the impelling personal reasons which prompt you . I accept your resignation with very sincere regret . " I am , of course , pleased to have your assurances that your retirement to private life will in no degree affect your interest in the great objectives for which we have striven . I knew that without your telling me , " I should like an opportunity to talk with you before you leave on your southern trip with reference to your first assignment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that your retirement means no interruption of the personal association between us which has lasted for a quarter of a century . " I can never forget the many years you and I worked together in the Wilson Administration in the cause of liberal government . The fundamentals which we strove for then have been and always will be a mutual bond and in these later years you and I have had opportunity greatly to advance them . It is good to know that we continue our work together . " The letter was addressed to " My Dear Dan " and closed " With affect tionate regards . "                     