@@700965

txt The curtain rose today for the 148th session of the State Legislature on a scene of strife over the election of a Democratic Speaker of the Assembly , the first since 1913 . Governor Lehman was delayed in the reading of his annual message for more than an hour by the dramatic conflict in the lower house . The battle over the Speakership started with the opening gavel . It went on for an hour , culminating in the election of Irwin Steingut of Brooklyn by a bare majority . Other Assembly functionaries were elected by a straight party vote . While the supporters and opponents of Mr. Steingut were engaged , Postmaster General James A. Farley , in his capacity as boss of the Democratic organization in the I State , loomed prominently in the proceedings . He sat first in the seat generally occupied by the leader of the majority party of the Assembly and later occupied for a short time the seat of supreme honor at the right hand of the Speaker in the rostrum . Standing there he addressed the Assembly briefly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had taken over most of the lucrative patronage at the disposal of the Assembly from vanquished Republicans . Ovation for . Governor Lehmal 's appearance in the Assembly chamber before a joint session of both houses foi1 lowed a period of drama unprecedented in recent legislative annals . As wave ' after wave of emotion swept the chamber , Joseph A. , for the last ten years Speaker and leader of the Republicans , was replaced by a Democrat . But he retired amid repeated ovations and those who witnessed the scene will be slow in forgetting it . The " Old Guard , " of which as Speaker Mr. has been a symbol , surrendered its . long domination of the Assembly with tokens of abiding sympathy and affection for their former leader . Even Democrats joined , with moist eyes , in the tokens of esteem as the veteran spoke his valedictory , his voice breaking when the tears , which he found it impossible to restrain , suffused his eyes . " Jim " Farley joined in the tributes to his Republican friend . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that before the end of the 1935 session an unemployment insurance measure , to complement Federal legislation , be passed by the Legislature . Most of the recom-1 mendations were in reiteration of pledges made in the Democratic State platform and in speeches by the Governor during his campaign . The lawmakers listened in silence , but as the Governor ended there was a cordial burst of applause . Legislation Is Speeded . Bills , forty of them , covering practically all of the Governor 's recommendation , most of which dealt with labor measures , banking reform and mortgage legislation , were introduced in the Senate and duplicate copies will be handed down to the Assembly tomorrow . Both houses will then meet again in an unprecedented effort to get all the bills reported during the first Lek of the session and a majority of them passed in one or both branches as early as next week . After tomorrow 's session the lawmakers will adjourn until Monday night . Preparatory to speedy action , John J. Dunnigan , following his reelection as temporary President of the Senate , announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of committees had been increased to give at least one committee chairmanship to each of the twenty-nine Democratic members of the upper house . The Assembly spent two hours in organizing . Mr. Steingut , for many years party leader in the lower house , was elected Speaker by a vote of 75 against the 69 cast for Irving M. Ives of Chenango , the Republican candidate . This was two short of the full Democratic vote . Mr. Steingut refrained from voting and George Kaminsky of the Nineteeth Assembly District in Kings cast a lone insurgent vote for himself . - Louis Cuivillier of Manhattan , who had led the opposition to Mr. Steingut and himself , was a candidate for the Speakership , was driven into line before the vote was taken . Storey Elected Clerk . Homer W. Storey of Monroe County was elected clerk to succeed Fred W. Hammond , who had filled that office for a score of years while the Republicans were in control . Richard J. Alton was chosen Sergeant-at-Arms . Irving M. Ives of Chenango , home county of Melvin C. Eaton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Republican floor leader and John F. Killgrew , who hails from the district of the Tammany leader , James J. Dooling , in Manhattan , was appointed leader of the Demomatte majority by Speaker Steingut . The organization slate went through from top to bottom . In the Senate organization was effected more smoothly . Senator Dunnigan was re-elected majority leader as well as president-pro-tern , and Senator George R. Fearon of Onondaga returned to his post as leader of the Republican minority . Jame Riley , a Democratic ward leader in Albany , was elected Clerk of the Senate and William Egloff Jr . of Manhattan , Sergeant-atArms . Mr. Egloff , who is 24 years old , is a football player and was graduated in the class of ' 32 of Manhattan College . The Assembly went into session with Mr. Hammon , Clerk of the 1934 Assembly , in the chair . He announced that the House would proceed to the election of a Speaker and directed the roll of members to be called to ascertain whether there was a quorum . Seating of Helfand Contested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Democrat , elected on the face of the returns by a plurality of fifteen votes in the Sixth district in Kings , was reached . His elec. tion was contested by his Republican-Fusion opponent , Samson Inselbuch . The contest is now before the Court of Appeals on an order restraining the Board of Elections from issuing a certificate of election to Mr. Helfand . Herbert Brownell Jr. , Republican , of the Tenth Manhattan District , asked if Mr. Helfand had a certificate of election , The Democrats , sorely in need of Mr. Helfand 's vote to elect their candidate for Speaker , accepted the gage of battle . Saul S. Streit , a Tammany member , declared that the question of the certificate could not properly be raised , inasmuch as Mr. Helfand 's name appeared on . the roll-call and on the list certified by the Secretary of State , who had already sworn him in . Mr. Steingut maintained that under the law the Assembly was the judge of its own membership and that intervention by the courts could not prevent the , seating of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed down by the Attorney General . The contest would be decided on its merits in the usual way after Mr. Helfand had been seated . Mr. Brownell pressed his point of order , urging that it would be disrespectful to the Court of Appeals to seat Mr. Helfand . " No court shall tell us whom we shall seat , " Mr. Streit objected . " We constitute a coordinate and entirely separate division of the State government . " Mr. Hammond upheld the point of order raised by Mr. Brownell . An appeal from his ruling resulted in reversal by a vote of 75 to 71 . Thereupon Assemblyman Alterman of Manhattan placed Mr. Steingut in nomination for the Speakership and the vote was taken . When Mr. Steingut took his place in the rostrum he addressed the Assembly , paying tribute to his Republican predecessor . This was the signal for the first of the series of ovations for Mr. . The members rose in their seats , cheering and applauding , and Postmaster General Farley got a share of the plaudits . Mr. Ives , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cooperation to Speaker Steingut . " We will undoubtedly cooperate fully with you on many measures , " he assured the Speaker . " On seine , where we can not conscientiously do so , we will follow our own councils . I can assure my friends of the majority that the Republican party is not dead . Of that you will have ample evidence as we go along . " Farley in Leader 's Chair . Mr. Farley was still seated in the chair alloted to the majority leader . Mr. Killigrew sat next to him with Mr. Cuvillier in the seat beyond . When Mr. Killigrew had been ap.pointed majority leader page boys placed two large floral pieces on his desk , but Mr. Farley made no sign of moving . Assemblyman Hamilton of Rockland County , a Republican now representing Mr. Farley 's former home county , called the attention of the Assembly to the situation . " I move , " he said , " that the privileges of the floor be extended to my predecessor from Rockland County . " There was an outburst of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Farley to a seat in the rostrum , appointing a committee to escort him . Soon afterward Mr. Steingut invited the Postmaster General to address the Assembly . The combination party boss and Postmaster General was gracious in his speech to Republicans who had served with him and warmly acknowledged many kindnesses he had received as a young Assemblyman from the retiring Speaker . At this there was another ovation , if anything greater in volume and in warmth for . the grizzled Republican Assembly chief of old , who sat with bowed head as the waves of applause and cheering swelled into a roaring tide . " And right here , " Mr. Farley said , after silence had been restored , " I want to say this . Some time ago I was quoted as saying , or at least a statement was attributed to me to the effect , that the Republican party was dead , I did n't say it that way and I did not mean it that way . All I wanted to say was that just at present the Republican party is pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that followed Mr. Farley left . the rostum , but did not leave the chamber at once . After he had departed the Assemblymen again turned their attention to Mr. . They clamored in chorus , largely from the Democratic side , for a speech . When the former Speaker arose he was deeply moved and at the beginning of his valedictory his voice broke under the stress of deep feeling . He began by saying that he regarded the honor of having presided over the Assembly for ten years in succession second only to an honor that he never attained ? that of occupying the position of Chief Executive of the State . He had enjoyed all the years of his service in the Assembly and the friendships he had made there . " I never made any pretention to being a statesman or a leader , " he went on . " I have tried to hold the balance even and treat every one on both sides of the Assembly with fairness and consideration during my years as Speaker . And now , talking from the floor instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! no one who occupied that place has ever received more evidence of friendship or more cooperation than I received from the floor . " At the end of this year I will probably have retired forever from public life . I will take with me from this chamber precious and comforting memories , I have tried to play the game on the level and stand up for what I thought to be right , irrespective of what this would mean to me politically . That will always be a satisfaction to me during the few years that I may be spared . " Here Speaker Steingut , who earlier had voiced warm affection for the man he had just succeeded , spoke up : ' I can not ever address you except as Mr. Speaker , " he said with shaking voice . " I just could not . To know Joe is to love Joe . I have had my battles with him on this floor , but I have always held him in great affection and I shall continue always to do so . " Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session and the reception of the Governor 's message . The entrance of Governor Lehman was followed by that of the Senate headed by Lieutenant Governor M. William Bray in a body . The Governor was reecived with applause , - all the members rising . The reading of his message occupied forty minutes . Governor Lehman prefaced his recital with an earnest and informal plea for legislative cooperation . " My sincere hope , " he said , " is that we shall work together in perfect harmony and in perfect cooperation for the good of the State and its people . " In his message he stressed that the'unemployment crisis would call for a larger contribution from the State than would be supplied by the $40,000,000 bond issue approved at the polls , and stated that he would ask for additional funds for relief purposes from current revenues . He urged that the moratorium on mortgage principals be extended for another year beyond July , when the present moratorium will expire . He also called for legislation for the relief of holders of guaranteed mortgage certificates through the enactment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the organization of a mortgage commission . He also recommended housing measures to supplement Federal legislation . He advised that the State retain control of the milk situation , which he pronounced the gravest agricultural problem confronting the State . Ultimately , " undesirable " control by the State should be replaced by cooperative marketing measures launched by the industry itself . He recommended the establishment of a regional market in the Southern Tier to receive fruit and vegetables for redistribution in Pennsylvania , New Jersey and the South . Adoption for a second time of the constitutional amendment providing for alternative forms of modernized county government , so that it could be sent to the people for ratification next Fall , was counseled by the Governor , together with a recommendation for more speed in providing new instruments to take the place of the obsolete charters under which most of the cities in the State are now operating . As to governmental reforms for the State , he recommended a constitutional amendment extending the Governor 's term to four years , with elections midway between Presidential elections , and extending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He advocated placing the Department of Agriculture and Markets under the control of the Governor , instead of the Legislature . A fair and equitable reapportionment of Congressional and legislative districts was also demanded . Aside from the recommendation for unemployment insurance , the Governor proposed almost a score of labor law reforms , including shorter hours and a five-day week . Most of these measures have appeared for years on the programs of Democratic Governors . Banking reforms , including a measure to authorize banks and trust companies to become stockholders of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , were recommended .                     