@@700445

txt Mayor LaGuardia proposed yesterday that charter " revision and proportional representation be submitted to the voters as separate issues . The Mayor spoke on the subject " A Horse Car Charter in an Airplane Age " at the " charter-revision " luncheon of the New York City League of Women Voters in the Hotel Astor . Predicting that politicians of both parties would gang up in " a desperate effort " to defeat revision anyhow , the Mayor advocated the separation of the two issues lest those who favor revision but oppose proportional representation join the opposition to a new charter . The Mayor urged a " short , simple , understandable city charter . " Among the specific provisions he suggested were the disqualification of any Mayor from accepting a nomination for any other public office for five years after his term , abolition of county offices within the city government , limitation of the Borough Presidents ' authority so that they would no longer have any share in the appropriation of funds and the consolidation of all city improvements and repairs under one public works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged that " petty politicians " are now seeking to " hand-pick " the charter revision commission , and demanded that this body be composed of representative men and women not subject to control of machine politics . He asserted that the waste and duplication in. the present charter were not accidental but deliberately written in to make political jobs and opportunities for privilege , and he predicted that both Republican and Democratic politicians would combine in the 1937 election to prevent the continuance of non-partisan government as exemplified by his administration . The Mayor apologized for not having tackled the problem of keeping the city 's streets clean as the Sanitation Department " is one department we have n't got to yet , " but promised to get to it " in a few more weeks . " If anything goes wrong in his administration , he promised , he would remove the trouble or remove the officeholder responsible . Other speakers were Professor Howard Lee of Columbia University , Miss Pearl Bernstein , secretary of the Board of Estimate and former municipal affairs secretary of the City League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the State League and former chairman for the city ; and Miss Caroline Florence Lexow , chairman of the City League . Mrs. C. Reinold Noyes was chairman of the meeting . Mayor LaGuardia began his address by referring to a statement Professor had made to the effect that the character of public officials was more important than the nature of the city charter . " In the interest of good government , " Professor had said , " I would rather ride in a horse and buggy with Mayor LaGuardia than in an airplane with Jimmy Walker . " " It . is true , " the Mayor said , " that at least as much can be accomplished with a poor charter and honest officials as with a modern charter and the Vvrong kind of administration . " Bad Government Aided Many . Asserting that he was trying to give the city a nonpartisan govern-. ment as an experiment , the Mayor said that opposition to his efforts to " eliminate waste , favoritism and ' the squandering of public funds , " was owing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city have thrived on bad government " and are seeking to . protect their privis leges . He predicted that there would be a union of groups opposing a new city charter in order to save their own vested interests , and that such a fusion " might be able to ' defeat the best kind of a charter . " Quoting a " prominent machine politician , " without naming him , who had told him he could defeat any charter in his borough simply by appealing to selfish interests , the Mayor added : . " The sad part of that is that it is true . " " The charter revision commission , " he continued , " must be made up of representative men and women who have the confidence of the people of the city and a strong enough following to approve the proposed charter . Any charter that is the product of a commission hand-picked by petty politicians would be rejected by the people of the city , and I have no confidence in those who sponsor any such commission . " The Mayor said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the city government if he had his eye on another public office . " Therefore I would propose a provision in the new charterr , " he said , " that any person elected Mayor is disqualified for five years thereafter from accepting any nomination for any other office . " He asserted that politicians had " a peculiar viewpoint , " that they thought almost exclusively in terms of " deals , swaps and exchanges , " and that few had higher aims than " patronage , privileges , favors and elections . " " We 've tried to construct a Cabinet without any consideration for political lines , " he went on , " and now there Is n't a politician in. town talking to me any more . You ca n't just be nice to a politician . He is not satisfied if you are simply nice and cordial . A politician never goes to a public official for anything ; that is proper . My fourteen years in Congress taught me that . They did n't come to me . But I learned , it by watching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican and a Democratic politician . I do n't like either . " Mayor LaGuardia warned that unles.s the citizens of New York " can be aroused to a point of indignation , " the ' politicians would force them to remain under the same kind of charter they have had for years . Calls County System Obsolete . " There is no reason at all for having five counties within one city , " he asserted . " It is obsolete and unnecessary . Not only that , but I believe that before long the county government will have to be eliminated entirely . " He ridiculed the county officers ? Sheriff , Register , County Clerk and Commissioner of Records . The Sheriff was simply a process server , elected to office and provided with " an exalted title , automobile and liveried chauffeur , half a dozen deputies and several secretaries " ; the County Clerk a " glorified file clerk , " and the Register and Commissioner of Records merely unnecessary duplicates of the County Clerk , all at the expense of the taxpayer . Condemns City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of the city government is enmeshed , he said : " It 's easier to exchange a prisoner of war than it is to transfer a stenographer from the Tax Department to the Water Department . " He also criticized the duplication of effort necessaary under the present charter when such jobs as repaving streets is done . " If you started a repaving job at the Battery , " he said , " you would first run into the Dock Department because it is a marginal street at the Battery . They would have to have plans and specifications and an that . Then you would get to Battery Park and run into the same thing in the Park Department . Next you 'd get to Broadway , and rim up against the Borough President , and yon know every Borough President is a little Polish Corridor in himself . Next at Brooklyn Bridge Plaza you would . he under the jurisdiction of the Department of Plant and Structures . There is no reason why we ca n't have one public works department for the whole city . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he declared . " The more duplications and-extravagance , the more privileges for the politicians . " The Mayor urged the league to help crystallize public opinion for real charter revision by a non-political commission , and to join in a campaign for the abolition of county offices within the city . As a borough government , he advocated that the new charter continue to provide for a Borough President , but to restrict his authority . " It is ridiculous , " he said , " to have the Borough President sitting on the budget-making authority appropriating funds that he himself expects to spend . I would . separate the appropriating from the administrative or spending power . The Borough President might have supervision over spending in his borough , but nothing else . " He said there seemed to be a real division of opinion on proportional representation , and therefore he favored separating the submission of the charter to the people under these two questions : " Shall the proposed charter be approved ? " and " Shall the proposed charter be accepted with proportional repre-sentation ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any kind of charter revision , " he concluded . " We ought to pevent the joining of those forces with those for a charter but opposed to proportional representation . " Professor asserted that Mayor LaGuardia 's election had brought charter revision " nearer practicality " than it has ever been . Calling the present charter a " monstrosity " in its complicated and cumbersome form , he urged that the new charter be so simple that " the common man may be able to under , stand it and to fix responsibility . "                     