@@704177

txt The County Reform Bill Civil Service Employes Found Covered by Referendum Provisions Peter Schneider 's letter appearing in THE TIMES of Aug .. 29 erroneously stated that no representative of a civil service group was invited by the Mayor to participate in the conferences on the county reform referendum . The fact is that representatives of the State , County and Municipal Workers of America ( C. I. 0. ) were invited and did participate in the Mayor 's conferences on the matter . A second inaccuracy in Mr. Schneider 's letter was to the effect that the referendum bill on county reform does not contain ? a provision for the protection of civil service employes . I do not know whether Mr. Schneider has read the proposed bill nor how he would construe the following provisions contained therein : " EMPLOYES : RETENTION AND TRANSFER OF " 968 , a . The employes in the competitive or labor class of the State or municipal civil service in the offices of the Register and Register of Deeds and of the Sheriff in each of the counties within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such office shall be retained , and the existing status and rights of such employes in respect to pensions , seniority , rank , grade , tenure and promotion shall continue unimpaired . Any such employe shall be assigned or transferred to the municipal civil service with a title and duties similar to those heretofore held and performed by him either in the offices of the Register or Sheriff of the city or in any other city office . " b . The employes in the unclassified service or in the exempt or noncompetitive class in the offices abolished may be similarly assigned or transferred upon the certificate of the Commissioner of Correction , the Register or Sheriff of the city that the services of any such employe are necessary to the efficient conduct of such office , subject to the prior approval of the Municipal Civil Service Commission and upon the passing of such examinations as such commission may require . " APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION OF EMPLOYES " 1046 . All appointments and promotions of the Register and of the employes in the office of the Register shall be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil service . " APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION OF EMPLOYES " 1066 . All promotions and appointments of the Sheriff and of the employes in the office of the Sheriff shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the classified municipal civil service . " It would be extremely regrettable if the ' public received the impression that organized civil service opposed county reform . Speaking for our own organization , may I say that we heartily endorse county reorganization and we are actively participating in the efforts to secure 50,000 signatures to the referendum petition . HENRY W. WENNING , President , New York District , State , County and Municipal Workers of America . New York , Aug. 31 , 1939 . Effects of Our Neutrality Law To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : We all hope for peace in Europe . However , should there be a war , and should Congress fail to amend the Neutrality Law , President Roosevelt will presumably bar the export of ammunitions to all belligerents . England and France , being in command of the seas , will try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  mainly in Canada . It is not improbable that the orders for the Bren machine gun , and for aircraft , have been placed by England in Canada as a precautionary measure  --  i. e. , . to partly offset the lack of our munitions . If war comes , England and Canada will do their utmost to increase the production of the Canadian war industry ; existing plants will be enlarged and new ones established . In these efforts they will be aided by American capital which will go to Canada for profitable business  --  business illegitimate in the United States , thanks to the Neutrality Law . Besides , wages paid by the Canadian war industry will probably be higher than those paid in the United States , which circumstance will result in an exodus of skilled workers , to the detriment of our defense program . J. A. ROCHMAN . Brooklyn , Aug. 30 , 1939 . Ignoring Partisan Labels To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In an editorial appearing in your issue of Aug. 24 you say , among other things , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is especially desirable that the next District Attorney of Kings County should not be hampered in the discharge of his duties by partisan considerations or connections . " Following this statement you indicate that because there are three candidates it is likely that the people will not have the advantage of an independent administration of the District Attorney 's office . Upon this phase of the matter I would point out that in 1933 Mayor La Guardia was engaged in a three-cornered fight in which he was backed by a union of the Republican and City Fusion parties as well as independent voters generally . If he had been frightened by registration figures , he would not have ventured to run and in that event would not have been elected and re-elected Mayor . At present I have only the Republican designation . But in view of the fact that I shall be entirely free to administer the office without threat , dictation or compulsion upon the part of any one , I feel justified in asking for the support of the City Fusion party as well as independent voters generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of men and women who stand for honest , efficient and devoted ' public service . For some years I have entertained the , view that partisan labels should not be : used by candidates for municipal office . Fortunately , people are more and more ' coming to embrace the sensible notion that a partisan label has nothing to do ' with the qualifications and fitness of one who seeks to be elected to public office . There are certain clear and important issues in this contest to be presented to the voters of Kings County . In under- : taking to do my part I shall not hesitate to be straightforward and frank with my fellow-townsmen of Kings . I am sure they will want to restore their county to the high position it has , at times heretofore held by reason of the outstand-. ing character and ability of its District , Attorneys . WILLIAM R. BATES , Chief Justice , Court of Special Sessions of the City of New York . New York , Aug. 29 , 1939 . Bigger and Better Buses Larger Vehicles Suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEW YORK TIMES : The announcement that Mayor La Guardia was negotiating for the removal of the last trolley cars from Manhattan ? has brought forth a surprising protest . While the replacement of trolleys by ' buses is supposed to denote progress , the correspondents show little preference for the kind of bus service obtainable in New York . Most of the objections are traceable to traffic conditions , to the dimensions of the buses and to one-man operation . There is a legal limit on the size of buses which makes it uneconomical to have more than one man on a 5-cent bus . Thus the driver is required to keep his eyes on both doors , to make change , issue transfers and answer questions , ' and to keep the bus halted while passengers enter slowly and fumble for the fare . I believe that the objections might be largely overcome if the city authorities would cooperate with the bus lines by . permitting vehicles of the following description on long and busy routes which . do not include sharp turns : This bus would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' floor and forward of the rear wheels . At the extreme front and rear would be double doors , as on the new Brooklyn trolleys , permitting two persons to board and ' leave at the same time . The doors would open on broad platforms , only one step above the ground . In addition to the driver , who would operate the front doors , there would be a faretaker stationed just forward of the exit platform to collect fares or make change if a turnstile is used and work the rear doors . The large size and weight of this bus would result in greater stability and comfort . The loading facilities and pay-before-you-leave feature should permit an increase in speed of at least 50 per cent , thus requiring fewer buses . The side sway and jerking , however , can be reduced only by vigorous police action against double parkers and similar traffic nuisances . HAROLD SANDON . Brooklyn , Aug. 31 , 1939 . Seeking Information To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Does it or does it not seem rather odd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to rave and gesticulate from four to five hundred million souls into a thing they do not want ? In fact , they abhor it . Is n't there something a bit screwy , not to say moronic , about this ? GEORGE W. HARRINGTON . Marion , Mass. , Aug. 26 , 1939.                     