@@697632

txt A preVielonel scheme for the creation of an international bank for agricultural credits has resulted from one week 's study by a delegation appointed by the League of Nations ' financial committee , the ? elegation 's work coming to an end here today . The uronosed institute being of particular European interest , its definite organization will , after further studies , be submitted to the Pan-European Commission and the League Council for action in May . In its provisional report the delegation suggests the creation of an international institute borrowing on its own credit in the international markets and lending on mortgage security the money so ob'ained , through the intermediary of national or local institutes . It is suggested the capital be $50,000,000 , under some sort of supervision within the framework of the League , under whose auspices the institute would be placed . Agree With East Europeans . The conclusions reached by the delegation coincide with - the results of recent studies in the Eastern European agricultural countries on possible remedies for the shortage of capital from which they are at present suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of an international institute to serve as an intermediary between the agriculturists of Central and Eastern Europe and the financial markets is " feasible and desirable . " In defining the principles upon which the creation and administration of the institute should be based , the delegation asserts that the first prerequisite is to surround the new bank with an atmosphere of confidence . The governments therefore will be asked to make financial and legislative efforts to endow the new organization with some measure of increase the difficulties of its creation . As regards the bank 's administrative board , it is affirmed it would be appointed by and from the members of the Pan-European commission . solidity , especially by rendering it able to obtain a sizable reduction of the rate of interest in the borrowing countries . It is asserted that the general economic improvements thus obtained would be felt also in the industrial countries of Western Europe through the opening of larger markets for their products . Only in the beginning of the bank 's existence is the assistance of the governments deemed " indispensable " by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds , it would seem that the bank 's administration should not be subject to political influence and that it should operate according to the principles of private finance . Want Private Bankers to Aid . Ti effective participation of priNato capitalists in the subscription of the shares and in the administration of the bank appears desirable to the delegation , the more so as it would be difficult to refuse to the governments a certain after-the-fact supervision over the general policy of the institute . The seat of the proposed bank has been discussed only informally , the delegation making no suggestion in its report . Switzerland does not seem likely to be chosen , because of the same legal difficulties which have faced the establishment of the Bank for International Settlements at Basle , which received facilities only for a period of fifteen years . With ' the proposed bank having especially to do with long-term credits , the uncertainty in connection Igift future Swiss iegislation. would                     