@@703257

txt New England 's insistence on states rights In disposing of power from its flood control dams is a " matter of principle and of dollars and cents . " Gov . George D. Aiken , of Vermont , told the House Flood Control Committee today . Governor Aiken vigorously opposed the McCormack bill , which would make construction of flood control dams and reservoirs the country over a 100 per cent federal matte ' and obviate the necessity of interstate compacts already entered into by New England States . The Vermont Governor described the present controversy between New England States and the Federal Government over Jurisdiction as " regrettable . " " It is self-evident , " he declared , " that there are sufficient problems confronting the people to make it regrettable that our National and State Government should engage in protracted disputes of this sort over matters of jurisdiction . And it is paricularly regrettable in an instance like this when the New England States have already solved a regional problem on a regional basis in strict accordance with federal law . Wants Rights Preserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the destruction of the balance of power between the States and National Government , being contrary to our federal principle is not a good thing for America ; and that local or regional problems should be handled on that basis by the states that are immediately concerned in co-operation with the Federal Government . " Vermont does not approve of any bill which gives the Federal Government the right to take without permission the natural resources of any State or the authority to self-government now vested in the states . " Change in the present flood control policy would mean losses to Vermont and other New England States from highway and bridges relocations , in tax revenues to towns and states , depreciation in the value of property adjacent to storage or retention dams , and restricted residential and recteational development , . Belongs to State 's People Although he Insisted that , power development at the Vermont dams will be negligible , Governor Aiken said he felt the people of the State and not the Federal Government should have control over its disposition . He revealed that President Roosevelt indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him in January that the Federal Government should have title because sometime there would be income from ' electricity there and he wanted it developed according to the Federal yardstick policy . " If there 's any value there , we feel the State should have it , " said the Vermont Governor . He told the Committee that Vermonters ' present self-reliance is worth a lot and should be preserved . " I object to either the Federal Government or the public utilities gobbling up resources that belong to the people of our State , " he declared .                     