@@703787

txt The United States cruiser Omaha , after twenty-four hours in the bomb-sprayed harbor of Caldetas , Spain , was lying at anchor again in the harbor of Villefranche tonight , having fulfilled her mission without accident . Members of the United States Embassy staff who left Barcelona were landed in Marseille at 9 o'clock this morning . Other Americans who wanted to leave had been conveyed ahead aboard the destroyer Badger . The Omaha 's departure from Cal , deta.s was held up last night be , cause in , the confusion attendant on Ithe evacuation of Barcelona it was impossible to locate Mr. Harrington , a member of the Embassy staff . Rear Admiral Henry E. Lackey decided to remain until he was heard from , and it was not until 10 o'clock last night that it was learned by radio that Mr. Harrington was safe in Perpignan , France . Then the Omaha weighed anchor and left Caldetas . Threatened by Bombs Twice during the short stay there Spanish Insurgent bombers flew over the port and rained bombs which not only threatened the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were trying to come aboard . The first raid was early yesterday morning , when twelve planes circled over villages and dropped bombs , most of which fell in the wr " er nearer French ships than the Omaha , but close enough . Lieutenant Edward L. Woodyard and Aviation Cadet Frank J. Peterson , who were in the Omaha 's whaleboat , said afterward : " Projectiles and shell fragments were raining about us , and we thought for a while we would bring some of them back in our pockets . " One of the Americans waiting on shore said they had suffered air raids during the night when a house reserved for the French Embassy was destroyed . When Jules Henry , French Ambassador , arrived he had to take refuge with the British Charge d'Affaires . " We had had plenty of air raids in Barcelona , " said the American refugee , " and the best sight we had seen in weeks was when the Omaha 's searchlight played on the Stars and Stripes when she came to anchor at Caldetas . " Even before warning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harold A. Houser , gunnery officer on the Omaha , had four of his 6-inch guns trained and ready to fire at a second 's notice . " I am inclined to think , " he said , " that if any bomb had fallen as close to the Omaha as they did to a French destroyer nearer shore , we would have gotten orders to send them something to suggest they should be more careful . " The second raid took place at the dinner hour last night when the Omaha was still in Caldetas harbor although the Badger had left . Between courses the diners rushed frequently to the deck to see the town , a mile and a half from ship , being heavily bombed . It was too dark to see the planes , but their motors - , uld be heard plainly and the flames from bursting bombs were tremendous . There was also a constant stream of automobile lights passing . Omaha officers suggested the airplanes were trying to destroy the road and several ammunition factories near the villages . Heard of Four Fatalities United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aboard the Omaha , landed at Marseille . He was ashore all day in Caldetas while the bombing was in progress , and he learned of only four fatalities , although he thought hundreds were injured . Lieut . Comdr . Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter , aide to Captain Francis Cogswell , United States naval attach ? at Paris , left Caldetas early this morning in the car of Lieut . Col. Henry B. Cheadle , military attach ? at Barcelona . It was stated ' before the Omaha sailed that all foreign correspondents had left Barcelona . When the Omaha was off Toulon this morning two French battleships saluted her . The Omaha replied with a salute of fifteen guns . Besides embassy staff members the Omaha landed a large quantity of records from the Barcelona embassy . Admiral Lackey and Captain Wallace L. Lind , with their wives , were ashore at 4 P. M. today and the Omaha 's adventure                     