@@701920

txt Governor Lehman , in a new letter tonight to i Horace N. Dougherty , foreman of the Drukman grand jury , again flatly refused to act on the charges demanding the removal of District Attorney Geoghan of Kings County until the grand jury had completed its investigations and prosecutions . After informing Mr. Dougherty that he appreciated the hard work and fine service the grand jury was rendering , and that he realized the members honestly believed the charges against the District Attorney were timely , the Governor added : " Nevertheless , it definitely appears to me that consideration of the charges should await the completion of the investigation and prosecutions . " Governor Lehman made it clear , however , that the moment he is advised that the grand jury had completed its work he would give care- I ful consideration to the charges against Mr. Geoghan . He insisted that the procedure which he intended to follow , and which he characterized as " orderly , fair , and in the long run most effective , " would not cause any undue delay in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive Loses Little Time The Governor 's letter to Mr. Dougherty , which he dictated twenty-four hours after receiving a second communication from the grand jury taking exception to his earlier statement that he would defer action on the charges against Mr. Geoghan until the investigation was finished , said : " At the very outset permit me to reaffirm , in clear and simple language , that I intend to give and will give most careful consideration to your charges against the District Attorney of Kings County . As I have advised you in my previous letter , I believe that this should be done in the same orderly manner that has marked the handling of similar proceedings since I assumed public office . " I appreciate the hard work and the fine service you and your associates have been rendering . I have a full realization that you honestly believe transmittal of the charges , to be timely . Nevertheless , it definitely appears to me that consideration of the charges should await the completion of the investigation and prosecutions . " As I have previously informed you , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation and prosecution , I will immediately give consideration to the charges which you have filed with me , This orderly , fair and , in the long run , most effective procedure , need not cause undue delay . Cites Power of the Jury " It is reported that trials will commence next Monday , June 1 . They will be conducted , I am certain , with all possible expedition and thoroughness . The grand jury , the Special Assistant Attorney General and the Extraordinary Term of the Supreme Court have it cons- pletely within their powers to expedite and complete the investigation and prosecutions as directed in my executive order of Dec. 4 , 1935 . " Allow me to assure you that I am no less anxious than you to strengthen law enforcement in the City and State of New York . May I point out that the whole investigation into all of the aspects of the Drukman case was started at my direction . The grand jury of which you are members was called into being by my act . The superseding of the District Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney General , Mr. Hiram C. Todd , was on my order . " The Extraordinary Special and Trial Term of the Supreme Court was convened by my executive order . The Hon. Erskine C. Rogers now presides over this term on my designation . " Like you gentlemen , I am deeply interested in all phases of this situation . I am deeply concerned both with the grand jury investigation and the prosecution of the criminal cases that arise therefrom , and with the disposition of charges affecting a public official of this State . Link to Drukman Case Holds " In my opinion , it is not possible for the Governor to give thorough and proper consideration to your charges as a matter separate and distinct from all the many aspects of the Drukman case . " The Governor of this State receives a great many charges against public officials . In the consideration and disposition of these many charges , I have invariably insisted upon the maintenance of a fair and orderly procedure . I am convinced that this attitude has greatly advanced the ends of justice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope that you will explain to the members of the grand jury my reasons for desiring to follow the same orderly procedure in this case , as we have in all other similar proceedings . " I again wish to say that I greatly appreciate the work that has been done . I am sure that you and the Special Assistant Attorney General will continue to expedite the work just as much as possible , so that I may proceed without undue delay with the consideration of the charges which you have filed with me . " Wo n't Comment on Letter Both Horace N. Dougherty , foreman of the grand jury , and Special Prosecutor Hiram C. Todd refused to comment on the letter when it was read to them last night . It was authoritatively indicated , however , that the Governor 's reply will be considered as an end to the correspondence between him and the grand jury . The conciliatory tenor of yesterday 's letter , in contrast to the peremptory tone of Mr , Lehman 's first communication , was regarded as " quite satisfactory " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Todd said the grand jury probably would close its investigation in July and indicated that there would be no more indictments . " But you never can tell what will break , " he added . Members of his staff were working overtime last night assembling th , mass of evidence which will be offered against eight defendants in the conspiracy trial which is scheduled to start next Monday . The Governor 's reiteration of his decision to take no action on the charges against Mr. Geoghan until the end of the inquiry emphasized , to persons closely identified with the investigation , the importance of that trial . Mr. Todd has made tentative plans , it was said , to go to Albany tomorrow to argue personally against the appeal by Leo P. Byk , alleged former Brooklyn slot-machine " czar , " from a subpoena duces tecum calling for the production of Byk 's bank records back to May , 1928 . Byk strenuously objected to the special prosecutor 's action in calling for records which antedated the Drukman case itself . He was overruled in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will hear arguments tomorrow . Legal Array Is Retained It was disclosed yesterday that Bernard S. Sandler would represent James J. Kleinman , stepfather of Assistant District Attorney William W. Kleinman , in the conspiracy trial . The younger Kleinman will be represented by David F. Price , a Brooklyn attorney . Henry G. Singer , former chief Assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn , has retained I. Gainsburg ; Jacob Silverman , an electrical goods dealer , will be represented by James E. Wilkinson ; former Magistrate Leo Healy will appear for Detective Gieussepe F. L. Dardis , and William Anzalone will be counsel for his cousin , Carmine Anzalone , former clerk in the State , Assembly . These six defendants are jointly accused of conspiring to protect the murderers of Samuel Drukman , who was beaten and strangled to death in Brooklyn on March 3 , 1935 . Ike Luckman and Max Silverman , who were also named in the indictment , are fugitives from justice .                     