@@701954

txt With a strong prospect of amendment to deprive coal operators of representation on the governing commission , the Guffey price-fixing law for the coal industry has been put in a favorable position for passage early this week . Interested members of Congress predicted that the bill would slide through during the legislative doldrums resulting from delay of the conference report on the tax bill . Under a previous agreement , the bill comes up in the House when it meets today . A meeting of the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee also was ordered by Chairman Wheeler for this morning with the intention of reporting bill to the Senate immediately . Amendment Prom Senate Group The amendment is e:cps.ct.ed frore  --  the Senate committee on basis of ' coseirneritIA .. nade don-hs tfthadmony on the bin . Senator Wheeler elared the provision for tains members to represent producers on the Bituminous Coal Commission , set up to administer the act , was without - precedent " . The commission proposed would consist of seven members , two representing the operators , two labor and three the public . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulate their own prices , you are setting a precedent that has never been accepted by Congress , " Senator Wheeler said . Charles O'Neill , of New York , chairman of National Conference of Bituminous Coal Producers and chief spokesman for those favoring the measure , said his group would be satisfied with an amendment providing that two commissioners should have experience in the coal industry but no present financial interest . The leading proponents of the bill consider it as " stop-gap " legislation . John L. Lewis . United Mine Workers president , told the Senate committee his union wanted it " only as a temporary expedient until Congress decides what can be done for the coal industry . " The present draft provides for termination at the end of four years and Mr. Lewis said a two-year period has been suggested to him . 8111 Necessary to Set Wages Mr. O'Neill told the committee it would be impossible to negotiate another bituminous wage agreement without the bill . " Cuts in wages will have to result if you do n't provide support for the coal price structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage contract were breached , the union would shut the industry down completely while a solution was found rather than suffer " petty " sank skirmishes trying to keep wages up . Opposition to the bill was summarized by R. L. Ireland . vice president of the Hanna Coal Co. , who said liii had always believed in high wages but did not think customers should pay for idle , high-cost , inefficient mines . He and other witnesses pointed out that it would restrict the elastic price structure " necessary " to market different grades of coal . As now written , the bill largely salvages the sections of the old Guffey law which were not definitely invalidated by the Supreme Court . It creates the coal commission and an independent consumers counsel , both under the Interior Department Enforcement Method Proposed Enforcement would be obtained by permitting a draw-back of 90% on the 15% tax levied on the sale price of coal at the mine , to producers who accepted the bituminous coal code set out in the bill . The code would operate through 23 district boards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ district and propose minimum prices to the commission . Commission also would be given power to fix maximum prices . Use of unfair methods of competition would be considered violations of the code and would subject operator to loss of his 90% rebate .                     