@@702261

txt The French liner Champlain lay last night at her pier in the North River , at Forty-eighth Street , her hold filled with 525 tons of Christmas perfumes , wine and other cargo which were there when she docked early yesterday afternoon and seem doomed to return to her home port of Havre when she sails this noon . Acting on orders of Joseph P. Ryan , president of the Internstional Longshoremen 's Association , I a squad of workers entered the Champlain 's pier upon her arrival and unloaded her mails , seventyfive tons of perishable freight and fifteen automobiles owned by passengers , while pier porters unloaded the passengers ' baggage . Officials of the French Line and representatives of importers , whose immediate fortunes rested upon their ability to have their freight landed , stood about watching the longshoremen at work . Mr. Ryan and a few officials of his association also were present to see that only the specified articles were removed . The task completed , the men reported and were discharged , and the work of preparing the ship for her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat to refuse service to the ship and to all French ships arriving in American ports as long as the French dock workers ' union persisted in its policy of refusing service to American ships docking in France . The French workers insist that the American Federation of Labor recognize the Amsterdam Transport International as the price of longshore service and Mr. Ryan , as president of the American longshoremen , was authorized by his district council Tuesday night to retaliate . Lying on the Champlain 's pier last night were 500 tons of cargo which were to have been carried away by her today . Mr. Ryan said that the freight would not be loaded and that the freight aboard the iflagship Normandie , which is due to arrive here Monday , also would be refused service if the French dock workers ' policy remained effective . The Champlain 's freight included 9,000 cases of wine intended for the Christmas trade . Importers said that because of a new Federal ruling which is to become effective Dec. 15 this consignment upon be- ing returned to France must be completely unpacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , entailing expense and inconvenience as well as loss of the Christmas market . Henri Morin de Linelays , resident director of the French Line , did little more than shrug his shoulders and decry the fact that his line had been made the innocent victim of a longshoremen 's fight . Mr. Ryan had little to add to previous statements . " The decision was forced upon us , " he said . " We want to do all the work we can get , but we have to let the French longshoremen know they can not run our ships . " Mr. de Linclays said he thought Mr. Ryan should have warned the French workers of the consequences of their attitude , to which Mr. Ryan replied that the French should have known there would be trouble . Basil Harris , vice president of the International Mercantile Marine Company , whose ship , the Washington , was turned away at Havre without service last week , commented that the Champlain was treated more favorably than the Washington . " They would not even unload our perishable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are in-censed at Ryan 's refusal to call his longshoremen from the piers of American ships as a sympathy gesture and who threatened to replace his men on the French dock , failed to appear . During the morning Joseph Curran , chairman of the strikers ' strategy committee , circularized the waterfront with a plea to strikers not to attempt to service the Champlain . In his circular Mr. Curran charged that the rumor of the seamen 's threat had been spread by enemies " to provoke ill feeling between the seamen and their longshore brothers . " Soon after the Champlain passed up the North River to her pier the United States liner Manhattan sailed from West Twentieth Street for the Channel ports and Hamburg . She was forty minutes behind schedule in starting and was lacking five able-bodied seamen and an oiler in her crew . Officials of the line ordered her down to Clifton , S. I. , while they sought replacements ashore . Early this mornshe got away , passing Sandy Hook at 1:30 A. M. The Manhattan 's departure , considered a major victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exciting morning in the vicinity of her pier . Eight arrests were made after assaults upon persons ' arriving at the pier afoot or in taxicabs , and for a while a general melee between pickets and the police was threatened . The strike committee charged that police started early in the morning to clear all seamen out of the neighborhood , entering restaurants where the men were dining and ordering ' all transients out of the street . The committee complained that the men were " shoved around " with unnecessary vigor , and as a result organized a picket line of several hundred men near the Manhattan 's pier . The series of assaults started about 3 A. M. , when a band of men halted a taxicab at Eleventh Avenue and Eighteenth Street , dragged the chauffeur from his seat and turned the car over . The passen-1 ger , described as John Martin , 35 , of 407 West Eighteenth Street , suffered a possible fracture of the skull , a fractured right ankle and internal injuries , and was taken to St. Vincent 's Hospital , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Captain Thomas A. Dugan , head of the Alien Squad , was on the pier with a group of his men and police , mounted and afoot , were distributed in streets adjacent to Eleventh Avenue as passengers arrived . Visitors arriving to bid bon voyage to friends were barred from the ship and the credentials of ship line officers and newspaper men were carefully checked . There were 347 passengers , including 118 cabin , 69 tourist and 160 third class . She carried 8,777 sacks of mail and 2,4d5 tons of freight . Police Commissioner Valentine said that he had issued no order , special or otherwise , calling for the molesting of the strikers and that no complaint about the tactics of the police had been filed with him . " We have always countenanced peaceful picketing and always will , " he said . " However , protection of life and property must be maintained . " Charles Hann , New York County commander of the American Legion , yesterday called the attention of Harry W. Colmery , national commander , to the policy of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a strong resolution at the last national convention went on record in no uncertain way as regards the American Merchant Marine . " he said . " The Legion furthermore has accepted the invitation of the French Government to form a pilgrimage to France after the convention in 1937 . I feel that the discrimination against American vessels in French ports will have a decidedly adverse effect upon the reception of the French Government 's invitation in the general ranks of the American Legion , and I would urge you to use your influence in official quarters and through the French War Veterans with the view to having this discrimination discontinued before its effect might be widespread both here and abroad . " Mr. Ryan last night released a. letter to Harry Bridges , president of the San Francisco local of the longshoremen 's association , in reply to his charge that Atlantic Coast pier workers were being used by Mr. Ryan as strikebreakers . Mr. Ryan pointed out that he had given Mr. Bridges assurance of the support of the Atlantic Coast workers in the efforts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increased wages and had carried out his word . He did not promise , he said , ' to support a strike of the Maritime Federation of the Pacific , in which the West Coast longshoremen are now an active unit . Two hundred longshoremen refused yesterday to unload the freighter Mobile City in Boston because her crew was on strike . Mr. Ryan last night ordered the men to report to work today . The San Francisco Labor Council reiterated its support of the Pacific Coast strike and placed responsibility for the present tie-up of shipping on the Dollar , Matson and American Hawaiian lines . Merchants of Hawaii turned to Japan for food because of the tieup of shipping from the Pacific Coast of the United States , The Associated Press reported . A Japanese ship line said it would send a special cargo ship from Kobe to Honolulu with foodstuffs ordered by private concerns and another Japanese ship was reported due at Honolulu Friday .                     