@@704296

txt Just a month after a Finnish mission for the first time went to Moscow at Joseph Stalin 's invitation to discuss " certain economic and political questions interesting both countries , " disappointment succeeded hope as it was reported that the Finnish and Soviet delegates had failed to establish a common basis for further discussions . Hopes had been raised yesterday by insistent rumors that an agreement had already been reached on the principal points . A communique today , however , said : " The negotiations have not yet succeeded in establishing a basis enabling the delegations to reach an agreement . " According to a statement by Finance Minister Vaino A. Tanner of Finland , there has been no discussion of particular points yet , as most of the principal questions are still open . Thus for the third time within a month Dr. Juho Kusti Paasikivi , head of the Finnish delegation , was obliged to inform the Cabinet in Helsinki that a deadlock had been reached and to ask for further instructions , as his latest reply to the modified Soviet proposals seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finnish delegation is remaining in Moscow , however . No Word of Nature of Hitch Official quarters here refrain from commenting on the nature and extent of the new hitch , which is regretted because it had been ex-pected the Finnish counterproposals submitted yesterday would afford firm ground for progress and give evidence of Finland 's willingness to meet the Soviet demands as far as possible . It is conjectured here that the Russians insist , as their foremost condition , on obtaining the coveted naval base in the southwest of Finland at the entrance to the Gulf of Finland , probably at Hangoe or a neighboring site . The Finnish Cabinet is understood to have refused to consider this Soviet demand in its latest instructions . Well-informed circles here are convinced that neither the Cabinet nor Parliament will be willing to cede or lease any territory on the mainland in this district , which is vital to this country 's independence . The talks may also have broken down over the ' Soviet demand for frontier revisions . The Finns , who have spent large sums on fortifications , naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expose them to the same fate that overtook Czecho-Slovakia after the surrender of her fortified positions in the Sudetenland . If Russia , therefore , persists on this point , a settlement appears unlikely . The belief is gaining ground here that the Soviet Union is conducting a " war of nerves " designed to exhaust not only the Finns ' patience but their limited finances as well on military preparations , which are costing tens of millions of marks daily . Evacuation of cities and dislocation of industries , moreover , have put a strain on Finland 's economy . A speedy agreement Is therefore earnestly hoped for in Finland . No Meetings Yesterday Wireless to Tax NIW TORE TIMM MOSCOW , Nov. ** further meeting was held between the Finnish delegation and the Russians today . The Finns reported back to Helsinki on the results of last night 's conversations , asking fresh instructions . These instructions are ex ! pected to arrive in the course of tonight , and there may be a further meeting tomorrow . It is said here that it is quite possible a settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is now only a question of bargaining over details . It is understood the atmosphere yesterday was cordial , although there were still differences to be settled , as the Finns held the Russians demanded too much . There is a story going around , which it is impossible to confirm in either Russian or Finnish circles , that the negotiations have gone more smoothly since V. A. Tanner , the Finnish Finance Minister , and Joseph Stalin started discussing old times . According to this account , Mr. Stalin , when a refugee at the age of 26 , hunted by Czarist police , fled to Finland and was for a time sheltered and helped L , by Mr. Tanner .                     