@@698939

txt Responsible political circles listened to Sir John Simon 's explanation of the Anglo-French agreement especially given out here In considerable apprehension lest It mean a departure from the League of Nations method of open diplomacy and universal aereements . Expressions were voiced that blunders in the present negotiations should be sufficient to warn statesmen of the difficulties of the path they are entering upon . If the strict universality of the problems of peace continues to be recognized , then the League itself and neutral powers arc not fearful of results in the special consultations now agreed by Britain and France and such powers as join them . Special agreements , it Is recognized , are sometimes not only useful but inevitable . They have even occasionally been recommended by the League but they almost always carry penalties and pitfalls . Respecting a contemporary situation it is pointed out that first the " gentlemen 's agreement , " and sec , ondly the Anglo-French pact caused a much greater sensation and pro ; duced temporary ill effects , jeopard ! bang much of Lausanne 's good results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Netitrals Needed So it has been in recent history . For example , the Anglo-French naval ' pact of 1928 caused a serious diplomatic situation , simply because it was kept secret and negotiated privately by the two powers . Even the outstanding diplomatic triumph of the Hoover-qzmacq#Donald agreement on naval reductions almost failed because it did not take the Japanese into account until the eleventh hour . and never took the French and Italians into consideration . So goes recent history . Therefore as France and Britain . followed by Belgium . Italy , and probbably Germany , adopt ' a retrograde method they must realize that the old system of preponderance of power . the old methods of councils of ambassadors of of super-alliances failed and were superseded by the universal League of Nations . It is such methods that led Europe into the World War . To avoid them Woodrow Wilson founded the League . Moreover , the cooperation of smaller states and neutrals is vital to preserve peace and it is clear they have been seriously alienated , first , by the procedure of Lausanne itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of special invitations to join the British-French pact . Fundamentally observers agree that private consultations between the responsible heads of governments can alone solve difficult problems . But these consultations must first and foremost be preserved in their universal framework , and at every point must recognize the interests of others . Sir John Simon told the world press yesterday that the chief purpose of the Anglo-French pact was to establesh a body to consider such a delicate and perhaps Imminent question as treaty revision . This being the case , the powers must soon enlarge their forum by making certain that Germany is to be represented and by bringing in Poland . Another unfortunate temporary result of the agreement not yet entirely allayed is the belief held in American circles here that the Anglo-French accord means agreement to sidetrack the Hoover arms proposals . It is claimed that the British are to ally themselves with the French in avoiding carrying out the American effectives plan while the French will join the British in averting drastic naval disarmament . Only ensuing days will show the practical results of the accord . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been agreed on something likd this program for many weeks and the new developments change nothing . Second Secret Compact - At Lausanne Too Much , In View of Germans By Preis Wireless from Monitor Bureau BERLIN , July ** probability that Germany ultimately will adhere to the Franco-British consultative pact is discussed in unofficial quarters today as it becomes increasingly clear that Germany hesitates because of domestic political considerations . The secrecy surrounding the Franco-British agreement is vigorously criticized here . In circles close to the Government the opinion is expressed that much of the opportunity to restore confidence in Lausanne might have survived in spite of one pact behind the scenes , but a second pact is declared too much . The same sources indicate that Germany is not in a position to follow the Belgian and Italian action of an immediate reply to the English invitation . It is pointed out that any defense action now would be water on the mills of the Fascists , who are attacking the outcome of Lausanne . From the foreign standpoint , Germany appeared to regard itself in a difficult situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States may be offended ; if it refuses France and Britain may charge Germany with harboring ill will . The Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung , close to the Government , expresses the opinion of a wide section of the press When it says , referring to Lausanne , " A historic act which might have had a beneficial effect on economic reconstruction and reduction of world hatred has been turned into a farce . " But after the arguments  --  sharpened by the present election campaign  --  quiet down , it is believed a way will be opened fot some form of German codperation , especially if the scope of the pact Is broadened Simultaneously with publication in England , the letter of the Chancellor , Capt . Franz von Papen , to Sir John Simon over the Lausanne " gentlemen 's agi cement " was made public here this morning it declared in guarded terms that Germany is satisfied by Mr Rathsay 's Interpretation that in event of the nonratification of the Lausanne Treaty a new conference would be called , rather than any efforts made to revert , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            