@@701616

txt Leaders of American industry are trying to get together on a common front against political management of business , fallacious economic theorizing and excessive governmental spending . That is the significance of the Congress of American Industry convened in New York City Wednesday under the aegis of the National Association of Manufacturers . - Roundly 1,500 business executives , representing practically every industry and state , assembled for the annual dinner last night and heard the head of America 's largest industrial organization , Alfred P. Sloan . Jr. , president of General Motors Corp. , declare for united action . " Criticism should not deter us , " Mr. Sloan said . " Our resources . both of time and in substance . must be drawn upon for this purpose . This has now become our plain duty  --  a responsibility we can no longer dodge . In no other way can the economic facts with respect to industry 's progress and their in- Alfred P. Sloan , Jr . fiuence on human progress be presented to the forum of public opinion . . . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the degree that the people do not understand . " He warned that " in accepting such increased responsibilities , industrial leadership is certain to be attacked , " but emphasized that industry , as an institution , must not concern itself with promoting the fortunes of any political agency . Others , publicly and privately , had decided views as to the political significance of the gathering ,  --  the largest in the forty-year life of the National Association of Manufacturers . Forced to - Enter Politics " Whether we like it or not , industry , much against its will , has been forced , in sheer self defense , to enter the political arena or be destroyed as a private enterprise , " C. L. Bardo , president of the Manufacturers Association declared . Robert L. Lund , the association 's chairman , was no less outspoken against the Administration , declaring that the " breathing spell " had been forced on President Roosevelt by popular demand for a return to common sense , and adding grimly that : " It begins to appear conceivable that the programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American Industry and the White Sulphur Springs conference may yet be the platforms upon which the ' New Deal ' Administration will stand for reelection . " Throughout Wednesday 's sessions of the industry congress ran the same emphasis on public and employe relations which characterized the recent convention of the American Bankers Association in New Orleans . Recovery Inevitable Referring to it is " an old , old story ; at the same time , the most fundamental of all truths " , he said : " A recovery after a depression is as inevitable as that day follows night . It can not be permanently suppressed . Its vitality is so powerful that it will break down the barriers set up by the most arbitrary dictator . . . There are still lacking . . . the assurances of a broad and definitely defined opportunity and the elimination of certain unsound economic policies , thus limiting the application of these vital principles we have always known and retarding their ability to accelerate our economic recovery . " On the ground that political management of industry , irrespective of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceiling of industry 's ability to contribute toward human progress , he bluntly declared his conviction that Major Berry 's forthcoming conference in Washington is most unfortunate . Major George L. Barry , New Deal coordinator of industrial cooperation , has invited business and labor leaders to the nation 's capitl to plumb possibilities of further legislatiorr in the business and labor field . While he has denied the specific statement that he is attempting to revive NRA , his whole objective is to find a substitute for many of the rules and principles of the codes invalidated by the United States Supreme Court last Spring . Shortly before Mr. Sloan spoke . David L. Owens , president of the National Retail Dry Goods Association , announced in New York City that he had declined to attend the Berry conference , thereby adding his name to an already long list of those who have sent refusals without regrets.significance , which may be briefly summarized as follows : " 1 . We have never lived beyond our economic means or capacity . " 2 . We have not been suffering from general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stage in our economic evolution at which it is possible to provide adequate standards of living for everybody . " 4 . It would require less than a 25% increase in purchasing power among the masses to absorb our full productive capacity . " 5 . Production curtailment programs  --  whatever their merit in meeting temporary maladjustments  --  can only lead to national impoverishment. " 6 . Our inability to find markets adequate to absorb the full output of our productive establishments is explained by the unequal distribution of income and consequent restricted flow of purchasing power through consumptive channels . " 7 . The slow rate of growth of consumptive demand serves to retard the rate at which new capital is constructed and hence the rate of economic progress " S. The primary need is a rapidly expanding total income , and a broader diffusion of this income among the masses of the people . " 9 . A broader diffusion of income can best be achieved by reducing prices as rapidly as increasing efficiency will permit . That is to say , the benefits of technological progress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices  --  giving more for each dollar . " 10 . The successful operation of the economic system requires that back of each new unit of productive power there be placed a corresponding unit of consuming power . The economics of mass production can not be realized unless we have corresponding mass consumption . "                     