@@697897

txt Washington officials recognize that a new and important phase of the international debt question may be opened if Germany seeks a revision of the Young Plan reparations payment . The conviction that such a request by Germany is near is not fully accepted here as yet At the present the United States is an interested but a paisive observer to developments . It will become an active participant if one or more of the debtor nations make proposals looking to a revision of their payments to this country on the basis of smaller reparations receipts . Such a development would be neither surprising nor unexpected , but it is not regarded as a foregone conclusion . If or when foreign proposals are received . Congress , and not the administrative branch of t he government , will be the final authority to say whether or not the debt policy of this government is sometimes under-emphasized . Sitting Tight Awaiting Developments With these basic facts of the situation before it . the immediate course to be followed by the Administration in the debt matter would seem clearly charted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations and since only Congress can take responsive action , the natural procedure in Washington for the present is one of - sitting tight awaiting developments . Meanwhile the government departments concerned will keep themselves informed as to economic and political conditions in and among the debtor nations so that they will be in position to make o ' recommendation if a proposal Is to be submitted to the legislative branch . If the European trips of Secretaries Mellon and Stimson touch upon reparations it will be in connection with this latter phase of observation and the gathering of first hand information . The European view that their visits are occasioned by the reparations developments is not shared here . The Mellon trip at least is largely personal . The procedure for handling a request for revision would depend on the character of the request . If a proposal containing . definite terms an , i conditions were given this government , it might go directly to Congress for Its consideration . If a general request for revision were made , and if Congress wished to act upon it , creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which negotiated the existing agreements probably would be necessary . Such a move would be tantamount to congressional consent to consider a revision . Again . Congress might authorize existing government agencies to carry on negotiations . The attitude of Congress is problematical , At the close of the last session any proposal for scaling down debt payments would have had a few supporters . Since then the fiscal year 's deficit has reached around a billion dollars . Another , perhaps as large , threatens , entailing the possibility of a rise in taxes . Obviougy. it will take strong argument to convince a Congress facing a national campaign that the allied debt payments should be decreased . It may be that it could be done nevertheless . One thing certain is that Congress Iiiistiot likely to respond to the plea that debt payments should be cut to allow a cut in German reparations . From the Wilson administreition forward , this government has held that debt payments and reparations were not linked . To attempt to have Congress back track on that principle would be to Invite disapproval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were based on a demonstration that world economic conditions would be helped , or , if it were linked with a proposition to reduce armament expenditures , chance for approval would be greatly facilitated although not insured by any means . Congressional action would not be necessary if , the debtor nations wished to take advantage of the postponement clause of the debt settlements . Under this clause they can suspend payments of principal for a period of two years . However , the payments on principal are so small that suspension would help them but little .  - -   - -  - Anti- Trust Actions There is good reason for believing that government agencies charged with enforcement of the anti-trust laws are giving strong consideration to the effect their operations may have in retarding business recovery . In a speech recently , Attorney General Mitchell said that " the attorney general has no authority to refrain from enforcement of antitrust law because business is not prosperous and we have proceeded with this work , impressed . however , by the necessity for using peculiar care to make MD unjustified attacks on any business and to so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Since that time the government has abandoned anti-trust proceeding in connection with the Standard Oil Co of New York-Vacuum Oil Co. merger . It is pointed out that in the present state of affairs strict enforcement of the anti-trust In - sagainst the regulation or curtailment of production would have the effect of driving small producers out of business in many cases . This is in exact opposition to the aim when the laws were passed . Supreme Court A good deal that is being written about the new " liberal majority " in the Supreme Court and about the " swing to liberalism " on the part of Chief Justice Hughes does not appear to stand tip under the examination of facts .. Po : - instance the decision in which Mr. Iluglies was one of a rive-to-tour majority , upholding tlin Indiana chain-store tax was nailed as a liberal one At the same session however , the court went even further in unholding a state tax , that of Ohio . on the gas imported into the state by the East Ohio Gas CJrnpany This decision was read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court 's conservatives . Just . rely the chain-store decision was " liberal " and the gas decision was not , has not neon made altogether clear . Two other of Mr. Hughes ' opinions were pleasing to liberal thought . One of these was the California Red Flag decision and the other was the dissent from the majority decision denying right of citizenship to aliens who would not take the eath to bear army Anyone who knows enough of the Hughe .. record to remember his defense of the itocialists in the New York legislature ten years ago will not be surprised at his attitude in these cases . It . certainly does not appear to be any " swing " on his part . Joint Representation to r . S. Likely FL United Press LONDON  --  The possibility of a joint representation to the United States concerning the desirability of reducing the financial bu  --  dens created by the World War is seen as one result of the Anglo-German conversations at Chequers over the week-end An agreement which indirectly would lead toward collaboration of world powers in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - ' , ' that the British government would communicate the results of the conversations to Rome , after v  --  hicli the desirability of malting a joint representation to ' ashington would be considered Europe Vatting for Sitinison BC In fled P , rev LONDON - The forthcoming European tout of Secretary of State Henry L. Stinson somewhat overshadowed interest in the AngloGerman conversations at Chequers over the week-end . Both Germans and British decided to do no more than seek international collaboration to solve the world 's economic crisis , pending a full revelation of the meaning of the visits of the American statesmen . The tour of Mr Stinson and Mr Mellon was generally seen as signifying that the United States is anxious to prevent precipitation of the reparations and war debts question into public discussions on the eve of the 1932 presidential elections in America .  - -   - -  Germany Slackening Reparations Program BEELTh. : ? A slackening in Germany 's icon. - rations revision program was indicated as one result of the announcement that Secretary of State Stiinson will visit Europe this summer . High hope was expressed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of the United States to cancel part of the Allied debts and reparations as a means of serapp'ang part of Europe 's armaments . A spokesman for the government said German officials hope Mr. Stinson will suggest reductions of $1,000,000,000 to 52,000,000,000 in Europe 's annual military outlays , including rigid limitations in the percentage of populations under arms and restrictions on war materials . It was assumed that if Europe could accomplish such proposals , it would enable the United States to cancel part of the Allies ' and Germany 's war debts -- although no mention was made of the probable attitude of the United States Congress .                     