@@700974

txt Mayor La Guardia took credit last night for averting a " wave of mu iticipal defaults " throughout the country in 1934 by pointing out that during his first year in office the New York City budget had escaped a threatened $30,000,000 deficit and had finished the year with a surplus of $5,000,000 . By balancing its budget to the point where a surplus accumulated , the Mayor said New York had set a striking example to the rest of the country . He made his statements in a radio talk broadcast over six stations from City Hall , which was a digest of a report on his first year in office prepared for newspaper use . - Had New York City failed to cope with its financial problems last year , other municipalities would not have tried to meet theirs , the Mayor said . He declared that the " financial rehabilitation " of New York had proved the turning point of municipal and local credit throughout the United States . Once again this city is in a pivotal position , the Mayor said  --  this time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with jobs . Even though the Federal Government planned to lend t o municipalities to establish these jobs , the Mayor insisted that New ' York City could not accept the loans at anything higher than a nominal rate of interest . In this stand he said New York had the solid backing of the United States Conference of Mayors . Cuts Report for Radio . Mayor La Guardia said that his 6.000-word report had been cut to 1.700 words for the radio time of fifteen minutes allotted to him . He said it was so impossible to convey an . adequate picture of what he had done in the last twelve months in such a limited time , that he was strongly inclined to forsake radio presentations hereafter . To those at the broadcast his words sounded hurried and jerky . Turning from the national aspect of the city 's activities in 1934 to its local problems , the Mayor discussed transit unification negotiations with the declaration that they had progressed substantially . Only a dispute over the price to be paid for B. M. T. and I. R. T. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . Within two years the city expects to have its own subway lines running on Houston and Essex Streets in Manhattan ; Fulton Street in Brooklyn and Queens Boulevard in Jamaica , as well as Crosstown lines in Brooklyn and Queens , the Mayor said . Plans are slow in preparation for the Sixth Avenue subway in Manhattan , he added . Politics has been taken out of Civil service under his regime , the Mayor said . Public works are progressing with Federal aid , without increasing the burdens of local taxpayers " unduly , " the Mayor recounted . In this field he said new , low-price housing would in some Treasure compensate the next generation from the inherited evils of the depression . Aid to 300,000 Families . In its welfare activities , the city has placed 200,000 families on home Zelief , while 100,000 others are on emergency work relief . In 1934 he said the city had given jobs to 203,000 persons  --  tewice as many as ' were able to obtain work in 1933 . Mayor La Guardia pointed out that the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school lunches for 80,000 pupils . Altogether he said the city had spent more than $200,000,000 , three-quarters of which was refunded by Federal and State agencies . Park development had been outstanding under Commissioner Robert Moses , the Mayor declared . Using $38,000,000 of emergency relief funds , he said , Mr. Moses had carried thrcugh a " spectacular and successful program " which im- proved the entire city . Sanitation methods had improved , with promotion on merit established as a principle . in the Sanitation Department . Health records show that the death record in 1934 was lower than in any other recorded year , the Mayor recalled . In addition the city had the lowest death record on tuberculosis , pneumonia and diphtheria in 1934 , as well as the lowest recorded death record from typhoid fever . The Hospitals Department had cut expenses and improved its services , he held . With Federal support the city is waging a fight for lower electric rates here , the Mayor declared . Cases of homicide and grand larceny have decreased , and the percentage of burglaries solved is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been driven from the city and substantial inroads have been made on the policy racket , the Mayor told his audience . Traffic accidents have been reduced so that the city ranks second in street safety in the entire country . Fire hazards have been lessened through 30.000 inspections of residential dwellings . Graft and corruption have been uncovered and stopped in various city departments and the city 's purchasing functions have been established to a sound basis . After citing the work of other departments the Mayor said he was eager to establish a pay-as-you-go financial policy for the city .                     