@@698589

txt With every appearance of complete harmony , the Republican State Committee at a meeting at the National Republican Club endorsed yesterday the administration of President Hoover and elected eleven delegates at large and eleven alternates at large to the Republican National Convention . The committee , however , did not include in the list of delegates at large the name of either of New York 's two Cabinet members , Secretary of State Henry L. Stimson and Secretary of the Treasury Ogden L. Mills , although attempts had been made from Washington to have Mr. Mills named . Both Mr. Stimson and Mr. Mills will attend the national convention as Congressional district delegates , Mr. Mills from some district in Manhattan and Mr. Stimson , who has a country home at Huntington , L. I. , as a delegate from Suffolk County , in the First Congressional District . Macy in Control . The result of the meeting showed that W. Kingsland Macy , State chairman , Charles D. Hilles , national committeeman , and their up-State allies , among whom are Representative Bertrand H. Snell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ es and State Senate Leader George R. Fearon , were in complete control of the State organization . It also indicated the certainty of the reelection of Mr. Hilles as national committeeman by the delegation to the National Convention , as the members of the State committee will have the chief say in naming the Congressional district delegates . The New York delegation will give unanimous support to President Hoover for renomination , but the omission of Mr. Mills from the list of delegat , es at large was construed as an indication that the party leaders had decided not to permit the so-called Hooverite group in this State to take control of the organization and that there was a possibility that Mrs. Pratt , a leading member of this group , might not be re-elected a member of the National Committee . In a letter read at the executive committee meeting Mr. Mills expressed his willingness to attend the meeting as a district delegate . Mr. Mills , however , apparently will be unable to go from his home Congressional district , the Seventeenth , as Keyes Winter , leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Seventh Assembly District were picked last night as the delegates from that district . Snell Steps Aside . The slate of delegates was ? etermined at a luncheon conference of the members of the executive committee which preceded the meeting of the State Committee . Mr. Snell , who was on the original slate , withdrew In favor of former Judge Daniel J. Kenefick of Buffalo to give Erie County representation , because Mrs. Rhoda Fox Graves , member of the Assembly , nominated at the request of the Republican women , also is from St. Lawrence County . The delegates and alternates subsequently elected by the State Committee follow : Delegatee  --  Charles D. Hilles and Mrs. Ruth Pratt , members of the National Committee ; W. Kingsland Macy , chairman of the State Committee ; Miss Sarah Schuyler Butler . vice chairman , and William Ziegler , treasurer ; Speaker Joseph A. of Chautauqua County . Senator George R. Fearon of Syracuse , William H. Hill of Binghamton , Hoover 1925 campaign leader ; Daniel J. Kenefica of Buffalo . Representative James S. Parker of Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County . Alternates ? Dr. Frank Mansella and Gustave Hartman of New York County ; W. C. Brown , Mrs. May Gooderson and George Eliperin of Kings County , Mrs. Agnes T. George of Rochester , Louis I. Hoyos of Monticello , W. W. Clark of Wayland , Lafayette B. Gleason of Delhi , secretary of the State Committee ; Miss Natalie Couch of Nyack and Charles Brewer of Utica . Except for Mrs. Pratt and Mr. Hill , no members of the Hooverite group were picked for delegates-at-large , although an attempt was made to name Edward H. Butler , editor and publisher of The Buffalo Evening News , who was a strong supporter of Mr. Hoover in the 1928 campaign . Mr. Butler is expected to bb elected a district delegate , but ; according to information here , John Lord O'Brian of Buffalo , First Assistant Attorney General , will not be named as a district delegate unless there is a change of plan . The meeting of the State committee merely ratified the agreements reached at the conference of the executive committee . Hoover Regime Praised . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Snell , was adopted unanimously amid applause : We endorse the administration of President Herbert Hoover . Especially do we commend it for its plans to reconstruct and revitalize the nation 's financial and economic structure . These plans have already been enacted by Congress in part and are now operative . Their beneficial effects are apparent in restored confidence and quickened business activity . We endorse the prompt steps taken to divert hoarded money into productive channels of trade , for definite and practical plans to reorganize the executive departments , to eliminate waste in their administration and to abolish useless functions in the interests of economy . We further endorse the sound action which it has taken to balance the budget and for the exercise of every legitimate and constitutional agency of the Federal Government to relieve unemployment . Finally , we give our unqualified endorsement to the administration of Herbert Hoover for his management of foreign affairs and the emergency of the foreign loans , and for highly effective action in mitigating those industrial and financial ills which the great war imposed not only upon this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Committee were elected to fill vacancies : Kings County  --  Second District , George W. Chris to succeed Edwin L. Rowland . resigned ; Fourth District . Theodore Bolton to succeed Alfred T. Robley , deceased ; Eighth District . Merton Wilpon to succeed Harold L. Turk ; Twelfth District , William T. Simpson to succeed John T. Rafferty , deceased ; Mrs. Corinne LaBorde to succeed Mrs. Emma Egolf , deceased . Queens County  --  Fifth District , Ralph Halpern to succeed William B. Hazelwood , resigned . The committee changed the apportionment of delegates to the next State convention so that each Assembly district will have two delegates , with one delegate additional for each 1,500 votes cast for the Republican nominee for Governor in 1930 . The new apportionment was made necessary by the small Republican vote at that election which would have resulted on the old basis in only about 500 delegates to the convention . The new apportionment will give a total of 998 delegates . Mr. Snell suggested that the convention , which will be in September , be held at Lake Placid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     