@@700028

txt NEWTON D. BAKER told Too the Institute of Pacific Well Relations at Banff that Prepared ? one paramount need for solving the problems of mankind is a new type of education . Youth must not be trained along tlassical lines , but with an eye on the actual conditions of life outside of college . One wonders . It must be more than a generation since the classics began to fade in the schools , and education started to grow more and more " practical " ; and much good it has done us ! Perhaps if boys and girls after 1900 had studied a good deal more HOMER and HORACE and much less economics , sociology and psychology they would n't have gone so heavily into the stock market in 1929 . More classics might have meant less New Era . Air-conditioned automobiles Air are here to remind us that for life is very complex . At first Cars . sight air-conditioning for motorists would be as appropriate as elastic home exercisers for mountain climbers . Here is the greatest invention in human history for giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but step into his car to be Mee of the reek and grime and noise of congested cities . But actually he steps into his car to be choked by the monoxide of heavy traffic . The problem being b , ere , the remedy is already at hand . Filtered air can be drawn into closed cars over heated coils in Winter and iced coils in Summer . Closed windows also insulate against noise . But this creates a new problem . Mechanical devices of some kind will have to replace the driver 's hands for signaling . As it is , drivers do not indicate their intentions as often as they should . Closed windows without a compensating automatic signal would turn a nuisance into a peril . Everywhere the rebels All against our democratic the Way and industrial civilization Back . are eager to get back to the good old times and simple things . General Asmcr thinks the Japanese Army is the Japanese nation and wants to get'back to the days of the Samurai . The Nazis want to get back to the days of ARMINIUS and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue shirts instead of green shirts because green is a " recent " color in Ireland , being only 200 years old ; the ancient national hue , before the Norman Conquest , was blue . Mussomm wants to get back to the Roman Empire . And almost everywhere else people want to get back to the farm , back to the spinning wheel and the hand loom , back to the precapitalist , pre-industrial , pre- " moneyeconomy " simplicities . This process of going back Fat to the good old times involves With keing back to a number of Lean . things that are seldom if ever mentioned . If we really mean to go back to the Samurai , or the preNorman tribal system in Ireland , or the free Germanic tribes at the beginning of the Christian era , we muSt be prepared for these other things too : Back to epidemics and high death rates ; back to infant mortality ; back to illiteracy ; back to the sixteen-hour working day for the peasants ; back to the kitchen stove and the washboard for women ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task of bearing warriors for the tribe ? soldiers for the State . One other feature of Nature the good old re-indusAlso trial days should not be Slumps , forgotten by people eager to get back to them . This is famine . Our industrial system stands condemned in many eyes because of the great body of unemployment it has created . From the " insecurity " of the industrial wage-earner we want to get back to the " security " of a Japanese rice patch , an acre of barley or beets in Prussia , three acres and a cow in Sussex or Connecticut . Famine is the oldest form of unemployment in human history . It is the periodio stoppage by which Nature throws a whole people out of employment and into starvation . Only ten years ago in non-industrial Russia we had a famine that took five million lives . Famine on a lesser scale is endemic in China . The " starvation " of the unemployed industrial worker under modern conditions is a pin prick compared with the mass of human suffering ? whenever the old agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to . vote on repeal . Cartoonists might turn to the last page of " A Tale of Two Cities . " Sydney Carton climbs up to the guillotine , one in a long line of victims . He lays his head on the fatal board , the knife falls , and the terrible knittingwomen in the audience count aloud : " Twenty-three ! " According to the old story , when some one threatens to name four politicians who protect racketeers several hundred politicians ought to leave town . New York thieves spent several weeks digging a tunnel into a fur storehouse containing half a million dollars ' worth of Persian lamb and broadtail , but abandoned their loot at the last moment . Perhaps the fashions had changed in the Interval .                     