@@703502

txt An authority on American labor relations reports on the experience of Britain 's highly Sated labor practices , in terms 01 what they can and may mean to the United States . Following is the first o/ six articles , based on an extensive survey abroad . The writer 's conclusions further illuminate the British field of Inquiry covered by President Roosevelt 's commission of inquiry into British and Scandinavian labor relations , whose report is now being compiled . By Frederick W. Carr Slap Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor Relations of industry and labor are 25 years or more farther ahead in Great Britain than in the United States , ac- cording to the prevailing analysis among employers , as well as among leaders of organized labor . As British employers for the most part see the American situation , they point out that the United States is new going through the period of union recognition , and that Great Britain passed that stage many years ago . " The United States seems to be doing what we did a long time back , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers . " Recognition of trade unions is essential to our whole scheme . " Unless you have that , you ca n't build the machinery of collective bargaining , " If well organized trade unions had not been formed on one side is here . There the trade unions are still fighting for recognition , which was won by British trade unions a generation ago . " The growth of organizations Of employers and workers has develOped hero into a vast machinery of collective bargaining which has stabilized Industry and cut out enormously more disputes than it has caused . " In another empldYer source it is remarked that 25 or 30 years ago when iecognition of trade unions was the issue , much hostility was generated that is now minimized . Surprise is apt to be heard among British employers at the reluctance of the occasional American employer , making inquiry lime about labor ' relations , to concede union recognition . At the same time it Is granted in Mitish industry that conditions in America do not duplicate those in Britain , and that varying factors such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any means make British experience a precise pattern for America , Difficulty in Some Fields some industral sentiment in London , independent of any American connections , is emphatic in declaring that there Is such divergence between American and British factors as to make unqualified commit I-son misleading , Incidentally , American trade unionists would discount the ' diversity of races in the United States as a difference . Apart from the British industry , whole indeed it is not altogether absent , struggle over union lecogitim Is still to be found here in the business world As in America , likewise in Biitain , the " white collar . " or as they call them lime , the " black coated " wmke  --  s , ale not so easy as industrial employees to organize into labor unions . Just now controversy is specially heard in the cone of twat ' once COMDallies and banks , where unions of oillee workers are seeking to be recognized , to bat gain and to obtain agreements . Also in the field of ' cleft stores , the unionization of clerks enlivens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that has been in fact , as British industry senses , the chief question in recent , labor turmoil , A principal intent of the National Labor Relations Act passed by the Roosevelt Administration Is to obtain recognition for trade unions , By far the most significant thing that the sit-down strikes in the American automobile industry last year gained for the automobile workers ' union was its recognition as a batgalning agency by the automoI bile companies concerned . Dccognfitou , the Victory Virtually all that the Steel Workers ' Union got in Its agreement with the United States Steel Corporation was the company 's consent to bargain with the union , Vet tho union considered that one of the greatest victories In American labor history , because of the corporation 's tradition of anti-unionism . Indeed , John L. Lewis and his Oonunitteo for Industrial Organization have vaulted into eminence hugely through their successes In winning union recognition . They fought nnti lost the independent steel strike last summer on ( his Issue , Unions In various types of Indus-By have been long recognized In the United Stales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building trades , and coal mines . Labor organization is to be found in America in alt stages . Conflict over recognition of newly formed unions has come mostly in the area of great manufacturing corporations avers* to trade unions                     