@@702809

txt 7 lines missing conjunction with , sessions of the American Chemical Association . Methods which have been used in the past to arrive at tentative answers , good until someone disproves them , have been as different as the answers themselves . And the answers vary all the way from that of Bishop Ussher whose interpretation in 1650 of the Hebrew tables led to the conclusion that 4004 B. C. was the year of creation , to that of Hutton , the Scottish geologist who reported in 1795 he had studied the question thoroughly and could find " no vestige of a beginning ? no prospect of an end " Radioactive Study ? The method considered of highest importance today consists of studying " waste products " of radioactive rocks known to be the oldest geologists have been able to find . Just as an automobile disappearing in the distance leaves behind certain tell-tale clues like dust , odors and tire marks , so actino-radium in the process of disintegration passes through several series of stages until it finally arrives at the end of Its trail as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gamma rays are dissipated  --  but something is left behind . Gamma rays leave no trace , beta rays , being electrons , are so tiny they too soon become lost , but alpha lays , really helium atoms , frequently are left behind and become trapped within the once radioactive material , now transformed into lead . The late at which the radium produces alpha particles is well known and can be checked , so that by measuring the amount of helium found in lead packets , fairly accurate indications can be reached as to the age of the rocks in question . Age Put at 2,000,000,000 Using this method , the ancient rocks in various parts of the world are found to be in fairly surprising agreement . At least 1,500,000m0 to 2,000,000,000 years chemists feel , are necessary to account for the alpha particles or helium which is present All of which means the earth is at least that old and probably older I The present status of knowledge on this subject , however , necessitates weighing of arguments between two schools of thinking . One , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eng. , and G. P. Baxter and associates at Harvard University , believes the influence of the actinium series through which actinouranium passes in its degeneration into lead , is of no importance and does not require corrections in geologic age measurements . The other school , originated in 1917 by August Piccard , who is now popularly known for his stratopshere ascensions , is of the opinion that I actino-uranium , patriaich of the series , disintegrates much more rapidly than uranium , and , therefore , the geologic age measurements would I have to be scaled upwards . Pro and Con Evidence Evidence and explanations pro and con have been produced by a laige number of workers in all branches of natural science , particulaily from the laboratories of Lord Rutherford in England and Mine . Curie in Pans . Arthur I. Dempster of Chicago also should be mentioned . Meanwhile , investigations with the physical mass spectogi aph to deteimine atomic weights definitely support the second school arguing for the older age . Apparently the only evidence not in agreement is based on chemical atomic weight determinations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mass - spectrographic , symposium consensus considered the experimental foundation of the first school untrustworthy , in view of the greater reliability and accuracy attributed to the spectrograph . All of which is considered a victory for the phycisist end his methods , now invading a field once strictly limited to chemistry . Historically , development of philosophical answers to the question of earth 's age makes an interesting chapter in the growth of natural Ardente . In many places on the earth 's surface one can see evidences of periodic deposition of sediment In the form today of stratified rocks . One method , perhaps the earliest of the real clues to the right answer , consisted of counting the layers of stratified rock , and estimating the time needed to deposit each layer . Thin so-called denudation and sedimentation method is probably the most widely used method of dating geologic to:mations . Aveurate Analysis This Involves the accurate chemical analysis of liver waters in order to determine how much land material is being carried down to the ocean each year . All of which leads to the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year and by knowing this and the amount in the ocean the age of tile seas might , be computed . Unfortunately this method will not work , for it depends on the nsminiption the present rate of feeding salt Into the ocean is characteristic of all time  --  which may not be true . Another method was that of Lord Kelvin . who based his figure of 30,000,000 or 40,000,000 years for the age of the earth on the Idea the earth had been cooling at a constant late since it was a mass of molten magma . He assumed the present known temperature gradients represented the present rate of cooling and that no internal source of heat was available to counterbalance external loss , Could Find No Flaw This upset the geologists considerably , for they needed far more time than this from which to evolve the present natural history of the globe starting from primeval times . They had every evidence of a greater time duration than that : ndicated by Lord Kelvin , but could find no flaw In his reasoning . It was not until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off heat that the flaw was found . The earth could no longer be considered as simply a cooling mass , but was invested with a powerful source of energy in the widely distributed radium and other radioactive atoms . Subsequent discoveries led to the rejection of Lord Kelvin 's method , but it was his theory which led the way to the new methods in use today . Physical scientists participating n the present symposium include Chairman Roger C. Wells , chief chemist of the United.States Geological Survey ; A. Keith Brewer of the United States Bureau of Chemistry and Sons ; Aristid V. Grosse of the University of Chicago and Chester M. Alter of Boston University .                     