@@697652

txt Publication of the detailed official figures of the vote for members of the Assembly at the last election reveals to what extent even upState counties voting for a Democratic Governor cling to their old friends in the Legislature , where the Republican tradition is still strong . The very men and women who gave ROOSEVELT a majority of 167,781 up-State registered a Republican majority of 261,580 for the Assembly . In the whole State , leaving out the Socialists , prohibitionists and other minorities , the Republicans , who could muster only 87 per cent of the total vote for Governor , polled 47 per cent of the total for the Assembly . This ingrained up-State Republicanism , manifested even among voters willing to submit to the yoke of a Democratic Governor , is at least partly responsible for the political anomaly which campaign orators are accustomed to attribute to the " rotten boroughs " created by the Constitution , or to the evils of an unfair apportionment . This Is a topic rarely discussed without partisanship or buncombe . When Governor SMITH vetoed a Republican reapportionment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republicans had carved out a lean Senate district in New York County which could hardly be described as " compact " within the language of the Constitution , the Republicans solemnly replied that the Constitution required merely that the Senate districts should be in " as compact form as practicable . " For years the Democrats , on the other hand , beat their breasts over the " unjust and discriminatory " clauses requiring that no county should have more than a third of all the Senators , and no two adjoining counties more than half . Whatever the intent of these restrictions , and however galling they may be to the city 's pride , they never have had , and in all probability never will have , any practical effect whatsoever . New York and the Bronx ( regarded as a single county under the Constitution ) had only 30 per cent of the city 's population at the peak in 1910 , and have lost ground steadily ever since . Kings is growing , but too slowly ? from 18 per cent in 1910 to 20 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defection . When it comes to the Assembly , the Democrats have a stronger case . The Constitution limits its membership to 150 . At the same time there is a provision that every county in the State except Hamilton must have at least one Assemblyman . That gives the up-State counties a running start on those ha New York City , and partly accounts for the fact that although the Democrats cast 53 per cent of the State vote for Assembly , the Republicans captured 53 per cent of the seats . Last week a New York member introduced a proposed amendment repealing this clause , but it has little chance in a Legislature predominantly Republican and not disposed to let the city rule the State . Until the Democrats win an even more overwhelming victory and can hold their ground long enough to pass such an amendment and to persuade the voters to adopt it they will have to make the best of the present dispensation , gleaning such comfort as they can out of the recent grant of home rule for cities . The men and women who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx , Queens and Kings . The old Assembly districts in those populous counties are seething with new voters who are most unjustly dealt with under the existing apportionment . Some of the " rottenest " boroughs of all are right here in New York County , under the jealous wing of the Tammany organization . Putnam is abused for casting only 6,000 votes , but what about Louis CUVILLIER 'S victorious 6,135 ? In the Fourth District , Queens , 72,356 persons went to the polls last Fall . There is a real injustice for you . Fortunately , it can be largely corrected by a new apportionment , now long overdue .                     