@@699214

txt Republicans and Democrats here took varying views of GOvernor Roosevelt 's speech at Wheeling , W. Va. , in which he discussed the tariff with a declaration that he would never advocate withdrawal of protection from American workers against the products of cheap foreign labor . The Republican view was that the speech of Calvin Coolidge at New York , followed by the Hoover speech at Cleveland , was beginning to have the effect of " smoking out " the Democratic candidate on his tariff views . The party managers have laid plans to continue the attack . The Democratic view was that Governor Roosevelt was stating no new policy but merely saying in different words a thought which was marked his speeches throughout the campaign . Will Seek Specific Statement The next move of the Republicans will be to demand from Governor Roosevelt a statement on what specific schedules of the tariff he would lower duties . He has now declared that the Hawley-Smoot duties are too high but he has also promised no action to withdraw proteCtion ? from products which must compete with lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that he must now specify in just what categories Governor Roosevelt thinks duties can be lowered without withdrawing such protection . At Democratic headquarters here , the Republican emphasis on the tariff is TM/lbw. /zed with statements that the country generally recognizes that the Hawley-Smoot duties are out of line , and that it is possible to lower some of them without sacrificing essential protection , which Governor Roosevelt says be advocates . Many Democrats Uneasy About Trip Nevertheless , a good many Democrats are uneasy about the latest trip of their candidate . and there is known to have been earnest advices to the candidate that he should not under -- take it . These advisers pointed out that at the moment Governor Roosevelt has the strength necessary to elect him , and that Republican efforts have failed to wean it from him . They believe that on the present speaking tour there is always the chance of mistake which would harm Governor Roosevelt . Republicans are known to be watching every move and statement- of the Democratic candidate and going through his procedure of each day with a fine tooth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some slipand if he does they are prepared to take advantage of it . Some of the oldest heads among the Republicans believe the campaign policy now should center on an active effort to watch the opposing candidate and take advantage of his errors . They believe that the party hope lies along this line rather than In statements by industrialists and other large employers such as Henry Ford supporting President Hoover and urging their employes to do the same .                     