@@697070

txt How to gauge public opinion , as well as how to lead it , a United States Senator ought to know . When Senator RoBINT SON of Arkansas discussed the question at a luncheon in London he spoke as an expert . In the introduction he made to the seven points about naval matters he mentioned the two chief human obstacles to ascertaining what public opinion really is : Always one 's interpretation of public opinion is likely to be influrnerd by his personal bias or prejudice . ? * * In the absence of authentic evidence of the state of the public mind one necessarily avails of those sources of information which he believes reflective of general thought . It is in the choice of these sources that one may yield to the agencies most nearly in harmony with his own position . There are a few events which find men unanimous in their attitude and opinion . A great crime ; a noble sacrifice ; an act of heroism ; an act of faith  --  these affect human beings of all civilized races in much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither reflection nor consultation before deciding on the course he is to pursue : to call for the swift punishment of the guilty , or laurels for the brave . But in the broad stream of public affairs the forces for certain policies or methods are in separate channels . The statesman seeking the safe one finds both agitated . Sometimes , if he is strong and brave , and thoroughly convinced that a time has come for him to create public opinion , he builds a dam of words and acts against all the currents . In attempting that , some have been swept away . But those who hold the barrier gain the stature of greatness . So far as the Naval Conference is concerned , Mr. ROBINSON showed that he is well acquainted with the general hopes and ideals of the people he is representing . Although he has knowledge of the groups which the common speech classifies as " pacifists , " " internationalists " and " big-navy champions , " his category of public opinion in this country went deeper into the American heart than does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nations agree on limitation of all classes of fighting ships , national fears of external aggression will diminish ; they favor parity with Great Britain because it will help to remove any possibility of war between the two countries ; they want to see " inventive " genius diverted from efforts to make " war more deadly " ; they are unwilling to make an offensive and defensive treaty with a foreign power , believing that reductions in arms and general pledges for peace will reassure every nation .. This seems a highly accurate account of the American viewpoint at this tifne . Yet probably every part in it is also Mr. ROBINSON 'S personal view . In this instance he has for years had ' every opportunity to assure himself that his own reflections are those of most of his fellow-countrymen . Newspapers . Congressmen , prophets , priests and publicists have made this clear in every city and hamlet in the United States . But there are two kinds of unanimity , and Mr. ROBINSON knows thvb falser from the true . He knows that certain newspapers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ' 4. ews columns and headlines . He understands why those who agree with the policy of such newspapers turn all others out of the house . He is familiar with the kind of organized and financed effort which causes hundreds of telegrams and letters to be sent to members of Congress , creating a false appearance of public opinion . This is what he meant by " the choice of sources " making it possible for any man to say : " The people are with me . " There is no sure way of determining public opinion on new issues -- and often not on old ones  --  unless by vote or action the public has a clear chance to express itself . But there are a few who have something of genius in foretelling . To acquire this gift  --  for one is not born with it ? means long experience with affairs , knowledge of human nature and wide acquaintance with all sorts and conditions of men .                     