@@700073

txt A proclamation containing statutes under which the revolutionary government will provisionally govern Cuba was issued this afternoon by President Grau San Martin and his Cabinet . Affirming that the Cuban Republic is an independent and sovereign nation , free to solve its own internal problems , the statutes provide for maintaining harmonious international relations and respect for treaties , and pledge the calling of a constituent Assembly and punishment of guilty officials of the Machado regime . The preamble promised that life and property would be protected and that individual rights would be respected within the limits of the government 's social betterment program . TEXT OF NEW STATUTES . The text of the statutes follows : 1 . ? The Provisional Government shall above all maintain absolute national independence and sovereignty , the principle of free determination by the public in the settling of its interior conflicts ' and that of the juridical equality of nations . 2 . ? In regard to international politics the government shall attempt to bring about the best harmony and the most perfect reciprocal adjustment of the political and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comply with treaties signed in the name of the Republic of Cuba . , 3 . ? It shall call , as soon as possible , , elections to choose delegates to a constituent assembly which shall rectify , approve or disapprove the action of the government or organize another to which it may delegate the powers created and exercised under the Constitution of the State . 4 . ? The government shall establish tribunals competent to judge persons accused of crimes , whether or not they are covered by the amnesty laws , committed through political motives or in defense of the ousted tyrannical regime , which courts , after hearing the defense of the interested parties , shall impose the proper penalties . 5 . ? As the Provisional Government would be at fault if it abandoned the reins of power to aspiring tendencies , it shall temporarily submit personal rights to a regime of governmental supervision , and as to its use of which it shall also advise the constituent assembly . 6 . No one shall be deprived of legitimate property except by competent authority and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this procedure is not followed , the judges and courts shall protect and , in proper cases , return expropriated property . 7 . The Secretary of Justice is authorized to propose to the government the necessary regulations to determine the number , organization and functioning of the tribunals and also for carrying out the provisions of these statutes . To Serve as Constitution . This decree will serve as the Conseitution of , , the island until the Constituent Assembly is called and approves a Magna Charta , since the student government , declaring itself a " revolutionary " government , refuses to recognize the Constitution of 1901 , re-established by the De Cespedes administration . The proclamation can be said to express the main principle of the student movement , which is the removal of all influence of the United States and the establishment of complete national sovereignty . In the same document , however , the revolutionary government promises to fulfill all treaties entered into by Cuba . The students expect to dominate the Constitifent Assembly , and it is believed the Platt Amendment , permitting United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A provision for retaining power by force , which the students frankly admit they plan , is outlined in the fifth clause , in which the government assumes the right to " temporarily submit personal rights to governmental supervision . " The students characterize the present ? regime as a " concentration " government rather than a " cooperative " administration and are determined to put projects into force which they believe will be best for the welfare of the nation . Decrees Will Make Laws . Future legislation will come into force by Presidential decree . Failure of the government proclamation to mention past legislation , particularly that concerning taxes , is highly confusing - to the public . The formation of a students ' militia will be extended to all parts of the island . Santiago reported today that two army corporals there were organizing students in the normal school in the militia to cooperate with the army in maintaining order . Saturday was made a national holiday by Presidential decree today for the expression of friendship of the Latin American nations because that is the Mexican Independence Day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decree said , " has just received clear proof of the cordial friendship of sister American nations , as well as the interest felt by them in our welfare and in the maintenance of our absolute sovereignty . " The decree pointed out that Mexico had extended its cooperation to the present Cuban Government " in the triumph of revolutionary ideals . " The expression of good-will and best wishes recently extended to the revolutionary government by Mexico is interpreted by the students as recognition and the proclamation of the holiday is looked on as a bid for formal recognition by Latin-American countries , particuly Mexico . The revolutionary government believes full Mexican recognition would cause other South American ? nations to fall in line . Some see the decree as propaganda to stir up more anti-United States feeling in Latin-American countries because of the failure of the United States to recognize the new revolutionary regime . Counter-Revolt Starts . The town of Consoiacion del Sur , in Pinar del Rio Province , has been captured by troops under command of Captain Ramon Aran in an open counter-revolt against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telephone message from the city of Pinar del Rio tonight . The garrison at Consolacion del Sur is said to have gone over to the counter-revolt without a fight after being harangued by Captain Aran . He is understood to have with him 100 of the best riflemen in the province and eighty other soldiers . He is accompanied by Lieutenants Manuel and Ramon Rodriguez , according to the reports . The counter-revolutionaries are believed to have only four machine guns , but are said to be arming the 2,000 civilians of the city , who are declared to be solidly against the present regime in Havana . Captain Manuel Miranda , the regime 's military commander in the district , has ordered 200 men to retake the town . Only 150 troops remain at Pinar del Rio . Sergeant Christin Rodriguez , at military headquarters in Pinar del Rio , said the government learned of the counter-revolutionary movement when Captain Aran telephoned military posts at PilotoS , Puerto de Golpe and Las Ovas , near Consolacion del Sur , appealing to troops at these points to join his forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report of the revolt without details had been received , but it was not regarded as important . An unusually heavy miliary guard has been posted around the presidential palace , however , and pedestrian traffic has been . : iverted from the sidewalks in the palace block . Tight Cordon Around Officers . The government today ordered a tighter cordon around the 400 army and navy ' officers who are besieged in the National Hotel . At noon all incoming and outgoing traffic was suspended . Even American newspaper men were barred from the grounds . Later the orders were amended to permit the entry of those with special passes from the chief of staff , diplomatic officials , American correspondents and a small number of wives and relatives of the officers . The guard around the hotel consists of a large number of soldiers armed with machine-guns , automatic rifles and submachine-guns . It is the largest display of armed forces so far thrown around the hotel and caused the congregating of thousands of onlookers , who lined Malecon Drive for several blocks in both directions , all believing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers asserted tbnight that they had not changed their attitude toward the government and expected to remain in the hotel , defending themselves against any attack . The officers have arms and ammunition for all . General Armando Montes , Army Chief of Staff under President de Cespedes , was arrested today as he entered the hotel grounds . After being confined fur several hours in Cabanas Fortress he was released . Moves to Settle Strikes . Interior Secretary Guiteras said today the government would attempt to settle each strike through a commission appointed for that purpose . The government intends , he said , to establish an eight-hour day immediately , force recognition , of unions in all industries and improve conditions of the workers . Several important American groups here are considering withdrawing from Cuba because of the impossibility of meeting the demends of the strikers under present financial conditions . The Cabinet decided today to name a commission to study the strike of consumers against the ' Compaiia Cubana de Eleetricidad , an affiliate of the Electric Bond and Share Company and the Cuban Telephone Company , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government resolved today to abolish the Civil Service Commission . The civil service laws have been ineffectual because the old patronage policy was carried out by each political - party when it obtained power . The secret police also were abolished today .                     