@@700022

txt Plans for the opening of the " University in Exile , " with a faculty of German professors driven from their country by the anti-Jewish and anti-liberal stand of the Nazi government , were announced here yesterday by Dr. Alvin Johnson , director of the New School for Social Research . The announcement followed Dr. Johnson 's arrival in New York on the United States liner President Roosevelt after three weeks spent in London . He has made arrangements to bring fourteen exiled German scholars to the United States. , The first members of the group are to sail soon and all are expected to be here within the next few weeks . Classes are to begin at the New School , 66 West Twelfth Street , on Oct. 1 , with the new German group functioning as an independent , selfgoverning faculty teaching political and social science . Names Three Who Are Coming . Describing the plan for the " University in Exile " as a " most vigorous " protest against the restrictions placed on scholarship by the Hitler government , Dr. Johnson said three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sail were Emil . Lederer of the University of Berlin , Hermann Kantorowicz of Hamburg and Arthur Feller of Konigsberg . The names of the remaining eleven , who have taken refuge in Great Britain , Switzerland , Czechoslovakia and Austria , could not be made known at present , Mr. Johnson said , but would be announced by Sept. 1 . Funds for the venture have been raised by a committee including Governor Cross of Connecticut , Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes , Dr. John Dewey and others . The sponsors hope the plan can be expanded ultimately to include other faculties , more of the ousted German professors then being brought to the United States . Dr. Johnson said they could make a distinctive contribution to American scholarship . He emphasized that the " University in Exile " was to function purely as a centre of scholarship , instruction and research , and not as a point of dissemination for anti-Nazi propaganda . An agreement on this had been reached with the professors , his announcement said , on the ground that their work was " too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to German Scholarship . Discussing the harm he believes has been done to German scholarship by the National Socialist drive against Jews and " Marxists , " Dr. Johnson said : " I have before me a partial list of the men who have been ousted ffom their posts in the German universities during the course of the Nazi revolution . The number falls a trifle short of SOO . About two-fifths had attained tire rank of professor , the others are Privet Dozents , that is , instructors or research assistants . " They represent every branch of science , pure and applied . Every university of any importance appears frequently on the list . There ' are no charges against their character nor criticism of their scholarship . " The official explanation is that they are Jews or Marxists . By ' Jew ' is meant any one who has as much as one-quarter ' Jewish blood . ' even though the Jewish ancestor was more purely blond and longheaded than the average Nazi German . By ' Marxist ' is meant any one who voted for Social Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Marx but also by most other competent historians that the forms of political and social life are heavily influenced by the economic conditions of the times . " Never in the history of occidental education has there been any such drastic ' purification ' of university life . Russia and Italy ousted men whose doctrines were objectionable to the dominant regime , but Germany has added to this category a whole race , and this a race which by tradition has always stood close to the centre of intellectual life . " Eminence of scholarship has been no protection . Even Haber , whose work in nitrogen fixation supplied a factor essential to the survival of Germany as a great power , is among the list of ousted . " No one who surveys the lists of the proscribed can doubt that the German university has been seriously crippled . " Tells of " Muzzling " by Nazis . In a further statement on the same topic , Dr. Johnson said itwas obvious that the . present German government meant to make the universities " a house organ of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no output of any value could be expected from these " demoralized and muzzled " centres of learning . To meet this situation the world should offer haven to the exiled scholars , he declared . " Much is being done In this direction , " he continued . " The British Academic Assistance Council is finding temporary places in the various universities for some fifty men . France has found many places , especially for men working in the applied sciences . " The University of Palestine has raised funds to , establish chairs for some . Switzerland , Holland , Belgium and Spain are exhibiting hospitality to German scholars in proportion to their resources . Even Jugoslavia ; Turkey , Egypt and China are bestirring themselves to find places for German scholars , as a protest in behalf of academic liberty . We have an extensive organization in the United States which is raising funds for the temporary placement of German scholars in the various universities . " It is a- conservative estimate that down to the present one hundred German scholars , out of the eight hundred , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . " Pointing out that Germany has its own methods , traditions and values , Dr. Johnson argued that a place should be found abroad not only for the scholars but for the " exiled " - German university system . This , he said , was the point of the " University in Exile , " which will function along the traditional German lines of instruction . Discussing the work of the committee , and of the sponsors of the idea , he said : " A vote of the board of directors of the New School authorized a plan for raising funds to support agraduate faculty in the political and social sciences , as a first unit in a ' University in Exile . ' A group of distinguished Americans were invited to serve as an advisory committee , exercising with respect to this graduate faculty virtually the function of trustees . " The personnel of the committee consists of Governor cross of Connecticut , John Dewey , President Neilson of Smith College , President Hutchins of the University of Chicago , Mr. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes , - Felix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George A. Plimpton , Herbert Bayard Swope , Ernest Gruening and Professor Edwin R. A. Seligman . " The raising of funds was carried on without any formal organization and without publicity . In spite of the difficulties of the times a sufficient volume of pledges was promptly secured to justify the opening of negotiations with a group of German scholars , selected with a view to functioning effectively as an organic research and teaching unit . " Stresses Value of Plan . Dr. Johnson pointed out that the university undoubtedly would be valuable to graduate students who , in other times , would have been advised to take a year 's work in Germany . " It is hard to conceive , " he said , " of any American professor offering such advice at the present time . The German faculties are too seriously disorganized through loss of many of the ablest members of their staffs , and the spirit of the professors , forced to weigh every word with a view to the danger of political discipline , would not be conducive to effective teaching . If our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German methods we can set up a German faculty in New York , where teacher and student alike will feel absolutely free to follow the truth wherever it may lead . " Discussing the possibility of future expansion , Dr. Johnson said : " A single- faculty , however able , does not make a university . There ought to be , in addition to the faculty in political and social sciences , a faculty in education , a faculty in the arts , a faculty in philosophy and psychology , a. faculty of pure and applied sciences . Furthermore , the resources at the command of the New School undertaking are only sufficient to provide for some fourteen men of established reputation . The efficiency of the enterprise would be greatly increased if it were possible to add ten or a dozen of the younger men of distinguished ability whose names have net yet become known beyond Germany . " The extension of the plan , however , may come later . Most Americans will agree that a German ' University in Exile , ' fairly covering the whole - range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribution to our general intellectual life . " It- was announced from London recently that plans had been worked out by which the exiled professors might get visas for entry into this country from the consuls in the places where they are now , without the necessity of returaing to- Germany . Professor Lederer , In London , was named as the first of the group to apply for a visa . He is widely known among scholars for his work in sociology . The exile of Dr. Fellers who specializes in economics , was forecast in dispatches from Germany in February , when it was announced at Konigsberg that Nazi students had requested his dismissal . Dr. Feller also is known for his writings ? pi conditions in Russia . Dr. Ka.nterowicz , known for his studies in jurisprudence , has lectured at Columbia University and at other American centres of learning . His writings include a book , of which an English translation was published in 1930 , in which he apologized for having been deceived by his government during the period before the World War . The point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German view that " encirclement " of the Reich by England necessitated preparations for war by Germany .                     