@@700696

txt Unless all reports are mistaken , the Saito Cabinet will resign tomorrow , assure-. ing responsibility for the bribery scandal involving a Finance Vice Minister , four other Finance Ministry officials and possibly a Cabinet member . What will then happen is very uncertain , even those closest to the Cabinet claiming not to know whether t:the persistent prediction that Premier Makoto Saito will receive a commission to reorganize the Cabinet is likely to materialize . Everything depends on the recommendation to the Throne by Prince Kimmochi Saionji , the Elder Statesman . This may be delayed several days until he arrives in Tokyo from his villa in Okitsu and consults others close to the Emperor as well as leading political personages , though the six weeks that have expired since the possibility of the Cabinet 's quitting was first entertained have given him time to think over the situation and feel out the sentiment in interested quarters . Two Wanted to Retire . Both Premier Saito , who is 76 years old , and Finance Minister Korekiyo Takahashi , who is 80 , months ago admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to private life and said they remained solely because the Emperor 's advisers , including Prince Saionji , urged them to stay , believing this was the only way to prevent an ultra-nationalistic regime and safeguard constitutional government pending the restoration of the public 's confidence In the political parties . Thus their apparent reluctance to yield their power since the scandal became serious with Vice Minister Kuroda 's arrest on May 19 does not mean they are personally am- bitious to retain power . The opinion prevails that Viscount Saito did not intend to let the scandal force his resignation unless the procurators indicated that evidence pointed to the implication of a former or a present Cabinet Minister . The general political situation has not changed since Prince Saionji told Premier Saito on March 1 that his government should continue . The entire press agrees that the parties have not yet redeemed themselves in the public 's eyes and that neither the Seiyukai despite its overwhelming control of the lower house of the Diet , nor the Minseito can expect to achieve power . This leaves to Prince Saionji @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saito 's resig-91 01 WM UOMITI111103 ot .10 uoilau organize his Ministry ; second , to recommend a new national government under a Premier similar to Viscount Saito . Both involve the greatest difficulties . The Elder Statesman must consider the views of certain factions , notaby the army and navy , I which , despite pledges given at the last session of the Diet that they would not meddle in politics , are certain to oppose the formation of a Cabinet likely to change the present defense policies . The army wants a government able to weld closer bonds between Japan and Manchukuo . The navy wants a government able forcibly to press Japan 's naval demands at the 1935 conference . Both want a government willing to provide funds to strengthen armaments . Nor can the Prince ignore the parties if he wants to maintain the principle that this is a period of probation wherein the Diet system is being preserved until they have demonstrated themselves able again to command public respect and confidence , and thus qualify to organize Cabinets . The party leaders are believed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saionji recommends , but it is essential that they be assured that the parties ' submergence is temporary . The financial interest , , on which the government must rely if It means to float loans to meet the animal budget deficit , also require satisfying . They have indicated a desire for the continuance of Viscount Takahashi'a policy of controlled inflation . Lastly , Prince Saionji needs to consider the general public , whose means of voicing opinions are virtually limited to the prams . The Kokumin , which purports to reflect the military attitude , asserts that the army and navy oppose Premier Saito 's reappointment because the " 1935-36 crisis " requires a strong government ; but the Nippon Dempo News Agency says they are baffled by the difficulty of finding a suitable successor and that the services therefore are unlikely to complain greatly should Prince Saionji decide that his reappointment is the best solution . Unless opinion is suddenly reversed , however , the newspapers would bitterly assail Premier Saito 's continuation , of which the suggestion has already aroused extreme denunciation . The attitude of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impartial observers believe the Cabinet has done remarkably well during the two years and one month in office , calming the public following the assassination of Premier Kt Inukai , consolidating Japan 's position in Manchuria , easing international tension and framing two workable budgets , the newspapers condemn it because the agricultural depression is not relieved , finances are unadjusted , official discipline is not upheld and education is not reformed .                     