@@699427

txt President Hoover in a special message to Congress today asked ratification of the international convention , signed at Geneva in 1925 , for the suppression of international trade in arms and ammunition and implements of war , or , as an alternative , the passage of legislation " conferring upon the President authority in his discretion to limit or forbid shipments of arms for military purposes in cases where special undertakings of cooperation can be secured with the principal arms manufacturing nation 's . " It was pointed out that , in the absence of ratification by the United States , the convention has not come into force for any of the signatories and adherents . The President 's plea was supported by an argument from Secretary Stimson in a letter to Mr-. - Hoover , written Friday and sent to Congress today with the message , but the immediate reaction in the Senate and House was not favorable toward granting either alternative . Chairman Borah called , a , meeting of the Foreign Relations Committee for tomorrow morning to consider the message , while the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's position before taking up the request . Mr. Hoover , in his message , admitted that Senate approval of the 1925 convention seemed impossible " now , " and therefore put forward the arms embargo proposal , whereas Secretary Stimson in his letter to Mr. Hoover had indicated the desirability of action on both proposals . Pact Requires Publicity . The 1925 convention provides for a system of export licenses in each country to govern the export of arms and munitions , and for full and accurate publicity vwith respect to shipments for war material . Although the President in his message declared that " recent events have emphasized the need of more authority to the Executive , " no specific event was mentioned . It was understood , however , that the Chaco conflict , rather than the situation in the Far East , led to , his move . The wide power of embargo which he proposed , Mr. Hoover said , would greatly aid the " earnest and increasing efforts which all nations now make to prevent and lessen the dangers of such conflicts . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such restrictions was essential . " For one nation alone to engage in such prohibitions while other na- tions continue to supply arms is a futility , " he said . Furthermore , Mr. Hoover warned , such embargoes without cooperation would tend to give an advantage to a nation which permitted shipments of munitions , since the latter 's " potentiality for manufacture " would be increased . While urging the ratification of the convention " now , " Mr. Hoover , putting forward his alternative , said : " While such a measure would not accomplish the whole of the purposes which ' the advanced thought in the world requires , it would at least enable the Executive in special cases to place the United States in line with other nations who are willing to make such sacrifices in the prevention of military conflict . " TEXT OF THE MESSAGE . Mr. Hoover 's message read as follows : The Senate and the House of Representatives : Recent events have emphasized the urgent need of more authority to the Executive in control of the shipment of arms from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that the control of such shipments areas of prospective and actual international conflict Would greatly aid the earnest and unceasing efforts which all nations now make to prevent and lessen the dangers of such conflicts . However , for one nation alone to engage in such prohibitions while other nations continue to supply arms is a futility . More- , over , it would tend to give advantage to one nation over another by increasing the war potentialities in manufacture and skill of non-cooperating nations . There is before the Senate an international convention for the suppression of international trade in arms and ammunition and implements of we/l/signed at Geneva , June 17 , 1925 , awaiting - ratification . This convention has been ad4iered to by a large number of the other important nations and is practically stopped through failure of the United States to adhere to it . Its ratification would contribute to the ends being sought by the entire world for the prevention and limitation of war . I earnestly urge that this convention should be ratified : ? If , however , it is impossible , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now ratify this treaty , it is urgent that legislation should be passed conferring upon the President authority , in his discretion , to limit or forbid shipment of arms for military purposes in cases where special undertakings of cooperation can be secured with the principal arms manufacturing nations . While such a measure would not accomplish the whole of the purposes which the advanced thought in the world requires , it would at least enable the executive in special cases to place the United States in line with other nations who are willing to make such sacrifices in the prevention of military conflict . I , therefore , urge that this convention should receive ratificaUon of the Senate now , or alternatively , that legislation to the ' purpose mentioned should be promptly enacted . Lattach hereto the views of the Secretary of State upon this subject . HERBERT HOOVER . The ' White House , e Jan. 10 , 1933 . Stimson Cites Our Leadership . Secretary Stimson , in his letter , declared that " it is becoming more and more evident that the international traffic in arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " if efforts for peace " are not to be frustrated . " ' Pointing-out that this country has led in efforts for peace , he said : " The United States should never , in justice to its own convictions and its own dignity , be placed in such a position that it could not join in preventing the supply of arms or munitions for the furtherance of an international conflict while exercising its own influence and prestige to prevent or bring to an end such a conflict . " Then urging that the President 's authority to declare an arms embargo be made world-wide in scope , he said : " The day Is gone when the spread of a conflagration is easily confined to any continent or hemisphere . The taking by the United States of this additional step in its domestic policy will tend to give encouragement and momentum to the struggle for world peace and against the use of force from which arise spine of the most critical problems of this unsettled period in international relationships . " " There are in the world today a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force has been threatened or even employed , " Mr. Stimson said . " In our own hemisphere two nations are now engaged in a conflict of arms , although they have avoided a formal declaration of war , and there is at least one other situation which threatens the breach of the declared and estabblished policies of our sister continent . " There are in the Old Worlds situations no less distressing . " In dealing with these situations we find that the international traffic in arms often tends to undo the effects of our diplomatic efforts and of the international efforts which are being made to preserve the peace of the world . " This 1925 convention , in effect , was an amended form of an arms control convention of 1919 signed by twenty-eight powers , including the United States , but never approved by the United States Senate because it placed administration of the pact to a considerable degree in the League of Nations . The 1925 treaty avoided this difficulty by placing the responsibility of enforcement largely on the sovereign States , with publicity an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in a message to the Sen-1 ate of Jan. 11 , 1926 , transmitted a certified copy of this convention to the end that he might receive the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification . The Senate has not as yet taken action pursuant to this message . " Mr. Stimson quoted the joint resolution of Jan. 31 , 1922 , which provides : " That whenever the President finds that in any American country , or in any country in which the United States exercises extraterritorial jurisdiction , conditions of domestic violence exist , which are or may be promoted by the use of arms or munitions of war procured- from ( the United ' States , and makes proclamation thereof , it shall be unlawful:to export , except under such limitations and exceptions as the President prescribes , any arms or munitions of war from any place in the - United States . to such country until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress . " Senators Are Non-Committal . The feeling in Congress was that , if the Senate will not approve the 1925 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the President . - Senator Borah has opposed the traffic-in-arms convention from the first , but he declined today to say flatly that he would oppose it when it comes before his committee tomorrow . It was understood that , if a majority of the committee votes to report it , he will join with them . Senator Walsh of Montana , one of the most influential Democratic members of the committee , said : " My sympathies are with the purpose of the treaty . I think we can Ireport it out and possibly get Senate action on it . " Principal opposition to ratification among those who hold the same views as Senator Borah is based on the belief that the convention would operate only to restrict small or helpless nations in conducting their own affairs . These opponents feel that any major power which required arms could procure them , whether such a convention were in force or not . Should Congress pass the legislation , the authority of the President to declare embargoes on the export of munitions to nations at war would be extended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move , so as to make an embargo really effective . At present , through resolution of Congress adopted in 1922 , the President has authority to declare arms embargoes against China and LatinAmerican countries , but only in cases of revolution or other domestic violence , not international war . The wide embargo was first proposed by State Department officials , who are particularly occupied with the Chaco problem , but who have thus far found their efforts for peace unavailing . They felt that some pressure should be placed on the LatinAmerican disputants Co bring about peace . These officials drafted a recommendation said to have been one of blanket authority for the President to declare an arms embargo in case of international war without regard to what other countries might do . It was felt that this would constitute in a measure a further implementing . of the Kellogg-Briand antiwar pact by providing means for bringing force to bear upon warring countries . The suggestion was placed before Secretary Stimson , who gave his support to the plan . It was then submitted to " ' resident Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the study that was given it , the original suggestion was modified for a proposed Executive authority to declare an arms embargo in cooperation with other nations . Arms Makers Opposed First Plan . One reason for the change in the proposal was reported to be opposition of private arms companies in this country , which sent protests to the White House and the War Department against the plan . Another was the opposition of influential Senators , who argued that the Senate would not approve a plan that called for an embargo of arms by the United States and left other countries free to export munitions to belligerents . Application of an embargo by one country alone would be futile , they maintained . Secretary Stimson has championed an arms embargo policy . He would have urged the present course on President Hoover a year ago , but felt that it would be interpreted in Japan as aimed particularly at that country , and so desisted . Now it is his opinion that the policy can be urged without Japan 's taking offense on suspicion that it is a weapon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 6 , to President Hoover , he did not mention Japan or any other country by name .                     