@@703562

txt Treasury officiate and Congressional leaders concerned with revenue legislation are understood to have agreed on a tentative agenda covering next year 's tax program . following recent conferences on Capitol Hill and at the Treasury , it was learned last night . The agenda . it was explained , contains no specific details of rates , but covers the subjects which are likely to come up for discussion in the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee sometime in November . It Was stated that the tax studies on Capitol Hill may get under way immediately after the November elections . The basic subjects to be covered in the revenue discussions will include : 1 The tax on income from tax exempt securities and taxes on federal and state salaries . 2 . Processing taxes , to meet AAA benefit payments at the request of Secretary Wallace . 3 Financing broader social security coverage , possibly by additional taxes on payrolls to be borne by both employe and employer . 4 The whole corporation tax structure 5 . Excise taxes which expire next June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are apparently not included in the tentative agenda although treasury experts have been studying various suggestions for broadening the tax base and increasing the surtaxes on individual incomes . If budgetary requirements make additional revenue necessary in the next fiscal year it is likely that the individual income will come in for additional taxation . However , it is indicated that the studies are being made in order to be prepared for any contingency . including the possibility that members of Congress will want revenue estimates on the numerous suggestions advanced in Congress last session . It was learned that Chairman Doughton of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman Harrison of the Senate ' Finance Committee recently conferred with Undersecretary of Treasury Roswell Magill and Assistant Secretary John Hanes , who will fall heir to the Treas ury 's tax problems upon the retirement of Mr. Magill in the near future . The specific details of the corporation tax recommendations to be made to Congress probably will not be made until the budgetary studies have been completed and a fair picture of next year 's revenue has been worket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : s believed likely that the undistributed profits tax issue will not be brought to the fore until President Roosevelt arrives at a definite conclusion on whether to press for a revision of the present structure . His last word on the question came in May in his Arthurdale . West Virginia . speech in which he stated that Congress should revise the so-called Harrison compromise , which practically eliminated the undistributed surplus levy . Processing taxes are included in the agenda , because there has been considerable demand from the farm planners of the Administration for some form of processing taxes on agricultural ci , mmodities to meet increasing benefit payments . President Roosevelt probably will recommend some revision of the social security law to broaden its coverage to include domestic services and possibry farm laborers . In any event this subject is listed on the agenda for discussion in November , it was learned . The excise taxes which produce approximately $500,000.000 in miscellaneous revenue , are certain to come up for consideration and present indications are that they will for the most part be continued .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         