@@703944

txt The Republican presidential nomination sweepstakes are very definitely marching along , even with over a year to go . It is an enlightening study in the grammar of politics to observe the behaviour of the chief candidates . Take Thomas E .. Dewey first , because al this writing  --  and there probably will be many shifts and changes in the next year  --  he is clearly in the lead and coasting along . Mr. Dewey will not make a public speech on national affairs . Yet Mr. Dewey is most willing to address gatherings  --  off the record  --  on national problems . To his office in New York the politicians and political writers of the Nation are beating a trail , and have been doing so for some months . This correspondent has heard Mr. Dewey speak twice recently off the record at some length on national problems and to substantial audiences . On both occasions he made a very good impression . Most recently he was paired on the program with his principal rival , Senator Robert A. Taft . Before a sophisticated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better impression . But more of Senator Taft later . Mr. Dewey has a great many attractive qualities . He uses the microphone with the skill of a grand opera singer , which he once trained to be . He handles his prepared speech with nonchalance , behaving like a very good trial lawyer , which he is . His microphone-manner is matched only by experienced veterans , like President Roosevelt . His ideas , in the Republican gamut at least , place him " just to the left of center . " He has attractive looks and seemingly a quick wit . Perhaps a Litttle Bit " Cocky " On the debit side , Mr. Dewey  --  in these two " off-the-record " , appearances  --  seemed rather too sure of himself . He gave the impression of a precocious young man , which position has its limitations . He was pretty sure of all the answers  --  an attitude that has been of value and of disservice to him in the courtroom . Were it not for his obvious youth and unhidden inexperience , however , he would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican polls today . The interesting thing , however , is that Mr. Dewey is sedulously making his national affairs statements not for the record , but for the chosen elite . His latest speech , last Friday night , was to a select audience indeed , the American Society of Newspaper Editors . The county attorney will be kept under wraps , it appears , for some months more . His handlers do not want his boom to be blighted by early-season frosts . So Mr. Dewey remains , in the words of the Gridiron Show : " In maiden meditation , fancy-free and silent . " Not so , indeed not so , in the case of Senator Taft . This new Cincinnatus speaks often and for the headlines . He hammers away at the New Deal with bludgeon strokes , on domestic and foreignaffairs alike . No subtleties for him , none of this nonsense about the middle of the road , not to mention left-of-center . The way to oppose is to oppose . And Senator Taft opposes the New Deal right down to the last dot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ runner , Senator Taft bucks straight through the line . As we said , to select Washington audiences , Senator Taft 's method seems heavy and unconvincing . But will it be that way to the country ? Does the country want subtleties ? If reaction has set in , will not the pendulum keep on going all the way instead of halting in the center ? And may not Senator Taft 's bull-voice and hammer blows be effective in campaigning , however subtle his opponent ? Perhaps . We shall see . But right now , in Washington , there is a slump in Taft stock . And the Senator has not been afraid of risks . He has pitted himself in debate against the rapier-tongued Representative T. V. Smith ( D ) of Illinois . Observers say Mr. Smith has run verbal rings around Senator Taft in their radio discussions . But maybe verbal rings are n't enough ; maybe dogged-does-it , and if that is true , Senator Taft is on the right track . Waiting to Grab the Bone While the two prima donnas , Dewey and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Republicans wait in the background , watching for a misstep or a changing wind which will give them their chance . Oddly , they come from the same two States as the prima donnas : Ohio and Michigan . Gov . John E. Bricker of Ohio is a substantial man , and he may get his State 's delegates ahead of Senator Taft . He is n't making many speeches these days , he is setting up a record in the State House at Columbus . His recipe is to throw out three Democratic State employees and replace them with two Republicans . That would make a rather attractive national platform for an opposition party . Meantime , in Washington , Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg  --  from Mr. Dewey 's Michigan  --  keeps his patient watch . He deliberately passed up 1936 . Will it be too late in 1940 ? Senator Vandenberg was at the Editors ' dinner in Washington , too , cocking his chair against a marble pillar in the back of the dining hall , while his rivals made the welkin ring . There was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is a shrewd politician . He has the United States Senate for a forum . His drive for the nomination will probably start when he thinks the time is ripe . He has experience for background , an attractive political presence , knowledge and skill . Most people are writing him off their future books , but that is a mistake . These are the Republican " Big Four . " But of course there are others . Could Senator Styles Bridges of New Hampshire possibly have been responsible for the postcards , postmarked " N. Y. , " that have rather fatuously put forward his candidacy in Washington newspaper bureaus the past week ? Erwin D. Canham                     