@@702521

txt Indication that John L. Lewis is not in full accord with the United Automobile Workers ' Union leaders on their sole bargaining demand in the Chrysler strike negotiations was seen here Sunday in a short talk made by Mr Lewis to a group of about 800 strikers who staged a demonstration in front of the capitol . Mr. Lewis made no mention of sole bargaining but said to the strikers : " We want to find a basis that will permit you to have a collective bargaining agreement with due respect for the rights of the union and the rights of the corporation to maintain its best relationship in the commercial field , to operate its plants for the stockholders of the corporation . " Obviously , the corporation could not " main- ? tam its best relationship in the commercial field " if it alone among all the motor companies were to grant the union sole bargaining rights together with all that implies in domination of the company 's activities by the union Seek to Oust Left-Wingers Further indication that the union leaders themselves are fearful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way for an attempt at selling the rank and file on a compromise agreement was seen in a campaign inaugurated by President Homer Martin to oust left-wing elements from the union ranks . It was these extremists who were most vociferous in objecting to evacuation of the plants after this had been agreed upon by Mr. Lewis and Walter P. Chrysler early in the negotiations . Martin has repeatedly stated that communists were not wanted in the union-and it is understood that certain of the locals are now considering a purge of the membership . Likewise , the position of the union in the current negotiations has been weakened by inability of the leaders to control the rank and file as demonstrated in the series of sitdown strikes in General Motors plants since the March 3.2 agreement was signed . These disturbances , which culminated in the complete shutdown of Chevrolet plants in Flint last Friday , have been cited in the Chrysler negotiations as an argument against the company signing any kind of contract with the union . Martin , in attempting to settle the last Flint strikes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not end such stoppages , and warned the strikers in the strongest terms against spontaneous sitdowns which " hurt both the company and the union . " Murphy Plans Hudson , Reo Parleys Governor Frank Murphy said at conclusion of yesterday 's conferences , which were adjourned until 11 o'clock this morning , that he planned to get in touch with both sides in the Hudson and Reo strikes in a few days with a view to starting conferences on those situations as Boon as the Chrysler strike is settled . In discussing yesterday 's negotiations , he said : " That an agreement will be reached there is little doubt 7 wr , " 1 , and believe that before long they will reach an agreement . " In response to a question regarding a possible strike against Ford Motor Co the Governor said : " There is nothing to indicate that there is going to he other serious labor trouble in the automobile industry . " With both sides apparently holding to their original positions regarding sole bargaining , chief hope for an immediate settlement seems to lie in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a compromise agreement without provision for sole bargaining . In any case no settlement Is expected until after the Supreme Court meets today and until after the polls close this evening in the Michigan election . Union 's SUCCefiR Endangered Mr. Lewis was understood to have formed a union policy of consolidating its gains and winning over public support following the General Motors strike . Instead , the local leaders precipitated the Chrysler strike by making demands which the company could not grant and thus endangered what success the union had already achieved . The demonstration staged here Sunday was an answer of the strikers to a smaller gathering of non-striking employes who gathered at the capitol Saturday . The crowd marched around the capitol and then gathered before the front steps . The conference was suspended temporarily as Mr Chrysler . Mr. Lewis . Governor Murphy , and other conferees came out on a balcony overlooking the steps . The crowd cheered their appearance and particularly that of Mr. Chrysler , who waved a greeting when a spokesman shouted up to him : " We want to go back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you give them to us ? " The strikers then paraded out to the strikebound Reo plant before returning to the capitol where they were addressed briefly by Mr. Lewis . Most Leaders Conservative While most of the union leaders are conservative in their attitude toward the economic order , there is one faction led by first Vice President Wyndham Mortimer and including several of the most able organizers who are more left-wing . Mr. Mortimer , formerly an employe of a Cleveland automobile plant and before that a member of the miners ' union , was a candidate for presidency of the union at its South Send convention a year ago but withdrew when it became apparent that Martin had a majority of the votes lined up in advance . Thus far , the break between Mortimer and Martin does not appear to be serious but should Martin continue his efforts to clean out leftwing elements , a definite split is likely to occur before the next convention in August . The rank and file of automobile workers are not radicals despite the contrary impression given by their use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most apt to support Martin , should a split occur . Martin 's position is further strengthened by the support of Richard T. Frankensteen , who dominates the large Chrysler locals .                     