@@702075

txt A monumental amphitheatre with the stage set in a lagoon and including an indoor auditorium , promenade and space for exhibits was suggested yesterday by Park Commissioner Moses as an appropriate display of the State at the World 's Fair in Flushing Meadows . The suggestion was made in a letter to the New York State World 's Fair Commission , in the Hotel Biltmore , where , at its first meeting , the commission elected Senator John J. Dunnigan chairman , Assemblyman Herbert Brownell , vice chairman , and Senator Joseph D. Nunan Jr. , secretary . Following the meeting the commissioners toured the Fair site and attended a luncheon in the Corona Golf Club , overlooking the Flushing Meadows , where they met Commissioner Moses , Earl F. Andrews , general manager of the World 's Fair Corporation , and other officials . Mr. Moses explained the amphitheatre proposal from preliminary sketches hung in the club-1 house . Urges an Outstanding Exhibit He suggested that , since New York State would be the host to the other States , it was important that its exhibit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dignified ' and impressive structure of permanent character . This requirement could be met , he said , by the construction of the amphitheatre housing the exhibits and a convention hall , and at the same time providing a setting for outdoor operas , concerts and operettas . The cost of the project was estimated at $1,400,000 , and an additional $100,000 would be included , , for the cost of the State exhibits , making a total appropriation of $1,500,000 . At the main portal the Great Seal of the State of New York would be carved in stone and the names of the counties on the various arches . The State exhibits would be on the inside of a promenade around the exterior of the amphitheatre , the promenade being used as an entrance to the marine theatre and providing a vantage - point to look out on the Fair . A mosaic map of the State would form part of the floor of the promenade . The indoor auditorium would be used for the reception of distinguished guests and in inclement weather for ceremonies originally scheduled for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding their conventions at the Fair . The site selected for the proposed amphitheatre is considered one of the most desirable in the entire fair area , being at the north end of the North Lake , which will be built near Horace Harding Boulevard and the Grand Central Parkway extension , at about the geographical center of the fair . The amphitheatre would form the sloping roof of the structure from which 15,000 persons could view productions on a large stage set in the lake , similar to the arrangement now followed at Jones Beach . It was said the structure would remain as a valuable asset to the community as an entertainment center after the closing of the fair . Two Suggest Museums Two other suggestions were made at the commission 's meeting for New York State 's display , one by Assemblyman Albert Low Moffat , member of the commission , for a museum of science which would be self-sustaining with revenue from exhibitors and would be placed under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Education . Another suggestion came from Harold J. O'Connell , appointee of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museum and pointed out that the medical societies had stressed the need for such an institution . A resolution was adopted inviting the public and interested bodies to make suggestions as to the type of permanent building and the uses to which it might be put as an appropriate display of the State . The suggestions will be received up to Oct. 1 . Plans then will be drawn of the structure which the commis-1 sion will recommend to the Legislature . The commission members attending the meeting included also Senators Jeremiah F. Twomey , Thomas F. Burchill and Arthur H. Wickes , Assemblymen Peter T. Farrell and Robert J. Crews , and the appointees of Governor Lehman , Surrogate James A. Foley , Ashley T. Cole and John J. Leddy . There are eighteen members of the commission . The headquarters of the commission will be in the Empire State Building , where the second meeting will be held next Wednesday .                     