@@701490

txt While Italy was going through its spectacular mobilization of millions , and the Ethiopian Emperor was proclaiming an advance of Italian forces beyond an undemarcated frontier of Eritrea into a " No Man 's Land " he has created by the withdrawal of his troops , the British Cabinet met today and listened to a report from Anthony Eden , Minister for League of Nations Affairs , regarding the League Council 's intentions . There is comparative calm and coolness here . The hour for Britain 's intervention has not yet struck . The universal prayer is that its striking may be long delayed . For Britain desires peace . News of the Italian test mobilization was received with interest but not alarm . It was expected to be spectacular and striking , and it is . News of the Italian advance similarly was greeted as something that had been looked for . A few more evening newspapers , which naturally sensationalized the news , were sold , but that is all . Eden Wins Approval . The Cabinet heard Mr. Eden and , it is officially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing more . He looked disappointed when he left the meeting after two hours ' discussion , but he has come from an atmosphere different from that which prevails here in London . There is nothing bellicose in official or public sentiment here , but there is a growing stern determination to stick by the League in the strictest sense , though that does not necessarily imply telling the League what it should do in given circumstances ? in other words , giving it " a lead . " Before the Cabinet meeting the King received successively Sir Samuel Hoare , the Foreign Secretary , and Viscount Halifax , Secretary for War . This , too , could be readily sensationalized , but to do so would give a wrong impression . The King returned last week-end from a prolonged stay at Balmoral Castle . He leaves next week-end for a stay at Sandringham . It is the custom of British rulers to keep in touch during critical times with the Ministers most affected . King George is following this custom during the short period of his stay in London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereignty . That is a superficial aspect of today 's happenings here , but to go a little deeper : The Cabinet met with overwhelming proofs before it of the solidarity of the nation behind its firm stand for peace and for League principles . At the very moment when it was in session a convention of the Labor party at Brighton was voting by more than twenty to one in favor of the application of League sanctions to Italy , should Italy defy the League by making war on Ethiopia . The Labor party is the only opposition the national government has . The Conservative party convention meeting tomorrow at Bournemouth , comprising the bulk of the government 's supporters , will undoubtedly take a similar stand , with an added pronouncement for increased British defensive measures so that any emergency may be fearlessly faced with the traditional might of Brit ' ain . No British Government in recent times has been favored with so general approval of its course . The conservative interests back it because they must . The great body of the British working classes is I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is fighting their battle of popular freedom against Fascist dictatorship . But in all this it must again be emphasized that there is no attitude of belligerency . The great mass of public opinion not only does not want war but it believes ? except for a certain amount of Italian aggression in Ethiopia -- that war is not coming . British opinion still steadfastly believes , further , that if it does France will toe the line and stand with England and that that will be the end of Mussolini . But more than all , it believes that in Italy 's present economic condition the imposition under League auspices of economic sanctions against Italy would soon bring Mussolini to terms . Which may or , again , may not be the case . So much for mass opinion . Official Britain and those observers of it who look a little further than the newspaper headlines find more reason for uneasiness in the news developments in Central Europe , than in Ethiopia . The attempted I flirtation of Berlin with Budapest and Warsaw is regarded as containing more elements of danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Point is given to this by today 's news  --  nafurally denied in Berlin ? of a Hitler offer to Austria to permit herself to be swallowed whole by Nazism and to smile over it . British correspondents in Budapest are saying tonight that Premier Julius Goemboes , the Hungarian dictator , favors it after his visit to Reich Air Minister Hermann Goering , and indeed he might , although whether the Hungarian people would back him may be another story . But these anxieties have not yet reached the man in the street here , and at present he is disposed to trust his government . It is a quite different atmosphere from that at Geneva , where Ethiopia is the allengrossing theme , discussed as if by tired men in a smoke-filled room badly in need of fresh air . The British Government might be likened to opening the windows and letting some in . It may not be incorrect also to say that Mr. Eden has experienced some of this different atmosphere today . Hey is returning to Geneva tomorrow to tell the League Council of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Paris . Whether he will see Premier Pierre Laval on his way to Geneva seems to be in some doubt tonight , but it will be surprising if he does not . Mr. Eden can only report both to Mr. Laval and to the League that the feeling here is unchanged , but growing daily more determined to stand by the League against Mussolini no matter whether Italy backs him or not and no matter to what lengths the League decides to go . Moreover , the sentiment here is increasingly confident of obtaining the support of world opinion and especially American opinion . It will endorse and support sanctions if the League decides to impose them , no matter what the sanctions are . But here again must be inserted a , qualification . The official British view is that the imposition of sanctions will be a Iong process and therefore is no matter on which to pass judgment now . In fact , although a certain amount of fighting is expected in Ethiopia soon , the official opinion is that real danger will not come ? always barring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British ship in the Mediterranean or the Red Sea  --  before December . It is quite probable that by that time Italian troops will have reached  --  and occupied Adowa and possibly Akaum also . Their lines of communication will have become extended over a difficult country and further operations will be made difficult by a new but shorter rainy season . In the British view Mussolini will then have three courses open to him . He can halt and negotiate , in which case it is held that he probably will get no more and possibly less than Messrs . Eden and Laval offered him in Paris . He can , in default of accepting this , settle down to a long war , maybe lasting two or three years , in which case it is doubtful whether , with League sanctions pressing ever more heavily , Italy will be able to stand the economic strain . Or he can attempt to crush Ethiopia swiftly and finally by loosing upon her capital and scattered villages the concentrated force of all his bombing airplanes , wiping them out of existence at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , almost inevitably , some Europeans , thereby drawing upon Italy the condemnation and wrath of the civilized world . That is when the danger of a war involving probably Britain , France and a large part of Europe may become acute . It is a contingency viewed here with real alarm , for such a war would inevitably spread . But until this occurs there Is a general disposition here to trust to Geneva and diplomacy to make the best possible out of the situation , however inherently dark and threatening . Commenting on Mussolini 's speech , The Times will say tomorrow that " all of Mussolini 's assurances that he will respect British interests are irrelevant . " " Nobody supposes he is deliberately planning to attack them , " the comment continues . " What he is attacking is the covenant to settle all disputes by peaceful means , and he is doing so in dealing with a people which , whatever he may say about it now , Italy herself was foremost in helping into the League . In one respect Il Duce 's speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endure economic measures with such fortitude as he can , and only ' military sanctions ' will be regarded as an act of war . " It would be unwise perhaps to ' take overmuch comfort from this undoubtedly genuine assurance , because it may be that Il Duce has misjudged the future course of events as much as he misconceived their character in the past . Anyway his adventure , which has so deplorably tightened a loosening international tension , can not fail to have repercussions . But it means that a constructive task for the League  --  namely , to restrict the sphere of hostilities and terminate them at the earliest possible moment  --  need not be hopeless . "                     