@@701589

txt Our Government has taken another step in preventing shipment of oil to Italy . After President ROOSEVELT had set his official face against it , after Secretary HIM , had specifically warned exporters of oil , Secretary IcxEs came forward IFK ? - .. h an out-and-out statement that selling oil to Italy was a violation of American neutrality and must be stopped . Apparently , he has found a way to stop it , at least in large part . Through the Shipping Board , which is , in effect , part owner of the vessels carrying oil , because of Government subsidies given to them , orders have been issued to cancel several voyages that had been contracted for . It is reported that others will be abandoned . The result can not fail greatly to diminish the indispensable amount of oil which Italy has been planning to import from this country . Technically and legally , under the interpretation of the Neutrality Act which has been thus far adopted by the State Department , Italians have the right to purchase the oil that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . It is not included in the list of articles embargoed by the President 's proclamation . But there is no doubt that he wishes the shipments given up . Secretary Hum has been even more emphatic about it . Now Secretary ICKEs , who , in addition to his other duties , is Oil Administrator , or whatever his title may be , finds a practical may of carrying out the desires of the Administration . His embargo is , strictly speaking , of a moral nature , but it bids fair to be none the less effective . One place where there is no doubt about this is Rome . The Italian Government resented the statement of Mr. ICKES as soon as it was made . The charge is that the American Government went beyond its legal power and virtually took its place , as regards sanctions , alongside the League of Nations , of which it is not a member . This is to misrepresent the position taken by President ROOSEVELT . He at first declared it to be his duty , as it was the desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do everything possible to keep the United States out of the war between Italy and Ethiopia . Later he went further and stressed the point that we must do nothing to " prolong " that war . As the free purchase of oil by Italy from American exporters would do that very thing , he called upon them to cease and desist . As not all of them are willing to do this , new methods were resorted to in order to curb them . It is possible that MUSSOLINI , in his excited state , may denounce this as an " unfriendly act . " But on reflection he would scarcely maintain that it is an act beyond the power of the American Government . It is in line with the proper conception of neutrality , even if it is not specifically warranted by the terms of the act of Congress empowering the President to declare it . Views of the intent of this tightening down on shipments of oil will vary . Some will hold that the President is in this way preparing public sentiment before asking Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that he really hopes in this way to bring Italy to her senses and to brighten the hopes of an early peace . The Italian Government can not blind itself to the effects of a policy common to the United States , Great Britain and Russia in cutting off her supply of oil . It would mean , and before long , disabled battleships , tanks that could not move , and airplanes that could not fly . It was partly in the thought of such a catastrophe that the Fascist Grand Council voted the other day that the application of sanctions to Italy must be regarded Ss a great blot upon the history of these times . If so , it was a blot which . Italy herself helped to make . She signed the Covenant of the League of Nations , which , in Article XVI , authorized and endorsed precisely such measures as have now been used against her .                     