@@697649

txt What is the object of the Presidential veto ? It is to give Congress opportunity to reconsider a legislative act . By the Constitution , the veto power lodged with the President makes him a part of the legislative branch of the Government . It does this with great emphasis . First of all , it lays upon the President the solemn duty of refusing to sign a bill of which he does not " approve . " Then it lends enormous weight to his disapproval . As our Senate is at present made up , a veto of the veterans ' bill by Mr. HOOVER makes him the equal in legislative weight and voting strength of fifteen Senators . The calculation is simple . With his assent , a bill may be passed by the vote of forty-nine Senators . Without it , fifteen more are required to pass it over his veto . Yet it is said that Senators and Representatives are under no obligation whatever to give heed to such a Presidential demand that they exercise sober second thought ! It is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disregard the plain intent and due effect of an important provision of the Constitution of the United States . No lawmaker need blush for changing his mind when solid reasons are given him for doing so . The obvious purpose of the veto power is to act as a check upon hasty legislation . Never can there have been a clearer case of it than the passage of the bill which Mr. HOOVER has promised to veto this week . It went through the House with only the slightest coneiC.eration  --  little more than if it had been a bill to change the color of postage stamps . The Senate was so eager to get its hand upon the measure that only with great difficulty could it be persuaded to wait one day until the bill was reported out of the Finance Committee . Haste was stamped all over this legislative act . One reason for it was asserted to be fear of the ten-day limit , which might enable the President to kill the bill by putting it in his pocket . Even as it turned out , he might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate that he does not intend to make use of that privilege . Thus , with the alleged excuse for the tactics of rush taken away , the argument for deliberation , mature and conscientious , by members of Congress before making the final plunge , becomes redoubled in force . However indifferent to the Presilent 's veto Congress may show itself , it is certain that thoughtful people all over the country will be deeply impressed by it . They rightly think of the President as the re ; ponsible guardian and administrator of the public finances . But these the enactment and execution of the t'eterans ' bill will seriously disturb if they do not disastrously upset . Furthermore , the people look to the President as one who , by his office , is bound to take a broad view of large questions of national policy . Senators and Representatives think first of their individual constituencies . The President must see the nation steadily , and see it whole . Since these things are so , it becomes of strategic importance , in the time that remains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . Let the press speak its mind plainly . Let chambers of commerce and manufacturers and exporters and bankers make their views known to the members of the Rouse and the Senate . Great numbers of ex-soldiers are indignant and disgusted at the hurried clamor in their name which has driven Con ? congress into such precipitate action There is yet occasion for them to urge their Senators ' and Representa ? tives to call a halt . There is no neee to make threats . It is not a case to talk of political punishment . But there is a demand for a protest se wide and deep and genuine that it a be disregarded in the halls of Congress . A Presidential veto upheld by Congress has often been of great benefit to the country . President GRANT vetoed a bill for the reckless inflation of paper currency , and thereby saved the United States from impaired credit and inability to resume specie payments . On the other hand , a veto overridden has more than once led to unnumbered ills . President HAVES vetoed the silver bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which need not here be recounted . If the veterans ' bill Is made law , despite the President 's objections , it promises to be merely as a letting out of the waters which later will overwhelm us in a flood of special favors and pensions . The thing should be stopped in its very beginnings . In a time of grave international difficulties , or of war , the cry goes up all over the land : " Stand by the President ! " It is just as much called for when he takes the lead against legislation that is vicious in principle and big with future evils .                     