@@701775

txt Senator ' Wagner and William Green . president of the American Federation of Labor , headed a trade union committee which presented to President Roosevelt the Federation 's $500 , - 000.000 program for building under federal aid small homes costing 84,000 and up . This program , like the Senator 's slum clearance plan , is intended to help those who are unable to help themselves . That seems to be the keynote of housing activities this session , reflecting both the widespread Confidence that the long laggard building industry generally will show sensational improvement this year without new governmental aids and the disinclination to vote any additional large appropriations before election . Predicting that residential construction will treble this year . Stewart , federal housing administrator , estimated in a formal statement yesterday that 250,000 houses and other residential units will be oullt during 1936 . This would compare with 85.000 during 1935 . Congress Moves to Extend Provisions Yesterday also brought the first move in Congress to extend Title 1 of the Federal Housing Act , the section which provides federal insurance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 , would be extended until December 31. under bills introduced by Senator Fletcher , Florida Democrat , and Representative Steagall , Alabama Democrat , chairmen of the Senate and House Banking and Currency Committees . This move probably will be followed by extension of Title 2 authorizing federal insurance of new construction loans . " Building activity for the first two months of the year , " Mr. said , " clearly points to a higher volume of residential building than we formerly expected . Judged on our performance last year , we felt that residential building this year would reach 175.000 new homes . This is more than double the number of all residential units for 1935 . Today the picture is changing and I am confident that 250,000 new homes in 1836 are not too much to expect . January and February building operations are right In line with this estimate and our newest survey indicates that no time will be lost in getting a strong building movement under way this Spring . " Causing the current upswing , he said , are the natural pressure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in greater abundance than at any time in the past Reveal years , at the most attractive rates , in our history , higher construction standards and the elevation of the single mortgage to its present position as a prime investment due to the protection of insurance provided under the National Housing Act .                     