@@699663

txt After having extended to eleven its original list of four or five nations to be invited to the " Washington conversations , " beginning April 21 , the administration finds itself pressed , for various reasons , to increase the group to a dozen or more . Any one who has ever made any kind of list will appreciate the President 's position . Tonight , after a number of diplomats had called at the State Department to ask more details about the discussions that will begin with the arrival of Prime Minister of Great Britain , Secretary of State Hull declined to answer any question concerning the extension of the list . Doubtless he had heard of the surprise and chagrin of the members of the Little Entente at being left out . The participation of Rumania , Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia would be essential to any world-wide wheat agreement . Wheat is also grown in Poland , Bulgaria and Hungary . Little Entente 's Solidarity Cited . Some weeks ago the Little Entente nations signed a tripartite treaty which would permit one statesman to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stand as one on all international questions , and poland may soon join them . They do not understand why Foreign Minister Benes of Czechoslovakia or Foreign Minister Titulescu of Rumania , for example , should not be of equal importance to any Italian delegate in conversations looking to world economic agreements . M. Titulescu is representing all three in Paris , and M. Benes at Geneva . Poland feels that it is now a world power and is anxious over being left out of any discussions in which Germany will participate as a principal . Spain , which has had a long series of tariff debates with the United States , is not on Mr. Roosevelt 's list . Belgium , another uninvited nation , is concerned . Envoys of uninvited countries who have inquired what they are supposed to do during the Washington conversations have been told that they will be welcome at all times and will receive any available information as to the progress of the discussions . But this has not satisfied some of them . " Welcome ! " exclaimed one diplomat today , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as the President decided to pick and choose . It would not have been so evident , had the discussions been confined to Great Britain and France , as was once proposed . But it was suggested that this might be taken as a slight by Italy , so Italy was added . With Italy included , Germany , since she is a nation of real importance in a composite economic picture , was invited . Canada , as the best customer of the United States , and Mexico because of her silver yield , were felt to be needed . But , as a Presidential adviser pointed out , the addition of these nations called definitely for the extension of invitations to Argentina , Brazil and Chile . Silver discussions without China seemed incomplete , and when China was added it was obvious that for diplomatic reasons the door must be opened " That will be all , " was the administration 's attitude after the list had been extended in this manner . But it may not be able to stand by that determination . If it does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limitation of the list will not necessarily be critical bars to the success either . also for Japan . of the Washington conversations or the World Economic Conference itself . But they ' complicate the already tremendous task before the President , whose native ability , personal charm and genius for showmanship are expected by his advisers to be put to their utmost test in the six weeks during which the talks would continue . On these qualities in the President , his counselors base their hopes of success . But they admit it is a large order , even for Mr. Roosevelt . When the President recited to one envoy the topics he wanted to discuss in Washington with the several statesmen , he listed them as follows in the order named : Silver , wheat , copper , tariffs , currency . It will be noted that war debts are not mentioned , and the leading position given to silver surprised this diplomat . as doubtless it did several of his colleagues . Progress Made on Silver . Secret --  Hull and the British Arnbass : - .11 : ; r @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silver , the main idea seeming to be a purchase program by both governments and a more important place in the currency reserve . Senator Dill today urged the State Department to support his bill for silver purchase , to be employed if necessary while Congress is in recess , to help promote an international agreement at the conference . But this is on detail of the slowly forming plan of the administration to break the world 's economic jam by fashioning the tools beforehand and drilling all hands . The President has assumed the world leadership which seems to be expected of him and is getting his domestic problems out of the way as rapidly as he can so as to be free when the invited statesmen arrive . On behalf of the administration it was explained today that there Was no thought of trying to reach firm agreements in Washington , but merely to come to an accord on a list of common objectives , broadly stated . The conversations are to be kept " on a fluid , informal basis . " we are told . Nowhere was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such a matter as Japan 's Manchurian policy would be mentioned by the President or his aides . If It is discussed , the initiative will come from Japan . Similarly , Mr. 's feeling that it was necessary to tell the House of Commons that he would not set a limit on the field for his talks with the President is not borne out by the specific list of topics as given out by Mr. Roosevelt .                     