@@704278

txt The City of Flint left New York on Oct. 3 and our voyage was uneventful until Oct. 9 . On that day at 2:50 P. M. I noticed a ship on the horizon . Looking through glasses I distinguished her as a large warship . Every one on board thought she was a British or a French cruiser which had come out to meet us , but on approaching we saw the German flag and all the ship 's guns trained on us . We were signaled to stop and were forbidden to use our radio . We stopped and at 3:45 were boarded by a number of German sailors and officers armed with revolvers and hand grenades . We found that the warship was the pocket battleship Deutschland . A German officer asked to see our papers . Finding that we carried oil in large quantities , he signaled to the battleship for orders . Prize Crew Put in Charge Fully expecting our ship to be sunk , I went to the cabin , collected papers and then returned to the deck . The German officer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter . He said he did not like to be doing this , but that England had started the war . Owing to the kindness of his commanding officer , he said he would not sink us but would put a prize crew aboard and take us to Germany . This he did and the two ships parted company , the German prize crew remaining in command of the Flint . Our course was immediately changed to due north and the Germans began making preparations for the night . All the portholes were blacked and all lights extinguished . The Germans took control of the radio room and posted guards at all vital parts of the ship . The next day there was a heavy sea and the captain considered heaving to . We all hoped that a British ship would come in sight , but our hopes were in vain . On Oct. 11 we were still steering north and it was becoming colder every day . The Germans were becoming very jittery , , as they were keeping an anxious watch for British warships and planes . On Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Many of us talked to the Germans , who were mostly 22 to 26 years old . Our ship was still heading north and the lascar sailors who had been taken off the Stonegate were feeling the cold badly . On Oct. 14 the Germans made a Danish flag for our ship . The next day we sighted a huge iceberg just before nightfall . The temperature fell below the freezing point and there were ice and snow on the deck . On Oct. 16 we spent a nerveracking night sailing between icebergs , stopping frequently . Most of us stayed up all night . We appeared to ' be heading for North Cape . We were still hoping strongly to meet a British ship . We learned that'the Germans had placed a time bomb in the engine room. - Course of Ship Changed We thought we were going to Germany via-Norway territorial waters . Our captain figured that German destroyers would escort us through the mine fields . The sea was flat and it was unbearably cold . There was some excitement the night of Oct. 17 . The lookout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed . All the Eng- lish seamen were put in cabins . The funnel was repainted , the ship 's name was painted out and so were the American flags painted on our sides . The false name " Alf " was painted over our original name and we were sailing under the Danish flag . It was not so cold that day . We were heading northeast . The Germans were carrying daggers in addition to revolvers . We had given up hope of being sighted by a British ship and we were running short of fresh water . It was much warmer on Oct. 19 and the German sailors took soundings , evidently expecting to make land soon . The German commander stopped the ship at midnight and did not seem sure of his position . On the morning of Oct. 20 we picked up a Norwegian pilot and were now flying the German flag . The German sailors concealed their guns under their jackets . We anchored at Tromsoe at approximately 5 P. M. Oct. 20 dnd took on board sixty tons of water . The Norwegian customs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name and found out our true nationality . The Norwegians refused to allow the Flint to sail until the American flags had been repainted on the ship 's sides . Norwegian destroyers appeared . The English crew from the Stonegate then landed and I managed to . squeeze in among the Stonegate 's men , thus avoiding going to Murmansk with the City of Flint . The Stonegate 's seamen told me they had been well treated by the Germans before being put aboard the City of Flint . The ship 's officers were made to sign a paper that they would not fight .                     