@@701484

txt The decisions reached at Geneva today were received with mixed feelings in Italy . On the one hand they are regarded as an attempt to gain time in the hope that the negotiations now going on between Italy , Britain and France may result in some sort of agreement before it becomes necessary for the League of Nations to take some final decision . Considered in this light they impress Italians as likely to contribute to a solution of the deadlock . On the other hand they are undoubtedly another step forward taken by the League procedure , which unless checked by some new factor will ultimately result in the proposal of sanctions against Italy . Viewed from this angle the Geneva decisions are not likely to result in improvement in either the Italian position or the general European situation which may revert to the critical stage it reached last week . A government spokesman said last night , according to The Ass ciated Press , that Italy intended to remain at Geneva until the Council presented its report under Article XV of the covenant , unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The grand mobilization of all Fascist forces , which had been expected today , was postponed again . Everything has been ready for it for a week , loud-speakers having been installed in all principal squares of every city , town and village to give all Premier Mussolini 's 10,000,000 followers an opportunity to hear his message . But evidently ' the situation is not yet considered stable enough for Mussolini to have anything to say to the nation . The outstanding fact in the Ge- neva situation is that League procedure is going on its way relentlessly , even if slowly , and that the prospect of sanctions is coming nearer every day . Nothing Italy has done has succeeded in halting the fateful application of the covenant 's article under which Ethiopia appealed to the League . The most Italy has been able to obtain is a slight delay that will give all the powers concerned an opportunity to reconsider the situation . But if things continue as they are going not much likelihood is seen here that a solution in accordance with Italy 's wishes will ever be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Outside Talks . Italy continues to pin her hopes on the negotiations proceeding parallel to but outside the procedure at Geneva ; in other words , the consultations going on in Rome , Paris and London Unless an agreement is reached by these three capitals before the Council is called upon to take a definite decision , Italy 's case seems irremediably lost . The only possibility Italy can see of a change in the situation favorable to her is to induce Britain and France to agree to interrupt the Council 's procedure by laying the Italo-Ethiopian controversy before the Assembly . It is realized however , that even this step would not increase Italy 's chance of getting her point of view accepted unless an understanding was first reached with Britain and France through ordinary diplomatic channels . France and , to a lesser degree , Britain may be presumed to be as anxious as Italy to prevent the European situation from again reaching a point of dangerous tenseness and to exert their best efforts to obtain the success of the negotiations . It is worth mentioning that neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the outlook , from which it is deduced that the pros , pects of an understanding are by no means hopeless . It is admitted , however , that there are still great difficulties . Ousting of Ethiopia Sought . Italy is apparently still insisting on the application of the last paragraph of Article XVI of the covenant , which provides for the expulsion from the League of members who violate the duties resulting from the covenant . " Ethiopia should be thrown out and abandoned to her fate , " says Virginio Gayda in today 's Giornale d'Italia , but neither Britain nor France seems disposed to follow Italy on this road . Subordinately , Italy asks for the application of Article XIX , which provides for the re-examination of international situations likely to endanger peace . This appears a more likely basis for understanding . That an international situation endangering peace exists in East Africa is likely to be conceded by every one . if the situation is examined in conjunction with the memorandum Italy has presented in Geneva , it is believed here it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  are necessary between Italy and Ethiopia . Britain and France Balk . From what can be learned here , Britain and France are not averse to adopting this point of view , but they disagree entirely with Italy concerning the extent of readjustment that is necessary . In other words , though accepting the premise of the Italian thesis , they are unwilling , it is argued here , to admit that the logical conclusion that is to be drawn therefrom is that Italy should receive a mandate over the whole of Ethiopia or even over the parts of it that were conquered by the Amharic people . It is of interest to note that the Italian argument is based to a considerable extent on the report of the League 's committee of five , whic .. Italy has rejected . It is contended here that the report implicitly recognizes that Ethiopia is incapable of governing herself . If that much is conceded , it is argued , and Italy 's demand for a mandate is at the same time refused , the conclusion can not be escaped that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself , and this , say the Italians , is an insult that Italy can not accept . The long drawing out of the situation has had the effect of damaging Italian enthusiasm considerably . The people are laboring under a sense of anticlimax . They had been keyed up last week to a pitch at which they were ready to fight the whole world . Since then there has been nothing but uncertainty , deferred decisions , delay . But excitement is still intense under the surface , and it will probably flare up again when Mussolini gives the signal .                     