@@700728

txt A broad program to guard carefully against sudden sharp price rises of a " nuisance variety " is to be inaugurated by recovery officials . Sharply cognizant of charges that is bringing about rising coats to consumers . Recovery officials plan to avoid contributing supporting evidence in the form of authorized sharp jumps in commonly used consumer commodities , where the increase would immediately be noticed by a large percentage of the people . For example , mark-ups allowed on cigarettes under the tobacco codes provided only for a retail price of 25 cents for two packages , though the industry desired more , it was learned . NRA insisted on maintaining the " two for a quarter " rate . ' While this means an increase over prices which on occasion have prevailed in the past , the formal announcements on the cigarette prices stressed at length that-iao price rise over average would result from the move , and that any price under the two for 25 rate was a form of loss leader selling and represented a condition unfair to the average independent tobacco retailer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is watched closely from a price angle by the buying public . Therefore , the recovery administration will exanaine minimum price regulations in the New York City region , where controversy over price minimums has arisen . Chicago . and other major centers where emergency price bases have been established . will also come under the survey . In a letter to the St. Louis divisional coal code authority thssapproving the minimum price basis , Deputy Administrator Wayne P. Ellis , of the coal section of NRA , said : - We have set up an organization to investigate and report on actions taken by divisional code authorities and the national code authority of the retail solid fuel industry and this report for your division is the first one made by such organization , which is operated under the Research and Planning Division of NRA .. " The St. Louis price program was disapproved on recommendation of the Legal as well as the Planning division of IsTP ... A .. These divisions contended that the cost used as a basis for determining the lowest cost for the area was not representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,200 known members of the industry in that area were used as a basis , and that insufficient notice had been given by the divisional authority for the hearing at which an emergency was declared in the St. Louis division . Officials here anticipated that new bases for minimum prices would be submitted by the St. Louis code authority .                     