@@702349

txt Under steady rain , Franklin D. Roosevelt took oath of office shortly after noon today for his second term as President of the United States . The oath was administered by Mr. Chief Justice Hughes , Just before the ceremony , and on the same outside portico of the Capitol . the oath was administered to John Nance Garner by Sen. Joseph T. Robinson D I of Arkansas , Senate Majorilv Leader . Hitherto Vice-Presidents have taken the oath in the Senate Chamber . It took only a few minutes to complete the ceremony . " I , Franklin Delano Roosevelt , do solemnly swear , " said Mr. Roosevelt in a firm voice , " that I will faithfully execute the office of the President of the United States , and will to the best of my ability preserve , protect and defend the Constitution of the United States . " George Washington the First Besides Mr. Roosevelt , only 30 men have taken the solemn oath , starting with George Washington . The somber skies lent an austerity to the occasion which it might otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oath-taking . The same mood Witt emphasized In some of the earlier events of the day . Chief of these was a quiet , reverent church service at historic old St. John 's , not far from the White House . Here gathered Mr. and Mrs. Roosevelt . the Garners and members of the Cabinet , following a custom set four years ago . It was like a family affair ; there , in the quiet old house of worship , away from the shouting throng , the pressure of office , the hurly-burly of politics , and to the sound of dripping eaves , the supplicating head of the State asked wisdom for the years to come . Curl- . JAM ous crowds watched the little church but did not enter . Help for the Under Dog There was some of this mood , too , in Mr. Roosevelt 's second inaugural . As he spoke , the slanting winter rain could be seen against the wet columns of the Capitol , The speech was temperate and , conciliatory . There was mention of an " era of good feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the most part it was an emphasis on the plight of the underprivileged , a keynote indicating that the next foul ' years would be directed toward the goal of social justice . Such was the mood and temper of the first part of Washington 's great quaddrentilal Inaugural show , as Mr. Roosevelt appeared before the shouting , sodden throng which filled Capitol Plaza today and made the address carried Into every corner of the nation by radio , Crowds Laugh at Bain But neither weather nor the tradition of the occasion could long repress the exuberance of Mr. Roosevelt 's exulting followers and big throngs filled the streets , lined the sidewalks , took places in grandstands up and down Pennsylvania ' avenue , famillary known throughout the District of Coltimbla as " thav-noo. "                     