@@704001

txt Secretary Hull may not testify at th- .. foreign policy hearings on Capitol Hill . Questioned this week , he said that he " had not gone into the question , pending developments in Congress , especially in the Senate " where a number of bills are now deadlocked . But in the meanwhile , he referred the questioner to his extensive testimony " about almost every phase of this problem " in 1936 . For many long and tedious hours , Secretary Hull had been badgered by Senator Hiram Johnson  --  in friendly and courteous , but none the less persistent fashion . The Hull foreign policy was under earnest discussion and Senator Johnson was dissenting in extenso . The Secretary of State was patience itself ; repealing , reformulating , and yet always what seemed like the same uncomprehending questions came back at him again . Finally : " I am a little bit like the lawyer before the Supreme Court , " Mr. Hull said " The Judge kept slapping him down , and finally he made a statement and the Judge said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The lawyer replied , ' It was the law , until Your Honor spoke ! ' " Mr. Hull 's story was related to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee when the Neutrality Act was still on the anvil , in January of 1936 . This week , when the issue hung in the balance as to whether Congress would try to make a new law on foreign policy , or leave it to develop further under the hand of the Executive , the story takes on a meaning which surely is far more than the Secretary could have foreseen . For it never was more evident that until Congress speaks , it is the State Department and the President who are the chief sculptors of American foreign policy . Changed by Pressure of Crisis It has been three years , now , since Congress officially laid down the Neutrality Law  --  with , the exception of an amendment passed the next year , and with the important qualification that Congressional opinion is always a very real force in the background . In the interval , the outlook of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : a nation chiefly anxious to insulate itself from troubles abroad has more nearly become a nation actively conscious of its responsibility in co-operating to preserve peace . One wonders if Mr. Hull had some intuition of these changes ahead when he told his story to the Committee . For the following colloquy appears immediately thereafter in the record : Senator Johnson : is that ( story ) applicable to you , Mr. Hull ? Secretary Hull : I will leave you to pass on it . I had intended to apply it to you . . . . These 1936 hearings are now a text of little noticed and very pertinent information . Mr. Hull spoke behind closed doors . By the time the blue-penciled stenographic report is published in such a case the news has cooled . And a reader , like Paul Bunyan on one day of deep meditation up in the country of the blue snow , finds himself N% ading knee deep in solid rock . Conditions Alter Cases Like a refrain , Mr. Hull endlessly sought to impress on the Senators that conditions in foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Committee in the best of faith have an idea that we are undertaking here to adopt a permanent policy , more or less inflexible . . . about restricting abnormal exports of war materials . " This , he said , was certainly not the case . And on another day : " Frankly , the law can not be applied practically or satisfactorily , if it is mandatory or automatic and has no reference whatever to the different varying conditions which different wars bring up . " And in one of his best phrase-making moments : " You can not slap on a ready-made formula long in advance of a war . " No one acquainted with the making of foreign policy would disparage the role played by Congress . Nor would Mr. Hull . " Naturally , my personal sympathies and personal relations are with Congress as well as with the Executive Department , " he said , " because I spent the best years of my life here . . . " Moreover , he well knows the restraint on too broad a use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " . . It really would be next thing to suicide , politically , if he should exercise the power in the broad way that we are talking about . That is about as restraining on human nature as anything you could well imagine . . .. " If Mr. Hull were to testify  --  and it probably would be behind closed doors again  --  doubtless he would repeat with the emphasis of intervening developments . many of these things that he said before . Saville E. Davis                     