@@701601

txt The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a bill of complaint in the Federal court here yesterday against the Electric Bond and Share Company and five affiliated holding companies , in an effort to reduce the number of injunctions which utility companies are seeking against the Public Utility Act . At the same time the North American Company and the Stone &; Webster group attacked the commission 's right to control them under the act in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and in the Federal court at Wilmington , Del . Meanwhile two other major utility systems , the New England Power Association and the Utilities Power and Light Corporation , announced their directors had voted to register under the act on or before Dec. 1 , as provided for in the law , and the Public Service Corporation of New Jersey gave recognition to the act by applying for an exemption from its provisions on the ground that its activities were wholly intrastate . In addition to the Electric Bond and Share Company , the local case , brought by the commission through its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gas and Electric Company , the American Power and Light Company , the Electric Power and Light Company , the National Power and Light Company and the United Gas Corporation , The assets of these companies are valued at more than $500,000,000 , according to the complaint . Electric consumers alone number 3,000 , - 000 and revenues are derived from properties in thirty-two States . Officers of the Electric Bond and Share Company were professedly taken completely by surprise by the bringing of the action against them , since it had been planned that the companies themselves would seek injunctive relief . The following statement was issued in behalf of the company in the afternoon : " The Electric Bond and Share Company , believing that it is of the greatest importance for this company and its security holders that there be a full and prompt decision on the validity and extent of the Public Utility Act of 1935 , hopes that the proceeding brought here today by the SEC will be adequate for that purpose and for the protection of the company and its investors . " If so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Electric Bond and Share Company to cooperate with the commission in securing such a decision . " Later in the evening the Electric Bond and Share Company and the holding and operating companies1 with which it has heretofore had ' service contracts announced that they " have taken the necessary corporate action to dissolve interlocking relationships . " " No officer or director of Electric Bond and Share Company is now an officer or director of any of these holding or operating companies , nor is any officer or director of any such company an officer or director of Electric Bond and Share Company , " the announcement said . " The holding companies affected , consisting of National Power and Light Company , Electric Power and Light Corporation , American Power and Light Company and American and Foreign Power Company , Inc. , are now separately officered and staffed . " There has been created a new company , Ebasco Services , Incorporated , completely owned by Eloctrio Bond and Share Company , which has taken over all the service contracts with operating utilities in this country and abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services to such companies . " It will furnish the services to operating companies which are essential to the financial , technical and economic development of such operating utilities . The advantages sought by the company in the creation of a subsidiary to render these services include qualification of such service company to do business in the various States in which its clients operate , and in making more readily available to regulatory authority ail facts in connection with the functioning of said service organization . " SEC Upholds Its rower . The complaint brought by the SEC said that all of the defendant companies are alleged to have outstanding securities which were sold in part through use of the mails , and this fact , it said , establishes the jurisdiction of the SEC under provisions of the Public Utility Act . Concerning a cause of action , the complaint asserts that " it appears to the plaintiff commission that the defendants are engaged and are about to engage in acts and practices which constitute or will ? constitute violations of the Public Utilities Act of 1935 . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That a writ of subpoena be issued out of this court directed to the defendants commanding them to appear and answer the allegations of this bill of complaint , and to abide by such orders and decrees as this court may make . " That each and all of the defendants , by an appropriate order of this court , be required in compliance with Section 4 ( b ) of the act to register under Section 5 of the act , or otherwise to comply with provisions of the said act . " For such other relief as the court may deem appropriate . " Argument on the suit will not be heard until next month when Federal Judges Alfred C. Coxe and John C. Knox will be sitting in equity cases , unless a motion is made and granted that it receive a preferred place on the regular calendar . Unless the court intervenes , the petition holds , Electric Bond and Share and American Gas and Electric will continue to use the mails to further power sales and construction contracts , without registration , and will continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to engage in interstate commerce . " None Have Made Application . It is further feared , the complaint sets forth , that unless they are restrained , all of the defendants will continue to acquire and distribute their securities and those of their subsidiaries without registering by Dec. 1 . " None of the defendants , " it is explained , " has made application to the SEC under Section A , 7 ( b ) of the act for an order declaring that it is not a holding company within the meaning of the act . " " And , " the complaint adds , " none of the defendants has registered with the SEC pursuant to Section 5 of the act , " but instead , each has notified the commission that it is not its intention to register . The complaint alleges that Electric Bond and Share " exercises effective working control of the utility companies which as hereinabove alleged are engaged in interstate commerce . " " This control , " the complaint continues , " is and will be continuously exercised in the ordinary course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business policy in the operation of subsidiary utility companies . " Companies Bringing Suits . Thus far , the utility systems which have gone into the courts to seek to restrain the SEC and government officials from imposing any penalties arising from failure to register by Dec. 1 pending determination of the constitutionality of the law include the United Gas Improvement Company , the Commonwealth 8i Southern Corporation , and the Consolidated Gas Company of New York . Several of the principal utility companies thus far have not made public any announcement with respect to their attitude toward the Public Utility Act , as follows : ' American and Foreign Power , American Water Works and Electric AssOciated Gas and Electric , Cities Service , Columbia Gas and Electric , Consolidated Electric and Gas , International Hydro-Electric , International Utilities , Middle West Utilities , Midland United , Niagara Hudson Power , North American Light and Power , Pacific Gas and Electric , Southern California Edison , Standard Gas and Electric , United Corporation and United Light and Power Company . Large independent operating-holding companies which have not yet taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Light and Coke ; Detroit Edison , and Public Service of Northern Illinois . The companies which registered took advantage of the clause prepared by the SEC retaining all constitutional rights , a reservation which the petitions of the companies fighting the act all asserted would be accorded scant recog-ni.tion in any subsequent action to1 test any ruling or regulation by the SEC.                     