@@704357

txt Assertions that Communists are and have been active in the organization and management of the League of Women Shoppers , the Consumers Union and a group of less known consumer organizations for the purpose of stirring up discontent were contained in statements released today by the House Committee Investigating un-American Activities . The statements were embodied in a report made by the committee 's research director . J. B. Matthews , former head of the Consumers Research , of which Consumers Union is a rump offshoot . Mr. Matthews stated that Communists worked actively to destroy the power of advertising because they realized that it was an essential element in the capitalist system and that its destruction or discrediting would thus weaken that system . " The consumer organizations which have been set up or which are controlled by the Communist party , " Mr. Matthews 's report said , " express the application of the principle of Lenin for the utilization of ' every manifestation of discontent . ' Precisely as the Communist party professes an interest in collective bargaining for the purpose of expanding its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it professes an interest in peace and democracy for the purpose of bringing members of the middle-class under its influence , so the party professes concern over consumers for the purpose of tearing down the institutions of capitalist society and erecting in their place the institutions of proletarian dictatorship . Says Discontent Is Exploited " Basically the aim is to utilize the protests of consumers against the real or fancied abuses which they meet in their day-to-day existence as buyers of goods , that is , to utilize these protests for the building of a movement which the party hopes to integrate with its own revolutionary program dictated from Moscow . " The technique of revolution requires the party 4,0 work in every possible way to discredit  --  rather than to repair where weaknesses exist  --  the economic structure of free enterprise in the United States . However , the Communist party does not stop at the utilization and exaggeration of real weaknesses in the capitalist system ; it deliberately invents false ones and imputes them to the capitalist system for the purpose of overthrowing it . " The report stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand , " it said , " that advertising performs an indispensable function in a massproduction economy , and that advertising as an economic process , wholly apart from questions which have to do with good or bad advertising copy , is as essential a part of the distributive mechanism as are railroads and retail outlets . " Therefore , Communists believe that to sabotage and destroy advertising , and through its destruction to undermine and help destroy the capitalist system of free enterprise , is a revolutionary tactic worthy of a great deal of attention . " Investigation of Magazine Cited Mr. Matthews added that the committee had evidence which showed that a great deal of the current popular and official attack on advertising was the direct result of Communist propaganda in the field of consumer organizations . " This is borne out , " this report continued , " by the recent action of a government official in the Department of Agriculture who undertook an investigation of national advertising in Good Housekeeping Magazine . This investigation was carried out by WPA employes and paid for out of WPA funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the investigation being used as a basis for action against the magazine , it lay be assumed that such was the intention . This is evidenced by the close affiliation of the government official in question with the heads of the Consum- 1 ers ' Union and the Consumers ' National Federation . " This latter group , Mr. Matthews asserted elsewhere in his ? report , is a four-year-old federation of local consumers ' organizations , many of which he held to have been started by Communists . It has had the support , he added , of various " Communist transmission belts . " " Donald Montgomery , consumers ' counsel of the Department of Agriculture , has been active from the beginning in the work of the Consumers ' National Federation , " the report went on . " In recent hearings before the Temporary National Economic Committee , Mr. Montgomery presented a group of witnesses most of whom represented consumer organizations in the formation of which Communists had played the leading role . " The Consumers ' Guide , published by the consumers ' counsel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Federation and to other organizations which are included in this report . " ' Transmission Belts ' Listed Among other Communist " transmission belts " in the consumer field Mr. Matthews listed the following : The Committee for Boycott Against Japanese Aggression , the Milk Consumers Protective Committee , the Consumer-Farmer Milk Cooperative , the New York Consumers Council , the Greenwich Village High Cost of Living Conference , the City Action Committee Against the High Cost of Living of the Bronx , and a number of similarly designated agencies in other cities . Mr. Matthews asserted that wellknown Communists or fellow-travelers have been and are active in the agencies he named . The person most active in organizing the League of Women Shoppers , he said , was Susan Jenkins , who has " admitted " in a New Jersey court that she was once employed by The Daily Worker . The party , he said , " assigned one of its most active members , Helen Kay , as the first secretary of the league , " adding that the committee had received testimony from a former member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to manage the affairs of the league in Hollywood . " Among the directors and sponsors of the league , " this section of the report concluded , " have been such well-known Communist party members and fellow-travelers as Clarina Michelson , Louise Thompson , Leane Zugsmith and Tess Slesinger . " Three persons " held the leadership in the agitation and manoeuvring of the Communist party ' Which resulted in setting up the Consumers Union , " Mr. Matthews asserted . He described these as Arthur Kallet , Walter Trumbull and Miss Jenkins . Mr. Kallet formerly was a member of the editorial board of the suspended Communist publication , Health and Hygiene , the report said . Mr. Trumbull , it added , was sentenced to twenty-six years ' imprisonment in 1925 for attempting to bore from within for Communist ends in the regular army and following his release after serving three years was an instructor in the party 's " workers ' school " in Philadelphia . Leaders in Groups Named By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Dec. ** report of J. B. Matthews made public today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Consumers Union board of directors included Robert A. Brady , " one of the signatories to the recently published ' open letter , ' which lauded the Soviet Union , " Jerome Davis , " Communist fellow traveler , recently defeated as president of the American Federation of Teachers on the issue of Communist party control of that union " ; A. J. Isserman , who appeared before the committee as counsel for the International Labor Defense , " found by the committee to be one of the Communist party 's ' United Fronts ' " , and Kathleen , former secretary of the League of Women Shoppers . Harry Bridges , West Coast C. I. 0 . director , was named as one of the sponsors of the Consumers Union in that section . Discussing the committee for boycott against Japanese aggression , the report said " the hand of the Communist party in the operation of this group is clear from the names of the following participants : " Ben Gold , prominent Communist party member and , president of the International Fur Workers Union ; Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was shown by testimony before the committee to b an agency of the Communist party ; Michael Quill , head of the Transport Workers Union and a member of the Communist party according to several witnesses who have appeared before the committee ; William B. Spofford , acting chairman of the American League for Peace and Democracy ; Jerome Davis , William Hinckley , former chairman of the American Youth Congress ; Joseph P. Lash , executive secretary of the American Student Union ; Kathleen . " ' A traiscript of a subcommittee hearing at which the Matthews report was placed in the record of the full committee showed that Chairman Dies was the only committee member present . Upon learning of the report 's publication , Representative Dempsey , a member of the committee who has criticized some of its actions in the past , asserted that he had known nothing of the report 's existence . " It 's a very unusual proceeding , " he added . " I never heard of a Congressional subcommittee of one or any other number making public reports without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  