@@700471

txt Conferences which have been in progress this afternoon and evening between the Democratic members of the Legislature and representatives of Mayor LaGuardia over the LaGuardia Economy Bill have failed to bring about an agreement on changes to make it mutually acceptable . It was said this evening that the conferees were as far apart as ever . Those speaking for Mayor LaGuardia and his administration failed to submit any proposals for changes . They have listened patiently to proposals by the legislative leaders for amendments , some of which patently would not be acceptable to Mayor LaGuardia . The conferences began this afternoon and continued practically without interruption until the Senate and Assembly went into session this evening , when they were adjourned with an understanding that there was to be another meeting after the two houses had finished . At a late hour the resumed conference still was in session . Reports Cause Surprise . The reports that came from the conference room caused some surprise because before the conversa-1 tions were started both the lawmakers and those speaking for Mayor LaGuardia had expressed themselves as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make possible passage of the bill in both the Senate and the Assembly this week . It is understood that the legislative leaders , Senator John J. Dunnigan , president pro tem , of the upper house , and Irwin Steingut , leader of the Democratic minority in the Assembly , have been insistent that the present economy bill be scrapped and three or four separate bills be substituted to cover different classes of employes in the city service . One of these bills , it was suggested , should deal with the teachers , another with employes of departments directly within the jurisdiction of the Mayor and the third with county officials and employes . A fourth bill would empower the Board of Estimate and the Aldermanic Board to reopen the 1934 budget for the purpose of balancing it . Controller W. Arthur Cunningham has asserted that it is out of balance by approximately $31,000 , - 000 . The teachers have clamored right along for separate treatment . They have contended that the amendment to the LaGuardia bill made under an agreement between Mayor LaGuardia and Governor Lehman to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the New York City Department of Education did not adequately attain that purpose . This amendment vested power in the city Board of Education to or- der payless furloughs in conformance with directiorfs from the Board of Estimate and paralelling furloughs in other branches of the city service . The teachers insisted that if there were to be any curtailment in their pay , it must be subject to a mandate coming direct from the Legislature . Would Cut Interest Rat , . The opponents of the bill brought a new subject into the discussion when Minority Leader Steingut suggested that the holders of city securities should be made to share in the sacrifices demanded from city officeholders and employes for the purpose of enabling the city administration to balance the 1934 budget . Mr. Steingut urged that it was an eminently fair proposal and that he would recommend that some legislation be enacted that would enable the city to bring a reduction in the rate of interest on certain city securities , issued to bear interest at 6 per cent . The Steingut proposal , it was said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the working out of some plan which would render financing of the city administration through the public rather than through the banks possible . In the course of the conferences the Democrats made it clear that they would stand for the payless furlough only as an alternative for salary reductions with no application of both in the case of any class of city employes . Fight for County Posts . Making their last stand in defense of the county administrations , one of the high controversial points in the bitter clash over the economy program which has been in progress at the Capitol practically since the beginning of the legislative session , the Democratic leaders insisted that salary reductions in the departments of the five county administrations in the city should be covered in a third measure . It was said this evening that this proposal would not be acceptable to Mayor LaGuardia . It was indicated on the other hand that the Mayor . in order to disarm the opposition in the matter of the county administrations for which the Democratic opponents have given evidence of such unusual solicitude , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill . It was indicated that the supporters of the economy measure might consent to have the county administrations dealt with in a clause , separate from those vesting in the Board of Estimate such sweeping powers that critics of the measure have contended they virtually would amount to a suspension of the New York charter . Proposal for Exemptions . In connection with this it was stated that in the clause dealing with the county administrations , provision could be made to exempt these from consolidation of departments or jobs in the interest of economy . In its present form the LaGuardia bill makes provision for a blanket grant of power to the Board of Estimate covering all departments and jobs , except some judiciary and other positions created by the Constitution . Senate Leader Dunnigan , Mr. Steingut , Corporation Counsel Paul Windels and City Chamberlain A. A. Berle Jr. , the latter two representing Mayor LaGuardia , were the principal participants at the conferences . Senator Samuel Mandelbaum , chairman of the Senate Cities Committee , and Assemblyman Abbott Low Moffat , chairman of the Assembly Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the LaGuardia bill in the lower house , also attended the conference . A great many Democratic lawmakers also took part . At one time there were as many as a score or more in the conference room at the Hotel De Witt Clinton . Assemblyman Steingut this evening called a conference of the Democratic Assemblymen for tomorrow . This will be held in advance of the legislative session . It is expected that this gathering will afford the minority leader of the lower house a new opportunity not only to take an inventory of the , opposition strength in the Assembly , but also to bring back into line against the LaGuardia bill some wavering Democrats from up-State districts as well as from New York who supported the bill when it was last before the lower house on third reading . The conference tomorrow should demonstrate whether the summons to up-State Democratic members of the Assembly to support Governor Lehman in his stand in favor of the LaGuardia bill , which was issued last week by Vincent Dailey , principal lieutenant to Postmaster General James A. Farley , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic State Committee , has had the effect hoped for by supporters of the bill  --  to I bring a sufficient number of Democratic members from up-State in line to insure its passage . Senator John J. served notice tonight that he would move to have his concurrent resolution providing for a legislative investigation of New York City finances to determine whether the budget is out of balance and any emergency exists to call for passage of the LaGuardia Bill . Senator has contended that not only is the budget not unbalanced but that there is a surplus of $3,000,000.                     