@@702234

txt Just eighteen years and a day after Egypt first demanded independence from Great Britain the Egyptian Parliament today ratified the AngloEgyptian treaty making Egypt ani independent nation with Britain as her ally . The Chamber of Deputies ratified ' the treaty by a vote of 202 to 11 after three days of heated debate . On Nov. 13 , 1918 , Zaghloul Pasha , founder of the Wafd movement , asked the British high commis-sioner for permission to proceed to London to present to the British government Egypt 's demand for independence . It was also just one year ago yesterday that the student riots broke out here protesting Britain 's alleged interference in Egypt 's internal affairs and demanding immediate negotiations for a treaty of alliance . It was these riots which led to the formation of a united front by all political parties here and to the treaty negotiations which culminated in the ratification today . The treaty deals with four main points : the question of British military forces in Egypt ; Egypt 's position in the Sudan ; capitulations and foreign advisers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be withdrawn from Cairo and Alexandria , there will be permanent garrisons in the Suez Canal zone . Egypt recognizes it is to her interest that she receive adequate military protection from Britain just as it is to Britain 's imperial interest to maintain control of the Suez Canal and the defense of Egypt . Gains Rights in Sudan concerning the Sudan , although Egypt has not gained the point she always advocated  --  namely , that the Sudan be recognized as an integral part of Egypt , nevertheless she now has the right to send Egyptian troops there and the Sudan again is open to Egyptian immigration , both of which rights were withdrawn in 1924 after the murder of Sir Lee Stack . The treaty provides for the calling of a conference of all capitulatory powers here on the question of abolition of capitulations or special rights . The treaty stipulates that , if the powers do not reach an agreement , Egypt will have full freedom to deal with the problem as it deems best . That is , Britain will not oppose unilateral denunciation of capitulations by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mixed tribunals . Regarding foreign advisers the treaty gives the Egyptian Government freedom of action to terminate the positions of foreign advisers in the ministries of interior , finance and justice where they hitherto have been employed . Although the treaty was signed by a delegation representing all factions here there is a considerable undercurrent of dissatisfaction throughout the country , especially among the more educated classes , although the masses seem quite happy and content . Certainly the treaty was not welcomed with the enthusiasm which would be expected on the occasion of the country 's becoming an independent nation . Although Premier Mustafa Nahas Pasha undoubtedly will go down in Egyptian history as a national hero who obtained independence for his nation , nevertheless there are many among the intellectuals who claim he conceded far too much to Britain . Viewing the treaty objectively it may be said that Britain has given up almost nothing except that the position of British High Commissioner will be replaced by a British Ambassador , who may give advice which need not be considered mandatory . Hereafter it will be Egypt , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property of foreigners here . ' What the treaty actually does is stabilize Britain 's position in Egypt and the entire Eastern Mediterranean . Many call it a legalized British protectorate over Egypt for the next twenty years , which is the duration of the treaty .                     