@@702024

txt The directly implied approval of Governor LANnorr has been given to a postscript which is apparently to be added to the Republican platform . In a state-. ment issued . with the official sanction of Landon headquarters , Representative Ilor.T.TRTER proposes to set up a nonpartisan commission of experts " to be " gin as soon as possible a basic study " ipf all our Federal banking laws , with " a view to their simplification and im " provement . " This is an interesting proposal and a potentially valuable one , provided it is so shaped as to pave the way to banking reform where such reform is most needed , and most stubbornly opposed by the politicians . It is important to recognize at the outset that much has already been accomplished by the Roosevelt Administration in the field which Mr. HoLosTER proposes to invade . The experience of the boom-and-depression years called for various reforms , and some important ones were made . The Banking Act , of 1933 provided for the segregation of investment banking and deposit banking , divorced commercial lianks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Federal Reserve credit for speculative purposes  --  three reforms which met with vigorous opposition in certain quarters at the time that they were made , but which are now more or less generally regarded as desirable and necessary . The same act of 1933 set up a Federal system of deposit insurance . This was originally a crude arrangement , with a threat of almost unlimited responsibilities both for the banks and for the Government ; but later refinements improved the law , and made it the stabilizing influence which banking sentiment generally now recognizes that it has been . Finally , the Banking Act of 1935 centralized authority over the open-market operations of the Federal Reserve System and gave the Board of Governors power for the first time to increase reserve requirements of the member banks , in order to reduce excess reserves . It was under the authority thus granted that the board took action last week for the purpose of preventing a vast potential inflation of credit . These changes have been far-reaching and substantial . No doubt , as Mr. HOLLISTER says , they have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicts and ambiguities , " and no doubt a commission of experts could recommend detailed improvements at many points . But beyond this . there remains an obvious and pressing ? need of two major reforms which the Roosevelt Administration has not achieved and which political influences have hitherto resisted . If the experience of the depression years showed anything , it showed the glaring weaknesses inherent in a banking system which is conducted under no less than fifty different sets of Federal and local regulations , with many communities denied by law the services of banking institutions equipped with adequate financial resources . The remedies for these weaknesses are unified regulation obtained through membership of all banks in the Federal Reserve System and an extension of the practice of sound branch banking . Thus far , all efforts to introduce either of these reforms have been wrecked on the rocks of Congressional hostility  --  hostility bred by local interests which benefit from the existing system . If Governor LANDON wishes to shape Mr. HOLLISTER 'S proposal so that it will point in the direction of achieving these long-overdue reforms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a challenging issue .                     