@@704340

txt Blocking Social Progress Construction Unions Seen Maintaining an Indefensible Position To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In disputing the proposals made by Assistant Attorney General Thurman Arnold for the elimination of cleq , rly anti-social practices by labor unions , our State Solicitor General , Henry Epstein , argues a position which must be challenged in the public 's interest . Let us amplify the typical example of " factory glazed windows . " If union mechanics on building construction insist that windows handled by them must , if glazed at a factory , be so prepared by men working under union conditions , their demand is on perfectly sound ground . They do cooperate in the socially desirable development of transferring the glazing work to the more efficient set-up of factory production . They only insist that the transfer shall not contain a subterfuge for taking the work from their hands and shifting it to non-union men working under substandard conditions . Public policy and the law now recognize that the achievement of good pay and working conditions are in the interest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proper and essential agency for attaining these socially desirable ends . When , however , these same construction unions refuse to handle windows glazed in union factories and insist that the glazing must be done at the building where operations can not be performed as efficiently , they say , in effect , as follows : We will not permit society to benefit from the legitimate economies developed by technology and management , because the introduction of these economies would be disadvantageous to our small group temporarily . This position is clearly indefensible . In view of Mr. Epstein 's evident friendly attitude toward organized labor it is amazing to read his legalistic thesis attempting to justify labor in the persistence of this fundamentally false policy . The improvement of the material welfare of the general public  --  union labor included  --  depends principally on the two factors of increased production through rationalization and an improved distribution of the resulting total national income . Social legislation bearing on the second factor attempts to eliminate nonproductive and parasitic mouths at present feeding at the trough of national income . Unnecessary or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draining the effective public income . Union labor can not insist on parasitic nonproductive tribute for itself and at the same time ask that such be eliminated when practiced by others against its membership . Mr. Arnold 's proposals ask only that a healthy labor unionism refrain from policies not in accord with the march of general social progress . MAX MILLER . New York , Nov. 28 , 1939 . Attention of Mr. Ickes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Secretary Ickes gave me an undeserved quantity of space and high literary marks in his new book , " America 's House of Lords , " for which I am truly grateful . But in his account of a publication by me and others of a remark ascribed to Secretary Harry L. Hopkins ( " We will spend and spend , tax and tax , and elect and elect " ) and Mr. Hopkins 's eventual denial , Mr. Ickes has forgotten an interesting part he played in that affair . I assume his book will run into another edition because so many statements need amplification or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ickes is Votary No. 1 . Therefore I feel he will want me to call the omission to his attention ( for inclusion in the revised edition ) in the public way he has himself employed . After I had seen the Hopkins remark twice printed in Frank R. Kent 's widely syndicated column without denial , and had checked its substantial truth to my satisfaction , then and now , and after Mr. Hopkins had belatedly and flatly ( Nov. 21 ) denied its accuracy , I met Mr. Ickes in a social way . It was at a dinner given for the Chinese Ambassador by the then Assistant Secretary of Commerce , R. C. Patterson Jr . It was my good fortune ( I greatly enjoy Mr. Ickes ) to meet him , on the stairway after we had deposited our hats and coats . The date was Nov. 30 , 1938 . He surprised me very much by what he , without preface , said to me . His face beaming with that good-will to men which is his primary characteristic , Mr. Ickes exclaimed ( I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have got Harry by the short hairs . " His pleasure was undisguised . He did not seem then to think ( I quote from his book ) that this publication was one of my " Alice-in-Wonderland whimsies " which , when challenged , cause me to " take refuge in a mythical friend . " So far as Mr. Hopkins is concerned , Mr. Ickes was being a highly mythical friend himself . ARTHUR KROCK . Washington , Dec. 1 , 1939 . Our Abstruse Parking Problem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The toad beneath the harrow knows Exactly where each tooth-po'nt goes . The butterfly upon the road Preaches contentment to that toad . Constantin P. Lent favors the building of subsurface parking garages under our city-owned parks to ease midManhattan traffic congestion . We who operate half-vacant garages in the mid-Manhattan area , who cooperate with the Mayor 's bargain price program with a view to inducing motorists to park their cars off the streets , wonder what blandishments Mr. Lent will use . Certain it is that the service must be paid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of construction as well as the wages paid to operating union labor , though the taxes which burden us would be eliminated . The facilities are here now  --  waiting for the motorist to avail himself of them  --  but who will educate and persuade the motorist to pay when he can park his car on the streets for nothing ? Commissioner Valentine 's edict establishing no-parking streets has thus far been more beneficial than all other schemes combined . N. P. MEYER . New York , Nov. 30 , 1939 . Opposition to New Armories City Funds , It Is Held . Could Be Better Used for Other Purposes To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE TIMES mentions the parlous situation of the New York National Guard . Major Gen. William N. Haskell declares that there will soon be a pressing need for three or four armories and a central garage , the total cost of which will be about five or six million dollars . According to the news item , New York is obligated , under the law , to provide armory space , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor has promised to provide funds immediately . I would like to call attention to another request for funds that was made recently . In reference to the proposed construction of two wings to the City College Library building , plans for which have been ready for years and the foundations of which have already been constructed , I quote the following item from The City College Campus : " Mr. Tead , who conferred with the Mayor in regard to an appropriation for the library recently , declared that money for the construction work was not available . " The reference is to Ordway Tead , chairman of , the Board of Higher Education , and appeared in The Campus on Nov. 22 , 1939 . The library appropriation would be $805,000 . In addition , there was a request for $122,000 for sorely needed chemistry laboratories and $125,000 for improvements in the lunchroom , The Engineering Seminar of the School of Technology , C. C. N. Y. , wishes to register a most emphatic pro . test against diversion of city funds from useful , constructive and socially valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . City College needs money ; the National Guard does not . NORTON SAVAGE , Chairman . New York , Nov. 30 , 1939 . Solving the Pension Problem To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The Mayor 's deprecating remark that civic associations had done a lot of talking about pension reform but offered no concrete suggestions is unmerited . The Babcock-Seelye bill was supported by nearly all the responsible civic organizations of the city and without . It would have solved the pensions prob-. lem to the fullest possible degree . THE TIMES is right in asking " How Much Will It Cost ? " If we judge by the 1938 cost of pensions for the police who retire after twenty-five years ' service , we can get an idea . Paying 2 per cent of their salaries last year , the contributions represented only 11 per cent of the requirements ; the city paid 89 per cent . The Mayor 's plan of 5 per cent contributions for twenty-five-year retirement , based upon 1938 experience , would cost the police 27% per cent and the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears , would require an 8 per cent contribution to equal the average contribution of 45 per cent by employes prevailing in the actuarially sound systems . The other services , moreover , do not retire their employes after twenty or twenty-five years , nor do they elevate them to top salary after three years as in the fire-fighting forces or five years in the Police Department . J. B. MU.GRAM . Brooklyn , Nov. 30 , 1939 . P. R. Ballot Approved To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In answer to Jacob Fishman 's letter I would like to say that the complicated P. R. ballot eliminates a voting vice that was not included in P. R. 's claims . By forgetting the party affiliations , the ballot is no more than a long list of names . To the strict party adherent this is terrible . I believe , however , that it is an improvement . When the voter goes into the booth he must know the candidates in order to designate his choices . In aldermanic days the voter had only to pull down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republican . Is n't it about time that we weaken the party system ? Even now we elect the party , not the man . Democracy Is excellent , but it must be made to work according to its theory . Certainly the idea of political bosses never entered the minds of the founders of this country . MARK SEYMOTJR HEYMAN . New York , Nov. 25 , 1939 . Shift of Meridian Suggested To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tam : In these days of intense reading of maps I find it very difficult to leave the prime meridian of longitude at Greenwich , England . This arrangement makes the United States an " eastern " nation , since by far the greater part lies west of the ninetieth degree of west longitude , which is the halfway mark between east and west . Life is sufficiently complex without having the Western Hemisphere in the " east " and the Eastern Hemisphere , including places like Arabia , Persia and India , in the " west . " If the prime meridian could be moved , say to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lot of the sailor and the map:worml EDWIN DURST . New York , Nov. 30 , 1939 . America 's Attitude Analyzed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taus : The most eloquent testimonial to the attitude of the American people in the present war is the simple fact that no objection has been raised to the proposal that 25,000 pilots be trained each year in Canada and that an air force of vast proportions be created there with bases only a short hop distant from our principal cities and industrial centers . Similar plans by Messrs . Stalin and Hitler for a territory in such close proximity to us would undoubtedly be viewed in a much different light . T. W. D. DUKE . New York , Nov. 29 , 1939.                     