@@696997

txt Amend 1 mtnt of the radio act to permit the purchase of the Radio Corporation of America by the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation with which his own companies are affiliated , was recommended by Clarence H. Mackay at todry 's hearing before the Senate Commerce Committee . Economy in operating costs and capital expenditure which he said would result in lower rates and better service to the public , were urged by Mr. Mackay for the merger . rather than any " menace " represented by the recent merger of the cable and radio systems of Great Britain , although he said he was far from agreeing with the statement to the Committee by Newcomb Carlton , President of the Western Union , that this was a " fantastic bogey . " " If there were no British merger . we still would wish to coordinate cable and radio , " Mr. Mackay said . " At the same time , I thoroughly disagree with those who ray that the threat of the British merger is fantastic , " It may be taken as a fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests to advance their objects , their expansion and financial interest in every way possible . They have an international strategic and financial interest in doing so . There is no doubt that any proposition that might be submitted to the British merger by one of the communication companies such as , for example , the question of future transmission rates , routes and classes of service , will be considered from only one stand-point , namely . the effect upon the British merger as a whole . Bellevep British Government Fair . " We believe that the general attitude of the British government Is essentially one of fair play and while we are not setting up the British merger as a bogey man , it is plain that neither we alone or combined with the Radio Corporation 's communication facilities , nor the Western Union alone or combined with the Radio Corporation 's communication facilities , hold the British merger in the hollow of their hands . " We do not believe that it is advisable for American communication companies to be placed in a position whew they can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to place themselves in a position of substantal equality . " Explaining that he did not want to discuss the British merger publicly . Mr. Mackay offered to submit for the information of the committee a memorandum dealing with the points involved . Senator Couzens , chairman of the committee , told him he might submit the memorandum and the committee would then decide to make it part of the record . Mr. Mackay said he was fully in accord with the general proposition of government regulation of wire and wireless companies , to which " there could be no dissent . " " The question of regulation of rates inside the United States is , of course , simple , " he said . " Regulation of international rates is much more complicated because such regulation could not control the other end of the circuits . " He agreed that this might be accomplished by means of treaties . As between regulation of communications by the Interstate Commerce Commission or the proposed commission of communtcations. he thought it might well be left with the Interstate Commerce Commission for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opinion on Young Proposal . On the consolidation of communications advocated by Owen D. Young , Mr. Mackay refused to express an opinion . Questioned at some length by Senator Howell , he said it was a difficult and profound question requiring much thought and one which he preferred to make the subject of a separate statement . Replying to Senator Wheeler , who asked him to explain his reasons for advocating a combination of radio and telegraph , Mr. Mackay said it was because it would make for " better competition between ourselves and the Western Union . " " Would you favor a merger between the Radio Corporation and Western Union , " Senator Barkley asked . " It would not be advantageous to us , " Mr. Mackay replied , " but from the point of view of service , I think it would be a good thing . " " As a matter of public policy then , regardless of the business interests involved , you think it would be wise ? " Senator Barkley asked , and Mr. Mackay answered , " Yes . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of the British merger on American communications , " Mr. Mackay said , " our position is that we are anxious to coordinate ' radio with our cable and telegraph facilities because we are convinced it will result in an improved public service ; in a large saving of capital expenditure for a period of years ; in a substantial saving in operating costs ; will allow both cables and radio to develop within their proper respective fields , and , finally , will result in lower rates to the public . And this latter I firmly believe would not be long in coming after a merger . " As one who has for years directed a competing telegraph and cable company , it may well be asked whether I am not having a change of heart in advocating a merger of competing companies . " I will answer that by saying that the situation in the communications field is changing so rapidly as to make for the revision of our Ideas in many particulars . The last ten years have seen advances in the communications art that are fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation has come to the point where it demands the greatest concentration of American communication facilities and research and laboratory facilities to keep pace with the development . " Picturing an American communications system giving world-wide service , Mr. Mackay said " it will be well on to completion if the radio facilities of the Radio Corporation are added to our cable and telegraph system . "                     