@@704282

txt Social Trends in Relief Recent Correspondence Held to Reveal Resentment of Criticism To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : The recent correspondence in your columns concerning the problems of relief in the city reveal significant social trends which deserve almost as much consideration as the relief issues themselves . On Oct. 20 THE NEW YORK TINIER published a letter from Justice Herbert A. O'Brien of the Domestic Relations Court which raised what seemed to many persons some fundamental questions regarding certain developments in the relief administration . Expressing his belief that the nation , in recognizing the principle that " no one in this country should starve , be shelterless or go unclothed , " also expects " a gracious policy in dealing with stricken fellowAmericans , " Judge O'Brien cautioned that " to carry out these expectations is far from being an easy task , " because even when " the plan devised by the executives is wise " it may fail of its purpose if individual employes dealing with the clients are " rude , cold and mechanical . " He then charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who apply for relief are , in fact , " treated with suspicion and made to feel that they are ' chiselers , ' " are " humiliated and compelled to wait days , even weeks " for aid , and that " there seems to be greater merit accorded to the unearthing of some small overlooked tangible asset than to satisfying the hunger of a brood of innocent children . " Complained of Procedure Specifically , Judge O'Brien stated that " in many cases where the investigations and evidence in open court disclosed dire need " and the petitioners were sent by the court to the Home Relief Bureau for needed assistance with letters from the court , " the poor people are upbraided for being insistent or for showing impatience with slowness of the process and scolded as well for presuming to bring letters from the court , although the letters are given under authority of judicial evidence of dire need . They are told that home relief does not take instructions from the court , the judges , or any one else , and that no attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then went on to suggest that since " relief to be effective must be immediate , " a small emergency payment should be made on proper identification to the applicant who claims dire need , under oath that the information supplied is correct and subject to later investigation . From our own experience it seemed that the administrative problems raised by Judge O'Brien had definite foundation , while his suggestion reserved careful public consideration . The latter , indeed , represents no novel idea , since the English Poor Law system has always provided that a meal and lodging be given to any one asking for it before any investigation is made . Moreover , to an impartial person Judge O'Brien 's letter seemed hardly to reflect upon the general policies of the Department of Welfare . It appeared merely to call the administration 's as well as the public 's attention to the fact that regulations made on top may assume a different character from that intended when carried out by a staff of thousands of investigators , and that the department must constantly guard against such developments . Investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have degenerated into an almost personal squabble between Judge O'Brien and Commissioner William Hodson , culminating in a demand by the judge for the appointment of a Moreland Commissioner , is most unfortunate . This demand is entirely unwarranted in view of the department 's record . In fact , the New York City Department of Welfare needs no defense . I believe New Yorkers are fully aware that in Commissioner Hodson and the Department of Welfare they have one of the best relief administrations in the nation . No one has ever charged Commissioner Hodson with lack of either understanding of the problems involved or zeal to protect the interests of his clients . As the Commissioner points out in his last letter , the department has been investigated and reinvestigated and nothing palpably wrong was ever found . A new investigation would be absolutely useless . What is most regrettable is that the real issues raised by Judge O'Brien should have become obscured as a result of Commissioner Hodson 's resentment of the Judge 's statements . Indeed , this in itself raises an issue of great public importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices . For though Judge O'Brien 's letter could hardly have been construed by an impartial reader as an attack on the Department of Welfare , Commissioner Hodson hastened to defend the department and attack " this brand of complaint . " Issues Obscured He sought to dismiss the issues because Judge O'Brien knows only a small number of cages and because he had not communicated with him before writing his letters to THE TIMES . Reiterating facts generally accepted  --  that New York City is not neglectful of those in need and that the city 's relief allowances are considerably above those of other cities  --  he practically dismissed all charges on the ground that he " can not guarantee that every one of the 10,000 staff workers is always polite . " Moreover , Mr. Hodson 's answer was followed by what appeared an inspired letter from the heads of seven of the city 's leading private social welfare agencies , published in your issue of Oct. 27 , which also ignored the points raised by Judge O'Brien and others and merely reiterated the limitations under which the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Welfare which no one questioned . As a result of these developments there is definitely before us the question of tolerance of public criticism of gov- , ernmental administrations . Indeed , public criticism has not only always he part and parcel of our democratic process , but until recently it seemed an established axiom that officials must gall : themselves with rhinoceros hides whethey assume public office . Must we surrender this ancient privilege because the depression seems tr have softened the skin of our public officials ? Is it not obvious that Commissioner Hodson can not possibly atten personally to every complaint , and th only recourse that democracy h , against bureaucratic government is  - -  appeal to the public ? It may be perfectly natural for thhead of a department to protect personnel , but complainants must b given recourse to the public against it tactics . Without such tolerance then will be no way of protecting the publi against intolerable conditions . The public can hardly accept the doctrine that the head of a department must at - ' times defend the errors made by hi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policies and practice of his department . I believe Judge O'Brien 's charge raised issues which merit public discussion and that both the department ant ' the people of the city stand to benefit the more widely they are debated . TL shut out or even to discourage public criticism is to surrender all hope of preserving any democratic control over our public officials . ABRAHAM EPSTEIN , Executive Secretary , American Association for Social Security . New York , Nov. 2 , 1939 . Would Keep Us Out of War Briton Envisions United States Leading World to Effective Peace To TILE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is no doubt that the mass of opinion of the American people is against taking a belligerent part in the war , and for the present , at any rate , that view would appear to be right . It may he that the alliances of our enemies will so develop that the United States will not be able to stand aloof . Let us hope that this may not happen . My theory is that this war has already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally settled on the battlefield . Furthermore , it is accompanied by the amazing condition that there is almost an entire absence of any hatred between the peoples of the warring countries  --  the peoples of all countries hate the war . There are probably terrible days ahead of us and incredible suffering will be inflicted on all the belligerents , but if the United States is not drawn in , the day will surely come when she will be called upon to act as mediator . All the talk about great powers " fighting to a finish , " " beating others to their knees , " is madness , and victors will go down with vanquished . How can it he possible that the powers now allied in Europe can inflict crushing military defeat either way without ruining the whole world ? Yet none of these belligerent powers can talk of mediation , for it would at once be taken as indicating weakness , and as the war progresses in intensity , hatred , as yet nonexistent , will grow and increase , and the possibility of mediation being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of the United States as a mediator will correspondingly increase , and for that reason it is to be most earnestly hoped that she will he able to keep out of the wa r . In one of Mr. Roosevelt 's famous dispatches to the German Chancellor last year , where he urged that all these international problems were capable of solution at the conference table , he said : " But when they come to the conference table they must leave their arms outside the door . " With the utmost respect , I think that there the President was wrong . If and when the day for mediation comes , the nations will come to the conference table armed to the teeth . For twenty years we have heard derision poured on the League of Nations as an ineffective institution . Why ? Because it has had no power behind it . Is it too much to hope that out of the war , and realizing the mistakes of past years , a new league of the great powers will emerge ? Such a league can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It can not provide that power unless in the formation of the league the constituent parts are themselves based on their individual power . To such a court no the great powers the United States and the United States only can be the leader . Neutral and supremely powerful , its high purpose acknowledged by men of all nations , it can found such a court of nations on the basic principle that aggression by force of arms shall cease in the world . Though the day may not be yet , such an act would be the greatest and noblest in the great and noble history of the United States . BRITISH SEAMAN . New York , Nov. 2 , 1939 . Armistice Day Suggestion To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TINIER : With the coming of November we enter upon the holiday season , with its blessed memories of peace , and plenty of good cheer and good-will , made manifest by Armistice Day and Thanksgiving Day and Christmas . , It is therefore singularly appropriate that we should make a concentrated effort to bring about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mockery of these great festivals . We do n't want another fiasco like the Ford Peace Ship , but we do want to " get the boys out of the trenches by Christmas . " Yes , and out of the battleships and the submarines and bombing planes , and we want to get the civilians out of their gas masks and into their old , happy ways of living . Let us work for a real Armistice Day , which will give us a genuine Thanksgiving Day , to be followed by such Christmas joy as the world has not seen since the angels sang Peace on earth , goodwill to men . MARY ENO STEWART . New York , Oct. 31 , 1939.                     