@@703966

txt Asked to explain the theory of taxation , a Finance Minister to one of the French Kings replied , laconically , " to pluck the goose without making it squawk . " New Deal taxation has done a good job of goose-plucking . But it has been remiss in keeping the goose from squawking , especially the business goose So aggrieved is business that , failing to get the ear of the Administration in spite of the good will of Messrs . Morgenthau and Hopkins , it is now concentrating its case upon Congress . Many times it has been explained why , in this column 's opinion . business has a good case in respect of taxation . Now the Brookings Institution supplies a powerful buttress of that case in the form of a preprint of chapters in a forthcoming book called " Capital Expansion , Employment , and Economic Stability . " These chapters have to do with taxation and capital investment . They are written by James D. Magee . The author starts out by doing an expert job in summarizing New Deal changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than elucidate a complicated subject . He shows that the New Deal has attached too much emphasis to such matters as " ease of collection , equitable distribution of the tax burden , the redistribution of national income , and the promotion of other economic and social objectives . " A ' A To such objectives none but the highest of the high tories would take exception . The complaint is that the obsession with the end has left no room for thought as to the means . After all , production of income comes ahead of distribution , and tax policies , as the Brookings Institution shows , have made for the frustration of production . The result is appal ent in the lowly state of national income . Ten years have gone by since the Great Depression began in 1929 , yet , in spite of the most ambitious recovery program in history , national income is little more than two-thirds of the 1929 total . As is usual in all the Brookings studies . a program of remedial action accompanies the examination . The need is to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial expansion , greater employment , and higher standards of living . " And so the suggestion is advanced that Congress should abolish the capital stock and excess profits tax . repeal the undistributed profits tax , abandon the capital gains tax , modify the personal income surtaxes in the upper brackets , and reduce the rates for old-age annuities from 1 per cent to of 1 per cent , increasing them only as benefit payments required it . s s A Nothing so sweeping has been suggested in any other plan for tax readjustment that we have seen . The Morgenthau-Hanes scheme was reputedly drastic , but it did n't go so far as this . Yet the Brookings recommendations are a witness to the dimensions of the problem . Ten million unemployed make up those dimensions , and nothing is so important as the progressive reinstatement of these jobless into income-creating work . This can rome only by first encouraging capital to go to work . . ? Canada has just shown the way in a decision to allow deductions from its corporation income tax on funds invested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a retention of funds , incidentally , that the original undistributed profits tax was aimed . With experience has come understanding , an understanding that taxation based upon the punishment of the business goose means that the goose will be inhibited from laying the eggs which are the national income . No reform is so perfect that it does n't bear re-examination . So the study of such a competent and disinterested body as the Brookings Institution deserves the examination of the legislators before adjournment .                     