@@704253

txt As a direct result of faults in the design and construction of new naval vessels a major Navy Department shakeup has taken place which has already involved the reorganization of two of the most important bureaus in the department . The changes to date have resulted in the virtual consolidation of the Bureaus of Construction and Repair and Engineering under one head , and the shifting of three high-ranking officers . Rear Admiral Harold G. Bowen , formerly chief of the Bureau of Engineering , has been ordered to command the Naval Research Laboratory at Bellevue , and to additional duty as technical aide to the Acting Secretary of the Navy , Charles Edison , who has been one of the foremost advocates of the new high-pressure high-temperature engineering installations . New Duties for Mr. Edison At the same time the Naval Research Laboratory , formerly under the Bureau , of Engineering , was placed directly under Mr. Edison . Mr. Edison , who had been acting as Coordinator of Shipbuilding before the death of Secretary Swanson , divested himself of this work and named Rear Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Engineering , to the office , with definite authority over both the Bureau of Engineering and the Bureau of Construction and Repair . However , authority over the Bureau of Ordnance , third of the important bureaus to play a part in construction work , was not vested in Admiral Robinson except such as is incidental to his role of Shipbuilding Coordinator . Rear Admiral William G. DuBose , chief of the Bureau of Construction and Repair , was ordered to command the new model basin at Carderock , Md. , and was relieved by captain , now Rear Admiral , Alexander H. Van Keuren , who comes to Washington from the Philadelphia Navy Yard . Captain Allan J. Chantry , chief of the design section of the Bureau of Construction and Repair , was sent to Philadelphia to relieve Admiral Van Keuren . As soon as these changes were effected some weeks ago , Admiral Robinson , assisted by Admiral Van Keuren , undertook the immediate reorganization of the two bureaus , a reorganization which has now progressed so far that the two are virtually consolidated , with combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irish . ' assistant chief of the Bureau of Engineering , is now also acting as head of the combined design section , with Cora1 mander E. I. Cochrane of the construction corps as his senior assistant for hull design . Captain Henry Williams of the construction corps , continues as assistant chief of they Bureau of Construction and Repair . Status of the Change The two separate bureaus , though virtually under one head and consolidated , still retain their legal identities , and unless this is modified , perhaps by power of the President 's reorganization plan or by Congress , money must still be appropriated to each bureau separately . It is not yet known whether the bureaus will be completely abolished and a single new one established in their place , or whether the present arrangement will continue indefinitely . Nor is it known exactly what will be done with the problem of consolidating or modifying the status of officers assigned to the Construction Corps and line officers assigned to engineering duties only , although it is rather generally believed in the department that some method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 300 or more officers will be affected by the proposed consolidation of the two groups into a so-called " technical corps , " and since their chances of promotion would be affected by any such change , there is certain to be considerable discussion , and perhaps opposition , - to it . Cause of the Change The errors which apparently brought about the reorganization at the order of the President involved twelve new destroyers of the Anderson class , so-called " streamlined " vessels which displace about 1,600 tons each and are armed with twelve torpedo tubes and five fiveinch guns . These new vessels , the first of which , the Anderson , was put Into commission at the navy yard in Brooklyn last May , made forty knots or so on trials and seemed to behave well , although they contained several features unusual in destroyer construction , including a " streamlined " bridge and rounded deck edges on the forecastle forward . Only about five of these destroyers have been commissioned , including the Anderson and her sister ship , the Hammann , both built at the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and both commissioned at the Brooklyn yard . But these two vessels , which are almost identical with ten others under construction or just commissioned , already have been operated sufficiently to dis- cover , despite some sterling performances , very serious mistakes . During the course of construction , it was discovered that from the time the original design was drawn until the vessels were commissioned some 80 to 100 or more tons were added to their original estimated weight , with the result that under certain conditions their stability was questioned . The additional weight was partly due to the somewhat unexpectedly heavy weight of engineering machinery , and more weight was apparently added from time to time during construction as new devices were added , particularly when light armor plate was used for upper deck and superstructure . The net result was that the destroyers were many tons heavier than had been expected , with the added weight somewhat too high above the waterline to make them . as stable as desired when they are low in oil fuel or if they should be in damaged condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low in oil to replace some of the expended oil with water ballast . It was emphasized , however , that the serviceability of the ships was not in question and that , although the errors might reduce their operating efficiency , they would nevertheless be useful additions to the fleet . Difference of Opinion When the mistale was discovered there was at first a considerable difference of opinion between the Bureau of Construction and Repair and the Bureau of Engineering as to what should be done . It has been suggested that the heavy armor plating , now placed high on the destroyers , be replaced with lighter plating , but no decision has been reached . To just what extent the destroyers still under construction have been affected by the same mistakes has not been revealed , but it is believed that most of them are too far along to allow remedy of the defects without rather major modifications . Of the twelve destroyers affected , the Sims , Hughes and Mustin , in addition to the Anderson and Hammann , have been completed and commissioned . Seven others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearing completion . These errors have followed on the heels of other faults or difficulties found in new naval vesels , particularly in some of the engineering installations of destroyers . There was considerable controversy and a previous shake-up within the department over the faults and the merits of new high-pressure , high-temperature steam engineering installations .                     