@@701140

txt Tangible benefits to the health , happiness and general well-being of every resident of Greater New York are represented by 1,673 of the 1,972 projects completed by the works division of the Emergency Relief Bureau between April and December , 1934 , Oswald W. Knauth , the new relief director , declared yesterday . In making public figures contained in a report submitted to him by Colonel William J. Wilgus , director of the works division , Mr. Knauth said that the report " comes as an agreeable surprise . " " As described to me , " he added , " the magnitude , character and scope of the projects carried to completion in all five boroughs , despite severe handicaps , arouses my deep respect and appreciation . It must arouse the respect and appreciation of every one who knows the facts . Indicates Scope of Relief . " I believe the public does not altogether realize the immensity of the relief job in New York City . Indeed , I am astonished myself when I am shown figures showing that the number of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire population of such cities as Hamburg , Peiping , Rio de Janeiro , Rome , Madrid , Copenhagen , Naples or Mexico City . Only four American cities , including New York City itself , have populations exceeding in each instance the number of people dependent upon relief in New-York . " Outstanding among the many accomplishments listed in Colonel Wilgus 's report to me are the mapping out and construction of 168 miles of new highways in the city which improved property and opened up districts hitherto inaccessible ; the repaving of 2,000,000 square yards of old highways and the resurfacing of 1,200,000 square yards of dirt roads . The latter is of especial importance to our larger and less developed boroughs , where the number of new streets is so great that the city had been unable to provide the funds in the regular city budget to improve the less important ones . " Other outstanding accomplishments listed in the report include the demolishing of 297 tenements declared to be unfit for human habitation , and the planning and surveying of low-cost housing for slum clearance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Authority . " Tells of White-Collar Jobs . After citing the 1,673 projects that represented tangible benefits , Mr. Knauth explained that the remaining 299 jobs were in the whitecollar division , which gives work to unemployed professional and business persons in e.ctivities requested or approved by such authorities as the United States Department of Commerce , the United States Department of Agriculture , the Federal Commissioner of Education and the city Board of Education . Defending the type of work provided for the white-collar workers , Mr. Knauth said that their jobs " are , for the most part , of equal importance and permanent value to the community , although their results are not apparent to the eye . " " For example , " be declared , " employes have been furnished to provide free lunches in the schools for under-nourished children . Teachers have been employed to give special coaching courses in the home to backward pupils . Chemists and biologists are in the Health Department , supplementing the regular work of the department in protecting the health of the people . Workers are in the libraries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public may be better served . Playground leaders are keeping children off **27;32;TOOLONG streets by directing recreational activities in the playgrounds of the five boroughs . " 200 New Projects in View . Mr. Knauth described as of " paramount importance " the preparation of plans in anticipation of the increased number of persons to be employed under the President 's $4,880,000,000 work relief program . The works division has developed plans for beginning about 200 new work relief projects to give employment to about 500,000 men and women . Referring to additional accomplishments of the works division between April and December , Mr. Knauth declared : " Engineers of the Works Division have also , according to the report , completed 156,000 linear feet , or approximately thirty miles , of sewer construction ; cleared about 500,000 linear feet , or 100 miles , of bulkheads and-ore tercourses , and have cleaned 26,000 sewers . " In the city parks , the report shows that the Works Division has ! created 84 golf greens , constructed sBO additional tennis courts and set up approximately 200 playgrounds , of which 48 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twentyone park reservations ? and the construction of a total of 86,000 ? square feet of park buildings . Included in the park achievements are the improvements made in Bryant Park ; the new Central PO Zoo , the new Prospect Ztio and the . Tavern-onthe-Green . " Since last April , Colonel Wilgus states , his division has erected 51,000 square feet of public buildings and offices for the City of New York and has just completed a very large and very fine central heating plant in the Brooklyn Borough President 's headquarters . It also has painted 24,000,000 square feet of surface of public buildings , improving their appearance as well as preserving city-owned property . For the Department of Water Supply , the report shows the laying of 191,000 linear feet , or approximately forty miles of pipe . Other Improvements Listed . " The report also lists improvements and repairs made at Fort Totten , Fort Tilden , Fort Jay , Fort Hamilton and Fort Wadsworth , and work of large proportions similar Ito the construction of the Bronx Terminal Market and the Naval Militia Building at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Fourth Battalion , New York Naval Militia , and for the training of junior units of the naval militia . " The work done in the real property inventory is something of which adnumber of important city officials have said New York City may well be proud . Aside from the fact that it has helped find employment for 5,000 or 6,000 people , Colonel Wilgus 's report shows that it has produced something concrete which will be of inestimable value to New York , and something which he says can well be duplicated by every large municipality in the country . " Colonel Wilgus reports among the more important projects engaging his staff at present the many improvements being made at the airport at Floyd Bennett Field which , when completed , will cost approximately $1,500,000 , and the construction of a long and attractive bulkhead at Sheepshead Bay which , it is estimated , will cost $500,000 when completed . The new bulkhead will extend approximately 2,500 feet into the bay . Included in this project is the demolition of the unsightly shacks which line the waterfront @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will provide a more rapid and comfortable route to Long Island and the Rockaways . This highway is to be illuminated by a number of floodlights . ' All this work and much more has been accomplished , or is in the process of being accomplished , despite the fact that , in a little more than three years , there ' have been five reorganizations in the works division . 100 Per Cent Efficiency Impossible . " In his report Colonel Wilgus explained why it is impossible for the works division to be 100 per cent efficient , pointing out as he does that the work was created primarily to supply labor to men who otherwise would be at home eating out their hearts , that to distribute this work over as many men as possible there inevitably must be a large turnover which is not conducive to maximum production . Colonel Wilgus alludes also to the many regulations of the various superior bodies  --  Federal , State , and city  --  which sometimes in the very nature of things , and due to changes in either Federal or State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about conflicting directions . " I would like to say , however , that Colonel Wilgus is proud of the amount , character and quality of the work his division has been able to accomplish despite handicaps . " The Emergency Relief Bureau made public a summary of financial operations for February showing expenditures of $19,261,869.30 , of which $15,429,045.03 , or 80.1 per cent , was for direct relief . Direct relief included $5,768,223.79 in workrelief wages for 454,432 persons in 100,985 families . Expenditures for food , shelter , clothing , medical care and similar items for 802,182 persons in 234,355 families on home relief accounted for $8,232,676.89 , exclusive of $1,018,343.48 worth of Federal surplus foodstuffs distributed . Administrative expenses included $2,215,297.81 , or 11.5 per cent , for wages and salaries of 21,960 persons , and $1,617,526.46 , or 8.4 per cent , for materials , supplies , contingencies and hire of equipment .                     