@@701969

txt Representative William Lemke , North Dakota radical farmer-lawyer who was elected to congress as a nominal Republican , late today announced his candidacy for the presi ? dency on a new national party ticket to be known as ' the " Union " party . Tonight , a few hours after the announcement of Lemke 's candidacy and formation of the Union party , the Rev. Charles E. Coughlin , in an address from New York , asked " God speed William Lemke and his friends as they proceed to file in each state . " Father Coughlin called upon members of his National Union for Social Justice to follow him in support of Lemke as he , like Lemke in an earlier statement , denounced both the Republican and Democratic parties . The Union party had counted on support of the Coughlin followers and in , ' vited backing of the late Huey Longs share the wealth organization and the Townsend old age pension group . The indorsement by Father Coughlin followed quickly . Lawyer Is Running . Mate . Thomas Charles O'Brien , Boston lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative said O'Brien has signified his willingness to join the Union party as the second man of its ticket . Lemke announced his candidacy , which is believed to have its origin as a reprisal against defeat of his three billion dollar inflationary farm mortgage measure by a New DealRepublican coalition , in his office at the capitol . He summoned newspaper men to a conference and issued a statement of his candidacy . At the same time he released a 15 plank platform of the party . " I have accepted the challenge of the reactionary elements of both old parties , " he said , " and will run for President of the United States as a candidate of the Union party , which am instrumental in establishing officially , in accordance with the thousands of messages and requests which I have received from over the nation . Arranges for Filing . " Thomas Charles O'Brien of Boston has signified his willingness to seek the vice presidency on the same platform . " I have arranged with friends of mine to proceed with the filing of the name of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names of presidential electors , my own name and that of Mr. O'Brien in order to fulfill the specific law of each state relative to filing . " I am hoping that the platform which I have submitted to my friends and have asked them to publicize will meet with wide approval . To my mind it is the only platform which will embody the principles which will save democracy and put a permanent end to the so-called depression . " There is only one solution . That is through the formation of a new party which I am launching today , to be known as the Union party of the United States . " " Rousing . Good Orator . " Lemke said his running male , O'Brien , is a " good constitutional lawyer , therefore we wo n't run into any constitutional difficulties . " He said O'Brien is a Harvard graduate . who has been affiliated with the Democratic party , and a " rousing good orator . " " You might say this is the tir.4 real third party movement in the nation 's history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all liberals who can not . longer tolerate the old order of things . There is no doubt in my mind that we will elect a majority at the next congress ; we plan to concentrate on the election of congress ! men favorable to our cause . " I Among his fifteen planks Lemke of ! /creel an avenue for inflation in advocating a central bank through which congress " shall coin and issue the currency and regulate the value of all the money and credit in the United States . Another plank advocated , upon establishment of the hank , retirement of all tax exempt securities and refinancing of agricultural indebtedness as contemplated in his defeated bill . Other planks provided for congressional assurance of a living wage , profit for farmers , reasonable and decent security for the aged , eradication of burocracy , a limit on incomes and inheritances , protection against confiscation of property and control and decentralization of monopolies , A Nominal Republican . Lemke , a nominal Republican and one of the founder ; of the nonpartisan movement in North Dakota , was born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He attended public schools in North Dakota and the University of North Dakota and received a taw degree from Georgetown university in Washington , D. C. He engaged in ( he practice of law at - Fargo in 1i105 . He was attorney general of the state from 1916 to 1920 , being among three state officers recalled in 19211 when its citizens revolted against the radical program with which hewas identified . Senator Lynn J. Frazier Radical , N. D.1 , co-author of the inflationary farm act , then governor of the state , also was recalled at the same time . Lemke was elected to congress in 1932.                     