@@704240

txt The recommendation of Under-Secretary of State Welles that loans be made by the United States Government to Bolivia and Colombia , and the plans of the State Department for expanding its trade treaty program , emphasize the determination of the Administration to strengthen our trade relations with Latin America . Although exaggerated hopes may have been aroused at one time as to the benefits likely to result from the trade treaty program , the effects on our foreign commerce have been real . Such figures as are available indicate that in general both our exports and imports with trade-agreement countries have fared better than those with nonsignatories . Furthermore , the program has set an example which , if nothing else , has at least helped to check the general drift in the direction of increasing trade barriers . Now , with the trade of most of Europe subject to interference either by the countries concerned or by the belligerent Powers , Latin America is the chief region in which American efforts may be exerted to promote the interchange of goods on any relatively free basis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed , ten are Latin-American ( including Cuba and Haiti ) , while " intention to negotiate " has been announced for two others . If these are consummated , treaties will be in effect with five out of the ten countries of South America , as well as with many of those more immediately to the south of us . In such a time of disorder as the present , it is altogether wise for the nations of the Western Hemisphere to draw closer together . As to the wisdom of large Government loans to these countries some doubt remains . Whether the loans are really sound depends on the ability of the borrowers to repay them . Although Bolivia normally buys far more from us than we from her , both Bolivia and Colombia have export balances with the world at large which under ordinary conditions might offer some assurance of repayment , What will be the effects of the dislocations of the war , and especially of their European market , upon the trade balances of these countries remains to be seen . In general , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports to Latin America only to the degree in which we increase our purchases . ' It is to be hoped that loans will not be granted such as will entail ultimate net loss in return for immediate gains . The question of the soundness of such loans is of course not entirely within our control . Much depends not only upon the ability but also upon the will of the borrower to repay . Some of our Latin-American neighbors have unfortunately been at least as lacking in the latter respect as in the former . In such cases loans are clearly worse than futile . Where , however , the will to repay is present and the ability reasonably assured , loans may not only serve a sound commercial purpose but may also redound to our political advantage by tightening in a time of uncertainty the bonds of the two Americas .                     