@@699643

txt Former Representative F. H. La Guardia , Republican-fusion candidate for Mayor in 1929 , announced yesterday that he would support Aldermanic President Joseph V. for Mayor if the latter would run on an anti-Tammany fusion platform pledging the removal of all unfit and incompetent officeholders and the rehabilitation of the city 's finances and governmental morale . Major La Guardia called upon Mr. to say before May 1 whether or not he would lead the fight against Tammany in the coming city election . Mr. declined to comment on Major La Guardia 's statement . It is generally believed that he will follow the advice of Edward J. Flynn , Secretary of State and Bronx Democratic leader , and enter the September primaries as a candidate for the Democratic nomination against Mayor O'Brien and that tentative plans for such a primary contest already are being prepared . Leaders of the Republican fusion movement seem to have no other candidate than Mr. , and Major La Guardia 's attempt to get the Aldermanic President.to declare himself is designed to prevent the Republican organization leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Mr. then should decide that he would not accept the Republican or fusion nomination . Change Declared Necessary . " I have been asked repeatedly during the last few days concern ' ing my plans in the coming municipal campaign , " Major La Guardia said . " The City of New York can not afford another four years of a Tammany administration . A change in the political system in its relation to city government is necessary . A mere change in personnel  --  the substitution of one set of politicians for another  --  will serve no useful purpose . " I will support Joseph as a candidate for Mayor if he will run on an anti-Tammany ticket with a platform pledging the removal of all incompetent , unfit officeholders , with a constructive platform rehabilitating the finances and morale of our city . When I say anti-Tammany ticket , I mean the Tammany organization in each of the five boroughs of the City of New York . If he does that , I am ready to work hard and actively in the campaign . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in preparation for the coming municipal campaign , I deem it but fair to suggest that Mr. should make an announcement at an early date and surely not later than May 1 , 1933 . That I will give Mr. and all concerned sufficient time . ' , The severance from Tammany I must be an absolute divorce without promise or expectation of ' alimony ' from either party to the other . Complete Ticket Needed . " The anti-Tammany candidate for Mayor must have on his ticket men who are in complete accord and sympathy with an anti-Tammany program . Only competent , specialized and public-spirited candidates should be presented . The rehabilitation of our city government is a gigantic undertaking . It is not only a difficult task , but politically a thankless one . A Mayor alone can not do the job . He must have a working majority on the Board of Estimate . There must be a united effort for the election of the entire board , and the candidate for Mayor should pledge himself along such lines . " Let us all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for public service overshadows personal ambitkrn and partisan advantages . Frank and public discussions and a union of all the respectable elements of the city are necessary to give our city the kind of an administration it needs for the next four years . " Some of Major LaGuardia 's friends have urged him to become a candidate , and his offer to support Mr. has removed the danger of a contest by him in the Republican primaries if the Aldermanic President should announce his willingI ness to accept a fusion nomination . As a candidate for Mayor four years ago , Mr. La Guardia made numerous charges to which the public at that time failed to give credence but which subsequently were corroborated by disclosures in the Seabury investigation. ,                     