@@698423

txt President Hoover will keep his emergency economic program before Congress and before the country until he gets action on it . He believes that passage of the respective parts of his program is the crucial need of the moment , and he is determined that the nation shall not lose sight of these proposals in the fog of politics into which Congress seems prepared to plunge with slight provocation at the present time . That , it is learned here , on good authority , is the explanation of the remarkable list of messages to Congress , administration reports , and statements from the White House , which have made known President Hoover 's desires for economic rehabilitation . The latest of these was the surprise message to Congress sent yesterday . With the business situation what it is , close political observers declare they note a tremendous undercurrent of popular feeling rising in behalf of Mr. Hoover 's measures . This comes not only from political friends of the President , it is declared , but from opponents as well . Partisan Politics Ruled Out The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces an economi ? crisis only short of actual war and that partisan politics can not and must not be permitted to stand in the way of constructive proposals for relief , from whatever quarter . If Mr. Hoover continues as he has begun with no relaxation of his pressure for prompt enactment of some eight or nine big financial and credit proposals , it is now freely stated here that he will get most of them through , though hardly in the form which he has proposed . Collapse of the fight against the Hoover moratorium is cited as an examille of what may be accomplished by resolute leadership even with the close division now existing in each house of Congress . It must be stated also that responsible leaders of the Democrats have generally responded to appeals of Mr. Hoover , and that the big rehabilitation program , carrying at its forefront the establishment of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , has received wide support in Congress of an unusually nonpartisan nature . Decisive Action Needed What the White House now views with apprehension , it is learned , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may hold up vital legislation at the present time . Mr. Hoover believes , and has stated again and again , that the present situation needs quick , decisive action to restore national confidence , and he is driving for that objective with each of his bold statements on the subject . These statements began before Coil Ete , s reconvened last month . They ttere carried through in the annual message , the budget message , the Mellon report on the Treasury ; in a statement Issued at the White House summarizing the whole reconstruction program , and , most recently , in the new message to Congress on its first day after the holidays . President Hoover , it is understood , is gratified at the favorable reception accorded his latest message , both from the press and Congress . He expects prompt action will be taken on the program , but recognizes that sufficient time for study and deliberation must be allowed .                     