@@697858

txt The international debts are in that class of debated topics concerning which discussion consists , not of dispute as to facts but mainly of difference of opinion . ' We all agree as to the facts . There is no doubt that , to borrow Mr. Coolidge 's phrase , our debtors " hired the money " and that in form and substance the obligations are ' ' debts " in every sense of the word . Nor do the debtors deny this in any particular . We are all agreed on that point . We are also all agreed that " debts " in general should be paid , for the entire business of the world depends upon that understanding . The respect which the Courts pay to the inviolability of contracts is evidence on that point . A debt is a debt , many people say , and if the international debts are to be modified because of a drop in commodity prices , why should not all debts , private as well as public . be modified in similar fashion ? When this question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , the first thing to remember is that modification of private debts is very far from being a rare thing in our business economy . for every year we have many thousand such instances in connection with business failures and difficulties . Sometimes it is done by proceedings in bankruptcy , voluntary or otherwise , and sometimes by private composition with creditors . But , it will be said , it is never done without conviction of or confession by the debtor of his failure . This is true . Well then  --  what about that ? Either our international debtors can pay or they can not . If they can . let them do so : if they can not , let them say so . Again , it seems as if echo answers . " What about that : ? Answer Buses on Distinction The answer ? if there be an answer --  bases upon a distinction and upon the practical conclusions from that distinction , both of which are , no doubt , arguable . The distinction between international debts and private debts ( if at all valid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a completely new thing in the history of modern nations , and a thing which is unnatural in that it does not grow naturally out of the normal relations between sovereign powers . Not only is this the case , but discharge of itnerest and principal of such debts I LAR take place through the channels of trade and commerce , with which governments as such have nothing to do . Thus they are doubly objectionable . Wherein they differ fundamentally from private debts is that they grew out of abnormal circumstances and normal circum , stances furnish no means for their payment . They are equivalent to a tumor on the human body , and , unfortunately , there is but too much reason to suspect malignancy in the growth , at least as regards the effect upon international relations . Things of this sort are breeders of war . The United States from the beginning has declined to recognize any connection between the German reparation payments and the payments to itself . However correct may be this position in theory , it is plain nonsense in the order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart of the whole matter . Payments under the Dawes plan were admittedly too heavy , so the Young plan took its place . Since its inception , the burden which it en- ? tails has been so increased by the fall in commodity prices that it is today probably as heavy as was the burden of the Dawes plan . Mere ' postponement of payments under the plan will not reduce the burden : it will take higher cornmodity prices to do that . Moreover . since the Young plan went into effect there has been a general raising of tariffs which , as Dr. Luther points out , gravely hamper Germany in fulfilling her obligations . Our own tariff has been raised and , to the extent that it raised rates on commodities which would otherwise have been able to enter our markets , our debtors are correspondingly handicapped in making their payments to us . Thus the situation has been radically changed since we arranged the last settlements . Taxpayers Would Have to Make " Up Difference The amount involved , so far as we are concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . It is not negligible , least of all in these days when we are " in the red " for perhaps four times that sum . If we do not collect it for our bondholders , the taxpayers must make tip the difference . Taxes nowadays hurt more taan usual . True , And there is no argument to be made for adding to them which is not based upon a theory that to do so in this way will , in fact , tend to diminish the entire burden by bringing about a stimulation of the world 's business in general and our own business in particular . The theory , such as it is , rests ultimately upon the case of Germany , which is doubly difficult . The actual weight of payments demanded of her is Furh that her living standard is being depressed to the point of danger . Furthermere , real peace has not yet been made between her and France . The effect of both is to threaten the social structure of middle and eastern Europe . The one thing that would do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going is to complete the peace between France and Germany , and make the German reparations burden at least tolerable . With this done the rest would not be so difficult . We could well afford to modify our receivables in proportion to the extent that Germany 's burden was modified so . at leas : , it seems to many people including this write : . Next year will see the armaments conference and nest year the ** Diet elections must he held . It is imperatqve that before then , peace he achieved and Germany 's economic position be rendered reasoniably sound . or else we shall be confronted with visible failure of world statesmanship and its inevitable economic consequences .                     