@@697713

txt With seven ships seeking last night to rescue survivors of the sealer Viking well-nigh helpless in the ice floes surrounding Horse Island , Northern Newfoundland , an airplane expedition to be led by Bernt Balchen and F. Merion Cooper , war flier and explorer , was hurriedly prepared here to go today to Harbor Grace and Horse Island . Cooper , a close friend of Varick Frissell , New York explorer , who has been missing since the Viking explosion Sunday , and Seth Low , head of Roosevelt Field , spent the evening perfecting plans and obtaining by telephone and wireless ... firsthand reports of conditions in the North . Just before midnight , Low ordered two pilots and three mechanics to leave Roosevelt Field for Boston , where by 2 o'clock this morning the mechanics were at work on a big Sikorsky amphibian obtained for the emergency from Colonial Airways . Balchen was located at New Haven and agreed instantly to go as chief pilot . Cooper and Major Roy P. Gates , war flier and experienced parachute jumper , took the night train for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haven at 1:20 this morning . They were due in Boston at 5:25 A. M. Randy Enslow and R. J. Barbin , with three mechanics , flew from Roosevelt Field soon after midnight and were at work on the Sikorsky in Boston three hours later . All the fliers will carry parachutes and if it is impossible to find open water or other landing place near the survivors , Gates is prepared to jump with food and stimulants . Suffering Increasing on Island . On Horse Island 118 men of the Viking , including Captain Abram Kean Jr. , and most of them injured and frostbitten , are now crowded into three small fishermen 's homes . Two bodies were found yesterday and the rescue ships have six survivors aboard . The missing number at least eighteen . Reports from the island indicated that conditions there were getting desperate , with food supplies running low , no medical assistance and the families on the island approaching exhaustion themselves . The few children were pressed into service , The Associated Press reported , to help their mothers look after the injured . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sixty-foot cakes by the pressure of gales . Four miles away from land , the nearest ice-breaker , the Imogene , was stopped . Further off the Newfoundland Government ship , Sagona , practically lay to with doctors and nurses , aboard , unable to get to the shore and helpless to search further outside . If the steamers could not find a way through the ice during the night , the government ordered that doctors and nurses , led by experienced ice men among the seal hunters aboard , go ashore on foot across the ice at dawn today to succor those in the island . Captain Kean and Otis Bartlett , the radio operator on Horse Island , had taken oharge and were rationing out the meagre supply of tea and bread , The Associated Press reported . Bartlett wirelessed that they were utterly exhausted by seventy-two hours of continuous labor . The steamers were using dynamite in an attempt to blast their way through the ice , but the attempt was deemed impossible . Pleas of Air Expedition . When Balchen 's and Cooper 's plane is ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 1,000 miles by airline from Boston . They hope to reach Harbor Grace by late afternoon or early evening and make their plans from there as the situation demands . It was suggested on Monday that airplanes might aid in the search or in carrying food and medical supplies to Horse Island , but Dr. Lewis F. Frissell , father of Varick Frissell , and others interested were informed that a plane would be of little use , since there was no feasible landing place at or near Horse Island . Last night , however , when the news came that the steamers were helpless in the pack ice , it was decided that something must be done with other rescue means . Low teleegioned aviation bases in Nova Scotia and Canada and was advised that planes could do little . At Halifax several planes were snowed in by recent storms . In spite of the obstacles , the chance to save men who might still be marooned on ice floes in White Bay or drifting slowly out to sea seemed worth the risks . Balchen was picked as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his leadership . Tentative arrangements were that Enslow , a close friend of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh and considered one of the best Roosevelt Field fliers , would go as relief pilot . Will Take Extra Fuel Load . The mechanics who went to Boston with Enslow and Barbin were Jack Penny , John Schopenhauer and Henry Bierds , all of Westbury , L. I. They took with them a large assortment of spare parts for the Sikorsky and tools which , fliers told The Associated Press , were intended for use in installing extra gas tanks in the plane . The necessity of this was due , it was stated , to the improbability of their finding any place in the North where they could refuel . A double load of fuel will have to be taken from Boston . According to the mechanics , the amount of work necessary to put the Sikorsky in condition for the flight would possibly delay the take-off from Boston for the north country until 7 A. M. The plane is capable of carrying eight passengers , two pilots and from 400 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity of 240 gallons , a cruising consumption of 40 gallons an hour and an average speed of 110 miles an hour . Unfavorable weather conditions were reported early today in the vicinity of Horse Island , The Associated Press office here learned . However , a storm off the Nova Scotia coast was moving northeastward out of the path of Balchen 's projected flight . In the Horse Island region a twenty-five-mile east-northeast wind was blowing . The fliers were advised to prepare their , plane at Boston for a landing on snow at Horse Island . Ice Jams Hold Ships Off . By T. R. MeGRATH . Special to The New York Times . ST . JOHN 'S , N. F. , March 18 . Five sturdy steamers , including the tug Foundation Franklin , fought today in the heavy pack ice and sluggish floes in White Bay at the scene of the disaster of the sealing ship Viking Sunday . In spite of the powerful engines and the skill and experience of the skippers and ice pilots , not a single vessel had made its way in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in five small houses . The ice crushed against the land had jammed and " rafted " and for the time being the steamers were blocked . Two more vessels of the sealing fleet were cruising slowly with lookouts posted aloft and on deck within a radius of fifty miles of the scene of the explosion on the chance that they might pick up survivors stranded on the floes or the . bodies of some of the men killed in the explosion . Two bodies of men imp the Viking had been recovered , ? and at least eighteen men were still missing . They included Varick Frissell of New York and A. G. Penrod of Connecticut . The Imogene , most powerful ice breaker of the sealing fleet , crunched her way to within four miles of Horse Island tonight , but was unable to send out men owing to the huge frozen barriers . Henry .1 . Sargent , friend and partner of Friesen , who was picked up clinging to wreckage yesterday by the ice breaker Sagona , together with Captain W. Kennedy , navigator , and Clayton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found to be the least injured of the three . Sargent said that he was sitting in the cabin of the Viking with Prigsell and Penrod when the explosion came . He was apparently blown through the top of the cabin , but had no recollection of what happened immediately after the explosion . When he revived he found himself clinging to a piece of the ship 's stern with Kennedy and King . All three men were suffering from burns and frost bite and King had a broken leg . Sargent 's eyes appeared to be infected or afflicted , possibly by the glare of the ice . This condition , however , would be only temporary , the Sagona 's doctor said . The sealers Eagle and Neptune both of the fleet of Bowring Brothers , owners of the Viking , reported that they had come upon the actual floe in which the Viking wa. wrecked . The ice was covered with wreckage , cabin fittings , food , personal belongings of the crew and one body identified by letters as that of Patrick Bartlett of Brigus . Conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the crushing and well nigh impenetrable ice , were becoming desperate . Food supplies are running short and medical aid was badly needed for the stricken men . If no further progress was made by morning , the Newfoundland Government ordered that parties , including doctors and nurses , leave the Sagona and other ships and make their way to shore with food and medical supplies . The Minister of Fisheries placed a ban on private wireless messages to Horse Island , owing to poor radio conditions . Static interference was making the work of the operators difficult enough without accepting more than the necessary traffic . All facilities were being concentrated on the ' work of search and rescue of those still missing and the care of those who had made their way ashore or had been picked up by the sealers . Shore Party Is Ordered . ST . JOHN 'S , N. F. , March 18 erPe -- The government tonight ordered a combined expedition of sealing ships ' crews to attempt early tomorrow morning to cross the ice floes from their vessels to Horse Island where , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the island 's inhabitants were in imminent danger of starvation . Doctors , nurses , medical supplies and food will go in the caravan of succor , offering the castaways the first relief since they were blown out of the barkentine by the explosion Sunday . Every hour , it was indicated , had brought new suffering , and a more acute crisis to the island refugees . H. B. C. Lake , Minister of Marine of Newfoundland , ordered the crossing some hours after it had been determined that to undertake such an adventure would be too perilous . Developments , including the utter inability of relief ships to penetrate the heavy crust of ice around Horse Island , made the move imperative . At the same time the marine official ordered the able-bodied among the Viking refugees on the island to walk out on the ice to meet the relief expedition , bearing with them as many as possible of the injured , who , it was directed , were to be assisted to the government rescue ship Sagona , barred from the island by the five-mile ice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then proceed , with supplies thus delivered to them , back to Horse Island until further relief could be accorded . Roaming the murky waters of the bay in an attempt to find or break a crevasse in an ice barrier five miles wide , the sealers Eagle and Neptune came upon a mass of charred , wreckage , timbers and clothing floating amid the icy cakes . That was the spot where the Viking , carrying a party of American movie men , was rent asunder , probably by an explosion of blasting powder . From the debris the rescuers picked a shattered body , which was identified as that of Patrick Bartlett of Brigus , a member of the Viking 's crew . Identification was made through a letter found in a pocket . Late in the day a body believed to be that of Robert Bartlett of Marysville was washed ashore on Horse Island . The two are all that have been recovered of a score feared dead . The best available information here from all sources early in the evening gave the following tally : Rescued 124 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried more than its recorded complement of 144 , the missing list would be swelled accordingly . The number on board has been reported from that figure up to 158 , government and sealing authorities saying that no accurate check of all who sailed on the Viking was available . This forenoon the sealing ship Beothic picked up a dory in which three men had ridden the waves since the blast cast them adrift . They were W. G. Johnson , master watch ; Alfred Kean , mate , of Brookfield , N. F. , and Fred Best , helper in the Frissell movie party . The three were transferred to the Sagona , which wirelessed she had got no nearer than five miles from Horse Island and that conditions on the ice seemed just before nightfall to forbid sending over the ice the much-needed supplies she carried . The Sagona'e master said that of the survivors aboard her Kean had a scalp wound and injured knee and Best 's feet were frozen . On the ice around the place of the explosion , the Neptune and Eagle skippers stated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canned goods , personal belongings of officers and life belts . The clothes bag and jacket of Boatswain : - Carter were retrieved . Skipper Kean Sends Out Appeal . Skipper Abram Kean Jr . of the Viking , injured and ill from loss of his ship and the harrowing experiences that followed , appealed for quick shipments of medical supplies and food . From the island he sent a. mesage declaring La Barbe 's handful of women residents were exhausted from caring for the sick in cramped quarters . There are only five houses there and no doctor . " Ice conditions terrible . Steel boat trying to reach island . Conditions there must be very bad , " said a ' cryptic message from rescuers to Bowring Brothers ; owners of the Viking . Bowring Brothers announced that ships of the sealing fleet to which the Viking belonged had returned through Belle Isle Strait and would continue to search through the waters in which the Viking went down . " We believe there is some chance of finding a few more survivors , " the company said . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outside world awaited definite news of the disaster . The winds and static played havoc with communication systems and available wires were choked . But Bowring Brothers expressed belief that the weather in White Bay probably was not abnormally cold or rough . The fate of a group of five men which the Boethic had  --  reported sighting on an ice floe was undetermined , since messages were not clear as to whether they had been rescued . Among the missing was a boy of 12 , Edward Cronin of St. John 's , who crept secretly aboard the Viking when it left for the North . The other stowaway reached Horse Island . FRISSELL 'S FATHER CHEERED . Sees in Message Chance Explorer May Yet Be Found . A ray of hope was found by relatives here ' of Varick Frissell of New York and A. G. Penrod , still listed among the missing of the sealer Viking in a message transmitted through Bowring Brothers , Ltd. , of St. John 's , N. F. , from Henry Sargent , their associate in the motion picture venture . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , said : " Sargent , advises ? was sitting at table with Frissell and Penrod when explosion occurred . laid not see them after explosion . " Dr. Lewis F. Frissell , the father of the young explorer , considered the news extremely hopeful when the message was sent to him at his home here . " It indicates that- ? arick and Penrod were not seriously injured in the explosion , since Sargent escaped . It seems likely that they got away from the ship , " , he said. , At the Penrod home , 1,170 East Twenty-sixth Street , Brooklyn , Mrs. Penrod , expressed .. confidence that her husband would either make his way safely ashore - or be rescued .                     