@@697540

txt Now that the report on prohibition of the Wickersham law enforcement commission is near publication , forecasts of its conclusions and contents are few and far between . Few care to risk prediction which can be so shortly tested by the event itself , for apparently none outside the commission personnel has accurate knowledge of what its recommendations will be . For a long time Washington has not believed that the commission will recommend modification to allow light wines and beer . Few here ever did think that the commission would go further than that . If it proposes any modification at all , it will give many a great surprise . At the same time It is hardly thinkable that prohibition will be given an entirely clean bill of health . The most logical of many guesses , which what predictions of the past have been for the most part , is that the commission will severely score the abuses arising under prohibition , probably propose some remedies for them and express the hope that the new enforcement machinery under charge of the Department of Jus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority was divided . In other words this commission may be like a lot of good average citizens who will agree about the evils of prohibition but who are unable to agree on some plan to replace it . Of course , a report such as outlined would please neither wets nor drys and the two factions in Congress will make their dissatisfaction quite vocally apparent with President Hoover again being blamed . At least while Congress is orating on this , it will not be on other matters such as the railroads and stock market . 1931 Forecasts Conservathe This year-end saw a period of extensive tax selling . With the passing of January 1 , this influence to depress prices is removed . Of course , there was some loss-taking in previous yearends. but it could not have been so great as in the past few weeks because the opportunity did not exist . The New Year date is a period of inventorytaking when stocks on hand , which may have been bought at higher prices . are being marked down to current levels . another consideration not generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out and income computed . If there is loss , it is behind . If a business has had to take it " on the nose. ? it has done so and feels that it is starting anew  --  like a golfer beginning the second nine holes after a bad first nine . Undoubtedly there is a good deal of the psychological factor there , but it is an attitude to be found in many quarters . This is no attempt to predict the course of business in 1931 . It is merely to point out that previous New Year dates have seen business continually riding upward on the prospertity tide . This year it is a time of careful stock taking and future planning . and Bank Rates Reduction in the rate of the bank of France does not Jibe with the statement of Representative that easy money might he a prelude to exports of gold If gold had been going any place , it would have gone to France and now the central bank of that country is on parity with New York . Akerson 's Resignation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out well-founded Washington reports . The move will be taken here as nn indication that the administration is aware of the desirability-71f reform in what may be described as its public relations . Defects in this respect are probably responsible for lack of enthusiasm toward Washington v inch has been apparent in some quarters . A president may very legitimately take advantage of the respect and venerat.cei in which the people hold his office to guide and stimulate public thought . Indeed the success of an administration often depends on thin very thing Mr. Hoover was not temperamentally fitted in this regard as were some of his predecessors . It does not appear that he has been aided greatly . Mr. Akerson was a newspaperman and an excellent one too . It is traditional that newspapermen are seldom successful when placed in position where they have to deal with their own profession . Apparently a man who has been on the receiving end of news can not well transfer himself to the transmitting end . Successor to Akerson is uncertain . Henry Allen , former Kansas senator , was offered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take it although he would not like the accusation of a " lame duck " appointment . Fess on Rail Merger Railroad men here are hoping that if Senator Fess again feels moved to issue a statement in behalf of the four-party unification in the East , he will not do so through the mimeograph of the Republican National Committee . Railroad unification is distinctly not a political matter . It is a matter of utmost economic importance , which , if not dealt with now , must be at a later date . One of the most important events pending in sinner Patrick J. Farrell rounded out thirty years of service with the commission . Previous to his appointment as a commissioner , Mr. Farrell was chief counsel and before that valuation solicitor and chief examiner.                     