@@700952

txt Editorialgorrespondence . THE New YORK TIMES . DENVER , Col. , Dec. 20 . ? Across the Mountain States there is a greater feeling of well-being this Christmas season than has been noticeable in any of the last three . For a month , or longer , good news has been cropping out to cheer people in almost every walk of life and , for the immediate future , at least , the outlook seems bright . Local industrial companies have declared " Christmas extra " dividends much as they did in the years before 1929 . The Colorado Fuel and Iron Company , industrial heart of Pueblo , has opened , or will soon open , its plants there and its mines at Sunrise in Wyoming , thus giving employment to 1,000 men . The gold camps , wherever located , are closing a year of greater activity than any since before the war and look forward to even greater operations in 1935 . The buying power of the farmers is estimated at being 17 per cent ahead of a year ago and in some localities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naturally reflected themselves in both wholesale and retail trade , which seems to be back to the level of 1930 nearly everywhere . In both cities and small towns vacant store-fronts are on the decrease . Shops are crowded on Saturday afternoons and evenings and at the latter time , in many places , it is impossible to get a seat in a moving picture theatre . People Are Spending . People have money and are spending it with a feeling of both confidence and good nature for higher priced goods than they would have considered a year ago . Show windows display merchandise of a quality and price that , until recently , merchants carried , but with little hope of selling . Meanwhile , panhandlers have vanished from the streets and shabby , threadbare clothing is fast becoming the exception rather than the rule . Those on the relief rolls , and there are many of them , no longer fear that the government will withdraw its supporting arm . A year ago it was rumored that such withdrawal was imminent and thousands of families , although fed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with utter dread . That dread seems to have vanished , along with that of the property owning class for what the New Deal holds in store for it . The mystery of a new political philosophy has vanished with the result that , although the philosophy may be as little understood as ever , it has lost its fearsome aspects . Even the pending session of Congress holds no terrors for nervous business men . In the country towns of Wyoming , Colorado and New Mexico there is less evidence that hard times exist . Farmers and ranchers cheerfully buy each other beer and gamble on the illegal , although common , slot machines between purchases at the grocery . In the twilight of early evening they drive home in what are often new cars . They seem unworried where once their faces were pinched with care . Nature itself has done much to improve the rural temper . The weather has been mild , but there has been an abundance of moisture and in the mountains enough snow has fallen to assure an ample supply of water for next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , Wyoming and Colorado the cattle ranges are still desperately dry , but by another Spring it seems certain that there will be grass again to support the herds that ranchers expect , with the aid of the government , to carry over the Winter . No one , perhaps , thinks that the depression has become a thing of the past , but it is no longer always foremost in men 's minds . Hamlets and cities alike are wreathed in evergreen and colored lights and people have no other thought than that Christmas is here again .                     