@@697267

txt Aroused by the thirty-one deaths in Manhattan from alcohol poisoning since May 10 , fifty agents of Maurice Campbell , Prohibition Administrator , posing as Bowery habitues , . invaded the east side yesterday in the largest campaign ever instituted against sellers of poison liquor . Late last night , when the agents were stiii at work , twenty " smoke " shops had been raided , and thirty-six proprietors , " bouncers " and bartenders had been arrested . The agents , wearing two-day beards , shabby clothes , and in some instances soiled bandages on heads or arms , reported that they had found hundreds of patrons lying drunk on the sawdust-littered floors . In some cases the agents carried patrons , drugged from denatured or poisoned alcohol , from the shops before they made arrests . Agents Drink Poison Liquor . Two of the agents , who declined to give their names , and who said that they had drunk some of the liquor , known as " smoke " because of its milkish white color , reported sick at prohibition headquarters on Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fool to touch it , " one of the agents said . " I 'm not drunk . I 'm just groggy , and I 've never had a worse headache . " Major Campbell explained then that he had warned his men not to drink any of the stuff . He said that an analysis had shown it in some cases to be denatured alcohol of the kind used in anti-freeze mixture for automobiles , and in others pure synthetic wood alcohol . " This liquid , " he explained , " unlike ordinary wood alcohol , has no distasteful odor and is not easily identified . " The raids , the second group of their kind in a year , were carried out in cooperation with the police , who are conducting an independent investigation at the order of Commissioner Mulrooney , and in cooperation with Federal Attorney Tuttle , who announced last night that he would give a preference on the calendar to these cases , waiving the customary hearing before a United States Commissioner and presenting the matter immediately to a Federal grand jury . The Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were seized in the raids , as " liquid death , " and ' ts dispensers as " murderers . " He said that he would demand a maximum sentence in the case of each seller convicted . Mayor Walker , who was informed of the recent wave of deaths caused by " smoke , " said he felt the electric chair was too good for its sellers . He added that if he " had a club " he would hit on the head any seller of such liquor without waiting to call for a policeman . The places raided included drug stores , a paint shop and a lunchroom as well as the ordinary run of Bowery speakeasy. where drinks are sold for from 15 to 25 cents a tumbler or half pint . After drinking one tumblerful the patrons , according to the agents , had no desire for more , though in one place visited the " smoke " was advertised as " genuine corn whisky . " The first raid was staged at a store at 3 Catharine Street , where Harry Meyers , a clerk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcohol to an agent for 15 cents . The agent seized four half-pint bottles of alcohol . At 53 Avenue C agents seized four one-gallon cans and twelve six-ounce bottles labeled " Denatured Alcohol , Poison , " but in spite of this frank label , according to Major Campbell , Israel Seligman , the owner , and Mrs. Helen Seligman , his wife , who were arrested , sold a half-pint bottle of the stuff for 25 cents . One drum and 500 bottles carrying the same label were seized at a drug store at 6 Bowery , where agents also reported purchasing a bottle for the same price . There they arrested Herbert Wilks , manager , of 391 East Mosholu Parkway , the Bronx . When agents visited a speakeasy at 256 Bowery they discovered thirty men lying drunk on a sawdust-covered floor . John Bolan , bartender , of 119 Third Avenue , sold two drinks of alcohol in water glasses for 25 cents each , the agents reported . They seized a one-gallon jug containing alcohol resembling whisky and after carrying out the intoxicated patrons arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 280 Fourth Avenue . The raiders then visited a paint store run by Morris Skigin at 128 Monroe Street , where they arrested Skigin and . Mrs. Anna Skigin , his wife , after paying 25 cents for a half pint bottle labeled " Denatured Alcohol , Poison . " They seized a one-gallon can of this stuff and seven fivegallon cans . Fifty derelicts , most of them drugged or drunk , were found in a speakeasy at 139 Park Row , where agents seized fifty cases of " home brew " and ten quarts of colored alcchol . The agents reported paying 15 cents each for two drinks of the colored stuff . They arrested Joseph Devine , bartender , 58 Henry Street . Forty men were lined up at a bar or sprawled on the floor of an alleged speakeasy at 39 New Bowery , where agents seized one and a half gallons of colored alcohol , after purchasing two drinks for 15 cents each , served , they said , in a large tumbler by George Barrett , bartender , of 128 Park Row . Agents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to purchase hamburger steak at 10 cents a pound at a speakeasy at 195 Worth Street , where 100 men were found . After buying a wine glass full of what it is said was colored alcohol for 15 cents , the agents seized a onequart milk bottle full of this stuff , and arrested Louis Benson , bartender , 191 East Third Street ; Erig Broom , bartender , 16 Bowery , and John E. Busso , owner , 98 Mulberry Street . Get " Smoke " In Lunch Room . " Mike Whisky " was the name of a bartender arrested in a " lunch room " at 128 Hester Street , where agents bought a half pint of " smoke " for 50 cents , seized two pitchers of the liquor , and placed Whisky under arrest , after routing fifty patrons . Thirty bottles of home brew and two and a half pints of alleged " raisin " whisky were seized at a speakeasy at 8 Christie Street , where the raiders paid 15 cents for two ounces of " liquor . " They arrested Frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , bartender , was arrested during a raid at 15 East First Street , after agents had purchased a drink of colored alcohol for 15 1cents , and seized two quarts and a piAiortythisenstuf we re drinking in a speakeasy at 48 New Bowery , where agents also reported buying colored alcohol and arrested John Ryan , bartender , 48 New Bowery . At 220 East Second Street , a dance hall with meeting rooms , George Gadas , bartender , was arrested after he had sold agents a pint of alleged " smoke . " In an alleged speakeasy at 64 New Bowery , James Murphy of 15 New Bowery , the alleged bartender , was arrested . Fifteen men were in the place . At 59-61 New Bowery the disguised agents arrested Jack Minski , bartender , of 384 East Tenth Street . " Real corn whisky " at 15 cents a drink was advertised at 11-13 Rivington Street , agents said . Samuel Miller of 28 Montgomery Street , bartender , was arrested . Agents also arrested two men who were delivering alcohol to a store at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 353 Bowery , arresting Artie Brown , the bartender , of the same address , and seizing about one and one-half gallons of colored alcohol . Campbell Orders Wide Clean-Up . Mr. Campbell , in a statement explaining the raids , said : " About one year ago this office began an investigation of the sales of so-called " smoke " on the lower east sidd and as a result a number of raids were made . Because of this activity the sale of " smoke " was practically discontinued . During the past few weeks a number of persons have died in the same vicinity and as consequence I detailed fifty agents to make a clean-up of this entire section of the city . Because of the recent publicity a number of these places that were heretofore selling this mixtur e have discontinued . However , my agents succeeded in purchasing this " smoke " in places , and arrests were immediately made . " Mr. Tuttle , explaining the steps he will take in the campaign against poison liquor , said : " Sellers of poisonous rum can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to the Federal Building by either the Prohibition Administrator or the city police will receive immediate attention . The usual proceedings before the United States Commissioner will- be omitted , and the cvases will at once be laid before the grand jury with a view to felony indictments . Such indictments as soon as voted will be placed on the calendar . " Where convictions are obtained I will move for the maximum sentence and will do everything possible under the Federal law to make examples of these devils . It should be noted , however , that sellers of this liquid death are really murderers , and that suitable punishment can be meted out only under the State laws against murder . " Walker Scores Sales as Murder . " These poison liquor deaths , " Mayor Walker said in his statement , " constitute a very serious situation . Not only is it a violation of the Constitution to sell liquor ? we might stagger through that  --  but for these peddlers it is first degree murder as well . There ought to be something worse than hanging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ club I would go out and hit them over the heads myself without waiting for a policeman . " While still another victim  --  Stanley Mayer , 850 Park Row  --  died yesterday in Bellevue Hospital of wood alcohol poisoning , a half hour after he had been taken from the Municipal Lodging House , Magistrate Renaud in Homicide court set $10,000 as bail for Isidor Kovins , who , it is charged , sold the denatured alcohol responsible for the death last week of David Buckley . Kovins , who lives at 304 Kingsbridge Road , was held later in bail of $500 by Magistrate Goodman in Essex Market Court on the additional charge that he maintained a nuisance at a hardware shop at 1 Cooper Square . Police Commissioner Mulrooney has assigned his investigation to the poison liquor situation to Inspector David J. , who said that his men had staged several raids and made arrests last week .                     