@@698785

txt M. Albert Lebrun , president of the Senate , was today elected President of France by the National Assembly composed of the Senate and Chamber 91 Demitles sitting as one house . He immediately assumed the duties of his office . He was elected on the first ballot . which gave him 633 votes out of 826 cast , 114 going to the Socialist leader , M. Paul Faure , and 49 ballots being blank . M. Lebrun presided over today 's session in his capacity as President of the Senate . No other candidate of the first rank disputed his electron , M. Paul Painleve having withdrawn his candidacy last night . The new President of the Republic is an engineer by profession and a political technician by experience . He has served In several cabinets  --  but not recently  --  as minister of colonies . As a public man of modest deportment , who has rendered notable but inconspicuous services to the state , he is admirably suited to his new post . As compared with the election of a year ago today 's session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was singularly uneventful . Whereas last year the close contest between M. Paul Doumer and M. Aristide Briand was only decided by a second ballot , today 's result was never seriously in doubt . Withdrawal of Painlev6 The decision of M. Painleve to withdraw was reached upon the advice of leading senators who felt that it was highly desirable that only one candidate should be officially named to succeed the martyred President , M. Doumer . M. Painleve had been persuaded to enter the race by certain deputies Who desired to see a man of the Left elected chief of state in view of Sunday 's general election which showed popular sentiment to be tending strongly to the Left . The Painleve candidacy therefore had a political complexion which Senators felt was not fitting at this time The new President will be the sixth to hold office since the World War . Although the presidential term is seven years , few have succeeded in completing the full term . Since M. Raymond Poincard 's long administration from 1913 to 1920 M. Gaston boumergue who occupied the Elysee Palace from 1924 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ septenate . M. Paul Deschanel was in office only from February to September . 1920 , M. Alexandre Miller-and from 1920 to 1924 and M. Doumer for a few days less than one year . Affects Arms Conference France can not be represented at the Geneva conference this month as the result of the Tardieu Cabinet 's resignation , which it was announced yesterday would be handed immediately to the new President . M. Andre Tardieu specifically requested that members of his Government should not be immediately reappointed , but it is only normal that they should continue to perform their functions until the new ministry is named June 1  --  a ministry which will undoubtedly be headed by M. Edouard Herriot and chosen in accordance with the desire of the nation as expressed in Sunday 's parliamentary election . M. Herriot has announced he will make no statement as to whether he intends to offer to the Socialists places in the Cabinet until after the meeting of the Radical Party 's executive committee May 18 . Socialists indicate they can hardly take a decision on such an important question until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . France will have a new President today , but the new Chamber of Deputies will not sit until June 1 . Meantime no important initiatives can be taken either in domestic or foreign affairs .                     