@@698229

txt Al Capone will be sentenced to no less than five years imprisonment when he comes before Judge Wilkerson on Tuesday , according to general opinion voiced here today . But a year or two may pass before he begins to serve the sentence , because the appeal machinery moves slowly . Found guilty last night on two misdemeanor counts and three felony counts , after his eleven-day trial for Federal income tax evasion , Capone faces a possible maximum sentence of seventeen years and a $50,000 fine . In no income tax case in this district , however , has anything like the maximum penalty ever been imposed . Jack Guzik , " financial secretary " to Capone , got a sentence of five years and a day before Judge Woodward on evidence involving , in a great many instances , the same transactions which were presented to the Capone jury , and Guzik 's sentence is the ' longest on record here for income tax evasion . Guzik 's case has been appealed . There is little doubt that sentence will he passed Tuesday . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judgment and for a new trial , which are made by defense counsel in these cases , are overruled and sentence is imposed the same day . There is no reason to expect any departure from traditional procedure In the Capone case . The belief that Capone will be able to keep out of the penitentiary for a year , possibly two years , is based on substantial precedent . Ralph Capone , younger brother of the " Big Shot , " was convicted of income tax evasion in April , 1930 , but still has his freedom . There seems to be no likelihood of a final ruling in his case until next Spring . Whether Scarface Al will be free all the while that he is waiting for a final decision on whatever sentence he may get is not certain . ITo was sentenced by Judge Wilkerson last February to serve six months on a contempt charge and his appeal from that sentence may be decided next month in the Circuit Court of Appeals . If the contempt sentence is confirmed he will probably serve the first six months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a possibility that Capone 's lawyers may try to take the contempt case into the Supreme Court if the original sentence is sustained in December , but even in that event Capone could hope for only a few more months ' delay . The government will move to minimize the appeal delay on the incometax evasion case by asking for a stipulation Tuesday , if sentence is passed that day , that defense counsel file the bill of exceptions within thirty days . This might get the case before the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Spring and before the Supreme Court next Fall . Jury 's Deliberation Discussed . It was reported yesterday that a greater part of the eight hours and ten minutes spent in deliberation by the Capone jury was because of the stubbornness of one juror . This juror did not . hold for acquittal , but felt that to return a verdict of guilty on all the counts would be too drastic a punishment , in view of the fact that the evidence showed Capone had made an attempt , in 1929 , to settle his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mattingly . While Federal Attorney Johnson would make no statement on the verdict pending sentence , it seemed apparent that he and his staff were satisfied with the result of their three years ' labor to convict Capone . Elmer L. Irey , chief of the Intelligence Bureau of the Internal Revenue Office , said he was satisfied with the outcome of the Capone case and highly praised A. P. Madden , chief of the unit of the bureau in Chicago , for the work he and his men had done . , Mr. Trey was a government witness in the case and sat through the entire trial . Philip D'Andrea , the Capone bodyguard , who was arrested in Judge Wilkerson 's court a week ago Saturday when ap loaded revolver was found on him , is due to come up for a hearing tomorrow . He has been a prisoner in the county tail since his arrest , the court refusing to grant bail . GUNMEN KILL MATT KOLB . Death of Capone Rival Viewed as Continuance of Power Behind Him . Special to The New York Times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front " for a highly organized gang of freebooters , is engaged in arguments with the Federal Government and may reside in Leavenworth or Atlanta for several years , the organization may still keep its grip upon Chicago . Predictions have been freely made that whentand if Capone were sent away , there would be bloody battles among aspirants for his throne . There may be killings , but the crime syndicate will not permit any " chiseling . " The " powers " operating behind Capone are expected to designate a successor who will be in the public eye , but is likely to be only a figurehead . An indication that there would be no let-up in crime operations was given early this morning when two gangsters murdered Matt Kolb , long the dominating power in gambling and attendant vices in the northwest side of the city . The killers entered the Club Mora ton , owned by Kolb , shook hands with him as he stood at the bar and , while one was holding Kolb 's hand and relating a funny story , the other fired six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassin , remarking " I 'd better make sure , " stepped back and fired an additional shot into Kolb 's brain . The gunmen made no effort to con. ceal their faces , and the shooting v. ? as in the presence of the bartender and two other witnesses . In departing the killers passed Kolb 's sister , Mrs. Clara Fergus , who was seated in the dining room . Kolb is said to have been warned two months ago that the Capone organization was taking over his territory . At that time he apparently heeded the warning , but recently , it is believed , he began branching out again with the Club Morton as his headquarters .                     