@@699864

txt Agreement between France and the United States to give Mr. James M. Cox . former Governor of Ohio , the chairmanship of the World Economic Conference 's monetary committee , while M. Georges Bonnet . French Finance Minister , becomes rapporteur , coupled with an encouraging war debts agreement and increasingly favorable prospects for early pegging of the pound and dollar have all produced a genuinely encouraging atmosphere as general debate approaches its close . Indeed there have not been so many tangible indications that the conference can really get down to work since the sessions began . It now appears that the gap between British and American figures for temporary stabilization has been virtually closed , and the remaining difficulty between these two countries only concerns the form of agreement . It is necessary that the operation of pegging the dollar shall be a hand-to-mouth affair since nobody can tell where future necessities for altering the dollar 's gold value may lead . Perhaps a 60-day agreement to maintain a de facto position , with a 30-day interval for announcement of a change , may result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $4 appears satisfactory to both sides , with Britain and America sharing advantages and disadvantages by the arrangement . AdJustment of Frano and Dollar The problem now remains to adjust the French franc to the pound and dollar . In the words of Mr. It . B. Bennett , Canadian Prime Minister , before today 's general conference session , " If the common price-raising policy can be agreed upon , American and British currencies can be stabilized in relation to the gold franc . " Since the British Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Neville Chamberlain , and the American Secretary of State , Mr. Cordell Hull , have already exchanged mutual amenities over price-raising ideas , it . appears that some agreement can be worked out in time . The rather unpleasant Franco-American struggle over the presidency of the monetary committee reached a solution after a forenoon-long conference between Mr. Hull , M. Bonnet and their respective experts . The compromise gives the French the position of rapporteur . Since this official drafts the report which , conveys the committee 's conclusions to the general conference , it Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the presidency . But the American delegation took , a different view and fought tenaciously until they obtained the chairmanship . The slate now comprehends Mr. Cox as chairman , Signor Guido Jung of Italy as vice-chairman , and M. Bonnet as rapporteur . The steering committee and conference itself must approve the slate , but passage is considered a foregone conclusion . Two particularly strong and meaty speeches were features of the forenoon session . Prime Mtnister Bennet of Canada approached many problems more frankly than any earlier speaker . Actually aware of the involuntary gyrations of the Canadian dollar , caught between the pound and the American dollar , Mr. Bennett " urged with all the power at my command " a speedy de facto stabilization . ? ? But once exchanges are stabilized , Mr. Bennett pointed out , the world level of wholesale prices must be elevated to mtaintain moneys In their place . Proposed methods embrace an easy money policy marked by open market purchase , programs Of public works in which sound countries must not be too cautious , Mr. Bennett said , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Bennett spoke as a convinced protectionist . Indeed his words might be construed as a Criticism by Mr. Hull 's speech urging general reform . For Mr. Bennett stated his agreement with Mr. Chamberlain and pointedly said , " no useful purpose ca nbe served by stating general principles which will find little It any likelihood of being translated into Mr. T. V. Soong , Finance Minister of China , reinforced with great effectiveness the plea of Mr. Maxim Litvinoff , Russian Foreign Commissioner , for more attention to poten tial consumers . He pictured China as one vast market with a paucity of means to purchase . He invited the whole world to explore the possibility of trade with a vast continent which is capable of absorbing all possible surpluses in every producing nation . He thus definitely spurned the doctrine advanced by Japan of " Asia for Asiatics , " or " a Monroe doctrine for Asia . " The chief deterrent to acceptance of $4 by the American representatives is apprehension that with agreement to peg the dollar the recent stock and commodity price boom in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the Americans to negotiate an agreement which walks tight rope , assuring the British and French that dollar fluctuations will not continue and still keeping enough promise of inflation to stimulate American buying . The French , though they are extremely anxious to obtain stabilization of the dollar , are opposed to a high ratio with the pound since the pound and the franc have been relatively stable for a fortnight , and Paris particularly objects to dis turbing this balance . Moreover , If both the pound and dollar go in for controlled inflation it seems almost imperative for the franc to follow . Declarations made in yesterday 's speech of the British Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Neville Chamberlain , were welcomed in American circles as approval for the United States , at least of President Roosevelt 's ideas for expansion . They are also believed to imply that Britain would follow some distance along the road of deliberate price . raising . Orthodox continental economists did not relish this turn of affairs , particularly when Mr. Cordell Hull , American Secretary of State , In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems . Nevertheless this interchange which , of course , only reflects the far more positive exchange of ideas behind scenes , was responsible , along with the war debts agreement , for vastly improvement conference atmosphere . Simultaneously American spokesmen  --  Mr. James P. Warburg and Mr. Hull  --  made contact with the liberal French Finance Minister , M. Georges Bonnet , and removed many misapprehensions about American monetary programs . They assured the Frenchman that controlled expansion of the dollar was purely domestic in intent , without the slightest purpose of undercutting European producers . Their explanation has manifestly had a good effect and the door is opened to further Franco-American clarifications . In sum , therefore , the conference entered its fourth day with prospects tangibly improved and , the air cleared of many unrealities.                     