@@700455

txt John J. Dunnigan , Democratic leader of the State Senate , and Irwin Steingut , Democratic leader of the Assembly , refused yesterday at a conference with Postmaster General James A. Farley , State and National Chairman of their party , to support Mayor LaGuardia 's Economy Bill in its present form . In a talk of two and a , half hours with Mr. Farley at the Biltmore Hotel the two legislative leaders declared that the great majority of the Democratic legislators were opposed to the measure and that a compromise was imperative if the bill was to pass . The one tangible result of the conference was an agreement that Senator Dunnigan and Mr. Steingut would confer with Governor Lehman on their return to Albany today and that Mr. Farley also would talk with the Governer by telephone before his departure for Florida tomorrow . Senator Dunnigan indicated that he would have definite changes in tile bill to propose some time this week . Farley Tells of Conference . Mr. Farley with Messrs . Dunnigan and Steingut saw newspaper reporters in the headquarters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman for all three , Mr. Farley said : " We discussed the City Economy Bill and both the Senator and the Assemblyman fully explained to me their positions the bill , based on the views of the representatives of their respective Hooks , I let them undaitim-d- thoroughly my position in the matter . " We have agreed that they will go to Albany and discuss the matter further with the Governor . I , too , will discuss the matter with him in the hope that we may pass a bill satisfactory to the taxpayers of New York City . " Senator Dunnigan and Mr. Steingut were reported to have been very definite in their refusal to support the Economy Bill unless it should be amended . Senator Dunnigan was quite caustic in his criticism of Mayor LaGuardia 's methods to force the measure through the Legislature without explaining just what his administration intended to do under its broad grant of power . Votes Lacking , Says Dunnigan . He is understood to have informed Mr. Farley that the votes needed to pass the bill in its present form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his twenty-five Democratic associates in that body were definitely against it . Senator Dunnigan also is said to have asserted that his opposition to the bill was on principle and that he resented the attempt to " stampede " the Legislature into passing the bill . While desire to protect the county officials from too drastic cuts in staffs and salaries by the LaGuardia Board of Estimate , which would be . possible under the present measure , is an important factor in the Democratic opposition to the bill , it is not the only factor , it was said . Mr. Dunnigan and air , Steingut were reported to have resented what they described as the somewhat arrogant attitude taken by the Mayor in insisting on the passage of the bill without change and without explanation of Just how he intended to use it . Belief was expressed that a satisfactory compromise could be reached if the Mayor would give such an explanation or delegate Controller W. Arthur Cunningham to explain . Mr. Farley was informed that the Mayor must submit a definite program of what he intended to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support the measure . The effect of the conference is to transfer the fight to pass the bill back to Albany . It is certain that Mayor LaGuardia will not agree to accept any amendments to the bill before these amendments are put in tangible form . The next move , therefore , probably will be made by Senator Dunnigan following his conference with the Governor . The refusal of the Democratic legislative leaders to accept the LaGuardia bill was regarded as likely to postpone final action until the closing week of the Legislature . Continuation of the fight over the economy bill until the end of the session might make more difficult the passage of other city legislation desired by the LaGuardia administration . It would make difficult any direct charter changes at this session and would imperil any legislation to substitute a new court for the magistrates ' courts and the Court of Special Sessions . Senator John J. , Democrat , announced that he would offer tonight a resolution for the appointment of a joint legislative committee of four Senators and two Assemblymen to investigate and report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that the Legislature might act intelligently in framing an economy bill . Senator 's resolution , a copy of which he made public , states in its preamble that an investigation is necessary because the hearings on the Economy Bill at Albany disclosed substantial differences of opinion in regard to the city 's financial status in that proponents of the bill declared the city budget $31,000,000 out of balance , while opponents declared that there was a surplus of at least $3,000,000.                     