@@701982

txt Legislation outlawing suits for alienation of affections is unconstitutional , the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court , in Brooklyn , ruled yesterday . The 1935 Legislature lacked the authority to enact such legislation without providing some adequate substitute , the court decided by a vote of 3 to 2 . The opinion upheld a decision by Supreme Court Justice Leander B. Faber that a man still had the right to sue for alienation of his wife 's affections despite Chapter 263 of the Laws of 1935 . The higher bench agreed that the statute was invalid in so far as it sought to deprive an injured husband of the right to seek financial consolation . The law , in so far as it relates to breach of promise suits , was upheld by the Appellate Division in Manhattan on May 29 , in a ruling in which four of the five justices concurred . Abuses justified the abolition of all cases arising from breach of promise to marry , the majority argued . Presiding Justice Francis Martin dissented , and this decision , as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , will be passed on by the Court of Appeals . Judge Faber denied a motion by Jesse C. Rogers , attorney for George Mark of Forest Hills , for a dismissal of the complaint in an action for $30,000 damages brought by Lawrence Hanfgarn of Floral Park for the loss of his wife 's affections . Mr. Rogers moved for the dismissal on the ground that Chapter 263 barred such suits , that as a result of its adoption men now have only a " sentimental interest " in their wives that can not be measured in money . Edwin C. Jenkins , representing Mr. Hanfgarn , contended Chapter 263 was unconstitutional , that it violated common-law rights . After Justice Faber upheld Mr. Jenkins , Mr. Rogers appealed . The prevailing opinion was written by Justice J. Addison Young , with Presiding Justice Edward Lazansky and Justice John B. Johnston concurring . Justice Roland B. Davis wrote the minority opinion , in which Justice Frank F. Adel concurred . The majority opinion quoted from Chapter 263 that the new law was passed because the old was subjected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this case is whether the Legislature has power to abolish a common-law cause of action without providing in substitution therefore some other adequate remedy , " says the ma- jority opinion . " The Legislature undoubtedly has power to change or alter the common-law rules of evidence and method of procedure where such rules of evidence have become obsolete , or otherwise , in the due administration of justice . But it is one thing to regulate , change or alter , methods of procedure in action and quite another thing to abolish entirely a right of action theretofore existing at common law . " The appellant asserts that the processes of law and the spirit of modern society have abolished the inequality of rights between the sexes and contends in substance that the basis of the common-law right of action in the husband was the possibility that by the infidelity of a wife the husband might be called upon to support illegitimate children or the legitimacy of his , own offspring be cast in doubt ; that the husband had a property right in the body and a right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invasion of which right the law permitted him to sue as a husband . Equality of Eights Argued " The appellant therefore argues that since the husband and wife by statute now possess equal rights that the husband no longer may treat a wife as a chattel the basic reason for the common-law action of alienation of affections or criminal conversation no longer exists and therefore the Legislature is at liberty to abolish it . " The Court of Appeals , however , has recently recognized the equality of the right of the husband and of the wife under our present statutes and in an elaborate opinion ( Oppenheim vs . Kridel , 236 N. Y. , 156 ) , extended the right of action for alienation of affections to the wife and has further recognized that this right of action is a substantial one and for the benefit of either party to the marriage . " Not all actions brought for alienation of affections come within the condemnation of the statute . Some are meritorious and involve rights that are substantial and important . The actions abolished existed at common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is without power to abolish the action without providing a substitute . This it has not done and I can see no way to uphold the statute . " In the minority opinion Justice Davis said : " The Legislature has found that such actions are in the main founded on fraud and brought collusively for the purpose of oppression and extortion . General knowledge and public opinion support this view . It is for the Legislature primarily to determine the public policy of the State . It may limit or abolish property in the public interest and welfare . The act is not arbitrary or unreasonable . The police power properly exercised is above constitutional inhibitions . "                     