@@702168

txt Creation in the laboratory from dead matter of a substance that behaves in the manner of the wall which surrounds the living cells of man and animal was reported here today before the Mark Hopkins centenary at Williams College by Dr. Irving Langmuir , Nobel Prize winner in ' chemistry and associate director of the General Electric Company 's research laboratories . This artificial creation for the first time of an inanimate combination of simple chemicals that simulates in behavior and properties the living wall encasing all fundamental units of life , Dr. Langmuir said , promised to open up new vistas in the understanding of many of life 's mysterious processes . Particularly , Dr. Langmuir stated , it was hoped that the new synthetic " life wall " would lead to the establishment of some principle " of great use to the biologist in understanding the complicated dependence of living cells upon the composition of the surrounding medium . " Seven Heard in Two Symposia Dr .. Langmuir was one of three distinguished scientists who ad-dressed a symposium on science . A new theory on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants and animals , was described by Dr. Herbert S. Jennings , Professor of Zoology at Johns Hopkins University . A review of the advances made during the past hundred years in the knowledge of the fundamental structure of matter was presented by Dr. John C. Slater , Professor of Physics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology . A symposium in philosophy , dealing with the relation of modern Science and religion , was also held , four professors of philosophy participating . Professor Wilmon H. Sheldon of Yale discussed " The Bearing of Biology and Physics on Liberal Religion , " Professor William E. Hocking of Harvard talked on " The Bearing of the Sciences of Man on Liberal Religion , " Professor Rufus M. Jones of Haverford College dealt with the - topic " Do Science and History Indicate Human Progress ? " and Professor Sterling P. Lamprecht of Amherst College presented a , discourse on " Changes in Religious Belief Due to the Influence of Recent Science . " Dr. Langmuir said that his work was made possible by several new . experimental techniques recently developed by Dr. Katharine B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thin oil films on the surface of water solutions . Dr. Langmuir took his audience on a journey into a new world of only two dimensions , length and width , but no depth . This two-dimensional world consists of layers ! of single molecules of hydrocarbons , which include the oils , floating upon the surface of water . Even in this minute world of the infinitesimal , he said , it was found that matter manifested itself in its three , known states  --  gases , liquids and solids . The synthetic wall . of the living cell consists of a few drops of stearic acid dissolved in a nonvolatile hydrocarbon. such as the mineral oil petrolatum . A drop of ' this mixture is then placed on the surface of a solution which closely ' approximates sea water in acidity . and , alkalinity . The mixture forms a very thin surface film , one molecule in thickness . Effect of Adding Various Salts The additions of small amounts of calcium , magnesium , sodium and potassium salts in the water led to a startling observation , Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or on pure water or on water made alkaline , Dr. Langmuir stated , were definitely in the liquid j state . Much to his surprise , how- ' ever , he found that the addition of ' ' sodium and potassium salts turned the film into a gaseous state , where-as the addition of calcium and magnesium salts changed the film into the solid state . In independent researches biologists had found , Dr. Langmuir added , " that the permeability of ; the walls of living cells and many I other properties of these units of life are enormously affected by the ratio of the concentrations of calcium and sodium salts in the surrounding medium . " But it had not been known until ' now how these salts produced this effect on living cells . The new research shows that calcium and sodium have an antagonistic action on the properties of films . Since this action is very similar to the action of these same salts Ion the walls of living cells , the results are taken as strong evidence that the stearic acid-petrolatum film floating on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in character the wall of living cell . It is known that potassium , sodium , magnesium and calcium are important life-essential elements . The new research shows how these vital ingredients act in a manner to balance each other in producing a state of normal health , and why a disturbance in the ratio of their concentration produces serious illness and death . Too much sodium and potassium , Dr. Langmuir 's research indicates , will tend to solidify the walls of the living cells and thus decrease their normal permeability so that they could not receive the proper nourishment from their surrounding media . On the other hand , too much calcium and magnesium would tend to evaporate the protective wall of the cell into a gaseous state and thus place the cell in a defenseless state . Wide New Light Claimed " The study of these films throws light on many problems of biology , particularly those that characterize the walls of living cells , " Dr. Langmuir said . " We hope by following up this work we shall be able to establish some principles that will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated dependence of living cells upon the composition of the surrounding medium . " The theory relating to the nature of the heredity mechanism , described by Professor Jennings , has been presented recently by Dr. Dorothy Winch in the scientific publication Protoplasma . The present concept of the gene defines it as the unit of heredity upon which depend all the physical traits of an individual . Thes biological units are located in every living cell . The genes , according to the hitherto prevailing belief , are continned in rod-Shaped bodies within the cells known as chromosomes and serving only as " pods " in which the genes are the " peas . " According to Dr. Winch 's conception , however , Dr. Jennings stated , the chromosomes are the primary and unitary structures , while the genes are differentiations in the length of the filamentous chromosomes . " Warp and Woof " of Chromosome " According to this view , the chromosome is to be conceived as a structure constituted of two types of elements making a sort of warp and woof , " Dr. Jennings-continued . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bundles composed of ' identical sequences ' of protein molecules in parallel ' ; the woof is a set of ringli ! ; : e bloiecuirs surrounding the protein filaments and holding them together . " The longitudinal protein bun ' dies are held to consist of ' polypeptide molecules placed end to end with suitable linkages . ' " These molecules thus placed end to end are not identical , but are held to differ in a definite pattern , so as to form a linked chain of diverse molecules or ' side chains . ' These molecular diversities constitute the basis for the differentiations that give rise to the conception of genes . " According to this view of the matter , then , it is the chromosomes that are primary , the genes being but differentiated regions in them , which may be broken apart and recombined with the corresponding part of similar chromosomes from another individual . " This conception , if it finally prevails , will considerably alter the picture of the genes and their relations , and may serve as a guide to fruitful study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the genes are essentially separate units or only differentiations in the body of the chromosomes , they are structures which , when in appropriate combinations , give rise to living , conscious organisms ; and which , by the changes that occur in them , give origin to the infinite variety of the organic world and to the changes that we ' call organic evolution . "                     