@@697921

txt The Advertising Federation of America closed its annual convention at the Hotel Pennsylvania yesterday with a formal statement by its resolutions committee to the effect that business can not realize its full development except through the widest possible distribution among the creators of wealth of an equable share of the profits of production and the time economies effected by machines . The text of the convention statement was made public by 0 . C. Harn of Chicago , chairman of the resolutions committee . It was given out as representing the views of the convention , attended by nearly 3,000 management , sales and advertising executives from all over the United States , Canada and Europe . Convention 's Hand . The convention statement follows : The Advertising Federation of America concurs in the belief expressed by the outstanding speakers in this convention that a Vital factor in curing the present business depression is the education of business men in general to the relinquishment of obsolete ideas and acceptance of sound leaedrship . Without pretense of offering a specific cure-all for our business troubles , this federation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men of this country business has the logical force for accomplishment of the necessary educational program . Second , this federation subscribes to the principle that business can not realize its full development except through the widest possible distribution among the creators of wealth of an equable share of the profits of production and of the time economies made possible by the development of machinery . We hold this to be evident because no matter how great may be the advertising man 's ability to create desire , such desire can not become effective in producing business unless behind the want lies a financial ability to satisfy it . Third , this federation is convinced that there is enough buying power latent in those now gainfully employed to absorb a great deal more of the comforts , conveniences and even luxuries of life than are now being bought , and that only two things are needed to release this buying power : the establishment of confidence that employment will be maintained and the skillful use of advertising in arousing desire . Fourth , this federation urges the delegates and attendants at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual advertising of their respective firms and corporations along lines of frank . sincere and truthful educational effort to acquaint the members of their communities and the prospective consumers of their products with the economic necessity of resuming normal living and normal use of their present buying power . To this end , we call upon advertisers to rededicate themselves to the ideal long ago enunciated in the motto of this organization , " Truth in Advertising . " We summon those who furnish the media for the advertising message to strengthen their censorship . Advertising 's Role in Business . Fifth , we heartily commend the work which was done during the past year by the administration and our bureau of research and education to instill in the minds of American business men through the cooperation of the local clubs a better understanding of advertising and its functional part in business . We call upon the incoming administration and the boarddirectors to follow this initial work by by developing a similar educational program for the coming year whereby the forces of advertising may come to be intelligently utilized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hereinbefore outlined . We ask the board of directors to supplement this educational work by seeking the cooperation of the proper federation government departments and business organization to the end that wise steps may be determined upon for readjustment of business practices in harmony with the economic and social conditions now existing . To the ** outlirkd this Advertising Federation of America hereby pledges itself . Tributes to Strong and Le Quatte . Gilbert T. Hodges , of the executive board of The Sun , and president of the federation , presided at the closing session . " Within recent months we have lost two of our official family , our chairman , Walter A. Strong , publisher of The Chicago Daily News , and our executive vice president , Timothy Le Quatte , " he said . " They were both ardent workers and surporters for the cause of organized advertising and their true friendship and loyal service are going to be missed more than we can express . " I am going to ask Mr. Louis Wiley , business manager of THE IsTsw YORK TIMES , to express a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the members of the convention had been saddened by the death of Mr. Strong and had noted his absence at the advertisers ' convention , Mr. Wiley said : " Mr. Strong 's city and State , and friends throughout the nation , from the President of the United States to humble acquaintances , paid their tributes at the grave of this man who had lived a life so rich in service . We would be remiss , however , if , in this convention , we failed to place upon the records public acknowledgement of the debt of organized advertising to Walter A. Strong , and to testify to our sense of loss . " Coming into the control of a great newspaper , charged with carrying on the traditions of Melville E. Stone and Victor Lawson , Mr. Strong added to the foundation of The Chicago Daily News , builded to new heights . He leaves a silent monument in that noble building he erected and a living witness to his ideals of public service in a newspaper devoted to the public good , to the truth in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In his ? own words , he felt it the duty of a newspaper ' to recognize and accept a moral responsibility to all people . ' All humanity , which Walter Strong truly served in his ideals of journalism , may mourn his death . " At the request of Mr. Hodges , Samuel C. Dobbs , . of Atlanta , Ga. , former president of the Advertising Federation of America , paid a tribute to the memory of Mr. Le Quatte . Convention Hailed as Success . In his annual report . Mr. Hodges spoke of the gratifying progress made by the federation 's bureau of research , also of the work done by the councils on club management and women 's club management . He added that he felt the convention had been a notable success and that it had " contributed greatly to the knowledge and understanding of advertising , and at the same time to the prestige , reputation and good-will of the profession itself . " He added : " It will go a long way toward strengthening the confidence and credibility in advertising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who had contributed to the convention 's success , including Mayor Walker , who welcomed the delegates on Monday ; Grover Whalen , general manager of John Wanamaker , who served as chairman of the convention 's New York cooperating committee ; Charles E. Murphy , president of the Advertising Club of New York , and Miss Dorothy Crone , president of the League of . Advertising Women . Havana , Cuba , Columbia , Ohio , and Miami , Fla. , made bids for the twenty-eighth annual convention next year . Chicago and Milwaukee presented invitations to the federation to meet there in 1933. - Havana Invites Convention . Havana 's invitation was presented by Senor Bernardo Nunez , President . Machado 's representative on the Cuban National Tourist Commission . Senor Nunez read this letter from Tirso Mesa , Mayor of Havana : " As Bayor of the city of Havana , on behalf of this city and on behalf of the government of Cuba , I desire to extend through you an invitation to your federation to hold its next convention in the city of Havana . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Federal Government would consider it a high privilege to have the opportunity of being host to your great organization . I have discussed this matter with President Machado , who tells me that ' he would be only too happy to welcome the federation to Cuba , not alone because of the national and international stimulus to forward-looking thought that your conventtion brings but especially because of those indissoluble ties of friendship which bind the people of Cuba to the people of the United States . " Should you decide to come to Havana , this government will leave nothing undone , not alone in the provision of adequate facilities for the work of the convention but also in the preparation of a welcome and program of entertainment that will make all of your delegates feel that they have been among friends . " The directors will decide soon on the city of the next convention . Following adjournment of the convention the directors met and reelected these officers : President , Gilbert T. Hodges ; treasurer , Joseph H. Appel , and secretary , Robert L. Johnson , vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the board of directors to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Strong was deferred . Miss Jeannette Carroll of BryantStratton College , Providence ; R. I. , and president of the Federation of Women 's Advertising Clubs of the World , was re-elected chairman of the Council on Women 's Club Management . G. Lynn Sumner , president of the G. Lynn Sumner Company , Inc. , was re-elected chairman of the Council on Club Management , and George W. Kleiser , president of the Outdoor Advertising Association , was elected chairman of the Council on Departmental Activities . Miss Carroll , Mr. Sumner and Mr. Kleiser automatically become vice presidents of the advertising fec ; Iration.                     