@@701505

txt A sharp warning to Americans against engaging in transactions of any character either with Italy or Ethiopia , even though they may do so legally and at their own risk , was issued by Secretary . Hull in a statement today . With emphasis he said : " I repeat that our objective is to keep this country out of war . " While admitting that in the proclamations and the statement issued by President Roosevelt last weekend to assure us neutrality in the East African war there was no legal prohibition against traveling on Italian ships or trading with the belligerents other than in arms and munitions , Secretary Hull declared that the President 's warning " was not intended to encourage transactions with the belligerents . " See Support for Sanctions . Foreign diplomats were quick to read into the statement a move in support of the program of sanctions being considered by the League of Nations and a calculated effort to strengthen the League in its efforts . While it may be so interpreted abroad , any such significance was at once denied categorically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely dissociated from Geneva , that it was intended merely as a warning to Americans to observe the spirit and the letter of the law and of the President 's pronouncements . There was no question that the statement was prompted in part by objections voiced to the government 's policies by New York exporters , although their telegram of protest to President Roosevelt has not been referred to Mr. Hull . Mr. Hull may also have felt it desirable to offset any too encouraging an interpretation by business men of Secretary Roper 's observations at a press conference yesterday . The Commerce Secretary said that , while Americans must deal with the belligerents at their own risk , there nevertheless was no legal bar to such operations . Secretary Hull 's statement took the form of a reply to a question asked him by newspaper correspondents at a press conference as to whether he " would care to elaborate on what the President said about American Interest trading with belligerents at their own risk . " Secretary Hull replied : As I said to you gentlemen heretofore , the language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and every person should be able to grasp its meaning and its implications . Technically , of course , there is no legal prohibition ? apart from the proclamation governing the export of arms  --  against our people entering into transactions with the belligerents or either of them . The warning given by the President in his proclamation concerning travel on belligerent ships and his general warning that during the war any of our pecple who voluntarily engage in transactions of any character with either of the belligerents do so at their own risk were based upon the policy and purpose of keeping this country out of war  --  keeping it from being drawn into war . It certainly was not intended to encourage transactions with the belligerents . Our people might well realize that the universal state of business uncertainty and suspense on account of the war is seriously handicapping business between all countries and that the sooner the war is terminated the sooner . the restoration and stabilization of business in all parts of the world , which is infinitely more important than trade with the belligerents , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stable trade conditions and relationships among the nations is by far the most profitable objective for our people to visualize , in contrast with such risky and temporary trade as they might maintain with belligerent nations . I repeat that our objective is to keep this country out of war . In the same category with interpretations of Secretary Hull 's statement as intended to support the League of Nations was a report from Geneva today that Hugh S. Cumming Jr. , executive assistant to the Secretary of State , had been attached to the United States Consulate in Geneva to aid in a program of cooperation with the League . Honeymoon Trip Interrupted On the authority of Secretary Hull , the State Department explained that Mr. Cumming was in Europe on his honeymoon , had gone to Geneva , and had been induced to terminate his honeymoon trip and give his services at the Consulate because of the pressure of its duties . These include observing League activities , not only in regard to East Africa but , it was said , particularly in regard to economic policies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for some time . Mr. Cumming will remain In Geneva for an indefinite period but eventually will return to the State Department . It was said by the State Department that no special significance attached to his Geneva assignment . Secretary Hull again indicated today that the United States did not plan for the present to act on the suggestion of the foreign diplomatic corps in Addis Ababa and join with other nations in an appeal to Italy not to bombard the Ethiopian capital . The United States previously had taken action , he pointed out , by urging the Italian military to observe care not to damage American property and promises to exercise care have been received . Naval Stores Exports Rose . Evidently fitting into the picture of general war preparations abroad was a report of a sharp upturn in United States exports of naval stores in August , issued by the Commerce Department today . Resin shipments in August totaled 121,150 barrels ( of 500 pounds each ) , as compared with 79,150 barrels in August , 1934 , the value advancing from $643,200 to $992,250 . Exports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1,439,600 and the value from $560,875 to $659,900 . Europe was by far the biggest foreign sales area for the naval stores . About 76,700 barrels of resin and 1,119,394 gallons of turpentine were shipped to France during August , or 63 per cent of all resin and 78 per cent of the turpentine shipped from the United States during the month . The United Kingdom , Germany and the Netherlands were the next largest purchasers both of turpentine and resin , although considerable quantities were shipped to Bel , gium , Denmark , Norway , Sweden . Italy and others . ' Asia was the second largest market area , with Japan the largest purchaser , followed by the Nether ' lands East Indies .                     