@@699611

txt Responding to the improved conditions in the banking field , motor companies are swinging into production and before the close of this week a decided pick-up in activity will be shown by the industry . Ford Motor Co. already has begun to increase production at its main plants here , which had been curtailed during the banking holiday . and further advance in the schedule will be made during the week . Output at assembly branches had not been seriously affected by the bank holiday . The affect on the local plants is Indicated by reduction in employment from 42. - 000 just before the Governor 's proclamation to 32.000 and further to 27,000 when the holiday became national in scope . The Ford employment trend is now upward . G. M. Schedules Up Today Various plants of the General Motors Corp . go on increased production schedules today after curtailment due to the banking holiday . Plymouth and - DeSoto resumed operations on a five-day basis Wednesday with substantial number of unfilled orders on hand . The Chrysler division resumed on Tuesday with more orders than can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brothers reopened on Thursday . Dodge is introducing a two-door sedan in its six cylinder line . listing at 3630 . Shipments of display cars are going forward to dealers . Officials anticipate that this model will account for 35 ? c of their sax cylinder business The Hudson plant did not close during the holiday , employment holding at between 5.000 and 6,000 , with final assembly line on a threeday a week basis and other departments working four and five days a week . Recalling 1.400 Workers Graham-Paige is recalling 1.400 workers . The company will begin increasing activity early in the vi eek at the main plant and at the Wayne . Mich. , body plant . By the end of the week the entire additional force of 1,400 employes is scheduled to be at work . Packard resumed operations Wednesday with shipments back to the February level Total shipments last month were in excess of February last year . Operations of Reo Motor Car Co. were continued on a four-day basis in both passenger car and truck divisions during the banking holiday . Continental will begin recalling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both the Detroit and Muskegon plants . Expect Recovery to Above 1939 Pace Some of the leading sales executives in the industry are of the opinion that while the spring buying season is delayed by the banking troubles , retail sales shortly will gain sufficient momentum to exceed the 1932 pace and make up for the set-back from which the trade is now emerging . It is too early to gauge the extent to which sales generally suffered during the national bank holiday . but the report of Dodge Bros. that retail deliveries during the week ended March 11 dropped only firs below those of the preceding week is an encouraging indication . Scattered reports from Hudson dealers for the same week also indicates that sales were holding . Advertising and sales campaigns are in preparation to Lake advantage of the more receptive retail market . W. S. French . president of Brooke , Smith &; French . Inc , advertising agency , said that events of the last few days and reports received by companies he serves indicate a national buying wave . " We are about to release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , electric refrigerators , vacuum cleaners and radios , ? he stated . Other Detroit advertising agencies are expecting to slake important releases in the near future . " My expectation of an active spring business is not based on personal enthusiasm alone , " said K. T. Keller , president of Dodge Bros . Corp . " It is borne out and shared by hundreds of Dodge dealers who have been wiring statements from all parts of the country . These men are in closest possible touch with the market in their territories , and they are practically unanimous in expecting a steady and even increased business to come the moment the country 's financial machine begins to turn again . Sees Business Merely Deferred " As soon as funds are again released through the reopening of banks , the automobile business is more than likely to regain the business merely deferred by events . The market that absorbed the output of our plants as late as two weeks ago . is still there . It will function again , because motor cars and trucks are essential to the well-being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here at the factory is really not a lack of orders , but the temporary inability of dealers and customers to bring their financial resources into action . I do not believe this set-back will show as permanent loss when the activities of the year are counted , because the slow-dawn came at a moment when the industry and its outlets were preparing for the seasonal peak business , the time for which is still ahead of us . " Commodity Price Rice Helps " If reports and orders that I have been receiving from De Soto dealers for the past week are a true indication , there is real cause for optimism , " said Roy Peed , general sales manager of De Soto Corp " Yesterday our dealer in Evanston , Ill , sold 17 cars at retail . It was the biggest day this dealer had ever had , and this morning he telephoned us an order for 30 new cars . Our San Francisco dealer has just phoned in the biggest order he has placed in six months . " Upturn in commodity prices has directly reflected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Dakota , for instance , have brought its several record orders Lhis week from that territory Our dealers there report not only an upturn in sales , but a greatly stimulated interest by persons who apparently were n't in the ttisi ket for a new car a few weeks ago . Other towns in the northwest that have never hf , re placed orders for spring shipments this early in the year are wiring us to rush them cars . " Confidence is being restored , and the general public is fast realizing that money is worth only the good things that it will bring . " Mi 10 Tar . rr ALL : 14 J.LIC , ? L TOLEDO  --  Chevrolet Motors Ohio Co. plants , which makes transmissions , will resume operations today , with 1,500 men on the payroll . The plant has been closed for a week . Willys-Overland plant here will reopen Wednesday to make 6,900 trucks for the International Harvester Co.                     