@@701753

txt Development of a huge system of correlated and affiliated motor truck freight operations , to be coordinated with , paralleling and feeding its rail lines . is planned by the Pennsylvania Railroad . The freight system would be comparable with or even greater than that of the Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines in the passenger traffic field , the Interstate Commerce Commission has beer informed . Its development is contemplated through the purchase by Pennsylvania motor carrier subsidiaries of other trucking lines operating in the Pennsylvania 's territory and contiguous areas . Just what the Pennsylvania is prepared to invest in additional motor freight operations is not known but the Pennsylvania Transfer Co .. of Pittsburgh , one of its wholly owned motor carrier units , has Sled applications with the ICC for authority to acquire three other trucking companier at a cost of about $200,000 . According to these applications many additional ones of a similar character may be expected . Three Companles Desired The three companies Pennsylvania Transfer Co. would acquire are Chicago-Cincinnati Motor Freight Line . Alko Express Lines , and Barker Motor Freight Lines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ' Cirtannati and to Erie , Pa . Alko Express operates between Lancaster and Pittsburgh . Pa with various branch lines , and to Cumberland and Hagerstown . Md . The Barker Lines system extends on the North to Battle Creek and Lansing , Mich. , and on the South to Louisville , Ky . The lines serve such large cities as Detroit , Evansville , Terre Haute , Columbus . Toledo . Dayton . C:ncinnati and Portsmouth , Ohio , Pittsburgh , and Charleston . W. Va . In its application to ICC for authority to acquire Alko Express Lines , Pennsylvania Transfer Co. said : " This application is one of several of a similar character being filed by subsidiaries of the Pennsylvania Railroad Co for acquisition of certain trucic operations designed in the public interest to further the development of a system of correlated and affiliated truck operations , coordinated with , paralleling and feeding the rail lines of the Pennsylvania Railroad . In a measure this system is , as developed , and developing , comparable to that long since developed and accomplished by the Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and possibilities of truck coordination with , and utilization by , rail lines , are of course greater than with the bus . Study and actual experience have already demonstrated this . " More Efficient Service The application pointed out that the acquisitions will result in improved and more efficient service to the public , giving shippers alternative or coordinated service by truck or rail or by both depending on service desired , and at the same time will enable the Pennsylvania to effectuate greater efficiency in its existing truck-rail coordinated service . " In the development of such a truck toystern " , it v .. as stated , " the applicant as a factor therein will be enabled to coordinate its service with the Pennsylvania and thus enable it . the railroad , to effectuate greater efficiency in its existing truck-rail coordinated service , and also will enable it to be in a position to afford , in the public interest . to its patrons and the general shipping public , alternative or coordinated service by truck or by rail or by both , depending . as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the nature of the service involved , or on a determination of the more economical and efficient method of furnishing the transportation service required , or both " . Pointing out that such a system would in no way restrain competition , the application further stated : " Opportunity will be afforded under one general control , and specialized operating managements with adequate financial responsibility , to coordinate both agencies of transportation , and to use either or both purely according to the dictates and necessities of sound transportation economies , subject to the plenary jurisdiction , direction and control of the ICC , and divorced from other considerations customarily incident to rail and truck operations not under common control and correlated managements " . The Pennsylvania Railroad through the American Contract &; Trust Co. , now controls eight motor carriers , including Buffalo Storage &; Carting Co. , Merchants ' Trucking Co , the Willett Co. of Indiana , Inc. , Union Transfer Co. , I Pennsylvania Transfer Co. , Scott Bros , Inc ... Excelsior Express Co. and Peninsular Auto 8 . Express Co.     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       