@@702457

txt Strong indications that the Interstate Commerce Commissioh will give little consideration to expert opinion regarding traffic potentialities in dealing with railroad reorganizations were given yesterday as hearings were resumed in the Missouri Pacific recapitalization case . Commissioner Meyer . veteran of the commission and chairman of its powerful finance division , surprised participants in the case by expressing the view that data regarding traffic possibilities offer little aid in answering the fundamental questions of reorganization . Mr. Meyer 's observations carry especial significance in view of the fact that , as chairman of the finance division , he may be said to direct the commission 's thought on reorganization . His views with respect to traffic possibilities may cause a shift in the railroads ' manner of submitting evidence to support reorganization plans since traffic studies have been , in proceedings to date , one of the principal points . The commissioner , noted for his realistic views , interrupted a witness in International Great Northern traffic possibilities to inquire : " Are we going to reorganize railroads on this speculative basis ? Is it going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its value in answering the practical problems of railroad reorganization ? " In some quarters , the Commissioner 's remarks were taken to mean that the ICC desires revamping plans that will stand up under pressure of subnormal years , not proposals based on prosperity year traffic and revenue standards : He observed that there is now being produced " more than we can consume " and inquired if the witness had given thought as to where this predicted traffic would move and whether it would move by rail instead of by truck . " I am pretty new in this proceeding , " said the commissioner , " but I certainly would like to raise a question right here if we are going into this much more . Are we going to cover the United States with speculative studies of this type ? " Sees Market Forecasts Necessary He indicated that it was his belief traffic studies would be of little value , unless at the same time there could be forecast reliably the markets for the various products originated . He recalled that he had once observed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . The commissioner 's observations came during testimony by L. Alfred Jenny , New York consulting engineer , who had been employed by the New York Trust Co. , trustee under the IGN adjustment mortgage , to make a survey of that property and the Gulf Coast Lines . Mr. Jenny had testified that future traffic possibilities of IGN were good , iiarticularly with respect to oil acid agricultural products , the chief sources of revenue . The Pearsall oil field on its main line southwest of San Antonio bids fair to rival the East Texas field as a source of revenue for the road , Mr. Jenny said . With respect to other traffic possibilities , Mr. Jenny cited particularly the Medind irrigation project near Houston , which he said would greatly improve the land in that vicinity and produce many carloads of agricultural products . Commissioner Myer interrupted to ask whether the witness had " given consideration to where these carloads of commodities are going to be consumed . " Hearing May End Today The current Missouri Pacific hearing , the first held since last April , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' security holders are believed to offer the principal obstacle to a. compromise between the Stedman Committee . representing the several aeries of MOP first and refunding fives and the management . Representatives of these holders yesterday produced expert witnesses in an effort to prove the inequity of proposed treatment of Gulf Coast Lines and International Great Northern securities . The theme of their contention was that a true picture of these roads ' earnings has not been presented nor their value to the MOP accurately portrayed . Distorted earnings consequently resulted in distorted allocation of new securities in the proposed plan of reorganization , it was charged . Ballantine Is Witness at Hearing Col. N. B. Ballantine . transportation analyst , formerly with the Federal Coordinator of Transportation , in testifying , told the commis .. aion that Gulf Coast Lines during the three years 1932-34 , inclusive , was overcharged V35 , - 000 a year for car hire . He produced a number of exhibits analyzing the movement of loaded and empty cars on the system lines in an endeavor to show that earnings portrayed by Missouri Pacific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Scruggs , representing the Savings Bank &; Trust Co .. offered sharp criticism of the methods used by Missouri Pacific in apportioning general and traffic expenses and superintendence as between the parent road and the G. C. L. and Rio Grande Northern .                     