@@702240

txt Retail sales in department stores during the holiday season already begun probably will exceed $920,000,000 , only 10 per cent less than in 1929 , Secretary Roper predicted today , after studying reports from thirtyone of the largest cities . He forecast generally improved interchanges between the United States and foreign countries , and stated that President Roosevelt 's visit to South America was " a practical demonstration " of his good neighbor policy . Commerce Department foreign trade experts , he added , are studying trade agreements with the idea of expansion of the reciprocal trade program . " We are thinking in broad terms of the world as a whole ; we are getting under way in the worldwide movement , " he said . But in his optimism of the future he took time to sound a warning to American business to hold expansion " within legitimate lines , " to prevent a recurrence of the stock market debacle of 1929 . He said that industry should take 1929 as a lesson in preventing possible future abuses , adding that " we feel regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we can bring about a recession through too rapid advances . We want business and not speculation to govern . " New York Outlook Cited The trend , he believed , was toward the fundamental principles I sought under the NRA , and he explained that " we are hopeful that business , industry , labor and consumers can work out plans cooperatively to carry out these principles . " Reports from the department 's trade experts in the various cities were so similar that the following report of expected conditions in New York is typical : " Aggregate Christmas business in New York from all present indications will exceed last year by approximately 15 per cent and will top that of every year since 1929 . Local department stores have made unusually elaborate plans for servicing and merchandising . Budgets are on a basis of a 10 to 20 per cent increase over last year , with the majority of executives feeling that results will be close to the latter figure . " There are two more shopping days prior to Christmas in the holiday week than there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher . ? The greater feeling of security that prevails throughout the city this year and the indications that salary boosts as well as wage increases are on the way has had a wholesome effect on the movement of goods . " Roper Sees Heavy Sales Mr. Roper issued the following statement on the retail situation : " I have been interested in looking over studies that have been made within the Department of Com- merce on this year 's Christmas buying through retail channels . Reports from all sections of the country indicate that this business is showing marked advances over 1985 and that sales during the Christmas season will be greater generally than for any like period since 1929 and , for some lines of trade , are expected to equal the 1929 figure . " The Division . of Marketing Research , Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce , recently has estimated that sales made during the holiday buying season , that is , those made during the months of November and December , will be within 10 per cent of the 1929 total . " Estimates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas shopping , show that holiday sales in these establishments amounted to more than $800 , - 000,000 in 1935 , or about 25 per cent of their sales for the entire year 1935 revealed in recent studies by the census of business . This compares with a Christmas volume of more than $1,000,000,000 in 1929 . " With a conservative estimate of an approximate 15 per cent increase in Christmas purchasing through department stores this year as compared with 1935 , the holiday sales volume of these stores alone should exceed $920,000,000 in 1936 . With apparel shops , fur shops , jewelry and furniture stores showing marked increases over last year 's business , Christmas shopping generally may come even closer to the 1929 level . "                     