@@697740

txt CENTRAL PARK PLANS . Conference of All Opinions MA Bring Solution of Problem . ' , To the Editor of The New York Vows : I read with much . care Mr. Faits child 's letter in Tim Taos with rd. erence to the plan for the propoee4 improvement of the space formerly occupied by the south reservoir in Central Park , but gained very little light therefrom as to how the problem had best be handled . In the conversion of this reservoil space in the park , the city has presented to it an unequaled opportunity to do a fine piece of work and an opportunity that will never come again . In view of the large cost of the improvement , the unique opportunity presented , the many important interests involved and the fact that whatever is done now can probably never be altered , it is of paramount importance that this problem should be correctly solved balers any work is undertaken . I have carefully considered Mr. Fairchild 's views as given in his letter of April 23 , 1930 ; have read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over that part of the park involved ; have studied the so-called Miller plan and the plan prepared by the American Society of Landscape Architects . I should be entirely satisfied with the latter plan , which is artistic , logio cal and carefully thought out , if it took into consideration the two museums and made adequate provision for reaching them by automobile , which is the only way a great part of their attendance will ever reach them , especially on reception nights when great crowds visit the buildings by automobile . Visitors from , , the east side would find the Museum of Natural History practically inaccessible and visitors from the west side who desire to visit the Metropolitan Museum of Art would find theme selves in a similar predicament as to the latter institution . At present the difficulty is not felt to an extent to result in voicing any serious opposition to the plans , but when the west front of the art mu . seum and the Roosevelt Memorial are completed , unless provision has been made to meet this situation , the complaint will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too late to meet it . I am a believer in the doctrine that nothing is settled until it is settled right , and with this serious question ignored it is quite evident that this problem has not been settled right . Now is the time to settle it , before the authorities have become committed to any one plan and before any money has been spent in carrying any plan into effect . Despite the great differences of opinion that seem to prevail , I have no doubt that if all parties interested in the project could be got together in a general conference their differences could be ironed out and a plan agreed on which would give general satisfaction and not leave a difficult problem unsettled to vex us for all time hereafter . WILLIAM W. NILES , Chairman , Taconic State Park Commission . New York , March 27 , 1931.                     