@@699229

txt The French constructive plan of disarmament was today adopted by the preparatory committee of the Supreme Council of National Defense . This is undertood to mean that the Government 's hopes of being able to present it complete at the bureau of the Disarmament Conference on Nov. 3 will be fulfilled . A statement issued today at the end of long discussions between French political and military chiefs declared that " the project of M. Joseph Paul-Boncour was adopted as a whole . " The decision of this preparatory committee  --  which is presided over by M. Edouard Herriot , Prime Minister , and consists of the Ministers of War . Marine and Air with Marshal Main and General Weygand , chiefs of French General Staff , present as technical advisers  --  is considered final and it is anticipated that the defense council itself now has no alternative but to give its formal consent . It is expected to do this Friday morning and the project will then be submitted to Ps esident Lebrun and the Cabinet immediately for the official seal of approval . Details of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance of the Hoover arms plan and granting of armament equality " in principle " to the Reich with various security pacts , are being kept secret . Its is stated unofficially that military implications of the plan involve reorganization of the army on a more strictly defensive basis . Important debate on the whole question of foreign policy of the Herriot Government is scheduled to receive first attention in the French Chamber of Deppties which convenes today . It is probable the question of war debts to the United Stales* and Britain will be raised early in the discussions , which are expected to last several days . British and Americans Reach General Accord ' On Armament Policies Sy Cable from ' Monitor Bureau LONDON , Oct. ** far as Britain and the United States are concerned , there is now practical agreement as to the main lines of the policy to be pursued at the Disarmament Conference . Such is the result already attained , the Monitor is informed , in conversations in progress here.between Mr. Norman H. Davis , American arms delegate ; Mr. Ramsay . British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? It now remains to try to work out details . These , however , sic held to depend more on what other powers are prepared to do than on Britain and the United States . It is emphasized that any further naval cuts must be contingent on similar cuts in the land and air armaments of continental powers . While excessive optimism is depredated , it is the considered opinion of those in closest personal touch with the negotiations that prospects of a four-power agreement by the United States , Britain , France and Italy are better today than they have ever been . Mr. . Davis 's talks have been directed to this end in London .                     