@@698787

txt A series of conferences attended by Masons from all over the United States is under way here prior to the dedication , May 12 , of the George Washington Memorial at Alexandria , Va . At the annual meeting of the Masonic Service Association attention was called to the relief work done during the Japanese earthquake of 1923 , the Florida hurritiane of 1928 , the Mississippi tiodd of 1927 , and the Porto Rico and ' Florida . storms of 1028 . This association 13 the outeoiite a .. confeience of Grant Mesteim , rneW ing at Cedar Rapids , roviri , , ; : in. 1918 , to consider the participation in World War relief work . The project was left open for further discussion at a meeting called for Nov : 29. 1919 . Meanwhile , the war ended . However , the idea that an organization of Grand ' Lodges should be effected for Masonic relief and educational work was continued , the plan adopted in 1919 at Cedar Rapids , and Washington was chosen as the permanent headquarters for the association . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the publication of pamphlets dealing u ith subjects under the following heads . Digest of the Employment Ser% ice . the Masonic Tree ; information from the President 's Organization for Unemployment ; informationregarding the coming memorial dedication ; a model report of a bui eau of personnel and service : Digest of Ancient Landmarks ; the preparation of and distribution to Grand Masters of " Washington 's Home and Fraternal Life . " The major portion of the meeting was taken up with the leading of reports and the executive committee was reelected for the ensuing year as follows : Mr. George R. Sturges , Connecticut , chairman ; Mr. W. Holt Apgar , Now Jersey ; Mr. W. Madden Fly , Texas ; Mr. George T Harmon , South Carolina ; Mr. Walter H Murfln , North Dakota ; Mr. William L. Valliant , Delaware , and Mr. Allan M. Wilson , New Hampshire . Other bodies already in session include the Grand Lodge of Texas , annual conclave of the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar of the District of Columbia , annual conference of grand secretaries of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its way to the George Washington Memorial on Shooter 's Hill , Alexandria . Alexandria , where the temple stands . is old . As far back as 1644 the idea of settling upon the upper tidewater section of Virginia had been considered , but Indian forces were always too strong for the English colonists first landing in Virginia during 1607 . However , between 1644 and 1674 , Col. John Washington , great - grandfather of George Washington , and the founder of the family in America , was placed in command of the Provincial forces and conducted such a successful campaign against the Indians that in a few months they were driven beyond the Blue Ridge Mountains . Receive Grant of Land About 1674 Col. Nicholas Spencer and Colonel Washington received , from Lord Culpepper a grant of .6000 acres of land , situated along the Potomac River between Dogue and Little Hunting Cfeeks , In 1743 , Augustine Washington , the father of George Washington , passed on , leaving his share of this property to his son , Lawrence . Mount Vernon became the name of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughter of William Fairfax , and in 1748 he secured the necessary legislation to organize a town in the County of Fairfax and named it Alexandria . The following year a municipal government was effected . Over this city the Memorial Temple looms . There , before its pyre , midal beacon stands the Christ Church where Washington worshipped ; Gadsby 's Tavern , occupied by Washington when equipping troops for Braddock 's campaign in 1775 , and where was held the first celebration of the adoption of the Federal Constitution ; the Carlisle House , where General Braddock planned his campaign against the French and where Washington was made a major upon the General 's staff , and Alexandria Academy , where Washington was a trustee , and where the corner stone of the building was laid by Lodge No. 39 of Alexandria . And farther away , but easily within view , the beaconed Memorial gazes toward Arlington , the home of George Washington Parke Custis ,                     