@@702410

txt With his main budget bill still pending , Governor Lehman today sent a special message to the Legislature , urging that a $60,000,000 issue of serial longterm bonds be authorized , the proceeds to be used for permanent public improvements at the State 's hospitals for the insane , at penal , charitable and educational institutions of the State , and for highways , parkways and some other purposes . Bills to carry out the Governor 's recommendations were introduced by Senator Twomey of Kings , chairman of the Finance Committee , and Assemblyman Alterman of New York , ranking Democratic member of the Ways and Means Committee . Upon a favorable vote in the Legislature , the Governor 's proposal , under a recommendation made in his message , would be submitted to the voters for ratification at the general election this year . " It is my earnest hope , " the Governor said in his message , " that your honorable bodies will approve my recommendation . If , however , for any reason you are not prepared to accept my recommendation , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further bond issue for relief . Warns of Taxation Burdens " I repeat here without qualification , as I have done on other occasions , that in my opinion it will not be possible to finance all capital construction outlays as well 1. s State unemployment relief expenditures during the next year out of the general fund . To do so would place a well-nigh insupportable burden on the taxpayers of the State . " While the Democrats will support the Governor 's proposal doubtless to a man , not all of the Republicans will approve it . Some Republican members concerned closely with the fiscal affairs of the State are leploring the increase : in the State 's , bonded indebtedness . Assemblyman Moffat , chairman of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee , stated after the Governor 's message had been received that by the time of its maturity the $60,000,000 bond issue would have cost the taxpayers of the State not less than $110,000,000 in interest and redemption charges . Many of the Republicans expressed themselves today as in favor of a pay-as-you-go policy even where permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is not general by any means among members of the Republican majority in the Assembly . Mr. Moffat said that the $60,000 , - 000 bond proposal Would come up Despite the large expenditures made in recent years for improvements at State institutions , including the spending for that purpose over a period of ten years of a $100,000,000 bond issue , authorized while Alfred E. Smith was Governor , the State , Mr. Lehman said , was behind in responding to " new and reasonable " demands for construction and permanent improvements . With the moneys obtained from the previous bond issue all gone , the Governor stressed the fact that the State within a comparatively short period would be required to vacate its hospital for the insane on Ward 's Island , making it necessary to establish a new hospital to care for its 3,500 patients . The Governor also stated that , entirely aside from this , there had been a general increase of some 3,000 patients in the State 's hospitals for the mentally afflicted , which would call for an additional hospital for their accommodation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's penal institutions , also , the Governor said , was increasing at the rate of 1,000 a year , rendering essential additional capital outlays to meet that situation . Provision had to be made also for the care of crippled children and of sufferers from cancer , and in the facilities to care for delinquent boys , he added . In these fields , the Governor said , the State has no more than " scratched the surface " in providing facilities . A feature of the Governor 's message was a recommendation for more office space for the administrative State departments at the Capitol , to be solved , in all probability , only by the construction of a new office building to accommodate the overflow from the thirtyfour-story office building which has been in use less than ten years . Mr. Lehman 's proposal for a new capital construction and improvement bond issue dashed the hopes of many of those who have been advocating submission this year to the voters of a $100,000,000 bond issue to enable the State to advance money to municipalities for slum clearance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bond issue proposal can be placed before the voters for ratification at any general election . There is little doubt here but that the " Governor 's " bond issue will have the right of way . A measure authorizing the creation of a $100,000,000 State housing debt , sponsored by Assemblyman Moffat , has been pending since Jan. 13 . Debt Payments Held at Peak Now Some fiscal leaders on Capitol Hill questioned the statement by Governor Lehman that his proposal would not add to the funded debt of the State , owing to large-scale retirement of outstanding State securities during the next few years . The Governor said that . the debt service item in annual budgets was at its peak now with the expenditure of $55,000,000 for that purpose during the next fiscal year . By the end of 1948 , he said , it would have been reduced to $24,500,000 . " Bearing in mind that during the forthcoming fis " n1 year we shall                     