@@703930

txt In a decision believed by many transit experts to enhance greatly the possibility of the city 's acquiring the Interborough Rapid Transit Company and Manhattan Railway Company lines for municipal operation , the United States Circuit Court of Appeals ruled yesterday for drastic modification of the District Court decision permitting the I. R. T. to rid itself of its obligation to operate the Manhattan Railway elevated lines . The decision hinged upon interpretation of the series of intricate agreements between the I. R. T. and the city for the operation of the subway-elevated lines . The higher court decided that while the lower court had correctly interpreted the agreement by which the I. R. T. was obliged to give service over the extensions that connect the-I . R. T. subway lines with the I. R. T.-operated Manhattan Railway elevated lines , it erred in not giving proper effect to another joint operating agreement . This agreement , according to the higher court , requires the I. R. T. to give service over the elevated express tracks and over local tracks as well . The twenty-one-page decision of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with transit in this city , was generally regarded as a victory for the city . When Mayor La Guardia was informed of yesterday 's ruling he said : " Gee whiz ! The city is entitled to a break from a court once in a while . " Five-Cent Fare " Upheld In the decision the Circuit Court upheld the contention of the city that the I. R. T. must run trains at a five-cent fare over both the subway and elevated lines with free transfers between each . It rejected the I.R.T. contention that the Federal receiver of a railroad may get rid of any obligation , even one to give transportation to a municipality , simply because the company can make no money by performing this obligation . After the decision was announced , persons conversant with the legal phases of New York City transit expressed the view that the Circuit Court ruling would preserve the five-cent ride on the I.R.T.-Manhattan Railway lines if the city should fail in its present efforts to buy the lines for city operation . It was feared in some circles that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmodified , would have enabled the I.R.T.-Manhattan Railway interests to obtain a double fare for a subway-elevated ride . It was also feared by city transit authorities that the lower court decision , if allowed to remain without modification , would have permitted the Manhattgm interests to charge a ten-cent fare for a ride over its lines .. The Manhattan interests have frequently announced their intention to do this if possible . After studying the decision closely , closely associated with transit pointed out that the decree weakened the bargaining position ) f the I. R. T. in unification negodations with the city by imposing wavy operating costs on the I. R. C. in connection with the financialy onerous 999-year lease by which t operates the Manhattan elevated fines . Facing heavy losses in its operating net , the I. R. T. will be more ready to sell its holdings on terms advantageous to the city , it was held . The city is already completing negotiations for the purchase of the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corporation holdings for operation by the city in connection with the city-owned Independent Subway System and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be acquired . Experts who offered interpretations of yesterday 's decision pointed out that the Manhattan Railway interests are balked in their attempts to obtain much needed revenues . Experts adduced , therefore , that the city would have less difficulty in obtaining these lines together with the I. R. T. lines . What was generally regarded as one of the most important parts of the decision , however , was the ruling of the higher court that the city must be consulted about any financial arrangement by which the Manhattan Railway interests let the I. R. T. use the elevated lines to perform the obligations which the Circuit Court has ruled the I. R. T. must perform for the city . of the Board of Transportation . Mr. Mulligan was assisted by James T. Ellis , John D. Hill and Miss Jeanne de Luca , city transit experts attached to the Law Department . Seabury Hails Ruling Commenting on the Circuit Court decision , Samuel Seabury , who acted as special counsel for the city in previous transit unification negotiations , said : " This great decision determines the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it except the City of New York and its people . It insures the continuance of joint subway-elevated service at a single five-cent fare even if transit unification should not be accomplished . The court 's opinion establishes the important principle , long contended for by the city 's representatives , that demolition of the Sixth Avenue elevated railroad in no way jeopardizes the five-cent fare . " It further establishes the paramount right of the public interest not to have the city 's contractual relationships with the transit companies disturbed without so much as saying to the city by your leave . ' " The city of New York and its Corporation Counsel are entitled to congratulation upon the result achieved . In a very special sense the credit for the ' achievement is due to the masterly manner in which Mr. Mulligan conducted the litigation that resulted in the opinion just rendered . " ' After the Circuit Court decision was announced , persons associated with the city 's transit plans gathered with Mayor La Guardia at City Hall to discuss the implications of the court ruling . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; William G. Fullen , chairman of the Transit Commission ; Transit Commissioner M. Maldwin Fertig , Newbold Morris , president of the City Council , Mr. Mulligan and others . There was a general atmosphere of jubilation . Sees Commission Upheld After the conference Mr. Fullen said , " I have n't read the opinion yet , but if it holds as I am informed it is a complete confirmation of the position of the Transit Commission in respect to the obligations of both companies under the contracts and franchises . " Charles Franklin , general counsel for the Manhattan Railway Company , issued a statement in which he said in part : " The decision definitely determines that the I. R. T. must continue to give the people the same service it has given in the past over the Manhatta : . Railway lines . It is now up to the I. R. T. to make arrangements with the Manhattan ' . o provide through service over the Manhattan lines . If a satisfactory agreement can not be made between the city , the Manhattan and the I. R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the I. R. T. must continue to carry out all obligations for payment of Manhattan Railway bond interest , taxes , etc . " At the offices of Miller , Owen , Otis &; Bailly , 15 Broad Street , it was said that Carl M. Owen " counsel for the I. R. T. receiver , was not available for comment . Mr. Owen headed the staff of attorneys who presented the I. R. T. case in the Federal Court . Outline of Instructions In outlining the general nature of the instructions that should be given by Thomas E. Murray , the I. R. T. receiver , yesterday 's decision states : " He must continue to keep possession of all tracks which are authorized under the ' Third Track Certificate , ' and he must exploit them sufficiently to protect the certificate against forfeiture for nonfeasance . He must operate through trains over the ' Extensions ' and joint tracks , and this will almost certainly make it desirable to continue them over the third tracks as well . ( We do not at present decide whether if it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such through service . ) " He must accept northbound passengers free upon the West Farms extension , ' whatever their destination ( except so far as by agreement transfers are substituted ) . As possessor of the Manhattan third track on Third Avenue , he must similarly accept southbound passengers free . He will reject the Manhattan lease if he is able to perform the foregoing obligations to the city by any other means than affirmance of it ; but if after negotiations with the Manhattan and with the city no other means-is possible than affirmance of the lease , he must affirm the lease . The order ( of the United States District Court ) is modified in accordance with the foregoing . " The decision was written by Federal Judge Learned Hand , presiding judge of the Circuit Court . Judges Harris B. Chase and Thomas W. Swan concurred . On June 16 last United States District Court Judge Robert Patterson handed down the decision modified by yesterday 's ruling of the higher court . The case in the district court was prepared and presented by William G. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Transit Division of the Law Department and now associate counsel                     