@@702693

txt The Spanish Situation ROME  --  Premier Mussolini promised in an article that the Spanish vlar would be the grave of bolshevism and Italy would reap a considerable part of the glory for this achievement . Page 1 .. LONDON ? An easing of tension was seen , but there was still anxiety . The plan of the British and the French to plug the patrol gap with their own ships , . possibly carrying observers , will be put before the international committee Tuesday . Page 24 . BERLIN  --  Germany , though grateful for conciliatory speeches by British leaders , was still chagrined over the handling of the Leipzig incident . Follows the above story . Page 24 . THE FRONT  --  Heavy attacks were made by the Insurgents south of Madrid , but the Loyalists reported they were repulsed . The Rebels made further advances west of Bilbao . Page 25 . Mussolini Tells Purposes By ARNALDO CORTESI Wireless to THE NEW Yens TIMES . ROME , June ** any Italians still wondered whether Italy intended to see through the - Franco venture in Spain to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were laid entirely at rest by the Popolo d'Italia this morning . An unsigned article that bore the unmistakable Mussolini imprint promised that the Spanish civil war would be bolshevism 's grave and that Italy would reap a considerable part of the glory for this achievement . Translated into plain language , this means that Premier Benito Mussolini will not abandon the fight until General Francisco Franco has triumphed and that he will send as much material and aid to Spain as is necessary to bring about his ends . After the Guadalajara campaign and the bombing of German and Italian ships very few persons were left in uncertainty about Mussolini 's true intentions . It was felt immediately that he could no longer withdraw , as he had half agreed to do in January in response to the urging of CoI . Gen. Hermann Goering of Germany , without giving the appearance that he was not getting out . of Spain but was being thrown out . Retreat Unthinkable Now for the first time , however , Mussolini has definitely and  --  publicly committed himself to see General Franco through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his proud and masterful temperament will make him go on until his objects are attained . In the Ethiopian war a series of circumstances over not all of which Mussolini had any control gradually drove him so deeply into the African venture that the moment came when he could not have withdrawn , even if he had wished to . History seems to be repeating itself in Spain , for there also Mussolini has placed himself in a position in which the only road he can follow leads straight ahead . And as in Ethiopia , so in Spain his decision to go straight ahead brings him into direct conflict with Great Britain and France . Italians have a hunch  --  perhaps it is no more than a hope  --  that history will repeat itself also in another respect and that the end of the Spanish civil war will come as swiftly and unexpectedly as the end of the Ethiopian campaign . They recall that after the appointment of Marshal Pietro Badoglio in November , 1935 , to the chief command in East Africa , almostthree months followed before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance . Italians believe that the three months of almost complete inaction on the main front around Madrid since the Guadalajara campaign have been used to make extensive preparations for a formidable offensive whose effects perhaps will not be long in revealing themselves . Most Italians think , however , that the main offensive is not yet imminent . They believe it will be found advisable first to clean up the situation on the northern front , which may take considerable time in view of the length of the strip of territory along the Bay of Biscay that remains to be conquered and the mountainous nature of the terrain . When that area is conquered , it will almost certainly be necessary to give the Italian troops a rest , for they have been fighting almost continuously since Ferbruary , first at Malaga , then in Guadalajara and then for the past two or three months in the Basque country . A month or two , or perhaps more , may go by before the big offensive is launched , unless , indeed , General Franco 's forces have been sufficiently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now engaged in the north . What is most exercising Italians ' minds at present , however , is what is to be done about the British and French proposal to appoint some other nation or nations to replace Italy and Germany in the naval patrol off Spain . The British Ambassador , Sir Eric Drummond , called on Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano today , and it is reasonable to suppose the latter told him in no uncertain terms that Italy intended to fight that proposal tooth and nail . The matter will be decided , however , . not in Rome and Berlin but in London , and a battle royal can already be foreseen at the next meeting of the Non-Intervention Committee .                     