@@700106

txt One of the most interesting cases that has arisen concerning English railway rates under the act of 1921 ( the act which correoponds In its scope to our Transportation Act of 1920 ) is that which has come to be known as the " Robinson case . " This was decided by the Railway Rates Tribunal in November , ' 1932 , and by the Court of Appeal at the end of May , 1931 . It may yet go to the House of Lords . The facts were.these : Robinson lie Co. ( a subsidiary of the " Unilever " combination ) were large millers and feed manufacturers at Avonmouth , near Bristol , and their traffic averaged a minimum of over 30,000 tons of feed per annum , more than one-third of which they shipped in their own trucks by highway . They approached the Great Western Railway in 1931 , offering to transport all their tonnage by rail over an - area comprising some 320 stations on that line , and guaranteeing a minimum yearly movement , if the railway would make a " flat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haggling the railway made a rate of ' is 2d per ton for all movement within the specified area , and after December , 1931 , this rate applied from Avonmouth to the " group " of 320 stations  --  although application to the Rates Tribunal was not made until September , 1932 , and was not " heard " until October in that year . Why Application Was Denied The Tribunal denied the application on the ground , first , that rates of this character did not fall within the Category of " exceptional " rates contemplated in the Act of 1921 , and , secondly , that the record did not show that the railway company would be any better off in revenue if the application were granted ? as is required when a railway seeks to make an " exceptional " rate outside the limits fixed by the act , i. e. , between 5 and 40 per cent . under the " standard " rate . The Tribunal 's decision was thus based essentially on legal grounds . The case could only ho- ? reviewed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : J. Slesser , and Eve , J. concurring ) sustained the Rates Tribunal on both points and further pointed out that the " flat " rate - in question besides being illegal in form would unduly prefer the Robinson Co. as against other traders - who had no " road traffic " to surrender as consideration for a . dmilar rate . He also severely criticized the railway company for establishing- the rate without having been authorized by the Rates Tribunal to do so . Lord Justice Slesser pronounced the railway in contempt of the Tribunal , the Court and the statute . It will be observed that the question of " undue preference " was not important in the decision which turned entirely on the " form " of the rate . Apparently the defect in that form will be cured by the new Road and Rail bill , to which this writer recently directed attention . Rates Tribunal Final Judge That bill in authorizing a railway to make an " agreed " rate with a shipper , subject to approval by , the Rates Tribunal , removes all the restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed " rate , however , the Tribunal must satisfy itself that the object to he gained can not be reached by " exceptional " rates such as are permitted in the Act of 1921 . And an " agreed " charge that is shown by another shipper to be unduly prejudicial to him may be denied , or , if it is approved , such shipper shall have the right to a rate which will in the opinion of the Rates Tribunal remover the prejudice . The railway company whose " agreed " charge is thus approved is exempt from the provisions of previous acts requiring equal charges to all " in like circumstances " and forbidding undue preference . Lawyers will observe that this makes the Rates Tribunal the final judge as to the principal provisions of sections 2 and 3 of our Transportation Act . This writer has felt it desirable to ernphiitsize ( in what he fears may be somewhat tiresome detail ) the great flexibility that has been and will be introduced into railway rate-making in Great Britain , because the necessity for some such reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As our rate structure stands today it is ludicrously maladapted to modern conditions of transportation in the ' United States , and the maladantation has not been in the least degree mitigated by the manner and spirit in which the structure as it stands has been in practice construed and regulated . We need a change in the spirit of regulation . Unfortunately the prospects are none too rely for either !                     