@@701873

txt Even though word was received here this evening that Emperor Haile Selassie was fleeing from Ethiopia , usually well-informed quarters continued to say the Italian occupation of Addis Ababa was unlikely to occur for another week or more . Most persons here certainly will be disappointed , however , if Monday passes without their reading in an official war buatin that Marshal Pietro Badoglio has made his triumphal entry into the Ethiopian capital . From a military viewpoint it is a matter of no consequence whether Addis Ababa falls at the beginning or the end of next week . The Ethiopians are held to be in no position to put up further effective resistance . The occupation of their capital is therefore of far more symbolical than material importance . From a political viewpoint , however , the entry of Italian troops into Addis Ababa will be an event of great significance . Its European repercussions may be far-reaching and full of dangerous possibilities . Annexation Is Nearer It can not be doubted that the Italian Government 's intention is that Marshal Badoglio shall , either immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , proclaim the annexation of Ethiopia to Italy in the name of King Victor Emmanuel . This , according to the Italian way of thinking , will officially mark the end of th , African campaign as such and will reduce whatever fighting may occur later to the status of suppression of brigandage . It will at the same time present to the world at large , to the League of Nations and particularly to Great Britain an accomplished fact of dimensions that will be impossible for European diplomats to ignore . Whether the well-informed circles quoted are right in believing the occupation of Addis Ababa will not occur for a week or whether the man in the street is right in believing it will occur Monday , it may be taken as certain that the Ethiopian capital will be in Italian hands before May 11 , when the League Council is to meet In Geneva . The League , therefore , will face the necessity of making a supreme decision . Three courses are open to it , in Italian opinion . It may decide to recognize an accomplished fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coerce Italy , lift its sanctions . It may decide to keep its sanctions in force until Italy bows to its authority and agrees to negotiate a settlement of the East African problem in the spirit and within the framework of the covenant . Or finally it may approve Some drastic measures to bring Italy to terms , such as closing the Suez Canal . Most persons in Italy think , the League will come to the conclusion that there is nothing further to be done to save Ethiopia and will , by abolishing sanctions , tacity admit . that coercive measures have failed . Several factors contribute to this conviction . In the first place , Emperor Haile Selassie 's flight to Jibuti , French Somaliland , indicates he realizes the game is up . Moreover , if Italian newspapers may be believed , sentiment against sanctions is growing very powerful among the Conservative majority in the British House of Commons . France , in addition , seems more determined than ever , it is held here , to oppose any stiffening of sanctions . Finally , the European situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not seen how the powers can continue to keep Italy in Coventry like a naughty schoolboy who has made himself unpopular with his fellows . The only blow to Italian complacency is the attitude of the British Government and particularly of Anthony Eden , its Foreign Secretary . It is evident that if Premier Benito Mussolini is allowed to get away with Ethiopia , British prestige will have suffered a severe blow . The Italians think it is too much to expect that Britain will passively swallow such a bitter pill as the annexation of Ethiopia by Italy , emphasizing the success with which Mussolini has twisted the British Lion 's tail . On the other hand it seems that there is nothing Britain will be able to do about it unless she is willing to face the risk of a European war , which at present she does not seem prepared to do . Graziani Still at Halt Today 's official war bulletin indicates that General Rodolfo Graziani has not yet begun his dash toward Harar . He is said to be concentrating his troops in conquered poIsitions preparatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visiting the Italian headquarters from the whole upper Ogaden region to submit and offer to enlist themselves and their warriors on the side of the Italians . On the northern front the march of Italian columns toward Addis Ababa continues steadily . No mention is made in the war bulletin of the positions reached , but from unofficial sources it is learned that the motorized column has occupied Debra Brehan and Licce , both former capitals of Ethiopia , and has proceeded far beyond those towns . The importance of the occupation of Debra Brehan and Licce lies in the fact that this means the Italians have overcome the most difficult part of the route between Dessye and Addis Ababa  --  the steep climb between Korogassa and Termader Pass . The road here rises in an imposing series of hairpin bends from 5,300 feet above sea level to almost 11,000 feet , then dips down to about 8,000 feet and then runs almost level along the Shoan high plateau . It was along this particular stretch that the Ethiopians were understood to have made an effort to destroy the road , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their rear means that they are on the Shoan high plateau , with the rest of their advance expected to be comparatively plain sailing . From unofficial sources it is also learned that the main motorized column and the native column , advancing along the direct route from Warra Hai11.1 to Addis Ababa , have joined at Angolala . It may be presumed , therefore , that they control all the intervening territory and have thus eliminated any possible danger of falling into an ambush.                     