@@702969

txt For mal announcement was made today that Great Britain and the United States had agreed to negotiate an unconditional most-favored nation reciprocal trade agreement covering the United Kingdom and this country . It was followed tonight by an announcement that a new reciprocal trade agreement would be negotiated with Canada . This will be of a restricted character and supplement the existing agreement between the United States and Canada so that some adjustment may be made incidental to the terms of the projected treaty with the United Kingdom . Announcement of the negotiation of an American-United Kingdom trade agreement marked the successful conclusion of a year of preliminary discussions and meant that - Secretary Hull 's program of liberalizing trade barriers was about to be crowned with an indispensable feature . Without the United Kingdom , the largest foreign market of the United States , included within its scope it could not achieve adequately the purposes for which it was designed . Will Supersede ? 1815 Treaty The trade agreement , furthermore , will mark the first important amendment of the AngloAmerican conditional most-favored nation commercial treaty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which presumably will be modified by those of the pact about to be negotiated . While many different details remain to be adjusted , and there are months of hard bargaining ahead with both the United States and the United Kingdom required to make greater concessions than either has thus far been disposed to do , the fact remains that an agreement to negotiate would not have been reached unless the executives of both governments were determined that they could an.q would conclude a trade pact . In this respect the preliminary discussions have differed from those with all other countries . The announcement of the projected negotiation of the United Kingdom agreement was made by Secretary Hull in a State Depart- , ment statement and orally - at a press conference , and by Neville Chamberlain , the British Prime Minister , in the House of Commons . Business Will Be Heard It was in the customary first form that the negotiation of a , trade agreement was revealed , and interested parties were , invited to submit suggestions . This will be followed near the end of the- year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of a list of products that will be considered in-the negotiations . Several weeks will be permitted for the filing of briefs by business concerns , and oral hearings covering two or three weeks will be held here . The final step will be the start of formal negotiations , . but much slack will have been taken up in the meantime , so that it is estimated that the agreement will be completed and signed in May or early June of next year . Secretary Hull said at his press conference that he was very glad to make the announcement of the contemplated negotiation and emphasized that there had been no commitments of any kind on the part of either government with respect to rates or commodities . During the next four weeks , he added , persons may make suggestions as to different commodities that might be listed for consideration , both for the purposes of the later hearings and the negotiation that will follow the hearings . Ottawa Problems Overcome The question of whether the flexibility of the Ottawa agreements is sufficient for this country to feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kingdom , Mr. Hull declared , had been borne in mind and that phase was now one of the past . In the latter observations Secretary Hull put briefly what had been the.nubbin of the case since the preliminary discussions were begun last year . The problem was different , much more so than in the preliminary stages of other trade discussions , for it required the finding of a. basis that involved the system of empire preference embodied in the Ottawa agreements . At no time did the United States question the principle of the Ottawa agreements by contending that they constituted an exception to the most-favored nation policy of Great Britain , but it was necessary to establish , for the success of the projected negotiation , that the minimum rates granted at Ottawa by the United Kingdom to the dominions were to a reasonable extent negotiable and , therefore , subject to change . The preliminary discussions of the past year hinged on this one point . No Promises Given on Rates No promises or commitments were made , nor was there any agreement as to what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the United States feels she must obtain concessions , but there was necessarily an assurance that rates could be changed . It was from this standpoint that the arrangement was made to negotiate a supplemental agreement with Canada . It is understood this contemplates certain concessions on the part of the United States , but in no vital degree , on some products , in return for concessions that Canada will be making to this country through the United Kingdom agreement . Probably its most Important aspect will be Its assurance to Canada that the Dominion government is not making undue sacrifices in yielding advantages enjoyed under the Ottawa agreements . From the- point of view of the United States it is not highly important . Negotiations May Be in Washington The method of negotiation with the United Kingdom has yet to be decided . It is ? believed , however , that the deliberations will be conducted here through the State Department and the British Embassy , with groups of experts and other officials sent here from London . The negotiation may begin around the first of ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of rates and commodities for intensive study , but with no final commitments made until domestic hearings have been completed . The subject of war debts will be taboo in the deliberations , both because the Trade Agreements Act of the United States specifically excludes them from consideration in connection with trade agreements and ' because it is contrary to the policy of the Roosevelt Administra- , tion to inject them into the trade question . Notices are being sent by the State Department this week to Great Britain and thirteen other foreign governments that they  --  have war debt installments falling due on Dec. 15 , but no payments are anticipated . The total owed to the United States from the fourteen debtor governments on Dec. 15 is $1,680 , - 170,447 . The trade has increased since . During the first nine months of this year American exports to the United Kingdom totaled $342,763 , - 000 , a gain of 16 per cent over the corresponding period of 1936 , while American imports from the United Kingdom amounted to $158,182,000 , a gain of 14 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the United Kingdom received imports , having 11 per cent of the total , with Canada second at 8.8 per cent . The United States was fourth in countries buying exports from the United Kingdom , her share being 6.3 per cent as compared with 8.5 per cent for South Africa , 7.7 per . cent for British India and 7.3 per cent for Australia . In announcing the British negotiations the State Department statement said : " The object of this preliminary announcement is to provide notification at the earliest possible date that negotiations are contemplated , in order that interested parties may have an opportunity to suggest the import or export products which , in their opinion , should be included in the negotiations . " Such suggestions , particularly those in regard to export products , are most useful to the trade-agreements organization if available at an - early stage . Full information should be submitted as soon as possible . " Exact technical descriptions of the products in question should be given , including , so far as possible , their nomenclature in the tariff laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any form and need not be under oath . They should be addressed to the chairman of the Committee for Reciprocity Information , Seventh and F . Streets , N. W. , Washington , D. C. , ' and should reach the committee not later than Dec. 16 , 1937. "                     