@@702288

txt The solidarity of the Americas was more positively affirmed today than the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace had previously felt moved to express the sentiment that had been the basis of its deliberations . After a day of suspense , during which it was not determined whether Argentina could go the whole way , the standing committee for the organization of peace approved late this afternoon a project providing that the Americas declare that " any act of an unfriendly nature by any one of them tending to disturb the peace affects each and all of them and is the basis for initiation of the consultative procedures provided in the convention of Dec. 12 . " The convention of Dec. 12 is the collective security pact , I passed at the last plenary ses- , sion . Central American Project The plan started as a project unanimously presented by the CenI tral American bloc . It was altered during the committee 's consider , ations . The original language declared that a solid American front would be demonstrated at any affront to the rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down to include only acts which would threaten collective peace . The only voice raised in opposition was that of the Argentine delegation , which asked time to seek instructions from Foreign Minister Carlos Saavedra Lamas , who was not present . All through the day members of the committee wondered whether Mr. Saavedra Lamas would oppose what most of them believed to be the crowning edifice of Pan-American unity , a purpose which other declarations were intended to make plain to the world . During the morning 's debate Dr. Oswaldo Aranha made clear Brazil 's support of this proposal . He recited the history of his country 's feeling that the Americas must stand together in the face of foreign threats , citing Brazil 's decision to enter the World War when the United States took that step . Delay Brings Unanimity After his forceful speech Manuel Castro Ramirez of El Salvador demanded an immediate vote , but Mr. Aranha smoothed over the situation by saying that nothing could be lost by awaiting Argentina 's decision . In line with other issues , the conference apparently considered unanimity worth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee were already tired and hungry , the Brazilian suggestion I met with universal approval . The standing committee went through many projects when it resumed its sessions after luncheon . But it was evident that it was really only awaiting the Argentine decision on this particular declaration . When Jose Maria Cantilo of Argentina finally entered the room and announced Argentina 's adherence to the project , a round of applause wiped out whatever rancor might have hung over from the morning session . The declaration approved by the committee included a statement that identity of forms of democratic government and common ' ideals , in addition to the solidarity of continental principles . gave they conference the right to act in this manner . Completes the Picture This declaration completed the picture to the world of what the American republics may be expected to do in the event that the peace of the world is threatened in any quarter . The collective security pact , already adopted , recited the community of interest of the Americas in a threat of peace from within or without . The neutrality convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , declares for consultation in the hope of finding a common procedure in case pacific settlement should fail . With the notification that any external aggression will find the American republics united to oppose it . the picture may be said to be complete . While awaiting Argentina 's decision , the committee used the interval for an eloquent tribute to Dr. Afranio de Mello Franco of Brazil for his efforts in averting war between Colombia and Peru over Leticia . A commendatory resolution was introduced by Francisco Castillo Ndjera of Mexico , the corn ' mittee chairman , who received his meed of praise in the resulting speeches .                     