@@702048

txt While Mary Astor hurried about her roles on an isolated movie set , her attorney today pressed her battle for custody or ner 4 year old daughter , Marylyn , on a new tack . The attorney , Roland Rich Woolley , cbtained a Superior court order permitting depositions to be taken in Florida in quest of evidence to support the film star 's annulment suit against her ex-husband , Dr. Franklyn Thorpe . The annulment suit had been brought along with her action seeking to break a court order giving the Hollywood surgeon complete custody of their daughter . It was based on the assertion that Dr. Thorpe married Mrs. Lillian Lawton Miles in Florida and was not divorced from her when he married Miss Astor . Ten persons in Florida are listed for depositions . Mrs. Miles , a pretty blonde matron , was named in testimony given by Nellie Richardson , a nursemaid , as one of four women who , she said , stayed overnight on occasion with Dr. Thorpe after he divorced Miss Astor 15 months ago . Thorpe Says He Was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday until next Monday . Out of court Dr. Thorpe alleged that he was " lured " into marrying Miss Astor in Yuma , Ariz. , on June 29 , 1931 . He charged that a famous Hollywood actor  --  name not given ? taught Miss Astor her unconventional ideas of love , and branded him " a moral nihilist . " In an interview today Thorpe gave details of a " man to man " talk with Dramatist Kaufman and told how he I sought to end the torrid affair which the actress yesterday admitted on the witness stand . He described Mary 's anger when she learned of the con versation . He quoted her as ha.viri said : " You are a crazy , mid-Victo rian fool . Do you think you can corm between me and my lover ? " " If I Were ' Mid-Victorian .. " Thorpe said he answered : " If were a mid-Victorian fool I 'd have 3lown his guts out . " Thorpe referred frequently today to the pages of the actress ' love journal , which is expected to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The trouble with Miss Astor , " he said , " and the trouble with many like her in the movie industry is that they think they are royal aristocrats morally and answerable to no one for their actions . " Miss Astor Refuses Visitors . Meanwhile Miss Astor declined herself to visitors and refused to discuss the case as she worked on her latest picture , " DocIsworth . " Her " set " was sealed tight in an effort to finish her last scenes this week . Court sessions in her custody case were postponed until Monday to allow the actress time to complete the picture . Her attorneys described the frequent questions put to her yesterday about her friendship with George S. Kaufman , New York playwright , as a " campaign of character assassination . " Kaufman is under subpena and attorneys for Dr. Thorpe said they also would summon John Barrymore.                     