@@703946

txt Governor Lehman gave his answer tonight to the Republican plan to cut his proposed budget by $30,000,000 . He made public an opinion by Attorney General Bennett which declared that the Republican proposal was unconstitutional . Mr. Bennett based his opinion on the substitution by the Republicans of lump-sum appropriations for the State departments , instead of lineby-line items in the departmental allocations . This affects $7,000,000 of the savings which the Republicans projected and throws the entire fiscal situation into the realm of uncertainty and doubt . If the Republicans proceed with their plans to adopt the budget on Friday , as it was indicated tonight that they would , it means that the case win go to the courts , as it did in 1929 , when the Republicans and Governor Roosevelt came to grips on the practical aspects of the executive budget system . It may mean either a recess of the Legislature until the case has been rushed through the courts , or an adjournment with a special session before July 1 , if the Republicans lose out . The program of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spot . " First Governor Lehman sent a special message to the Legislature , asking that they delay action on the budget until more time had been allotted to the legislators and the public for consideration of it . He sent an accompanying letter , in a similar vein , to Speaker Heck and Senator Hanley , requesting a reply . Budget Bills Are Advanced While Mr. Heck and . Mr. Hanley did not immediately answer the Governor 's letter , the budget bills were advanced without objection in the Assembly . Assemblyman Steingut asked for reconsideration and in effect charged the Republicans with being afraid that delay will result in a weakening in their ranks , due to public pressure . Assemblyman Ives rejected Mr. Steingut 's request , after reminding him that in 1935 , when the Democrats controlled both houses of the Legislature , they rushed through the budget in seventeen days after it was first submitted by the Governor , without even a public hearing . Mr. Steingut insisted that he did not remember any such incident . He was then Speaker . The Republicans declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before commenting . However , several leaders had anticipated an adverse ruling . In private discussion they asserted that the only way to test the issue in the courts was to pass the budget . Senator Hanley said that there would be a conference , probably tomorrow or Friday . No statement would be made until then , he added . Governor Lehman released Mr. Bennett 's opinion at a special press conference early this evening at the Executive Mansion . Reporters asked the Governor what the next step would be , if the Legislature disregarded the opinion . Mr. Lehman declared that it was " inconceivable to me that in the face of the opinion , and the clear understanding of its purport , that they would make any attempt to go through with it . " I ca n't anticipate that they would even think of it . We still have a Constitution in this State by which the Legislature , like every one else , is bound . They now have an unqualified formal opinion by the chief law officer of the State , who is not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal adviser to the Legislature . " , Legislative Act of 1929 Recalled The question then came up whether any one remembered a case when the Legislature had flouted the opinion of the Attorney General . It was noted that in the 1929 case the Republicans had adopted a budget , later found to be unconstitutional , with the aid of the opinion of the then Attorney General , Hamilton Ward , a Republican . It was also pointed out that at that t-me the Attorney General did not have the constitutional duty of advising the Legislature , as he now has . Attorney General Bennett 's opinion was rendered on the same day that the Governor sent him a letter asking his views . However , Mr. Bennett , in the opinion , noted that he had been studying the constitutionality ' of the Republican plan of action , on his own initiative , since the plan was first made public , ten days ago . He based his objection solely on Section 1 of the budget , which contains the departmental appropriations . The appropriation for State aid for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highway appropriation , which has been reduced $13,000,000 , are contained in other sections of the budget . Governor Lehman made it clear that the Bennett opinion affected only the departmental budget and that the Republicans had the right without submitting the reductions to him to make any reductions they wanted to in the highway and State aid appropriations . " They can cut any item they want to in the departmental budgets as well , as they have the clear right to reduce , and they can still do it , but not by making the budget a lumpsum budget , " the Governor declared . Mr. Bennett 's opinion charges that the Legislature " discards the executive budget bill completely and substitutes therefor an entirely new appropriation bill . In the place of the executive budget bill provided for in the Constitution we have what is in fact a legislative appropriation bill . " Pivotal Point Is Forecast This is a point which may figure in the court argument , Assemblyman Abbot Low Moffat , chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and principal author of the budget , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was active in redrafting the State . finance article now in the new Constitution . Nevertheless , Mr. Bennett ruled that the lump-sum method violated both the " letter and the spirit of the Constitution . " The Governor indicated that it was now up to the Republicans in the Legislature to make the budget conform to the Bennett ruling and that he would have nothing further to say until they conformed or went ahead despite the Attorney General 's stand . The Governor , in his message to the Legislature this morning , noted that the budget had not been put on the desks of the members until late last night and that no one could be expected to familiarize himself with a document of that length in the time between then and Friday , when the Republicans planned to adopt it . He declared that the public was " entirely unfamiliar with its contents . " He touched briefly on the constitutional point , saying that highly important questions of constitutional law and governmental policy were involved , and then took the Republicans to task for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget , any cuts that were proved to them to have been unjust or arbitrary . " It is clear that the budget , save under unusual circumstances , should contain all appropriations for the support of government , " the Governor wrote . " To do otherwise would mislead and fool the public into the belief that budget reductions had been made , whereas as a matter of fact they will have simply been temporarily taken out of the budget and then restored through the device of including them in other bills . " Wherever it has been agreed by the finance chairmen that restoration of items will be made , they should be included in the budget itself . All of the legislators should know what they are being asked to vote on . " It has been reported that the majority party of the Legislature intends to jam through the proposed legislative lump-sum budget within the next few days . I do not believe this report . The matter is of too great importance for any responsible group of men to railroad and jam the budget of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for careful study and consideration . " After the .. budget had been advanced to third reading in the Assembly - this morning Mr. Steingut asked for reconsideration and delay , so that it would not come up on Friday . He wanted another week , he said . He declared that he could see no reason for not granting the request , unless the Republicans were afraid that their ranks would waver under protests from the public . He declared that local and minor bills were constantly delayed , to suit the convenience of an individual member , but that the Republicans were preparing to " jam through " the budget , " the most important piece of legislation before us at this session . " Mr. Ives retorted that the present State budget had been more thoroughly aired , in the press , than any budget in many years , and that any one who did not know by now what was in the budget would n't know a week from now , or a month from now . " The plan was made public when it was submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was printed in full in one New York City newspaper and discussed at great length in many other newspapers . The people are thoroughly acquainted with it . " Mr. Steingut then withdrew his motion , on technical grounds , and asked for assurances of delay on Friday so that the Democratic members could go home for the week-end . Mr. Ives closed the debate by reminding Mr. Steingut of the 1935 incident and gave no promise of delay on Friday . He said that the request would have " serious consideration " at that time . His tone indicated that the vote would be taken then and no delay granted . Assemblyman James J. Wadsworth denounced the methods of critics of the Republican budget . He demanded a legislative inquiry into " screaming , shouting pressure groups , " referring to the delegation protesting against State aid cuts . In the Senate , after the message had been read , Mr. Hanky rose and , answering the Governor , said : " I would like to call attention to the fact that never before in the history of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It has been published for two weeks . The entire public has had all the details , so much . so that the heads of every department have written to all sections of the State , telling the schools , the gun clubs , highway organizations and exterybody else the amount of the reduction in the activity in which they were interested , even to the penny . " I can not agree with the know nor that they do not know what these are . I also can not agree that two or three days ' delay will save the situation . "                     