@@699464

txt The House judiciary committee formally filed its report on the Bankruptcy Bill and leaders state that it will be passed under suspension of the rules in the House , next Monday . Dealing with the railroad section of the bill , the committee stated that railroads arc at this time excluded from operation of the bankruptcy law . " The necessity for the enactment of this section grows out of the present expensive , protracted . confusing and inefficient administration of affairs of railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce in equity receivership , " the committee declared . Need for Immediate Enactment " The necessity for its immediate enactment results from the fact that at the present time many of the railroad organizations of the country confront the necessity of reorganization . They have reached the limit of their ability to borrow from the Reconstruction Finance Corp . " They must .. either *reorganize =heir somearrangement such as is provided for by this section or be administered in equity receivership . The protracted period of such administration , the duplication of expense incident to ancillary reccivershipo. the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special groups arc too well known to require comment . " This section provides that a railroad corporation engaged in interstate commerce may file a petition in the federal court stating that the railroad is either insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they mature and that it desires to effect a plan of reorganization . It is required that the judge shall ascertain that the petition is filed in good faith and complies w ith the provisions of this section , and - upon such approval the judge procures jurisdiction of the debtor 's property wherever located . Filing of Petition by Creditors " There is also provision made in the event the railroad company does not file such petition for the filing of a petition by 23 , r in amount of any class of creditors and not less than 10 ' , of all creditors of such corporation , upon procuring the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission . " the report explained . Practically any plan of reorganization may be filed and provision is make for using the expert knowledge of the Interstate Commerce Commission . Temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the judge and creditors are given permission to be heard on the appointment . " If a plan for reorganization is not proposed or accepted within such reasonable time as the judge may ? ? ? dismiss the proceedings . The court may authorize with the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission and trustees to sell certificates for new money which may be needed to provide reasonable compensation for specific expenses incurred . To Ilse Advice and Help of I. C. C. " It is also provided that the President ? ? ? by and with the advice and consent of the Senate may appoint special referees to which It is contemplated matters arising under this section will be referred ? ? ? and are subject to the general provisions of law regarding referees in bankruptcy except as to fees . This permits the building up of a group of men thoroughly informed in railroad reorganization matters . " There is a very broad provision for a hearing by any creditor or stockholder with regard to confirmation of any plan of reorganization avoiding the necessity of the filing of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " places the entire plan of reorganization under the jurisdiction , supervision and control of the Interstate Commerce Commission . " it was stated . The commission may consider any and all plans referred to it . Any plan of any class of creditors in the requisite amount V. hr , se claims may be affected may be proposed for consideration . Commission Must Approve Plan " Hearings are then held by the Interstate Commerce Commission on the various plans before it . The Commission is then required to render a report in which it shalt recommend a plan of reoganization which it shall find equitable , financially advisable and compatible with the public interest . The section specifically provides that the plan recommended by the Commision may be one of several plans presented . a modification of any , or an entirely new plan of the commission . The plan is then presented to the stockholders and creditors for acceptance by them , " it was explained . ' The plan approved in writing by creditors holding two-thirds in amount of the claims of each class of creditors is then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This acceptance is also required by two .. thirds of the stockholders unless , of course , the corporation has been found to be insolvent . If a class of creditors or stockholders are provided for by proper protection of their interests ? ? ? such class need not accept . " " After the acceptance is filed with the commission the proceedings are reopened for the purpose of considering the accepted plan . The commission is required to make certain specific findings . At this stage of the proceedings the commission exercises its powers tinder Section 20-A. of the Interstate Commerce Act on the approval of issuance of securities necessary in the reorganization . Court Exercises Complete Control " This obviates the necessity of the matter coming back to the comnnsion after final approval by the court , which is only on the record and at the same time retains an absolute and complete control of the reorganization , in the I. C C. of the plan recommended and approved by it . The Commision is given the power to fix maximum compensation to reorganization managers , othcers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for services rendered and reimbursement for the actual and necessary expenses incurred in connection with the proceedings and plans . " This should definitely put a stop to the wholesale plundering by reorganization managers both by way of fees and for commission covering new securities . "                     