@@698959

txt The Bonus Expeditionary Force was in high good humor today over a situation which has developed whereby , veterans here said . the government is financing for them a large-scale " tourist and recruiting service . " The government , by virtue of the recent law enacted to pay the marchers ' passage home , has distributed transportation by train and automoible , plus 75 cents a man daily for sustenance . to 2,215 of the veterans . The largest crowd since the bill was passed congregated about the Veterans ' Bureau Building today , and it was estimated that they filed applications for transportation at the rate of one every minute until noon . But the joker is. the veterans say . and government officials do not deny the assertion , that the men are not going home . A few actually reach the destination shown on the ticket , but in many cases they have been sent along to recruit others and bring them back to Washington . Several from near-by cities are reported to have " repeated " numerous times and obtained tickets and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Off Trains . The men . when railroad transportation is provided , either slip off the train here as soon as the Federal agent who puts them aboard turns hil back , or drop off at the first stop and return to Washington and their respective camps . Quite a number of tickets are awaiting the applicants at the Union Station , although the men have received their 75 cents ration allowance and disappeared . " They might get the ticket , but they sure wo n't get any more subsistence money , " the officer in charge of the railroad station B. E. F. booth said today . The best " racket " of all , the veterans admit , is the automobile game . Under the terms of the bill a veteran owning and driving his car is allowed 1 cent a mile , as well as his subsistence . If the car holds four others they are allowed 75 cents a day for the trip but nothing for transportation . As it can be practiced , a veteran from across the river in near-by Virginia can apply at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his companions can claim 75 cents each day the trip is expected ' , to require . Thus , with the money in their pockets the veterans give the Veterans Bureau a hearty razzing and drive back to their ' camp . The Veterans Bureau announced this afternoon that 2,768 applications for transportation had been filed up to noon today . Eleven men are kept on constant duty at Union Station by the bureau . Additional clerks were sent there tonight in the expectation of an unusual rush . The uptown headquarters are being kept open from 8 A. M. until midnight to care for the applications . No Documentary Proof Required . An unusual feature of the situation is that the veteran does not file docu- , mentary proof of his residence or service when he applies for transportation . He his ticket and cash allowance will be ready . If he has an automobile parked outside that is considered proof that it is his and that he means start immediately for home . " Oh , hell , " said a veteran waiting for his subsistence allowance at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get anything from our certificates , anyhow , if we wait until 1945 , so why not take whatever we can get ? " He did his part . He received $3.75 for a five-day trip to the Pacific , was put on a train by a government clerk  --  and ten minutes later was trudging across Capitol Plaza on his way back to Anacostia Flats . Fourteen per cent of the " tickets " supplied to the men thus far , bureau officials said today , were to the Far West . A story that was declared to be true caused quite a laugh about the bureau and among the marchers today . A business man who came here from a widely known business centre and who put up at a prominent local hotel apparently failed on his business mission . He applied for and was granted transportation to his home , according to the story . ' Mr. Zero ' Is Pined $40 . The only untoward incident today in the bonus army occurred when two of the radical group tried to incite a riot in front of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York was on trial for parading In front of the White House without a permit . Ledoux was convicted and a fine of $40 was paid by Mrs. Mary A. Rochery , who described herself as a friend of Ledoux . The two other men who were arrested in front of the White House late Saturday night were fined by Justice Isaac R. Hitt , although they vigorously denied any connection with the alleged riot . Meanwhile Walter W. Waters and several other leaders of the marchers conferred with Representative La Guardia at the Capitol , Mr , La Guardia asked if the B. E. F. meant to broaden its relief plan so as to provide for all unemployed persons in the country . Waters said yes , but that he felt the government owed a special debt to the veterans . Members of the B. E. F. tonight were awaiting the arrival of their newest and probably most famous recruit , General Smedley D. Butler . The retired marine officer not only notified Commander-in-Chief Waters today that he would come here tomorrow night to address the bonus army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the veterans with the declaration that he meant to eat and sleep with them over night . Cheers greeted the news that General Butler was coming here to " buddy " with the men , and many of the army who once served under him immediately began plans for a rousing and typical Butler reception . Mr. Waters received the message from General Butler early this afternoon and he at once sent copies of the acceptance to the various " conservative " camps about the city . Merger With Coast Group Likely . Indications are that Commander Waters and Roy W. Robertson , leader of a small group from California , will agree upon a definite policy and merge the two " armies . " The " radicals " in charge of John Pace of Detroit are being fed from the joint commissary , although they have exhibited tendencies toward demonstrations that will not be countenanced by the ether two groups . Several hundred veterans whose adjusted service certificates will be eligible for leans if and when President Hoover signs the Bacharach bill were barred - from the Veterans ' Bureau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transportation to those " going home , " They sat on the sidewalks and figured out ways to spend the amounts they will receive . More than 200,000 veterans are eligible to apply for or to borrow on certificates that have been issued during the past eighteen months , and another rush for loans is expected when President Hoover affixes his signature to the bill . The intelligence unit of the B. E , F. late today supplied Federal agents with information about a Negro bootlegger adjacent to the camp . The shanty was raided and the officers seized fifteen quarts of moonshine liquor . " We do n't want that kind of stuff around here and we are net going to have it , " Mr , Waters commented ,                     