@@701749

txt From Encirclement Scheme SOVIET SEES JAPAN IN INTRIGUE By EUGENE J. YOUNG . Warnings that British policy would drive Italy into alliance with Germany were uttered frequently while the Ethiopian and Mediterranean crisis was developing last year . Premier Pierre Laval was particularly disturbed over the possibility , since it would again face France with danger on two frontiers . The British , however , seemed not to take the prospect seriously ; they did not believe Hitler and Mussolini could find a common ground on which to construct an entente . Now a practical test of the theory is under way . Mussolini and Hitler have both been showing apprehension over the AngloFrench collaboration in the attempt to rearrange the European situation with the idea of isolating Italy and Germany separately . The German Ambassador to Rome ? has been rushing by plane from that capital to Berlin and back again trying to arrive at some understanding , and Mussolini at least has been listening to temptation . Perhaps a common political peril will provide the catalytic agent that will dissolve some stubborn elements in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There may be some handshaking , but a close embrace is not probable . There is , for one thing , the strong personal antagonism between Mussolini and Hitler , which would militate against cordial understanding and trustfulness . More important is the intense rivalry and suspicion which marks the policy of both in Central Europe . Mussolini Drew Back . Mussolini for years flirted with the idea of an entente . with Germany , and gave French  --  if not British  --  statesmen many sleepless nights as he tried to force concessions as the price of friendship for them . But when the Berlin government tried to add Austria to a German customs union , and when , later , the Nazis tried to seize that country , he had to stop the flirtation . The prospect of having Germany appear on the Alpine passes was one that called , instead , for a demonstration of willingness to fight . The weakening of Italy , by the Ethiopian struggle and by the League sanctions , has aggravated rather than alleviated this issue . Under any entente that might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving the Nazis more freedom to carry on their political manipulations in Austria and Hungary ; and , as Italy progressively weakened , the opportunity for the extension of German influence in the Danube basin would hardly be overlooked by the ambitious leaders in Berlin . So the outgivings from Rome have shown Mussolini rather cold and aloof to the wooings of the Nazis . Germans were not invited to the conference at Florence , at which the chiefs of the Italian and Austrian Foreign Offices discussed what was to be done about the inducements held out to Prince Starhembei g , the Austrian dictator , when he was in London and Paris . That conference was devoted to an attempt to revitalize the ItaloAustro-Hungarian pact of March 17 , 1934 , under which Italy assumed the guardianship of the two smaller countries to the exclusion not only of Britain and France but also of Germany . And Austria agreed to remain true to the " spirit " of that compact , which means that , for the time being at least , she will rely on Mussolini , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austrian independence as against the Nazis . Gains for Nazi Policy . So Mussolini has indicated that , until hit situation becomes more desperate , he will not invite the future dangers that an entente with the Nazis might entail . Yet the Nazis have not yet lost the game . By holding Austria Mussolini has demonstrated his ability to check the Anglo-Franco encirclement plan . Circumstances have helped him . Britain and France have brought strong pressure to bear on both Austria and Hungary in the effort to get them to support sanctions and to draw theta into a Danubian coalition , but they are finding their present position profitable . They provide the doors to Italy through which imports and exports can flow ; and so long as Italy can trade and buy she can offer them greater advantages than France and Britain are likely ' , to grant . With Austria and Hungary thus kept detached , with Yugoslavia and Greece dissatisfied because much of their trade is going to the Central European countries , with Rumania largely dependent on Italy for her oil market and with Bulgaria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding means to trouble those who would bring him to terms by strangulation of his country . British ' and French statesmanship still seems far from accomplishing the complete coalition against him . And that leaves Germany also free to manoeuvre . All through Central Europe and the Balkans she is again busily engaged in propaganda and manipulation ; and the markets she can offer provide temptations that will make rulers of the various smaller countries pause before they make hard-andfast arrangements that might interrupt their trade . German Activity in the East . If Russian spokesmen are to be believed , Germany has not confined her campaign against the encirclement plan to Europe , but has extended it to the Far East . Moscow believes the war scare worked up recently on the border of Mongolia was designed to defeat the FrancoRussian treaty in the Paris Parliament . As the Russians see it , the plot is this : France wants to be assured of Soviet aid in case of a German attack , but would not want to have to bear the brunt of the fighting in the west @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Far East . Hence Germany has induced Japan to appear to threaten war as a means e warning France that she might be left in the lurch if she should be drawn into a conflict in support of Russia . So , even though Moscow has been showing a firm front to Japan on border incidents and has supported Mongolians in defending the important region around Lake Bor , there has been in the Russian capital a studied deprecation of all war talk at the same time that Japanese militarists were emphasizing the seriousne.ss of the incidents and were talking of strong measures to meet the " aggression " of the Mongolians . Whether or not the German leaders have conducted such an intrigue , they have made some gain by it . The French rightists have been stirred against ratification of the treaty ; and some of them have been saying that a better policy would be to make friends with Germany . Since the nationalists of the Right have heretofore been the most determined opponents of Franco-German rapprochement , the anti-Nazi front has thus been weakened to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments did not confuse the situation sufficiently , Mussolini is now conducting a campaign within the naval conference in London . His delegates so far have played a rather aloof part in the proceedings , seeming to lend themselves to the plans of the British for exchange of building plans and settlement of tonnage of warships . They have left it to the French to bargain on battleships and on the inclusion of Germany in the parley . But now they are taking the position that they can not sign any naval agreement while Italy is still subject to sanctions imposed chiefly by the two great European powers with which they are dealing . They want to couple a war settlement with arrangements which will placate Britain in the Mediterranean . This sudden political deployment by Italy makes worse the plight of the British naval negotiators , who were already troubled by the refusal of France to assent to any naval agreement with Germany until broad political questions are settled . The British desire to keep naval matters separate : and their anxiety to do o is rArtelgtherreci by the refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to sign any treaty that might deal with them . All in all , the situation M Europe has been once more thrown into a state of flux . Britain and I France , while cooperating in the encirclement plans , can not get together on naval ideas . The French also are pressing for a definite air compact to accompany a naval compact and the British do not care to commit themselves too far . Such differences provide opportunity for further manoeuvrings by Mussolini and Hitler .                     