@@697042

txt A fight against the confirmation of Charles Evans Hughes to be chief justice of the United States was launched in the Senate late this afternoon by Senator George W. Norris of Nebraska , who declared he opposed the nomination because Mr. Hughes had retired from the bench to seek the Presidency and had associated himself with large business combinations as counsel. - A situation without precedent for nearly a century was presented when Mr. Norris , who is a leader of the insurgent Republicans and chairman of the Judiciary Committee , which had reported to Mr. Hughes 's nomination by a vote of 10 to 2 , announced that he would vote in opposition . The immediate confirmation of Mr. Hughes was blocked by the objection of S ... nator Blease of South Carolina , and while the Senate in open executive session disposed of routine ' minor appointments of United States marshals , the nomination for chief justice had to go to the calendar . The indications were , however , that Mr. Hughes will be confirmed tomorrow with very little opposition . Not since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the appointment of a chief justice caused a fight in the Senate . Attack Is Unexpected . The attack was unexpected , as Senator Norris had indicated in the Judiciary Committee that he would merely file his objections and not resort to a speech . The Judiciary Committee had before it the cases in which Mr. Hughes had appeared before the Supreme Court , as well as letters from Henry L. Doherty of New York attacking the appointment . Mr. Doherty 's letters were read and later made public . Mr. Hughes 's nomination was reported by the committee , with Senators Norris and Blaine of Wisconsin voting in the negative and Senators Deneen , Illinois ; Gillett , Massachusetts ; Robinson , Indiana ; Steiwer , Washington ; Waterman , Colorado ; Hebert , Rhode Island ; Overman , North Carolina ; Ashurst , Arizona ; Walsh . Montana , and Stephens , Mississippi , in the affirmative . Norris Explains Opposition . Chairman Norris , addressing the Senate , said : " Before the vote is taken on the confirmation of the nomination of Mr. Hughes as Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Senate why I am opposed to his confirmation . " I am not moved in my opposition by any personal feeling , or any belief in the lack of Mr. Hughes 's ability to perform the duties of this high office . In many respects , for at least some of the official acts of Mr. Hughes , I have admiration , and under no circumstances could I be induced to vote against him if it were not for a high sense of duty which I believe is upon me in casting my vote . " I am extremely desirous that the Supreme Court of the United States should prominently stand out among all the judicial tribunals of the civilized world as a forum which in every respect bears out the high ideals of our revolutionary forefathers , the founders of the Constitution . Because I believe the appointment of Mr. Hughes detracts from this high ideal I can not conscientiously cast my vote in favor of his confirmation . " The objections to Mr. Hughes , as I look at the question , resolve themselves into two fundamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ First : Mr. Hughes resigned from the Supreme Court to become a candidate . for President of the United States . He left the high judicial tribunal to engage in the arena of partisan political debate and after his ambitions in the political field have failed of realization he is not only reappointed to the Supreme Court but he is promoted to the position of Chief Justice . Criticizes Return to Bench . " I was not one of those who criticized Mr. Hughes for resigning from the Supreme Court bench in order to become a candidate fair President of the United States . I freely concede that a judge has an honorable right to leave the domain of the judiciary and enter into political life , But , after he has made the campaign for a higher political office , he ought not be , by political power . put hack again on the bench which he voluntarily left to enter the political world . " There may indeed be no evil results conic from this particular instance , hut it certainly establishes n precedence which tends to lower the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the future , may result in the weakening of that great court , and the lowering of its standards down to the level of the political machine . " Moreover , in the case of Mr. Hughes , after he had left the bench and after he had failed to satisfy his ambition to become President of the United States , he engaged in practice . mainly before the Supreme Court , and a glance at the nature of his practice shows that he has been able to capitalize the prestige and the honor which were rightfully his when he was originally appointed . " After he has thus made an attempt for high political honors , and also after he has amassed a fortune in his practice which has come to him by reason of his former high position , the President of the United States returns him to the judicial tribunal which he voluntarily left to engage in politics and the amassing of a fortune . Having failed finally in his political ambition and having succeeded beyond the imagination in his financial ambition , he is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left for the reasons named . Says It Encourages Politics . " Such a procedure must inevitably encourage and stimulate political activity on the part of judges of the Supreme Court . Carried to its logical conclusions , it will mean the judges who desire to follow the course pursued by Mr. Hughes will be influenced to disregard justice in rendering their decisions . and eater to the wish of politicians In power in the political world . " It encourages judges to capitalize the honer given them when they are appointed to the Supreme Court and to use this honor as a stepping stone to political office , and as a means of acquiring fortune , with the hidden intention and purpose of being returned again to the Supreme Court If their political aspirations are not successful or after their accumulation of financial luxury . Certainly , such procedure will have the tendency to lower our Supreme Court in the minds of conscientious judges , as well as in the hearts of all right-thinking citizens . This danger is increased and particularly manifest when such a procedure takes place with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing had happened with reference to one of our inferior courts , the moral influence would be of perhaps but little , if any , consequence , but when this procedure takes place with the highest official of the highest judicial tribunal In our country , if not in the world , wellmeaning , patriotic citizens can wed trembles with fear for the evil consequences Which may result , even though it may he that our generation will not be the one to suffer . Points to Trend Toward Mergers . " Second : We have reached a time in our history when the power and influence of monopoly and organized wealth are reaching Into every governmental act ivity . " Combinations and mergers are of every-day occurrence , and they extend to every line of business and commercial , enterpeise , Where 4eyer has been a time in the history of our country when combined wealth has wielded as great an influence in the commercial and political world as is being wielded at the present time . " Perhaps it is not far amiss to say that no man in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political and financial world as does Mr. Hughes . " Since he retired from the bench and made his unsuccessful campaign for the Presidency , he has had a great career before the Supreme Court of the United States , where he formerly sat as one of the judges . " During the last five years , he has appeared in fifty-four cases before the Supreme Court , Almost invariably he has represented corporations of almost untold wealth . There is no doubt but that he has been employed In many of these because he had formerly been a member of the Supreme Court , and it was at least believed by his wealthy clients that this fact would have a tendency to secure favorable decisions from that high tribunal . " Such a unique position enabled Mr. Hughes to charge almost unlimited fees for his services . During his active practice he has been associated with men of immense wealth and lived in an atmosphere of luxury which can only come from immense fortunes and great combinations , ? firmation , but this was refused by Senator Blease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaring he would not agree until he had read " some doctors ' certificates . " This objection was based upon his recent allegation that Mr. Taft was not sick and that a " game " had been played in his resignation and the appointment of Mr. Hughes . Senator Glass of Virginia asked Senator Norris whether Mr. Hughes had participated in the Shreveport decision when he was a membet ' of the court . Senator Norris replied that he could not say . " Well , " Senator Glass declared , " I would like to know whether he had anything to do with this decision which terminated every vestige that any State had in intrastate commerce . " The Virginia ' Senator later said that if Mr. Hughes had sat with the court when this decision was made he would oppose his confirmation . Prior to the developments in the Senate Chamber , Senator Norris made public two letters , written by Mr. Doherty opposing the confirmation of Mr. Hughes , Doherty Sees " Unseemly Haste . " Mr. Doherty , in his letters , said he was shocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of Justice Taft . " I feel that no justice of the Supreme Court should resign to run for political office , " he continued , " nor should he capitalize . into , wealth the prestige and influence tequired by the honor done him by . his appointment , and , if he does do this , he should neither expect or receive reappointment and certainly not advancement to the position of chief justice . - " Such a course must initiate , encourage and stimulate political activity on the part of the Supreme Court judges and thereby influence them to render popular rather than just decisions . It also condones and encourages the judges to use the honor done them by appointment to the Supreme Court as a mere stepping stone to more lucrative occupations . " I was astonished a few months ago by the appointment of the son of Judge Hughes as solicitor general , but still more astonished that the Judiciary Committee of the Senate should recommend the confirmation of the President 's appointment , which , I think , all of them realized should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I wondered then whether a political machine had not been built up between the Executive and the controlling members of the legislative branch of the government which was already so powerful that all of the members of Congress feared to oppose this combination . Says Many Fear to Speak , " If such a combination did exist , it seems the obvious conclusion that Judge Taft 's resignation , the appointment of Judge Hughes and the moving about of Mr. Hughes Jr . as though he were a mere pawn on the chess board , is enough evidence to Make us fear that this political combination between the executive branch of the government and the dictators of the legislative branch of the government is now being extended to embrace the judicial branch of the government . " It appears that so much has already been accomplished that most men with political aspirations are afraid to speak , and I do not blame them , for behind President Hoover and Judge Hughes there are many men who control corporations of fabulous wealth and employ many able lawyers of extensive and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone represent enormous wealth and they not only feel that President Hoover is their friend , but that Judge Hughes , who has acted as their adviser , and has fought their battles for them before some of the government bureaus , is and will remain their friend . " It is a serious matter to think that the appointment of Judge Hughes and Mr. Hughes Jr . was in the payment of a political debt , but it is still more alarming to see evidence of an attempt to bring about a Wall Street merger of many political factions and to build up a powerful and arrogant political organization . " I have heard that this is only the first disclosure in a series of political manoeuvers which are probably aimed to give political control of the entire country to a small group of men , and it is common report that already President Hoover 's supporters are at work to make Mr. Hughes Jr . the Governor to New York . More Changes in Court Likely . " Perhaps the extent of the dreams and plans for the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself or his political managers , and I do not see how the situation can fail to alarm every thoughtful citizen . " Mr. Doherty said that Mr. Hoover may be able to appoint six judges of the Supreme Court , including Mr. Hughes , and that the country is facing many important problems , upon which the pupreme Court will be asked to act , mentioning radio communication as one of them . " I am fearful of the influence which may govern Judge Hughes and I especially fear what may result from his own self-assurance , " he added . Later he Field : " What appears as evidence of courage in Judge Hughes seems to spring from unwarranted self-assurance or a display of temper due to self-opinionation , irritation or prejudice . " Mr. Doherty then took up efforts of the Federal Conservation Board to conserve oil , stating that tit ( American Petroleum Institute mad ( a report to the board which was " grossly untrue " and then , feelins incapable of sustaining its position , retained Judge Hughes , who , " in ar arbitrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Federal Government had any power of any sort within limits of the Constitution to prevent vicious and inexcusable wastes that now pertain to the production of oil . " Mr. Doherty said he had been told that Mr. Hoover had under comic ' ? eration the appointment of five men prominent in the oil industry as members of the Oil Conservation Board to replace the five Cabinet officers now serving in that capacity . Such a course , he felt , would Ix more dangerous than if the President had appointed a number of prominent leaders of the steel industry as our delegates to the disarmament conference . Charges Vision Is Clouded . " Without charging Mr. Hughes in any way with being dishonest or unconscientious , it is only fair to that the man who lives this kind of a life , whose practice brings him wealthy clients and monopolistic corporations seeking special governmental favor , it is reasonable to expect that these influences have become a part of the man . His viewpoint is clouded . He looks through glasses contaminated by the influence of monopoly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the common , ordinary citizen . " These seekers after special priviiege all feel that the men who have grown wealthy while acting as their advisers and who have fought their battles before high courts and government bureaus will still remain as their friends after they have been put upon a high pinnacle of judicial fame . " All men , whether on or off the bench , are human , and it is only natural that those who have always been connected with monopoly , who have always been serving powerful industry and great combinations , should be even unconsciously influenced in their very nature and , at least , partially controlled by such associations ; and the fact that all this enables them to accumulstta fortune and secure political favor is another reason why such men should not be called upon to sit in final judgment in ' a contest between organized Wealth and the ordinary citizen . - " Contests of this nature and of almost superhuman importance connected with the very fundamental principles of our government are constantly arising before the Supreme Court of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elevated to that high tribunal who have lived this one-sided life , and where the men who toil and the men who suffer have not been within the vision of the person who is to he elevated to the position of supreme and final arbiter . Calls Radio Issue an Example . " Among the vital questions coming before the Supreme Court ( and I am ' only using this as an illustration of many ) is the fundamental dMpute between combinations of almost unlimited wealth and the common people over the right to use the air we breathe in broadcasting over the radio . " Mr. Hughes has represented a great radio combination in its claim of a vested right in this respect , The air is about the only thing that is left free to the people , and if monopoly is to control that and get a vested right in such control then the evils which will follow can not be told , and human imagination is not sufficiently penetrative to fully realize conditions which will confront civilization in the very near future . " I am aware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aware it can be said ' that those who , like him , stand for great combinations and monopoly have ' recently been successful by an overwhelming majority in a general election . I realize the force of this argument . It is at least claimed , and I think with some degree of logic , that the people have recently in a national election expressed a willingness for the extension of mergers , combinations and big business , and that the appointment of Mr. Hughes is only one step in carrying ' out the policy for which the people of the country recently voted . " Nevertheless , I am not willing that this program should be carried out and brought to its ultimate fruition by any vote of mine . " Blease Blocks Action . Senator James E. Watson , the Republican floor leader , asked unanimous consent for . Immediate coup                     