@@700603

txt Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt told the members of the Bureau of Advertising of the American Newspaper Publishers Association last night that woman newspaper readers were no longer content with the woman 's page , but wanted news of politics and economics , with special emphasis upon the human relations and social implication of such news . The President 's wife was the principal speaker at the bureau 's thirteenth annual dinner , attended by about 1,000 men and women , including guests of bureau members , at the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria . Other speakers were Mayor LaGuardia and Professor William Lyon Phelps . Edwin S. Friendly , business manager of The New York Sun , was chairman , and James G. Stahlman , publisher of The Nashville ( Tenn . ) Banner , was toastmaster . Introducing Mrs. Roosevelt , Mr. Stahlman remarked that she had not confined her life as mistress of the White House to its social duties , but had " thrilled , amazed and sometimes even terrified her fellowcountrymen by her boundless activities and her frequent excursions by land , sea and air . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a toast , standing , to the " first lady of the land , " Mrs , Roosevelt , wearing orchids on her black evening dress , said that she almost wished she had confined her activities to the social obligations of the White House . Gently chiding the publishers , she explained that she realized newspapers were published " for men , " and therefore she . was afraid it was presumptuous for her to address them . Referring to the woman 's page of some newspapers , she said that she thought that most women knew all there was to know about cakes and pies , " and even about children . " Parenthetically , she remarked that this might explain their interest in the child-labor amendment . No matter what their occupation , she continued , women found their primary interest in the home . Because the depression has affected the home so greatly , she continued , the average woman today is taking a wider and wider interest in the affairs of the government and of the world at large . To prove her point , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write to her about home owners ' loans , farm loans , old-age pensions , the tariff , foreign trade , war , labor problems , economic conditions , and so on . As a rule , she said , women are not so much interested in abstract questions such as the currency problem as they are in social questions affecting human relationships . " There may have been a time , " Mrs. Roosevelt added , " when women read only the woman 's page , but if there was , it is fast passing away . The day is gone when women were interested only in things immediately around them . Your papers today are read by women as well as men , and perhaps are read with even more vital interest by women , because it is a fresher and newer interest . " Lack Male Traditions . Women read the important news of the day more from the viewpoint of their own personal experiences than from the viewpoint of traditions with which men read the papers , she said . " Many women , " she said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past ten years , and not only about politics but also about many other phases of life . They are beginning to understand the real motives behind things that happen . They know why some papers take certain positions . They do not . live any more in a dream world where words alone count . That is why I beg you to remember that women want real facts about all the phases of life in the world today . " Mayor LaGuardia declared that his victory over Tammany Hall last Autumn was a great victory for the press , and that anybody nominated on . the Fusion ticket could have won ' under similar conditions . He named The World-Telegram , The Herald-Tribune , THE NEW YORK TIMES and The Post as having contributed to the victory , and said that even the " opposition " papers were " mild " in their opposition , He asked the press for continued cooperation , saying that the fight was just beginning to give New York an " honest , economical and efficient administration " as a " model of municipal government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong centralized Federal Government and regional governments . " As long as we have States that permit the exploitation of child labor , " he added , " there is great need for transferring authority to the Federal Government . " Regretting that this statement might offend the State 's rights beliefs of some of the legal profession , whom he had criticized the day be- , fore at City Hall , . the Mayor explained he really had " very great respect " for members of the bar . If the Federal Government had not stepped in a year ago , he continued , " we would not have had either State or Federal Governments left . " Professor Phelps praised columnists for adding a literary touch to the daily press , and especially mentioned Heywood Broun , F. P. A. , Grantland Rice and John Kieran , sports columnist of Tux NEW Max TIMES . Biggest News Listed . Mr. Friendly enumerated what he regarded as the ten most important news developments of the last year , in order of their importance , as follows : President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold content of the dollar . Progress of the Nazi movement . Repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Kidnappings and lynchings . Defeat of Tammany . Recognition of Russia . General Italo Balbo 's flight across the Atlantic with the Italian seaplane squadron . Rioting in Paris . Overthrow of " Boss " Curry . Mrs. Roosevelt sat between Mr. Friendly and Howard Davis , president of the A. N. P. A. Among others on the dais were Roy Howard of the Scripps-Howard Newspapers , Frank E. Gannett of the Gannett Newspapers , Mr. and Mrs. Ogden Reid of The New York Herald Tribune , Louis Wiley , business manager of THE New YORK TIMES ; Colonel Frank Knox of The Chicago Daily News ; Karl A. Bickel of The United Press , and Heywood Broun , newspaper columnist and Organizer of the Newspaper Guild .                     