@@697600

txt A major operation has been performed upon the athletic organization of the University . of Pennsylvania , it was announced tonight by Thomas S. Gates , who resigned as a partner in J. P. Morgan &; Co. to assume the presidency of his alma mater . The new plan for combating " commercialization " of college teams and the " over-emphasis " on intercollegiate competition complained of in the famous . Carnegie report of a year ago was adopted as the result of a four-months ' study of conditions In colleges throughout the country . Effective immediately , it caused a furore in university circles by its revolutionary provisions and the breadth of its scope . Under the hew system , the university takes athletics to its bosom , giving them the same emphasis as other activities , while imposing upon them the same restrictions and control by the administrative structure of the institution . Coaches are to have the same status as members of the faculty and will be remunerated for their services on the same scale as professors of Latin , Greek or other academic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special consideration in the matter of scholarships and student self-help . Football heroes are to be removed from their lofty eminence and made to mingle with the ordinary students through the elimination of special dormitories and training tables . Week-end jaunts of tired teams to expensive resorts , Spring and pre-season training and long , rigorous schedules are to be eliminated so far as possible . Hopes to End Proselyting . While it is expected that alumni will continue to point out the advantages of the University of Pennsylvania to prospective students , Mr. Gates said he hopes to put an end to prospective students " scouting " and proselyting among the athletes of preparatory schools and rival colleges . Instead , through an expanded system of intramural athletics , he hopes that star performers on the football field and basketball court may be developed from the average run of students . In time Mr. Gates said he hoped to find a means of financing the cost of athletics " so that less and less reliance need be placed upon the familiar system of public purchase of tickets . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gate receipts , " proposed recently by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia University , " would not by any means furnish a cure for abuses , either real or imagined . " As the first step toward accomplishing the Utopia viewed by the authors of the famous Carnegie report , the present council on athletics , composed of alumni , faculty members and students is abolished . To take its place , a new department of physical education has been created . It will be headed by Dr. E. LeRoy Mercer , an alumnus of the university , and at present head of the department of physical education and director of athletics at Swarthmore College . Dr. Mercer will have the title and rank of dean . Lou Young Loses $10,000 Job . Instead of being independent of administrative control , as was the old council on athletics , the new department , with its three subdivisions of student health , physical instruction and intercollegiate athletics , each in charge of a director , will be responsible to the trustees and president of the university . With the abolition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coachy loses his $10,000-a-year job as assistant to the chairman of that body . Coaches now under contract will continue to function as they did before , subject to control by the university administration . The contracts of all except Russel S. Callow , the rowing coach ; Lon M. Jourdet , basketball coach ; Wallace Johnson , the tennis coach , and W. S. Merriam , the swimming coach , expire at the end of this year . The post of head football coach is vacant at present , the three-year contract of J. R. Ludlow Wray having been broken two years before it was to expire . Young and Lou Little , a Pennsylvania alumnus , now coaching at Columbia , have been mentioned as candidates for the job . Alumni Made Survey . Mr. Gates 's report , compiled after an extensive survey completed some days ago by . Gordon A. Hardwick and Dr. Michall Dorizas , alumni of the university , declares unequivocally that athletics in the future will not . be allowed to overreach the limits imposed upon them as parts of an educational department . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the revenue required to maintain intercollegiate sports , will not receive exaggerated consideration nor will football players in future receive " special treatment and concessions . " The president 's statement describes the new organization for athletics in part as follows : " There will be three divisions of the department , each headed by a director  --  the division of student health , the division of physical instruction and the division of intercollegiate athletics . " Coaches will be members of the faculty of the department and will have suitable academic rank . All coaches will be employed on a fulltime basis and will receive compensation in accordance with their rank and with the salary scale provided for all members of the university faculty . In no case will the compensation of coaches be in excess of such provisions . " The academic eligibility of students to participate in intercollegiate athletics will be determined by a committee of five members of the university faculty to be appointed annually by the president , and the decisions of this committee will be final . " The publicity organization will be combined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative status for this al : tivity . " Provisions for financial and other aid for needy students engaging in intercollegiate athletics will be placed upon the same basis as provisions for aid to all other needy students . " The responsibility in this matter will be assigned to the university committee on welfare , composed of the vice presidents of the university , with the vice president in charge of undergraduate schools as chairman ; the director of welfare and the director of scholarships and student finance . " The budget of the department of physical education , covering the various activities comprising it , will be prepared by the dean and submitted to the administration and the trustees for approval , in the same manner as any other departmental budget . " Board to Control Sports . The Division of Student Health is to have " direct supervision and control of all activities which concern the health of the students of the university , absorbing the present Student Health Service . " The Division of Physical Instruction will assume the duties of the old Department of Physical Education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intramural sports . " The Division of Intercollegiate Athkitics will assume " direct control and management in all matters concerned with intercollegiate competition , including business and fiscal duties , ' the scheduling of games , the purchase of supplies , the employment of personnel , the training of student managers , the maintenance and development of the athletic plant and the coordination of all these items into the university 's general administrative structure . Regarding the changes " in practices and policies " to be brought about by the new system , the president 's statement ' continues : " In the preparation of athletic schedules , contests at home and abroad will be considered in the light of the interests of the students and the alumni and with due regard to the university policy with respect to intercollegiate relationships and natural rivalry . " Steps will be taken to work out , with natural rivals , the development of complete year-around sports programs , covering competition in all sports and the whole range of teams in each sport , thus providing intercollegiate competition for a greater number of students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are at present conducted some fifty athletic contests per year , covering a range of eighteen sports . " Medical supervisors of competitive sports will be drawn from the staff of the student health department , and there will be a sufficient number of them to provide supervision for each such sport in training . " There will be a system of ' cuts ' for members of teams . A. player may be medically and physicall well , but not feel up to engaging in practice , due to worry over the condition of his studies or other reasons , based on his mental condition , and not apparent perhaps to either trainer or coach . " There will be a definitely stated policy with respect to the participation of students in more than one sport , the wishes and the welfare of the student being the principal guiding factor instead of the desires of the coaches , as is too often the case . " Will Supervise Aid to Students . Regarding " proselyting , " the order said : " While the efforts of alumni and friends of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Pennsylvania to prospective students should be regarded as highly commendable , the practice of applying undue persuasion in order to influence schoolboys of particular athletic ability to enroll at the university will be discouraged , on account of the harmful implication usually associated therewith . " Relative to the problem of gate ' receipts , Mr. Gates asserted : " The complete abolition of gate receipts , which has been suggested , would not by any means furnish a cure for abuses , either real or imagined . " If colleges and universities are to continue to meet the demand for enlarged and more luxurious facilities for the staging of sports spectacles , involving large capital expenditures , it is only reasonable that those for whose benefit and entertainment the contests are presented should , through alumni and public gifts , provide the necessary funds . Certainly funds intended and required for the educational program should not be used for this extra-educational phase of college athletics . " Dr. Mercer , the dean of the new department , will take office July 1 . In the meantime arrangements have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to devote part of his time to building up the new organization . ? Dr. Mercer was a member of the varsity football team at Pennsylvania in 1910 , 1911 and 1912 , and captained the team in his last two years . He was named on the All-America , elevens of 1910 and 1912 . He also captained the freshman track team and was a member of the varsity track team in 1911 , 1912 and 1913 , being captain in his senior year . He was Intercollegiate broad-jump champion in 1912 and 1913 and a member of the American Olympic team at Stockholm in 1912 . He has been president of the Middle Atlantic States Collegiate Athletic Association for several years . and served two terms as a member of the executive committee of the National Collegiate Athletic Association .                     