@@703578

txt Czechoslovakia agreed to negotiate the territorial demands of Hungary today while the armies of two other neighbors poured across her dismantled frontiers . With German and Polish troops occupying territory already ceded , Foreign Minister Kamil Krofta communicated to the Hungarian Minister to Prague the government 's willingness to settle the Hungarian minority problem . A Czechoslovak-Hungarian commission was suggested to negotiate an agreement . Hungary was said to have been agreeable to the government 's suggestion and asked that negotiations start at once . M. Krofta notified Rumania and Yugoslavia , Czechoslovakia 's allies in the Little Entente , of the government 's decision . Nazis Criticize Government By The Associated Press . BUDAPEST , Hungary , Oct. 2 . ? Critics of Premier Bela Imredy 's policy toward Czechoslovakia redoubled their complaints today as semi-official sources said Prague had sent a note volunteering a " peaceful " settlement of Hungary 's minority and territorial claims . Particularly critical were Hungarian Nazis , who demanded the government resign and make room for " good Hungarians " who are in prison now . One of the Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-year prison term . The Nazis , together with some Revisionist leaders , in newspaper complaints placed the blame on the government for having missed the opportunity to settle Hungary 's score with Czechoslovakia as Germany and Poland did . Kalman Hubay , Hungarian member of Parliament and a deputy Nazi leader , declared the hope of the Imredy government of peacefully settling Hungarian claims with Czechoslovakia was " nonsense . " The Nazi newspaper , Magyarsag , in which he wrote , also declared that a " fight " with Czechoslovakia was now necessary . Claims Held " Sky High " Czechoslovakia diplomatic circles described Hungarian claims as " sky high . " Mr. Hubay also said : " We , want amnesty for our good Hungarians so they may head the country , " and the Magyarsag declared the government should buy arms to carry on its fight with Czechoslovakia rather than beds for concentration camps for Nazis . The paper , which later was confiscated by police , also warned Hungarians not to consider Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini " our uncles who will do everything for Hungary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their share and it is time now for Hungarians to do the rest , the paper argued . Although annoyed by these unexpected attacks , most Cabinet members seemed convinced that patience in the Czechoslovak matter was the only way to accomplish the " most " for Hungary under existing foreign political difficulties . It was pointed out that no military action could be undertaken by Hungary against Czechoslovakia if Prague 's allies in the Little Entente , Yugoslavia and Rumania , were unwilling to stand aside . Hungarian Note Is Sent The Czechoslovak note offering a peaceful settlement grossed a Hungarian communication sent today to Prague proposing immediate negotiations . Official sources announced sending of the Hungarian note . They said it was handed to Czechoslovak Foreign Minister Kamil Krofta and contained a Hungarian request that claims for self-determination of Hungarian minorities " find immediate realization . " A Hungarian Foreign Office spokesman said Hungary 's demands included : " 1 . Unconditional , immediate return of all territories that are known as purely Hungarian regions along the southern border of Czechoslovakia . " 2 . An immediate plebiscite in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether these populations wish to stay in Czechoslovakia or join Hungary . " 3 . The general right for a plebiscite for all other minorities . " Reliable Hungarian quarters said demands for " pure Hungarian territories " ? given to Czechoslovakia as a result of the World War  --  would include an area of about 4,000 square miles northwest of Budapest . They said its boundary , beginning at Komarno , would extend northeast to Novi Zamky and Nagysallo , whence it would turn southeast to the Hungarian border town of Balassagyarmat . About 240,000 Hungarians were said to populate that area of Czechoslovakia . Eastward along the same border , they said , were numerous " Hungarian islands , " small districts with a possible total of another 50,000 Hungarians . The so-called mixed area for which a plebiscite is said to have been demanded by Hungary , and in which not more than 50 per cent of the population is believed to be Hungarian , begins , according to 15-yearold statistics , twenty miles east of Bratislava . It is a strip about twenty miles wide extending eastward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Should all sections go to Hungary , it is believed Hungary 's population would be raised by about 750,000 . Hungarian revisionists , who claim 2,000,000 adherents , however , apparently would not be satisfied with such a solution . They demand " all territory that was transferred from Hungary to Czechoslovakia as a result of the World War "  --  a diverse population of about 3,500,000 . One official declared all purely Hungarian territories in Czechoslovakia were so trifling that , at the most , all that could be demanded would be a " slight border correction here and there . " In these Czechoslovak quarters , however , it was said even small revisions would not be offered . They said Czechoslovakia would propose in the projected diplomatic negotiations that Hungarian minorities be accorded " some autonomy within the Czechoslovak State . " According to the government-inspired press , the Czechoslovak note to Hungary suggested that a " permanent Czechoslovak - Hungarian committee " be created to settle the differences between the neighboring countries . The official Hungarian press agency quoted , Premier Imredy as saying in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territories in Czechoslovakia to Hungary a settled question . " Cabinet to Be Reorganized , Wirelesx to Tiin NEW YORK TIMES . BUDAPEST , ' Hungary , Oct. 2 . ? The reorganization of the Hungarian Cabinet is expected tomorrow with the " younger generation " receiving portfolios together with representatives of the extreme right . There are rumors that Foreign Minister Koloman de Kanya will be eliminated . Czechs Still Mobilized BALASSAGYARMAT , Hungary ( on the Hungarian-Czechoslovak frontier ) , Oct. 2 ( .21 ) ) . ? A tour of inspection today proved that Czechoslovak mobilization still was in full force along this border . Czechoslovak soldiers in large numbers behind electrically charged barbed wire rushed to their machine-gun nests whenever a foreigner came close to the line . Only on a few highways connecting Hungary and Czechoslovakia were box cars , barrows and plows removed occasionally from the passageway to permit foreign cars to pass after a careful examination by both sides . There still was no railway communication between the two countries . On hills close behind the border Czechoslovak artillery exercises were being held . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Few civilians were seen on the Czechoslovak side . It was explained by Hungarian farmers that Czechoslovak villagers were not permitted to leave their own communities since mobilization began . A food shortage was said to be one result in some border towns . One amusing story told by a Hungarian farmer was that his geese were searched every morning when they swam across a 60-foot river to the Czechoslovak side . Czechoslovak soldiers apparently feared documents were being smuggled across under their wings . On this side of the boundary meetings were held this afternoon in almost every border village , requesting the government to " march into Czechoslovagia . " Numerous soldiers attended these meetings , since border garrisons have been greatly increased . There were no troop movements or any fortifications visible on the Hungarian side of the frontier . Bogota Names Lima Delegates Special Cable to THE NSW YORK TIMES . BOGOTA , Colombia , Oct. 2 . ? The President today appointed Minister of Foreign Relations Luis Lopez de Mesa , Gabriel Turbay , Roberto Urdaneta Arbelaez and the present Minister to Washington , Miguel Lopez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     