@@698772

txt The Chinese and Japanese formally signed the truce at Shanghai today in the presence of the American , British and French ministers , and the Italian charge d'affaires , whose tireless efforts for two months have repeatedly prevented a breaking up of negotiations . The agreement provides that the Japanese shall withdraw within a month to the International Settlement and to four limited areas inside the 12-mile zone , while the Chinese troops shall remain in their present positions . Chinese Government leaders displayed considerable courage in signing the agreement without a definite time limit for Japanese withdrawal , thereby giving the opposition factions an opportunity to protest . On this point the Chinese accepted the neutral diplomats ' advice , which assumed that no agreement would be posbible if the Chinese insisted upon their original demand for a time limit . Simultaneously with the signature of the truce , the Chinese Government announced its intention of forming a special constabulary for policing the evacuated areas and employing experts , presumably foreigners , as officers . This action , taken on the Government 's own initiative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warring Chinese armies have more than once threatened during the last decade . The truce provides for a mixed commission of Chinese , Japanese , American , British , French and Italian members to supervise the withdrawal and to arrange for the transfer of the evacuated areas to the Chinese police . All matters of procedure have been left to the commission 's discretion , a majority vote deciding all questions . The truce has aroused unmixed enthusiasm in the foreign business community in Shanghai , and is equally welcome to the majority of Chinese business men . The proposed round table conference for settling the Shanghai conflict permanently is not being discussed at this time , but it is hoped , after withdrawal has been completed , that the Chinese and Japanese will be able to accept such a conference with the neutral diplomats ' assistance . Special to The Christian Science Monitor ola Press Wireless MOSCOW , May ** Soviet Government has uncompromisingly refused to cooperate with the League of Nations ' Manchurian commission . Mr. Maxim Litvinoff , Commissar for Foreign Affairs , declined Lord Lytton 's request @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission . According to correspondence on this question published here late ycsteiday , Mr. LltvinofT was influenced in his refusal by the fact that the " Soviet Government , not belonging to the League of Nations , not participating in events proceeding in China or in the composition of the Lytton commission , and not being represented on the commission , is thus deprived of the possibility of guaranteeing the necessary attitude toward information given by representatives of the Soviet ' Union and could not assume responsibility for any conclusions the League might draw . " Several factors may explain this decision not to cooperate , even infortnatitely , with the commission . First , there is the habitual unconcealed Soviet contempt for the sincerity and effectiveness of the League . Secondly , the Soviet Goveinment probably resents the fact that , despite its Far Eastern interests , it has not been consulted since the beginning of the Manchurian crisis . Last , but not least , information furnished by Soviet consuls or other officials might have been construed as a form of interference in the Manchurian situation , any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     