@@701942

txt But Enough Has Been Brought Out at Detroit To Show the Menace of the Secret Order . Times Wide World . Dayton Dean shown on the stand in Detroit , where he revealed details of the Poole slaying , which served to stir the wide investigation of the activities of the masked men . In the circle  --  the hood worn by members of the secret order . DETROIT . June ** inland industrial States know now , after a fortnight of investigation of the Black Legion by State , county and city law enforcement agencies in Michigan , that however fantastic the activities of the secret terrorist society may have been , however ridiculous its weird rites and practices may have appeared in the light of day , the organization would have shortly become a serious menace to democratic processes had it not been exposed . With the facts gathered by Prosecutors Duncan C. McCrea of Wayne County , including Detroit , and Owen Dudley of Jackson County , and their staffs , by State Attorney General David H. Crowley and his aides , by such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liddy in Detroit in their grand jury and preliminary court proceedings , a fairly complete picture of the order 's strength appears on official record . Officials believe that their original estimate of 40,000 members in the State , made at a time when a membership of only 3,000 was known , will probably prove to be not far from the - accurate total when judicial and police inquiries are completed some months from now . But this number includes many who were coerced or inveigled into membership . Spread of the Order The known membership has more than doubled . Not all " regiments " in the organization set-up have been accounted for , and only for Michigan is there enough information to determine the localities in which the cult gained serious proportions . But from the wealth of statements , documents and confessions , it can be said that this was not an affair that is the sole concern of Michigan . Meetings in Ohio attended by Michigan night riders showed the membership there to be compact , better disciplined and more firmly established , with known gatherings attracting hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in Michigan can not be estimated . As in Indiana , there have been few inquiries . Complaints of mob disorder bearing marks of Black Legion inspiration continue to pour in upon Prosecutor McCrea from more than a third of the States . Yet there are no facts available upon which one might reach a conclusion that the Black Legion had spread beyond the inland industrial States . However , the facts show the situation to be even more serious . The " regiment " In Pontiac , Mich. , which maintained close relations with . a " regiment " in Findlay , Ohio , to which V. F. Effinger , divisional commander , was a frequent visitor , had received word from-organizations such as the Silver Ranger Legion , headed by William Dudley Pelley of Asheville , N. C. , that there was general sentiment among the semi-military , anti-democratic groups for national unification . Alliances Considered Pontiac sent a delegate to confer with the Pelley leadership . He reported back , according to the Rev.1 Sidney Austin , former member , 1 that the character of the Pelley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thel " regiment " in Monroe , Mich. , opened up cordial relations with the Pelley group , although it also did not affiliate . What was bringing these organizations together ? Political ambitions had been aroused by an easy ride to power in at least one city of average population , Pontiac . As Effinger told Ray Ernest , a " brigade commander " in Michigan a few months ago , " you ca n't go on with only night meetings forever ; you 've got to go into politics . " Thereupon Effinger , now believed to be only a spokesman for minds more politically astute , delivered plans for capturing the Jackson County Republican Convention , according to Ernest . In the past week it has been found that while the backbone of the organization lay in the marginal workers it had recruited , an important section of the membership consisted of substantial citizens . Campaign funds were raised at meetings in at least two churches in Detroit . Scores of important politicians joined the organization , hoping to win its votes . The Ku Klux Klan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been able to recruit everywhere . It has gained significant size chiefly only where the Klan , formerly had been strong . Also , the Klan contributed experience in the ways by which a secret society can rise to State-wide power . With social conditions more favorable , the prospect of national power was a lure which the leaders believed would maintain the growth in the membership rolls . Dayton Dean , Black Legion gunman in the mob involved in the murder of Charles A. Poole , in his sensational story of the slaying from the witness stand in preliminary court proceedings brought out the dangers that this process of integration included . " I shot Poole because I was supposed to , " he said . " I had to take orders from my superior officers . If I were ordered to murder some one or commit a crime I would do it . " Dean once had been lashed for neglecting an order . Public Aroused In these inland States the Black Legion exposure has brought home to the average citizen the low level on which mob action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for democratic procedures . Court room crowds have continued bitterly hostile , but never has there been danger of vigilante reaction against the prisoners . A throng debated the issues with a Black Legion apologist , a lone man , in Pontiac , but made no effort to molest him . Civic leaders who have taken part in fomenting " red " scares here , which made terrorist recruiting more easy , confess openly now that the democratic method of discussion and debate is a far more effective method of dissipating the exaggerated strength of communism than irresponsible agitation . The interest throughout the country can be measured in the thousands a words telegraphed and telephoned daily from Detroit to newspapers from Boston to San Francisco , in the communications received by the investigators from widely scattered law-enforcement agencies anxious for information that will be helpful to them - In keeping their own organized . mobs in control , and in the debates in Congress , where a group of statesmen still are seeking a Federal investigation . If this continues while the long process of bringing the terrorists to justice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Black Legion will go the way of the Ku Klux Klan .                     