@@704334

txt Representative Clare E. Hoffman , Republican 1 of Michigan , today requested Governor Luren D. Dickinson to compel local authorities in the State to protect all Chrysler Corporation employes who wish to return to work , and to proceed against any person or persons who prevented them from going to work . " For more than forty-five days the Chrysler strike has prevented thousands of men from receiving their pay checks , " said Mr. Hoffman in his plea to the Governor . " It has compelled the taxpayers to support men who have jobs at more than average wage , but who will not earn , or are prevented from earning , their own livelihood . " All this because a few communistic-minded labor organizers want to Russianize Detroit and the motor industry . " The laws of Michigan punish those who by force prevent others from working . If you would enforce the laws , as it is your duty to do , by preventing pickets in Detroit from using force to keep men from their jobs the Chrysler strike would end itself . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the C. I. 0. , is scheduled to arrive here tomorrow morning and to confer with the auto union officials , after which he may enter the joint conferences wish the Chrysler Corporation in an effort to break the deadlock on wages and the status of foremen who are members of the C. I. 0 . The corporation was said to expect some - direct assurances from the C. I. 0 . leader on behalf of his organization that the foremen , who requested a collective-bargaining conference last week and who withdrew the request in twenty-four hours , would not seek to renew their efforts . The corporation asserted that the C. I. 0. , as parent of both the foremen and the U. A. W. , was seeking to sitgn both sides of the conference table , since the first step in the grievance procedure is for employes to talk over their grievances with the foremen . The foremen , in reply , have declared that they have been shorn of such duties and that higher supervisory officials are the ones who deal with the grievances in their first stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a possible " race riot " if Negro workers tried to smash the picket , lines at the Chrysler Corporation 's main Dodge plant tomorrow morning was given by R. J. Thomas , president of the United Automobile Workers of America , ( C. I. 0. ) today in announcing that he had sent a telegram to K. T. Keller , president of the corporation , urging him to disavow a back-to-work movement reported among Negro employes . Early this evening Mr. Keller said that he had not received the telegram . A corporation spokesman declared that the company position was the same as it had always been . " The plants will be open and if any one comes back to work and if there is any to do , we will give it to him , " the spokesman said . " However , we have had and will have nothing to do with any back-to-work movement . " Over the week-end the union leaders and leaders of the Negro community sought to work out some plans whereby a clash would be averted tomorrow morning since Negro foundry ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant as they did last Friday when six men were injured in a melee as they entered the gates . Mr. Thomas telegraphed James F. Dewey , conciliator of the United Staten Department of Labor , and Arthur E. Raab , chairman of the State Labor Mediation Board , asking them to intercede with the cor-. poration . About 15,000 copies of a circular signed by four Negro leaders were distributed at Negro churches today declaring that the back-to-work movement " can have no benefit for Negro workers " and " contains possibilities of race riots and of race conflict . " " If Negroes are to have jobs they must have them in cooperation with all r workers , " the circular stated . " Any effort to put Negroes back to work in the factories over the majority of all workers will spell doom to Negro workers in the factories . Negro workers must not allow themselves to he used by irresponsible leaders . " The circular was signed by the Rev. Horace A. Wright of Plymouth Congregational Church , State Senator Charles Diggs , Louis Martin , editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill of the Hartford Avenue Baptist Church . In a statement today , Mr. Thomas asserted that last Friday supervisory employes in the Dodge foundry advised some Negro laborers to round up Negro acquaintances who wanted work " for a concerted crashing of the picket lines . " " This dangerous movement has been advanced by the activities of Homer Martin who on Friday night held a Jim Crow back-to-work meeting  --  that is , a meeting to which he , by means of a public appeal over Station CKLW , invited only Negro workers , " Mr. Thomas added . " The seriousness of the situation may be noted from the fact that the Rev. Horace A. White , the Rev. Charles A. Hill , State Senator Charles Diggs and Louis Martin , editor of The Negro Chronicle , responsible leaders in the Negro community , have urged the Negro workers not to permit themselves to be used as dupes in a back-towork movement which has as its objective destruction of the solidarity of all Dodge workers . " If the forces who are attempting to organize Negro workers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lines are not halted , we may be faced with serious , vicious race riots . " " The U. A. W.-C . I. 0 . has Negro members on an equal basis with white members , " he went on . ' ' Our demands in the strike are for all workers . It would be a calamity to the city to divide the auto workers and all workers on race lines . Lays Responsibility to Company " Chrysler Corporation has a great responsibility in this matter . One of its agents , at least , urged the organizing of a Negro back-to-work movement . It is obvious , even if all Dodge Negro workers responded to that advice , the plant could not operate . Negotiations now in progress should not be marred or impeded by disorder . " I am urging the Chrysler Corporation to tell the Negro workers that they are not being called back to work and that there will be no toleration of attempts to open the plants by forcible smashing of the picket lines . " The union is doing its best to avert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Violence and race riots will not help advance the possibility of a settlement of disputed issues . " Mr. Thomas 's wire to Mr. Keller said : " A ' back-to-work ' movement of Negro laborers at Dodge plant is being t ' orc'anized . Forcible attempts to crash through picket lines may bring serious race riots . I urge you to advise Negro workers publicly that the plant will not be open for work tomorrow . As you know , the plant can not operate with Negro workers alone . Threatened outbreak of race riots would be a disaster to the city . "                     