@@699070

txt Spurred by a declaration from President Hoover that the " major financial crisis " had been successfully overcome , business and industrial leaders called together from over the nation set up a central council of war today for a vigorous new attack on what remains of the depression . The drive of the forces of economic destruction had been stopped , the President told the National Conferenoe.of Business and Industrial Committees , but there had been casualties. , " Ch ? teau Thierry " had been won , he went on to say , and then he Added : " But I , warn you that the war is not over ; we must now reform our forces for the battle of Soissons . " Taking up this challenge , the 250 business and industrial leaders voted unanimously to create a central committee to bring Federal agencies and private business into an immediate I six-point campaign to expand credit and spread employment . H. M. Robinson Heads Drive . The conference , scheduled for one day , was called together in the auditorium of the new Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4:30 this afternoon , an hour having been taken for lunch . Two subcommittees will meet tomorrow morning for a more detailed discussion of their plans and it is expected that by tomorrow night most of the delegates will be on their way home . The central committee , organized along lines recommended by Secretary Mills , Governor Meyer of the Federal Reserve Board , Owen D. Young and others , was placed under the chairmanship of Henry M. Robinson , Los Angeles banker and close friend of President Hoover . To its membership were named the chairmen of the banking and industrial committees of the Federal Reserve districts : Jackson E .. Reynolds , president of the First National Bank of New York ; A. W. Robertson , chairman of the board of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company ; George L. Harrison , governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ; Atlee Pomerene , chairman , and Charles A. Miller , president of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation ; Robert P. Lamont , former Secretary of Commerce ; Mr. Meyer and Secretaries Mills and Chapin . Six Subcommittees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows to-begin immediate study of specific proposals in the sixfold program outlined by Secretary Mills , pointing to recovery : 1 . The problem of making available credit affimatively useful to business  --  Chairman , Mr. Young . 2 . Increased employment on railroads and stimulation of industry through expansion or maintenance of equipment and purchase of new equipment in cooperation with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Reconstruction Finance Corportion  --  Committee , Daniel Willard , president of the Baltimore &; Ohio Railroad , and George H. Houston , president of the Baldwin Locomotive Works . 3 . Expansion of capital expenditures b industry in the way of replacement of obsolete and worn-out equipment and otherwise  --  Chairman , Mr. Robertson . 4 . Increased employment through the sharing-work movement  --  Chairman , Walter C. Teagle , president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey . 5 . Stimulation of repair and improve . ment of homes movement  --  Committee , Sewell L. Avery , president of Montgomey , Ward &; Co. , and C. M. Woolley , chairman of the American Radiator Corporation . 6 . Organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with maturing mortgages ? Chairman , Mr. Miller . The conferees responded fully to President Hoover 's admonition that they were in Washington , " not to pass resolutions on economic questions , but to give you the opportunity to organize for action . " Hoover Traces Phases of Slump . The President , as well as the fourteen speakers who followed him in the all-day session , appeared to hold it axiomatic that the full force of the financial crisis had passed and that the problem now was to organize for a strong , steady upturn . " The reason for calling this conference at this particular moment , " the President said , " is that we are convinced that we have overcome the major financial crisis  --  a crisis in severity unparalleled in the history of the world  --  and that with its realiza1 tion , confidence and hope have , reappeered in world . ' " We arethe now able to take further steps in solution of the industrial and agricultural problems with which we are still confronted . " TO overcome " this stupendous crisis " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but proof of our I resources . " So his hearers might I appreciate more fully what the country had withstood , Mr. Hoover sketched the phases of the depression . The nation had entered the first quarter of 1931 after a year of worldwide business recessions . Recovery was apparent then , he said , with a decrease of about 70 per cent in bank failures and the reappearance of currency hoarded during 1930 . " Then there came to us a concentration of catastrophies from abroad , such as we have not experienced in the whole of our economic history , " he said . " The economic and political demoralization in foreign countries , weakened by the great war and the treaties , together with the general depression itself , loosened a host of new forces of destruction . " England Leaves Gold Standard . The first evidence of " impending financial collapse abroad " came in the difficulties of the largest bank of Vienna in April , 1931 . Then the troubles spread to the national banks of Austria and Yugoslavia and the German Reichsbank . Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas of Central Europe , revolution in Spain and in South American countries , and all of this climaxed with the suspension of the gold standard by England . Other countries followed suit in suspending the gold standard , and then , as if to multiply economic confusion , armed conflict broke out in the Far East . " In even normal times any one of these many shocks to economic stability would have seriously impaired our economic life and created falls of prices and unemployment , " the President continued . " The effects upon us of each of these invasions was instantaneous . American securities held abroad were dumped upon our markets . The prices of our stocks and bonds and commodities were continuously undermined . Huge foreign deposits . in our banks ' were frantically withdrawn . Our own borrowers on commodities and on securities were called upon for more margins . " This storm in the financial world set " paralyzing fears " abroad in the land , demonstrated by the hoarding of $70,000,000 a week at the time of the German collapse and its rise to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Foreign depositors withdrew $2 , - 400,000,000 from the United States , and at one time $1,600,000,000 in currency was withdrawn from banks and circulation by our own people . " Let no man believe that these are questions which are of interest solely to big business , " Mr. Hoover went on . " They are the origins of millions of human tragedies of losses , unemployment and distress . " Picture " Greatly Changed " Now . During these eighteen months all was defensive ; the moratorium on intergovernmental debts , advances by our banks to the national banks of foreign countries , the creation of the National Credit Corporation , the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , the increased powers to the Federal Reserve System , balancing of the national budget , the financial aids to Farm Loan Banks , " and above all the unity and courage of our people , represent our incessant action in defense and counter-attack . " the President declared . Then he reversed the canvas . " Today that picture has greatly changed , " he said . A cessation of foreign withdrawals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reinvestment of Europeans in our securities , diminishing of domestic hoarding and the lessening demand for financial aid from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation all enabled the President now to look back on the crisis . " It is not alone our country that is making a successful fight for the return of stability , " he said . " Foreign countries have not been idle in placing their own houses in order . The Lausanne agreement has contributed to return of confidence . " But while improvement in the financial sector was apparent , the battle on the industrial and agricultural fronts must be continued . There was " a new setting of the depression , " which offered opportunity , through new confidence , to set up machinery for " wider-spread cooperation of private forces and to coordinate them with government agencies for aid and action in industrial and agricultural fields . " Spread of Employment Needed . Mr. Hoover asserted that the one purpose of the conference was to enable banking and industry and business generally to assume further initiative and responsibility in this new setting , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governmental agencies . " Your committees have in different districts already made positive contributions , " he said . " These tried methods need spread and more definite national organization ; they need coordination with our governmental programs . You can assist to make that great program more effective . In so doing you will bring hope and added security to every farmhouse and every cottage door . " Better distribution of credit was needed . Such credit as was available , in many sections was flowing inadequately in directions which would stimuate consumption of goods and employment . " It needs resolution to use our banking and governmental resources and coordination to make them effective , " he said . As to the spread of employment , the President said that it was " doubtful whether any action we could take . at this time would so greatly accelerate our progress , serve the welfare of our unemployed millions or so quickly give us as a nation the benefit of widespread spending power as a further spread of equitable plans of sharing available work . " Shortening of hours was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need of the moment , but might be necessary to take up slack in the future " from the vast and sudden advance in labor-saving devices . " Agriculture 's problems belonged not alone to the farmer and the government ; its relief was " one of the primary foundations of all progress in our country . " The President told the business and industrial committees that theirs was not a problem of settling great questions of the future , or establishing artificialities , " but rather by practical steps today or organization contribute to make more effective the activities of every agency which can promote the recovery of the nation . " President Stays for Speeches . The President remained throughout the morning session ; after finishing his speech , he surprised members of his staff who had accompanied him , settling back in a chair to listen to and applaud succeeding speeches . Secretary Mills followed the President , giving an outline of the history of the business and industrial committees , and striking further the keynote of the present meeting , which was not one to set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present agencies in taking advantage of the present upward movement in business . " We are creating a central organization for the purpose of contact and cooperation , " he said , " to assist in the task to be performed by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , Federal Reserve Banking System , the Home Loan Banks , the banking and industrial committees and such voluntary groups as may associate themselves with the latter with a view to developing helpful steps looking to gradual economic rehabilitation and more immediately an increase in employment . " He sketched the six objectives of the business and industrial committee movement which later were incorporated in the official acts of the conference . Governor Meyer followed next to outline the part of the Federal Reserve Board , both in fighting the eighteen-month battle against financial panic and in furtherance of the final assault on the depression . " Certainly no one in the Federal Reserve System ever surrendered in thought or deed , " he said . " The main guiding principle in the operation of the Federal Reserve System all through this period has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve , through their member banks and through open market operations , the needs of American commerce , industry and agriculture . ' It has been able to do so under exceedingly difficult conditions and with the additional powers that have been granted by Congress , it is our firm belief that we will in the future , as we have in the past , with absolute confidence in our resources and our people , stand by our institutions and through them maintain and support , to the utmost of our ability , our commerce , industry and agriculture . " Pomerene Assails Critics . The conferees were stirred by the speech of Mr. Pomerene as chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , who not only told of the possibilities of the corporation In furthering the movement started today , but sharply assailed critics of the corporation 's policies . He was loudly cheered as he challenged those who said that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation was for big business alone , to come to investigate the records . Mr. Miller , as president of the Finance Corporation , followed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the institution . Chairman Fort of the Home Loan Bank Board received one of the greatest ovations at the meeting with his explanation of the workings of this new agency . The greatest attention was centred upon his announcement that an effort was being made to have all banks declare a sixty-day moratorium on home loan payments , until the new home loan banks could be put in operation . Paul Bestor , Farm Loan Commissioner , explained the part played and to be played by the farm credit agencies . Secretary Chapin followed him with an invitation to the business leaders to make more use of the Department of Commerce , both while here and in connection with their daily business . The final set speech of the day was delivered by Mr. Young , one of the founders of the Business and Industrial Committee movement . He is chairman of the New York committee , the first to be organized and which he said , " was born as the result of an immediate need and not as a part of a comprehensive plan . " Mr. Young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its accomplishments in expanding credit facilities in that area . He told of the rise of the idea throughout the nation which finally culminated in the organization , by himself , Secretary Mills and Governor Meyer , of the twelve committees in the Federal Reserve districts . Young Tells of Work Here . " We hope now , that as a result of this meeting , " Mr. Young said , " we can integrate the activities of the committees and make them much more useful as a national agency representing private business in cooperation with the several governmental agencies and thereby make more effective our drafts on both public and private credit . " He suggested a possibility of grouping borrowers in the New York district so that those who had been cut off from credit facilities through bank failures might pool their securities and obtain relief from the big " downtown banks . " He mentioned this as a possible practical idea that his subcommittee might work upon . The proposal for the central committee was couched in a resolution and introduced at the afternoon meeting by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the six subcommittees , to carry forward the six parts of the immediate program . A more detailed discussion followed , with either the proposed chairman or some member of the subcommittees outlining objectives or methods . L. B. Williams of Cleveland spoke of the problem of making credit more useful , relating the experience of the Cleveland district 's business and industrial committee in directing fifty worthy credit applicants to " reservoirs of surplus credit . " Mr. Willard explained what some railroad leaders were doing to get the carriers to accept a formula worked out in connection with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and toward making repairs and buying equipment against future needs . He told how the Baltimore &; Ohio Railroad had availed itself of a $3,000 , - 000 loan by this formula to be used for repairs , thus giving employment to 2,000 people for probably six months at least . President Houston of the Baldwin Locomotive Works supplemented Mr. Willard 's statement with further suggestions of what might be done by advance purchase of railroad equipment . Mr. Robertson , the chairman of the board of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of $5,000,000,000 in surplus credit to remodel their plants and replace obsolete machinery . Mr. Woolley outlined briefly the purposes of his subcommittee in starting a home-building movement . Mr. Teagle , the president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , and K. R. Kingsbury , president of the Standard Oil Company of California , told what had been done and could be done with the spread-ofwork policy in relieving unemployment . Resolution for Committees . The text of the resolution by which the central committee and six subcommittees were set up was as follows : Resolved , That the chairman of the banking and industrial committees , Messrs . Robinson , Reynolds , Robertson , Governor Meyer , Governor Harrison , Messrs . Pomerene , Miller , Fort and R. P. Lamont , and the Secretaries of the Treasury and Commerce shall constitute a central committee to act as a central point of contact in those matters requiring cooperation between various public and semi-public agencies and the several banking and industrial committees , and to be of assistance to voluntary committees formed for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive committee of the central committee shall consist of the chairman , any three chairmen of the several banking and industrial committees , and the Secretary of the Treasury or the Secretary of Commerce . The governor of the Federal Reserve Board , the governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , the chairman and president of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , shall be ex-officio members of such executive committee , but shall not be necessary for a quorum . Resolved further , That there are hereby created the following subcommittees to consider the following subjects : ( 1 ) The problem of making available credit affirmatively , useful to business . Chairman , Mr. Young . Committee to be selected by him . 2 . Increased employment on railroads and stimulation of industry through expansion of maintenance of equipment and purchase of new equipment in cooperation with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Comittee to consist of Messrs . Willard and Houston . 3 . Expansion of capital expenditures by industry in the way of replacement of obsolete and worn-out equipment and otherwise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , with cooperation of Banking and Industrial Committee chairmen . 4 . Increased employment through sharing work movement . Chairman , Mr. Teagle . Committee to be appointed by Banking and Industrial Committee chairman . 5 . Possibility of stimulating repair and improvement of home movement . Messrs . Avery and Woolley and such members as they may appoint with cooperation of banking and industrial chairman . 6 . Organization of committees in the several districts to assist home owners with maturing mortgages along the lines described by Mr. Miller . The committee further recommends the active cooperation of all banking and industrial committees in working out the problems incident to the making of so-called self-liquidating loans by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for public and semi-public projects , and for slum clearance and housing projects as provided in the emergency relief act ; in aiding the making of cattle loans by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and Agricultural Credit Corporation ; in assisting the establishment of Agricultural Credit Corporations , provided for in the same act , and in facilitating the adequate functioning of the new Home Loan Banks . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' vigorously to devote itself to the solution of the economic and employment problems of their districts , as outlined in today 's discussion , and more particularly direct their efforts to supplementing the efforts of existing relief agencies and to make more effective the facilities furnished by these institutions , and that in the carrying out of this work full use will be made of the central committee for the purpose of the interchange of ideas and experiences and the development sound proposals .                     