@@697474

txt President Hoover is considering the advisability of transmitting the revised World Court , protocol to the Senate at the session of Congress which will begin Monday . He is anxious , however , that the protocol shall not be taken up for consideration in that session , but shall be permitted to go over for action until the next Congress , which will not assemble until December , 1931 , unless the President calls an extra session which , from all appearances , is the last thing he would care to do . Senator Borah , chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations , who discussed the matter yesterday with Secretary Stimson , obtained the impression that . the protocol will be laid before the Senate at the coming short session . There is substantial ground for an impression prevalent in interested quarters that President Hoover desires ' to reach an understanding with members of the Foreign Relations Committee that the protocol will be permitted to lie over without action by that committee until the convening of the next Congress . That no such arrangement has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the President 's suggestion will not meet . with Mr. Borah s consent . Borah Is Prepared for Action . Soon after he returned to Washington this month Senator Borah said that if the protocol were submitted at the coming session he would bring it to the attention of the Foreign Relations Committee without delay and ' would see that it was- reported back to the Senate In ample time for its thorough consideration before the end of the session in March . It is procedure of that sort that is contrary to the Administration 's plans . The dominant feeling among officials is that if the annual supply bills are to be passed and an extra session avoided , there must be no controversial matters laid before Congress . Adherence to the World Court is a conspicuously controversial issue , and the fear exists that discussion of it would be prolonged to such an e1ctent that some of the supply bills would fail and the President then would be confronted with the necessity of calling the new Congress . Behind this fear is the thought that the assembling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they do not have control of the Senate and the House , will be powerful enough to prevent the passage of administration measures whenever they feel so inclined , will lead to uneasiness in the business world and that the country 's recovery from the current economic depression will be retarded . Nothing in the way of an authori ; - tative statement has come from the White House With respect to the President 's attitude concerning the time fqr the submission of the World Court protocol to the Senate . There are reports that he might seek to arrange with Senate leaders to have the protocol held in the Committee on Foreign Relations throughout the coming three months ' *session , in the understanding that he would summon an extra session of the Senate immediately after . the term of the new Congress is begun in March , with ( that special session to be devoted - exclusively to considering the protocol . Preference Against . Calling Session . While some such thought was in the minds of administration leaders at one time , it Is now fairly evident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Congress for as long as possible . While the special session could not - be devoted to any legislative business , the opportunity for some Senators to espouse doctrines that might increase the nervousness or business interests would be offered , and that is something which the administration is , anxioug to avoid . The apparent inclination of the administration to lay the protocol before the Senate when it reassembles next week is born of a desire to make a gesture of good faith toward those who have . supported it in its espousal of American entry into this ' Permanent tribunal of international justice . There has been some Criticism- of the failure of President Hoover to transmit the protocol to the Senate before this time . The Administration 's answer is that it would have been unwise to have asked the Senate to pass on the protocol while the London armament treaty was before it for consideration . To have taken that course , it is contended , would have endangered the ratification of the London agreement . An additional answer is that as soon BS the armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord and has not been In session since then . There are indications that the Republican insurgent element in the Senate ' might take advantage of having the World Court protocol under consideration in the coming session to debate it at great length , with a view to preventing action on the annual supply bills , in the hope that the President would feel compelled to summon the new Congress into extra session . Many Democratic Senators and Representatives are so opposed as their Republican brethren to an extra session . They fear that if its manifestations retarded business recovery their party might be held responsible ' .                     