@@698701

txt Probate Judge Henry . Horner accepted news of his nomination as the Democratic candidate for governor modestly last night . As he sat in the mayor 's office his restraint was sharply contrasted by the exuberance of Mayor Cermak and the enthusiastic acclaim a leaders of the regular Democratic organization . Judge Horner scanned early returns calmly . The same , returns were greeted by cheers as they were read by Mayor Cermak . The judge could not be prevailed upon to make a statement until late in the evening . He insisted Ile would say nothing until returns were decisive . " it 's a victory , " Mayor Cermak shouted to those about him when the first returns gave the organization candidate a big lead . Then to the Democratic leaders and other nominees , who waited in his outer office . the mayor announced , " It 's a landslide . " Offer Congratulations . Judge Horner said nothing . The throng in the outer office pressed through to offer congratulations . As they were forced upon him , Judge Horner accepted each one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " His protest was drowned in the enthusiasm . Edward J. Kelly , president of the south park board ; Chief Justice Harry Fisher of the Criminal court , County Clerk Robert M. Sweitzer , and Supe rior Judge Joseph B. David were among those who laughed at the reticence of the nominee . They rushed further returns to the judge in an effort to make him concede victory . Judge Horner posed grudgingly for photographers and was prevailed upon to smile only after difficulty . He refused to pose in his shirtsleeves as the photographers requested . Mayor Ca n't Boss Him . " I have been charged with being his boss , but look at him . He wo n't do anything I saY . I told him to issue a statement ; I told him to take off his coat , and he wo n't do it , " the mayor laughed . Only when downstate returns came in would Judge Horner make a statement . " Now . that returns indicate that I have received the Democratic nomination for the governorship , I heartily thank all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said . " This victory fixes a definite responsibility on those of us who have been nominated to meet squarely , fearlessly and intelligently the great issues which are before the state and the nation . A distressed citizenship looks to the party for an understanding , unselfish leadership . We must meet opposition with a united , harmonious and forward stepping front . Predicts Victory in Fall , " We will win in November . Already we are assured of the votes of more Republicans and independents than ever before gave assistance to a Democratic ticket . The people are mobilizing in order to have their expressed will carried into action by government . Our party will live up to the opportunity the people have given us . " Earlier in the evening the mayor said : " I am pleased beyond measure at the result of the Democratic primary . As mayor I have reason especially to be grateful for the result . I have been drawn into the controversy unnecessarily . The candidates nominated were designated as the mayor 's candidates , and I confess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue , because the election clearly demonstrates that the city administration has re ceived unqualified approval of the members of our city , county and state . Peaceful Settlement . " It was a famous quarrel and we have settled it peacefully . I am certain now this state will go overwhelmingly in favor of the Democratic nominee for president of the United States . " Representative Michael L. Igoe , Who r against Judge Horner as an Independent Democrat , issued a statement last night conceding his defeat and at the same time indicating that the party differences had been amicably settled . " If I have been defeated , and the returns indicate that I have , " said Igoe. " i am still a Democrat . All my life I have fought in the ranks of the Democratic party for whatever candidate the party has nominated . I abide by the verdict . We had a clean fight . I congratulate my old friend , Judge Horner , the next governor of Illinois . " State Senator Thomas J. Courtney in a statement said he appreciated the vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " courageous and determined administration of the state 's attorney 's office . " The gathering in the mayor 's office broke up before midnight , Judge Horner left to make radio talks and then went to his home , as he put it , " for a greatly needed rest . "                     