@@702988

txt District Attorney-elect Thomas E. Dewey is prepared to offer evidence Ito prove every statement he made about Albert Marinelli , Tammany leader and New York County Clerk , it was learned yesterday . A political speech by Mr. Dewey , delivered on Oct. 24 , has become the center of a tangled situation involving Mr. Marinelli 's fitness for public office that reached a climax on Sunday when Governor Lehman called upon Mr. Dewey to file sworn specifications for the removal of the County Clerk if he " so desired . " Mr. Dewey 's desires in the case remained a. matter of conjecture yesterday . In the morning when he went to his office in the Woolworth Building , where the Special Rackets Bureau that he has headed as Special Prosecutor for two years is maintained , he received the Governor 's letter . Later he announced that he would give the matter immediate attention and submit an answer to the Governor at the earliest moment consistent with adequate study of the situation . He added that his reply would be placed in the Governor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , A copy of the memorandum of the Joint Committee on the County Clerk , which made the complaint to the Governor , was forwarded to him by the committee yesterday . The committee also wrote to Governor Lehman thanking him for his action on it . Mr. Dewey 's speech on Oct. 24 Iwas the basis for the committee 's - action , and the memorandum to the Governor that initiated the chain of letters , including the answer of Mr. Marinelli , whose political territory is the western half of the Second Assembly District , and the Executivecall upon the special prosecutor , brought that document sharply into focus . In it Mr. Dewey opened with these paragraphs : " Tonight I am going to talk about the alliance between crime and politics in the County of New York . " I am going to tell you about a politician , a. political ally of thieves , pickpockets , thugs , dope peddlers and big-shot racketeers . Albert Marinelli , County Clerk of New York , powerful leader of half of the Second Assembly District , dominates the whole . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mouth shut . Tonight we turn on the spotlight . " On through about 3,500 ' words , Mr. Dewey charged that the County Clerk was well acquainted with Charles ( Lucky Luciano ) Lucania , convicted and sent to Dannemora as a. vice overlord ; that tickets to a Marinelli beefsteak dinner had been sold by David ( Little Davie ) Bettill ? , a Luciano henchman also now in prison ; that while the Federal Government sought one Charles Palci as a fugitive , he worked around Mr. Marinelli 's homes at 246 Lafayette . Street and Lake Ronkonkoma , L. I. , and drove the Marinelli Lincoln limousine , and that twenty-two of the county committeemen in Mr. Marinelli 's district , as well as at least seventeen election inspectors in the same district , had criminal records . " These , " said Mr. Dewey in concluding that speech , " are the sinister forces who are fighting to keep the right to select assistants for the office of District Attorney of New York County . These are the living obstacles to everything that 's decent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Little Time for a Hearing A careful review of all the charges in the speech yesterday led associates of the Special Prosecutor to wonder if , even though proved , the statements Mr. Dewey made about Mr. Marinelli would be relevant in a hearing called to determine whether Mr. Marinelli should be removed . It was further pointed out that under the Constitution the Governor must remove an official while he is still in office , and Mr. Marinelli 's term expires on Dec. 31 . He has announced , in his answer to the Governor , that he will not seek it again . The consideration involved in this was whether a hearing on Mr. Marinelli could properly be launched and carried to a conclusion before I he would be out of office , thus making any decision by the Governor an empty gesture . These circumstances led to the view , held in some quarters , that the Governor should clarify his position as to the relevancy of the charges contained in the speech to a removal proceeding  --  in other words , whether proof of the allegations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further formal action . While Mr. Dewey 's next step remained unpredicted , the letters that Raymond M. Schwarts , as secretary of the joint committee , made public , cleared the way for anything he may decide to do . The letters politely removed the joint committee from the picture , except to offer what aid it could perform for Mr. Dewey . The letter addressed to Mr. Dewey read : " The petitioners constituting the Joint Committee on the County Clerk have tried on several occasions to communicate with you in regard to the Marinelli charges . Today Morris L. Ernst , acting as chief counsel for the committee in this matter , again tried to reach you on the telephone . We are offering our assistance to you in the event that you should file charges as indicated in the Governor 's letter . The committee feels that it has performed a wholesome civic function in bringing this matter into the open . " Our original communication to the Governor as you know was predicated upon the statements made by you in the course of the campaign . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the communication this day sent by the committee to the Governor . In view of the Governor 's communication to you , we see no occasion for the committee to act further in the matter except in aid of any steps you may take . "                     