@@699905

txt ? A federal revolving fund to restore the balance whenever producing capacity outweighs consuming power was proposed before the seventh annual Institute ' of Public Affairs at the Univeraity of . Virginia . here last night by Mr. Henry Kittredge Norton , New York lecturer and author . This was the first public presentation of the scheme , known as the Deane plan , atter its co-author , Mr. Arthur Lytle Deane , president of the General Motors Holding Corporation . The plan has been put before industrial and labor leaders of the country and is being studied in Washington by cabinet members as a possible pnanent successor to the Industrial Recovery Act which is limited in duration to two years . The basic idea of the proposal , . as explained by Mr. Norton , is the progressive expansion of consumption through the use of funds which otherwise would go into excess producing capacity . ' Grounded on the theory that the workers constitute the primary market and must be provided with sufficient purchasing power to raise the total consumption of the country to the level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a revolving fund which would contribute to consumption whenever necessary to sustain the national income and the value of national wealth . This fund would be replenished by a fractional contribution from the additional income thus assured . Pay . For Lou of Hours If the hours of employment of any group of workers fall below the regional average , or the national average , they would be reimbursed by supplemental compensation equal to 50 per cent of their hourly rate of pay . Twenty-five per cent of their hourly rate would be collected from all workers for each hour by which their employment exceeds the average and an equal amount would be taken from their employers as " employment security taxes . " In addition , special surtaxes would be levied on all net incomes in excess of $3000 whenever the yearly average exceeds the national average . Mr. Norton made the . following points as he introduced the plan : 1 . It is flexible , making its adjustments from moving averages . 2 . It automatically adjusts the effects of technological unemployment . 3 . The bargaining power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for charity is eliminated . 5 . The evils of over-investment , due to a ' desire for increased security and to inability to spend more than a comparatively small percentage of income , are mitigated . O. Its operation would work to the economic advantage of every element in the nation . 7 . It insures the employment of all workers and eliminates the need for haphazard unemployment insurance in the different states . 8 . It would require only a simple amendment to the federal income tax law . 9 . It not only eliminates the need for control of present production but opens the way to entirely new areas of profitable production . Mr. Morton estimated that the amount required for the return to a normal national employment , based on the last 10 years , would be about . $1,500,000,000 . " Whatever it costs , " he concluded , " the country can not afford not to adopt it , for each dollar added to the consumption adds five or six dollars to the national wealth and the cost would be automatically repaid . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the international field , with Mr. Rufus S. Tucker , New York consulting economist , declaring that a country that attempts to increase its foreign trade by debasing its , currency 13 really injuring itself , even if it succeeds in increasing its foreign trade . " There is no evidence , he continued , that a depreciating currency ever benefited a country in any way except by enabling it to repudiate debts owed to foreigners , which " obviously should benefit only to a very slight extent a creditor nation like the United States . " Tracing the growth of American banking abroad , Dr. Clyde W. Phelps , of the University of Chattanooga , said that compared with the growth of American foreign trade and investments , it has been satisfactory . Yesterday two university professors paid tribute to the work of Senator Carter Glass ( D. ) , of Virginia , but leveled sharp criticisms on sections of the new banking law on which the Virginia Senator was forced to yield . Chief among these was the guarantee of bank deposits , although Prof. Ray B. Westerfield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Columbia , differed on the effect his provision would have on the growth of branch banking . Dr. Westfield said he was " disposed to believe that branch banking on a nation-wide basis will solve the banking problem In the United States , and that establishment of a system of deposit insurance not only delays the transformation of our system to a branch banking basis , but also deprives branch banking of its effectiveness in reforming the system . " Dr. Chapman , on the other hand , predicted a wide use of the guaranty deposit provision will lead to greater demand for branch banking , because there will be fewer places at ' which to bank . Four points have been developed by the Latin-American round table : 1 . More thought should be given to economic problems and lass attention to the social Ills of Latin America . 2 . More favorable American tariffs are needed for goods entering the ports of the United States , and in return , similar customs reductions for manufactured articles entering southern ports . 3 . Foreign exchange markets should be reopened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay their international obligations . 4 . New financing is needed for the purpose of promoting commerce . Mr. Walter M. Van Deusen , banking advisor in Peru and Colombia , discussing the importance of foreign exchange to the payment of Latin-America 's international obligations explained that the southern debts ? are almost entirely held abroad and to pay them the republics must have access to the exchange markets . This exchange is also needed for the payment of indispensable imports , he said . Turning to Cuba today , speakers urged revision of the reciprocity convention and permanent treaty on which United States policy is based . Dr. Edgar Turlington , of Washington , recommended also a formal reaffirmation of the Root assurance against intermeddling by the United States . Dr , Juan A. Lliteras , Cuban lawyer , called for substitution of a perpetual treaty of friendship and alliance and a customs union .                     