@@696994

txt The first action to rebuild the machinery for prohibition enforcement in compliance with the report by President Hoover 's Law Observance Commission was taken with the introduction of a bill in the House today to transfer enforcement functions to the Department of Justice . While there seems to be no disposition in Congress to oppose the transfer , indications are that , aside from this legislation , not much more of that involved in the proposals will be passed before the elections in November because of delay in the Senate . The disposition of some dry leaders and critics of the administration in the Senate is to Proceed slowly , aria to that end the Judiciary Committee will not meet until Monday to consider the commission 's recommendations . There will be prolonged debates in the Senate and much palltics relating to the prohibition issues with primaries approaching . Senator Borah is expected to take a dominant part in the Senate debate , which is not expected to develop before action has been taken on the tariff bill . Study Proposed Court Plan . Senator Borah and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the recommendation of the commission that the powers of United States commissioners dealing with offenses against the dry law school be broadened . They are understood to take the position that the practical effect of the proposal will be to abolish trial by jury in many cases . Senator Borah may attack this proposal on constitutional grounds . While he refused to commit himself on it today he made it clear that he was studying the matter with great care . Representative Sabath , Republican , of Illinois , introduced a bill today to repeal the supplemental prohibition act , passed in November , 1921 , which prohibited the prescribing of beer and wine for medicinal purposes . He entitled the measure " a bill , to reduce crime and general discontent end resentment on the part of lawabiding American people against the present intolerable conditions , relieve penitentiary and jail congestion , over-crowded court dockets , and to reduce taxation by obtaining for the government , instead of bootleggers , revenue from the , sale of medicinal beer and wines under the Eighteenth Amendment and Volstead law . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sabath said , " beer and wines could be prescribed and used for medical purposes legally under . the Volstead act . Under the law , by fair and reasonable regulations , liberal monthly allotment could be prescribed and authorized . It would reduce to a minimum the profitable bootlegging industry and the government would derive substantial revenue therefrom . " For Complete Aid by States . It was made apparent today that the administration does not contemplate that changes in prohibition enforcement shall lessen State responsibility . President Hoover , it was indicated , feels that enforcement by the States should become more efficient , and has in mind only legislation designed to correct deficiencies of the Federal Government 's machinery . Nothing is contemplated in the law observance commission 's program which would relieve a State of its part in enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment , according to administration advisers Whether the commission has considered the idea of increasing the responsibilities of the States has not been revealed , but Attorney General Mitchell 's statement , submitted with President Hoover 's message yesterday , was pointed out as being significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney General said , " that the whole teak of enforcement of prohibition should be borne by the Federal Government . Any constructive plan for better prohibition enforcement must give attention to improvements in State as well as Federal agencies , and to the adjustment between them of the burden of enforcement . " Hearings on Bill Next Week . The bill to transfer prohibition enforcement to the Department of Justice was introduced by Representative Williamson of South Dakota . It would create in the Department of Justice a bureau of prohibition , under a director , with the Attorney General as the chief enforcement official for the government . Hearings on this bill will be held next week by the committee on expenditures in executive departments . " The bill is in line with the recommendations of the President , " Representative Williamson said . " If enacted , all that part of the bureau in the Treasury having to do with enforcement . including the field service , will be transferred to the Department of Justice . The granting of permits and administration of the Internal Revenue law will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , may exercise what amounts to a veto power in the matter of issuing permits , under regulations to be prescribed jointly by the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury . It was thought that as the Attorney General will be charged directly with responsibility for enforcement , he should have a voice in the matter of granting permits . " Surveys Needs for Border Forces . Treasury officials are making a survey as to the extent of the forces needed to patrol the nation 's borders in the event that Congress approves the recommendations for unification of the border patrols with the Coast Guard . Another survey is being conducted to determine the number of customs ports of entry which will be recommended under Secretary Mellon 's proposal to increase the number of these ports and to bar entry through any others . Treasury officials were hopeful today that the plan could be put into effect by July 1 . It was pointed out that the unification of the border patrols , including the immigration service , the narcotics and border patrol service with the Coast Guard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force on both the Canadian and Mexican borders , the Coast Guard service being strictly military in nature . Representative Loring M. Black of New York , in a statement today , held that the proposal by the law observance commission that prohibition cases be heard by United States Commissioners was a dangerous move . " A practical difficulty is presenter , " he said . " in the fact that commissioners are not required to be lawyers . Instead of dissolving the congestion in the courts , there is more liable to be added congestion , due to the fact that a defendant being found guilty by a commissioner will naturally demand a trial by a judge and jury . " At present the commissioner can dismiss the charges against the defendant without requiring the pronouncement of a judgment of acquittal by a court , so that under the Wickersham system , a judge will have added burdens by having to pass on practically every case which comes before the commissioner for hearing . " I do not think the Wickersham report has given any real light on the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a most dangerous attack on the Constitution and the liberties of the American people by its recommendation for the creation of a juryless Federal criminal court . " WASHINGTON , Jan. 14 ( .41 . ? A bill to authorize United States Commissioners to pass on cases involving misdemeanors , as recommended for dry law violations in the report of the law observance commission submitted to Congress by President Hoover , was introduced today by Representative , Democrat , of Oklahoma . The commissioners would be empowered to hear the evidence against such violators and discharge , defendants if justified by the evidence . If , in the opinion of the commissioner hearing the evidence , the person charged was guilty , the commissioner could recommend to the district court the punishment to be inflicted.In this event the defendant could , on his appearance in district court . demand a trial or could waive trial and accept the sentence recommended by the commissioner .                     