@@698479

txt Perhaps it was imprudent for the French to make the most of their provisional immunity in a world that is in flux . For it is now obvious that the French can not escape the consequences of the general European situation ; and at the same time the doctrine of canacitv of payment , which has been used against Germany , may be used against France and other countries which are burdened with heavy debts . If one assumes that Germany can not now pay its debts , the French will obviously be entitled to claim that their own resources are thereby reduced . But so much has been said of French prosperity that the argument may be found unconvincing . Instead , therefore , of boasting of their relative prosperity , the French are beginning to complain that they too are suffering from the crisis . And although their position is nothing like so tragic as that of other countries , it is in . fact far less favorable than has hitherto been pretended . - The French themselves generally believe that they stood above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize that they , too , have difficulties , despite the immense resources in gold in the cellars of the Banque de France . Loopholes In Labor Bill Unemployment is extending , and the Government endeavored to take measures to cult off foreign labor in order to give mbre employment to their own people . But although a bill was recently passed against foreign labor , it was necessary to leave many loopholes in it . Thus the Agricultural Minister showed that it could not be applied to agricultural workers . Nor could it be applied to frontier workers . Nor could it be applied to trades in which foreigners are specialists . Again , there were whole classes of foreign workers who could not be touched on grounds of equity . There were the workers married to French women , or with children born in France . There were the ex-allied combatants . There were the political refugees . There were those who had been long established , who had gained the confidence of their employers . At the same time the trade statistics show a record falling away of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has ever been . This fact in its turn greatly affects the mercantile marine which France had been developing . The railway companies deplore a large deficit , and it is necessary to raise the fares though this is a most unpopular measure . Reduction in Revenues Tourism , which was one of the leading " industries " of France , has badly slumped , and France must therefore suffer a loss of billions of francs , a loss which not only falls on the hotels , restaurants , and stores , but also indirectly on the Government which imposes taxes on these enterprises . Indeed , the budget presents a problem which is recognized to be extremely difficult . Because it is so difficult , especially having regard to the imminence of the elections , there is a curious reluctance on the part of the Opposition to take the reins of office at this Juncture , even were it possible for them to do so . Some of the political tacticians think it better to let the Moderates incur the blame for present conditions . Voices are being raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are more or less official warnings and complaints of a " campaign " against French prosperity , but though it were true that anti-French forces arc , at work , the warnings and complaints may for the most part be regarded as the common explanation given In such cases . The facts are there ; they should not be supposed to be such as to shake French credit , which is remarkably sound ; but they inclicatn that France can not hope to escape the difficulties which face the test of the world .                     