@@704229

txt Germany asked the United States Government today to warn American merchant ships that they must submit to halt and search by war craft , presumably submarines of the German Navy . The Reich government complained that neutral ships have been guilty of improper behavior . The German note , which was transmitted through diplomatic channels to the Maritime Commission and thence to the Navy Department 's Hydrographic Office , requested that American ships avoid " suspicious behavior . " It asked that they travel without convoy , show lights and move in a straight course . It read as follows : " Neutral merchant ships have repeatedly attempted in the waters around France and England to evade the exercise of the right of German naval forces , granted by international law , of stoppage and Search . Besides , they have repeatedly aroused suspicion of attack or unneutral acts , by improper behavior . " The government of the Reich therefore begs to call the attention of American merchant vessels traveling into the waters mentioned to the fact that , in their own interest , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy , especially at night , they should avoid any suspicious behavior , particularly change of course and use of the radio apparatus upon sighting German naval forces , zig-zagging , screening lights , failing to obey a demand to stop , and the acceptance of convoy by naval forces of the powers at war with Germany . " Edison 's Statement Cited The German note was made public by the Hydrographic Office and by officials of the State Department . Other government agencies refused to discuss it . It was pointed out , however , that Charles Edison , acting Secretary of the Navy , had said several weeks ago that it had been decided by this government that American ships bringing home those fleeing the European war probably would be safer if they traveled without convoys , showed lights and did not attempt to zigzag . The new Administration neutrality resolution prohibits the transportation of goods or passengers to belligerent countries on American ships and empowers the President to designate additional combat areas around the globe into and through which American ships and citizens could not go . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of freedom of the seas . At present , however , international law still pre- vails as far as this country is concerned . Officials here were understood to be giving serious consideration to the German note and its implications , but it was regarded as possible that no deply would be made at this time because pending Congressional action on the Neutrality Bill might alter this country 's position to an extent . It is the Administration 's urgent desire to : seep this country 's ships and nationals from areas where their presence might create incidents capable of involving this country in war . Two Steps by Administration The German note was received after the Administration had taken two steps today to lessen the likelihood of submarine disasters involving Americans . It appealed to citizens who are still in Europe not to travel on belligerent vessels and ordered the concealment of information relating to ships ' cargoes . The appeal to Americans abroad was made by Secretary Hull . He declared in a statement that while they still would have the right under the Neutrality Act to travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he regarded " such travel as dangerous considering the character of the warfare that is now in progress . " The other step was by the Treasury , which made public an amendment to Article 1465 of the Customs Regulations of 1937 , the effect of which is to prohibit any one from seeing ship manifests for exports or imports except exporters and importers immediately concerned with given transactions . Treasury officials interpreted the new regulation as a move to conceal from belligerents information which might lead to attacks on merchant vessels clearing American ports . Manifests not only list cargo but , in the case of exports , state the time of sailing , according to Treasury officials . More Drastic Than in World War It is a more drastio regulation than was invoked during the World War , for at that time , according to Treasury officials , the government at least permitted periodic publications of summaries of manifests . Secretary Hull 's appeal to Americans abroad was as follows : " On Sept. 5 , 1939 , I issued regulations regarding travel by American citizens on vessels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Resolution of Congress approved May 1 , 1937 . " I stated that travel on vessels of France , Germany , Poland , or the United Kingdom , India . Australia and New Zealand ( vessels of the Union of South Africa were added by regulation of Sept. 9 , and those of Canada on Sept. 11 ) in the North Atlantic Ocean , east of 30 degrees west and north of 30 degrees north , or on or over other waters adjacent to Europe or over the continent of Europe or adjacent islands would not be permitted except when specifically authorized by the Secretary of State in each case . " The joint resolution contains a proviso excepting , for a period of ninety days , from the prohibition on travel by American citizens on a vessel of a belligerent State citizens returning from a foreign State to the United States . " While under international law American citizens have a perfect right to travel on belligerent vessels , and while under our statute they may travel on such vessels en route from a foreign country to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I regard such travel as dangerous considering the character of the warfare that is now in progress . " I , therefore , call upon all American citizens , in their own interest and in the interest of their government , to refrain from exercising the right which they have in this respect . " This government has gone to considerable trouble and expense to make available to American citizens in belligerent countries American vessels for their return to the United States and fortunately most of them who have desired to return have been accommodated . It is therefore to be hoped that those who may still be in foreign countries and who desire ta , return to the United States will travel on American vessels or other neutral vessels and thus avoid the danger inherent in traveling on vessels of belligerent countries with ? in the areas specified above . " The Treasury 's regulation , promulgated by Basil Harris , new Customs Commissioner , prohibits the disclosure of " information concerning imports and exports " during " the effective period of any proclamation of the President that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Delegated Powers Secretary Morgenthau said at his press conference he knew nothing about the regulation , stating that whatever Mr. Harris did had his full support . He added that he recently called Mr. Harris , former vice president of the United States Lines , to Washington to take full charge of neutrality enforcement . The Secretary cited his lack of information on the subject as illustrative of the manner in which he had left all shipping matters to Mr. Harris . He turned to one of his aides , present at the conference , to explain to correspondents the significance of the regulation . After the explanation the Secretary said that it was apparent that the regulation was prompted by a desire to discourage submarine attacks on merchant vessels . The matter came up at the press conference when a representative of The New York Journal of Commerce , a newspaper which has published shipping manifests for more than 100 years , asked Secretary Morgenthau the reason for " this first application of censorship . " It was then that the Secretary professed not to know of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulation was effective Sept. 27 . Treasury officials indicated that many protests regarding it had been received .                     