@@698004

txt The Administration is seriously concerned over proposals for a " moratorium " on farm indebtedness to the Federal Land Banks . The sum Involved is a tremendous one  --  outstanding mortgage loans of the banks now equal 61,180,000,000 net , with about 410,000 individual loons . With the continued depression in the farming communities , leaders of the Treasury are looking anxiously to the number of foreclosures which they have had to impose . There is apprehension that thb Government . may eventually have to shoulder the losses which the farmers are now reporting . Those who favor the moratorium for farmers argue that If the Administration can forgive the debts of Germany for a year , then it ought to forgive its own farmers ' debts for a year or longer , until the depression is over . The present Federal Land Bank loans run for 33 years . Interest is fixed at not more than 6 per cent . The present proposal is that interest should be cut in half for it three-year interval , and the time , of the loans extended three years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said , would give the farmers the necessary breathing space to catch up with the depression . The additional debt would be added to what the farmers already owe in the form of a second mortgage . Eventually , it is argued , the farmers will repay all the debt , if their time could now be extended . Administration opponents of the plan are frankly worried by the possibility that a mass demand for some such supposed panacea will sweep the farm areas . They regard the moratorium proposal as uneconomic and unsound . The means by which the loans have been raised also present an obstacle to a moratorium , it is asserted . The only way that Congress could Intel vene to lift the burden from the farmer 's shoulders , it is asserted . would be by a direct , vote of federal funds . This money would be turn ' cl over to the banks to be used to meet all interest payments on outstanding loans for the three-year interval . The farmers , presumably , would be asked to repay this money at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involve only 12 per cent of the farm mortgages of the nation , even this drastic step would not lift the burden from most farmers , it is pointed tut . It would open the door to demands , however , that the Government . extend equally liberal terms to all the other farmers of the nation .                     