@@700203

txt In Washington An NIRA Phrase Places a Free Press in Danger . By ARTHUR BROCK . WASHINGTON , Nov. ** will not be many days before final hearings are held in Washington on the permanent NRA code for newspaper workers . In-the meantime the last touches are being put on a wages-and-hours arrangement for certain types of employes . But , though permanent codes are supposed to deal only with working provisions for persons in industry , the question of press freedom has become involved in this particular one . There is no doubt that the public is deeply interested in this discussion . Any written comment on the subject brings letters from all kinds of people . Most of them urge that no effort be spared to maintain the guarantee of a free American press which was lifted from the Bill of Rights into the Constitution as its first amendment . But a few of the letter-writers incline to the view that the issue is a man of straw , so far as the permanent code is concerned , and that the newspaper publishers are merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the obviously large and interested public which is following the discussion shall be clear as to the issue when the hearings begin , it may be well to give the present status of the argument between the publishers and the NRA : There is nothing in the permanent code affecting the licensing of newspapers . This has been most succinctly stated by Professor Lindsay Rogers , deputy administrator in charge of this code , in a speech at Chicago on Oct. 25 . He explained that " there is a section of the National Industrial Recovery Act ? not the section under which codes are presented  --  which authorizes the President in certain cases to license industries . " These powers are limited and may be exercised only if the President finds that " destructive wage or price cutting or other activities contrary to the policy of " NIRA exist in any trade or industry . Public hearings must be held before Presidential action ; /and the section is in force for one year only from the date of enactment . President Would License Papers . But , as publishers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy of " the NIRA would permit a President , if he chose , to license newspapers because they criticized the government . To make a record against the possible invasion of the First Amendment , they have proposed the inclusion of a section ( No. 11 ) in the permanent code . This section would reiterate the constitutional guarantee for the press against licensing and other forms of censorship , and would further assert that the press does not waive " any other " constitutional rights it may have . Herein lies the first dispute . NRA officials , and Professor Rogers said as I much in his Chicago speech , object to this insertion on these contentions : ( 1 ) by adopting an hours and wages code , publishers do not waive any publication rights and therefore need not say so ; ( 2 ) the section is extraneous ; ( 3 ) in further asserting " any other constituticnal rights " beyond those mentioned in the First Amendment the publishers seek a second privilege over every other group in the country . But NRA now shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed that the press guarantees of the First Amendment be reiterated as a preamble to the code , and that the reservatiol. of " all other constitutional rights " be omitted . It is increasingly probable that the publishers can have most of the language they want as a section of the code , not as a preamble . No Censorship in Roosevelt . Should this be the outcome of the argument , where does it leave the issue of the freedom of the press ? Exactly where it was when Congress passed the NIRA , except that the publishers and the public have given notice of readiness to fight against any form of censorship a government might seek to impose under the terms of that law . The dangerous words " other activities contrary to the policy of this title " remain the law of the land unless , on a test , they are excised by the courts . Until they are removed by Congress , or that body inserts in the section of the NIRA where they occur a specific exemption of the press from the licensing powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the possibility continues a threat  --  remain . As I have repeatedly written , the entire menace lies in the wording of the act itself , not in the codes , not in the NRA officials , not in the President or his Cabinet . It may be true  --  probably it is ? that there are NRA administrators wild and foolish enough to be capable of recommending to the President that he license or suppress newspapers on representation of " activity contrary to the policy " of recovery . But if there is a drop of censor 's blood in Franklin D. Roosevelt , this correspondent is wholly mistaken in him . If there are conceivable circumstances in which this President would , as some have envisaged , seek to have Congress increase the Supreme Court so that press licensing or suppression , in the face of the First Amendment , could be manipulated into legality by the highest tribunal . those circumstances are beyond the power of this writer to imagine . Yet there on the statute books is the faulty law . Whatever the permanent code may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interested in putting press freedom beyond the power of curtailment by some President of the future should demand that Congress cure the law itself . Therein the trouble lies . Meanwhile many would rejoice if this President , in approving the press code , would say publicly that which is typical of his policy  --  that he will never attempt to use that section of the NIRA against free journalism in the United States . At Chicago today General Johnson pledged himself never to initiate the move . But General Johnson is not  --  decidedly not  --  the President . a                     