@@697126

txt A few years ago there appeared a new planet in the explorer 's firmament , and since then its course has been plotted and its weight and luminosity determined with scientific precision . " WILKINS " is now a permanent figure in polar exploration . He has an assured place in that great company of dispellers of dark traditions associated with " the verge where the world falls . away , " as ADAM of Bremen described the voyage of HARALD HARDRADE , " the experienced king of the Northmen . " Like all great men , he knows when to take the last desperate chance and win ; he is wise enough to skirt the edge of the abyss without falling in . Of him HUGH ROBERT MILL , author of ? " The Siege of the South Pole , " said quite recently : " I consider it " one of his greatest triumphs that he " made sure of his return , " but this reflects the security of assured success viewed after the event , rather than the daring when , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Antarctic Archipelago would have meant almost certain destruction for WILKINS and . the heroic BEN EIELSON . His defiance of the laws of chance exceeded all calculations on his last flight of the present season when he took a huge slice out of the Antarctic Continent and thus subtracted territory along a stretch east of which he had recently added new islands and 700 miles of coast line never before seen by man . WILKINS has a quiet voice with steel in-it and the strong hands of a man who Can master - more than material things . Civilized folk will applaud the estimate of an . Australian black in WILKINS 'S company while collecting in the Australian back-country years ago for the British Museum : " You set down quiet and " listen - allatime and eyes belong you " lookabout , see everything . " He is a charter member of the small company of those to whom boastfulness is abhorrent . His : first report to the American Geographical Society , after traversing 2,100 miles of unexplored Arctic territory on the flight from Barrow , Alaska , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " His first , published story was widely acclaimed as the finest account of its kind ever written , although it was scribbled on telegraph blanks and the backs of envelopes and transmitted by radio without the slightest ? revision . BEN EIELSON was devoted ? to him ; " I 'll go wherever the Captain wants me to go . " It was WiLxiiis 's hope , in the flights that ended only a little more than . a month ago , to find a suitable place from which to take off for the long journey to Admiral BYRD 'S station at Little America . Furious snow squalls and exceptionally bad ice conditions kept his ship , the William Scoresby , far off the land ; but when ? determined navigation could gain no more , the same plane that had served so well in the Arctic took off in the rough water beside the ship and headed out over the ice . It was an incredibly hazardous proceeding , because thick weather was added to the total inability of the mother ship to come to the rescue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk loss by searching for him . Through these difficuities he has fought a way to Success measured in 1,200 miles of new coast line , a series of new mountain ranges and salt-water channelways and great glacier systems all about the eastern and southern border of the Antarctic Archipelago , as well as fourteen new islands and a wholly refashioned continental border running some hundreds of miles east and west . The magnitude of these achievements , as measured by geographical science , is realized only when it is recalled that it was but fifteen months ago that WILKINS navigated the first airplane flight ever made in the Antarctic . The airplane has made it possible to secure large profits in investments in scientific geography  --  this is the way WILKINs puts his case . Location by him of a dozen accessible points at which meteorological stations could be established is his proof . He has kept his eye on the drought-stricken pastoral lands of Australia , where his youth was spent . The weather-breeding areas are the big game of this scientific hunt . Extraordinary connections of cause and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of widely separated and critically located places . . It is Captain Sir HUBERT WILxiNs 's main object to foster an international study of Antarctic weather for the benefit of the " marginal " lands of Australia , Argentina and South Africa . The impetus which his spirit has given to later systematic study exceeds the power of current estimation , if we may believe KIPLING 'S song in praise of famous men : For their work continueth , And their work continueth , Broad and deep continueth , Greater than their knowing .                     