@@699455

txt Experts of the preparatory committee of the World Economic Conference today disclosed the full text of their chart for world recovery . Alike to countries still on the gold standard , to countries off gold , and to countries which have imposed restrictions on foreign exchange , the committee makes definite recommendations . Countries on the gold standard possessing abundant reserves of the metal , such as the United States and France , are advised to follow the policy of granting liberal credits at low interest rates for short-term loans and to reduco rates for longterm loans by means of conversions and such other methods as can be devised . They are advised to permit ready export of gold and giant the greatest possible opportunity to export capital . Countries which have abandoned gold , such as England , are counseled against depreciating the foreign value of their money in order to obtain temporary competitive advantage . Authorities controlling currencies sic urged to do all in their power to prevent and discourage speculation detrimental to international trade . Countries imposing restrictions on foreign exchange are advised to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolishing restrictions on foreign commerce . While recommending return to the gold standard , the experts state that the preliminary condition to this is to reestablish confidence by solution of the great political questions still in suspense . In other words debt settlements must precede return to gold . Lowering of the local rate of gold coverage for central banks is considered necessary . The percentage might he placed considerably below the legal 33 or 40 per cent , according to the experts In order to remedy the present situation in which 80 per cent of the world gold supply is held by five countries , it is recommended that commercial restrictions be removed and foreign obligations paid in goods rather than in gold . Bimetallism is rejected as impracticable , and the experts refuse to consider allowing silver to figure , r1 the metal reserves of central banks in important quantities They advocate greater industrial use of silver . One means of restoring equilibrium between wholesale and retail prices is admitted to be reduction of the latter which has resulted in some countries reducing money wages from 20 to 25 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits of this procedure . Commenting on the Francqui plan for an international credit institution or monetary normalization fund , the committee recommends further study . It rejects the proposed program of international public work as impracticable , due to the impossibility of financing it at present .                     