@@702889

txt Financial circles here yesterday joined in wholehearted agreement with the diagnosis of the security-market situation as expressed yesterday by Winthrop W. Aldrich , Chase National Bank board Chairman , in his speech before the Rochester Chamber of Commerce . Mr. Aldrich 's address was accepted as an au- , 1 thoritative pronouncement of the banking viewpoint on stock-market ? regulation and related , measures . " Spokesmen pointed out the number of times in the past that banking influence and support bad been thrown behind sagging markets at ' opportune moments , adding that Mr. Aldrich s speech only could be interpreted as a regretful forewarning that such aid had become a virtue impossibility . So long as the present method of governmental control continues , they read Mr. Aldrich 's speech to mean . then the market will be based purely on supply and demand . Banker intervention , as practiced in the London market to the benefit not only of the market itself , but of interested financial institutions , is for the present a thing of the past , it is felt . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the clear and incisive manner in which Mr. Aldrich had summarized the present market situation . Many in financial quarters expressed the view that the banker 's speech might well crystalize thought on an otherwise complicated and confused situation . While accepting the banker 's view that Federal regulation of the exchanges and related measures were , to a large degree , responsible for the rapid decline in security prices , many observers here stressed the lack of confidence and cooperation between the Government and financial and business interests , as the major factor retarding business and , hence , the security markets . They took the position that while the matter of regulation might have been originally and technically responsible for the wide break , yet a relaxation would be of psychological benefit only and hardly would reach the crux of the trouble . Business and industry , in the opinion of many , has become so used to surprises and sudden shocks from the Administration that the atmosphere of uncertainty is sufficient to retard business without any definite action on the part of the Government. ? In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oral thus far  --  being carried on by certain Administration advisers to reduce industrial price levels . There has been no action by the Government in this regard : there may be none , but the persistent reference to the need for lower price levels undoubtedly has had an unsettling effect .                     