@@702760

txt The Faith and Order Conference has now settled down to a detailed'study of tour main subjects : " The grace of our lord Jesus Christ " ; " The Church of Christ and the Word of God " ; " The Church of Christ  --  ministry and sacraments " ' ; ' ' Church unity in life and worship . " These subjects were chosen by the continuation committee after the first conference in 1927 as crystallizing the main difficulties between churches . Widely differing conceptions of the ministry and interpretation of " grace " are two of the outstanding questions , but hopes of agreement on basic interpretations are high as much ground already has been covered by the committees during the last 10 years and the results are incorporated in reports now before the conference . In a statement submitted yesterday by the Rev. Dr. Henry S. Leiper of New York it is pointed out how a feature of modern life is the disintegration of established institutions . The fear of war . he said . shows that civilization needs a radical cleansing . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially the younger part of it , ' wants ' community . ' It would prefer to subordinate self utterly to the claims of state , race or class rather than be individually free if that were the only choice . What does the Church offer ? It offers fellowship with God hi Christ , an adventure wherein a man may be glad to lose himself . " Public sessions having been adjourned the eliscussions are now private . To assist frank ' exchanges of opinion delegates Were assured that speeches in the conference during the next week will not be reported . The only report will be on the findings of groups . For Arms Conference rly a Stall Correspondent o/ The Christian Vence Monitor LUHACOVICE , Czechoslovakia ? . Following upon Its recent congress here , the Women 's International League for Peace has sent a letter to the Bureau of the Disarmament Conference . It says in part : ' The Chairmen ( of the league ) have been increasingly alarnied by the inactivity of the Disarmament Conference an inactivity which has allowed the race in armament to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is inrpossible to establish permanent and true peace among the nations under the threat of armaments or to deVelop by the methods used at the present time a stronger universal League of Nations as a suitable instrument for the solution of political , and economic world problem &; the chairmen . . . urged that a disarmament conference be called as soon as possible to which the governments of all countries be invited .... "                     