@@700900

txt Elimination of all excessive wartime earnings must be rigorously applied to every business and every individual in the future , and the Federal Government should exercise drastic control over the export of munitions to prevent abuses , Lammot du Pont , president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours &; Co. , urged yesterday . Mr. du Pont set forth these and other recommendations at the request of Senator Gerald P. Nye , chairman of the special Senate committee which has been investigating the munitions industry . The committee brought out testimony last September that during the World War the du Pont company received orders totaling $1,245,000,000 and paid dividends totaling 458 per cent of the par value of its original stock . Nye Is " Delighted . " " I am delighted to know that they are ready to accept that there is something rotten in Denmark and that something has got to be done about it , " Senator Nye said in Philadelphia , last night , in comment on the letter . " This partnership between manufacturers and governments has got to be broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ providing national defense for every other country on earth . We have got to break up this arrangement and destroy the motive that is breeding suspicion among men ; break up this partnership between these munition manufacturers and their governments , and we will have served mankind well . " We must do it directly . We must control it by each government making itself its own , sole munitions manufacturer . If a government has the right to enter any business , it has the right to be in the business of manufacturing its own national defense . American industry has been a leader , not only . in the cause of making America great ' , but of bringing America to a point where it might be destroyed . " Opposes Arms Monopoly . The two considerations that must be paramount in any satisfactory national policy on munitions are that adequate national defense must be assured and the maintenance of peace must be encouraged and fostered , Mr. du Pont wrote in his letter to Senator Nye . To attempt to make the manufacture of munitions , or even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tremendous scope of the problem , he contended , and would " weaken , and if carried far enough cripple , our national defense . " " Two objections to private manufacture of munitions in general and ordnance in particular are raised ? excess war profits and abuses attending the traffic in arms , " Mr. du Pont wrote . " These we shall try to deal with in turn . " We subscribe to the view that excess war profits should be eliminated . There is a popular demand , which is sound and just , that in the event of any such future national crisis as a major war the entire Capital and productive resources of our country should be subjected to the national need without the prospect of extraordinary compensation . " The national policy should be based on the principle that in a time of national emergency , when the country 's man power is being mobilized , its material resources should be mobilized also . " A practical plan for putting this principle into effect must be " allinclusive in scope , extended throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It must " employ every motive to insure speed , efficient operation , saving of labor . " " Elimination of excessive earnings must apply to every business and every individual , " he said . Conceding that this offers a problem of immense difficulty , and-that " the dangers of such a radical departure from normal economic habits may not be appreciated , " Mr. du Pont urged that to it " should I be applied the wisest minds of financiers , business executives , military experts , statesmen . " " There is still available for this study the experienced judgment of the men who successfully conducted America 's effort in the World War , " he pointed out . Mr. du Pont said that the time for drafting such a plan is now , when no immediate danger threatens , and not when hostilities are imminent , for impromptu measures " would surely be ineffective . " He urged Congress to name an agency to work out such a plan . The International Traffic . Taking up the international arms traffic , Mr. du Pont asserted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among all the producing nations , about twelve in number . He said he did not want to give his opinion as to whether abolition of the traffic , " which would tend toward the fixation of the status quo of oppressed and unarmed peoples , " was desirable . One result might be , he said , the erection of ordnance plants throughout the other countries of the world for their own defense , " imposing through excessive costs additional burdens on them , and that a new competition in armament would thus spring up . " " If the United States alone were to forbid the export of munitions our national defense would be impaired because such a policy of isolation might prompt reprisals and make it difficult or impossible in an emergency for this country to obtain essential materials from abroad , " he warned . " In any case the question would arise , What constitutes munitions of war ? Numerous harmless articles of peacetime commerce , the trade in which should not be inhibited , assume in wartime greater military significance and strategic importance than many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might not be effective , and it would encourage illicit dealings . " Mr. du Pont advised that the international munitions trade " should be subjected to strict governmental control , preferably by international agreement , " and suggested that the United States should immediately take steps to initiate its own policies in this respect . " We suggest legislation permitting the export of arms from this country only after the vise of orders by a Federal Government order or commission as the Congress may determine , " he said . " If this commission made objection , shipment would not be permitted . Moreover , such legislation should require that upon consummation of an order full information must be reported to the commission , including the amount and description of goods , their destination and the complete financial settlement of the transaction . " Such a system of control , while permitting legitimate sales of arms for indispensable demands , would eliminate any abuses that may exist in the business and would prevent improper sales where arms are desired for unlawful purposes . " Denies Arms Cause War . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the causes and effects of war . Armament does not originate war ; war , which is caused by economic and political rivalries , brings forth arms , he said . It is " fomented by fanaticism , bad temper , suspicion of other people , criticism of their actions , sensational press dispatches , fraudulent or covetous practices . " " International trade in any kind of material or product , if unwisely directed and improperly prosecuted , creates friction , animosity , hostility , " he continued . " On the other hand , international trade wisely and fairly conducted promotes closer association with other people , understanding and friendliness , a spirit of cooperation , good-will , peace . " Mr. du Pont asserted that no prudent nation could afford to be unarmed in the world today and that modern wars " are Increasingly liable to be won or lost before the actual outbreak of hostilities . " He held that for the United States to be prepared for war would help maintain peace . " A strong but forbearing America is the greatest guarantor of peace , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25,000 industrial plants were devoted to munitions making , he said , and a policy of nationalization would require the expansion of government arsenals twenty times . " The cost would be colossal , pro- nance appropriations would have to be increased over a hundred fold , operation would be extremely difficult , If 17 t impractical , the effect might be provocative , " he declared .                     