@@699225

txt Looking back on his long experience in dealing with criminals , Mr. Charles H. Tuttle . former district attorney of New York , declared in an address at , Yale University last night that " the permanent solution of the crime problem does not lie in force and punishment . " Society itself is chiefly responsible for crime because it permits unfair age sales , deprives individuals of cultural opportunities and permits " corrupt and inefficient government , " Mr. Tuttle said . His address , given in Woolsey Hall , was heard by some 2000 people . Dean Charles E. Clark of the Yale Law School presided . " We are obliged today to notice that the exercise of force does not of itself effectively suppress crime  --  much less prevent it ; and yet the old fallacy of supposing that the greater the force the less the crime still dominates popular thinking , " Mr. Tuttle said . " Periodically we read in the press of every large city that because of the increase of crime the police department is demanding more menthe continuous cycle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself and attest a deep-seated rottenness in some of the foundations of our social structures . " The obvious lesson would seem to be a new illustration of the arfcient truth that social salvation can not be obtained by force and does not lie in mere education or us church organization or in natiozial wealth . The heart of culture is now , as ever , the culture of the heart ; and no nation can long be maintained materially which is not first preserved spiritually . " A society which is purely acquisitive and secular will inevitably be a fertile breeding place for crime . Wherever the universal standard of success is the making of a living rather than of a life , individuals will believe that the end justifies the means . " The cultivation of a spiritual interpretation of life is not enough , Mr. Tuttle said . " That interpretation can not take root where bad environment , economic pressure , lack of fair opportunity . the absence of true education of the things of evil example hardens the soil . It is in these respects that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scale which allows but a bare living and leaves wholly unsatisfied those cultural desires which are in every human heart entails the penalty on society not only of mental disorder but of crime . The exploitation of child labor will , in the end , tax society with the cost of widespread antisocial conduct . " There is a direct relation , too often overlooked or unperceived , between the growth of crime in oar country and the all too prevalent signs of civic indifference . The ballot box and the jury box are the very pillars of the temples of our institutions and the priceless symbols of victories for liberty won by centuries of blood and sweat . " Yet statistics seem to show that our democracy is participating less and less in its polls and is thereby exposing government to become the prey of corrupt influences , special privilege or organized and self-seeking minorities Every student of our administration of the law knows that far too many of our citizens best equipped by education and . xperience to discharge the highest prerogative which can fall to any man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to subterfuge in order to avoid making this contribution to the welfare of the state and to the effective act- ' wilffiration of ow criminal laws .                     