@@699497

txt Charging that George Z. Medalie , United States Attorney at New York , had committed " improper , reprehensible and unconscionable " acts in policing voting booths with Federal officers and in the subsequent investigation of election frauds in A few districts in New York City , Representative Dickstein of New York introduced a resolution today calling for a Congressional investigation of the official . Mr. Dickstein asserted that politics were apparently behind the investigation conducted by Mr. Medalie , telling the House that " the United States Attorney has been proceeding in the belief that the Republican party has been reelected . " The resolution charged that Mr. Medalie 's subordinates had " dishonestly and criminally accepted bribes for preventing bond forfeitures in certain prohibition cases , which dishonest acts , under official management , " should be impossible . Judge 's Assignment Cited . Another part of the document said that Mr. Medare had with deliberate intent caused the assignment of a District Court judge who , by his previous utterances , had virtually prejudged the guilt of the defendants . Still another count charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold the high office when he " controverted " his course In a discussion of the election frauds with Governor Lehman . " While there have been 6,000 prohibition cases on the calendar for two years and a large list of dope smugglers and other such cases , " Mr. Dickstein told the House , " t its man went out to find the great fraud that defeated the Republicans . He found a difference of two votes ; he indicted a number of women and a number of men . " I am ready to prove he is using his office to further his own interest . " At one point Representative Snell , minority leader , arose to ask jok-ingly : " Has this investigation been conducted since we had the election here in the House Wednesday ? " This reference to the counting of the electoral vote appeared to show the spirit of the House , and only a few members remained in the chamber while Mr. Dickstein completed his speech . The ten-page indictment was assigned to the Rules Committee , whence it will be referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dickstein to Ask Speed . Mr. Dickstein said he planned to appear before the rules body Monday to ask that approval be expedited in order to get action before the end of the session . In an interview Mr. Dickstein said that many guiltless women and men , nearly all with families , had been deprived of their freedom without due process of law , and that in many cases witnesses had been recalled after the original subpoenas had been destroyed . " These summonses cost money to the taxpayer and it is evident that there has been collusion with bail bondsmen , " he asserted . " Some of the bonds were prohibitive . " In a formal statement he said : " I introduced the resolution for the sole and honest purpose of determining the facts as appear in the resolution and to give the Hon. George Z. Medalie and his associates an opportunity to appear before the Judiciary Committee of the House and explain the conduct of his office and the charges made against him . ' Inquisition ' Is Charged . " Since the day after election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in the investigation of election cases , which is normally the function of the District Attorney of the County of New York , or the authorities of the State of New York , and has subpoenaed hundreds of witnesses under ' John Doe ' proceedings , and made it more of an inquisition than an investigation . " Information has reached me that strangers were in the grandjury roam when witnesses were brought in , for the alleged purpose of identifying them . " Thee learned District Attorney has apparently picked out the Fourth Assembly District as his target and has procured illegal and unlawful indictments , after which he obtained an order from the court to fingerprint and photograph the defendants without warrant of law . " He and his assistants have kept themselves very actively engaged in this inquisition , in spite of the fact that there are other cases two and three years old.awaiting action by the Federal court . " I am not complaining about the District Attorney 's proceedings against people who are guilty of crime , but I most emphatically object to a singling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part . " Medalie WM Demand Proof . The Dickstein resolution was described last night by Mr. Medalie as simply another attempt on the part of an interested party to halt the Federal investigation of election fraud last November , which has resulted to date in more than thirty indictments . Mr. Medalie , denying that his office had conducted a ruthless inquiry and disregarded the rights of citizens , hurled back a charge that Mr. Dickstein 's secretary , Morris Abrams , wanted as a witness before the Federal grand jury ; has been missing for a month . He said he would welcome an opportunity for the Representative to make good his accusations , and declared that unless Mr. Dickstein produced evidence before " an appropriate committee of Congress to sustain any possible charges insinuated by him against my assisttants " he would " compel " the accuser to go before a grand jury or a United States commissioner . Mr. Medalie 's Reply . Mr. Medalie 's fully reply to the resolution and Dickstein 's charges , as they were reported from Washington , is as follows : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecutions . The first was the resistance of the subpoenas for the production of election records . A speedy disposition by the courts ended this sooner than the . persons interested in this delay expected . " The next was the attempt to have me judicially disqualified from conducting the investigation and prosecutions . The courts disposed of that with lightning speed . " The third attempt involved tactics of legal delay which the District Court , on my motion , disposed of with a rapidity that took their breath away , the court characterizing their motions as ' frivolous . ' " The final attempt comes in the form of Congressman Dickstein 's resolution , protected by his immunity as a member of the House . The ' cruel and inhuman ' treatment referred to in the resolution is Mr. Dickstein 's protest to the refusal of the courts to sustain delay in these cases in which he is personally interested . Says Witness Is Missing . " A substantial number of indictments found  --  five of a total of eight  --  are in , the district in which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate . An agent of the Department of Justice has been unable to locate Morris Abrams , Mr. Dickstein 's secretary , for over a month . Perhaps this occasion will be a means of producing the elusive witness . " Mr. Dickstein has been active in these cases ever since the first arrests were made on election day . He has been in this office to see me and my assistants again and again in connection with these cases . These and other cases have been investigated by two Federal grand juries . Mr. Dickstein 's function has been a dual one , namely , as lawyer , not of record , and as politician . " The Governor of New York , who is of the same political faith as Mr. Dickstein , has ordered the District Attorney of New York County to take steps similar to those taken by me . Similar ' cruel and inhuman ' indictments have been returned by the county grand jury . " During the trial of the pleas in bar before Judge Coxe on Wednesday , David Slade of defense counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would maize the judge and me feel sorry we had ever started this . ' Calls Cases Up-to-Date . " As to the smoke-screen referred to , I should like an opportunity accorded the Congressman to make good his accusations . Our narcotic cases are up-to-date and our prohibition cases are as nearly so as possible . " If Mr. Dickstein does not produce evidence before an appropriate committee of Congress to sustain any possible charges insinuated by him against my assistants , I shall compel him to go before a grand jury or before a United States commissioner . " Everybody knows that election cases are only an incident in our work . At my request judges were brought from other districts and in the last two months an enormous amount of criminal work has been disposed of . Cases pending on our Criminal calendar are now at their lowest figure . " Representative Dickstein 's demand fell by coincidence on a date when just two years ago Mr. Medalie took over the office of United States Attorney . After issuing his statement Mr. Medalie went to work with J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing his cases against the indicted election workers for trial . Trial of two indicted officials will probably begin next Tuesday .                     