@@702275

txt Industry and New Deal The . onal Manufactliters Association ** here a ) ted a code for i ; ' F y p ! - :1 - era of good for ' : n1. , " and cc. ation with social aims of New Deal . The text of the code is on Page 30 . The Council for Industrial Progress in Washington heard labor 's plan to promote employment by a thirty-hour week and Federal regulation of working conditions . Employers did not oppose new labor laws , but spokesmen insisted that they should conform to the Constitution . Page 33 . Code Is Adopted Mere A ( 1 ( . r rrl fin of principles for Ar.lc r:can in ? I ? ; stry , calling for an era of good feeling both at home and abroad , pledging cooperation with the government in the national interest and embracing , at least in principle , some of the most important social reforms of the New Deal , was adopted yesterday afternoon at the final session of the forty-first annual convention of the National Association of Manufacturers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmony with the keynote speech delivered at Wednesday 's session by Colby M. Chester . chairman of the General ! Foods Corporation and president of I the association , and in striking contrast to the bitter criticisms of the New Deal uttered by industrialists at previous meetings . In closing the convention Mr. Chester asserted his belief that it had " written a new , sound and progressive note in the industrial life of this nation in its declaration of principles , " and predicted that it would have the support of " a united industry " within the year .. Census of Idle Is Urged Resolutions were adopted urging a government census of unemployed and opposing governmental ownership of the railroads or any trans- : portation system . Addresses were made by Raymond Moley , editor of the magazine Today ; John R. McCarl , former Controller General ; George H. Mead , president of the Mead Corpo- ; ration and chairman of the business advisory council to the Department of Commerce , and James A. Era-1 ery , general counsel of the association . Mr. Moley urged joint economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that i it must recognize the meaning of the election returns -- that the people voted for security of wages and living standards  --  and offer them a rational plan to attain these ends if it does not wish to be compelled to submit to impractical and drastic legislation . A balanced budget through the reduction of relief expenditures and other government spending was ad- . vocated by Mr. McCarl . He urged ; industry to accept the responsibility ' for reducing the need for relief by 1 giving more jobs . He also suggest- ? ed that business organize a National Industrial Board to cooperate with-1 the government in the " collective " solution of social and economic ; problems . According to Mr. Mead . business wants " constructive regulation . " ' contrary to a general public impression , although it is opposed to " government ownership or control . " Business also believes in economic security , he said , adding that 1 a " practical " economic security and a " reasonable degree " of individual freedom were not incompatible . Mr. Emery argued that labor unions should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and industrial groups . The administration of the new National Labor Relations Act , he asserted , was demonstrating " the social injustice and unwisdom of its central principle of compulsory employment relations . " In the field of trade practice , he said , the Federal Government should assume advisory and not enforcement functions . The declaration of principles was unanimously adopted after being read to the convention by William B. Warner , president of the McCall Company . On motions from the floor two minor amendments were made . One eliminated a phrase which gave the impression that " better living , better housing , more of the necessities , comforts and luxuries of life , steadier work , more certainty of a job , more security for old age , " had only now been adopted as objectives of American industry . The other cut out the words " opportunity for the worker to obtain a financial interest in the company which employs him " from a paragraph which urged the continuance of traditional American opportunities . ' Urging adherence to the system of private enterprise and individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaration pledged industry to work within this system for reforms . It opposed monopoly , condemned industrial abuses , and promised to provide work for the unemployed and cooperate with the government in the promotion of economic and social progress . It opposed government competition with private industry . Endorsing the principle of social security in provision for the needy aged , sick , disabled and unemployed . the declaration expressed doubt that the new Federal Social Security Act would accomplish its ends , and suggested amendments . but pledged industry to cooperate to make it effective . It came out against child labor and the sweatshop . Good Wages and Hours Pledged Offering a fair division of the rewards of industry to labor , it opposed the closed shop , and asserted that labor 's right to bargain collectively or individually should be protected against " interference or coercion by any one . " Opposing an arbitrary reduction of working hours , it pledged industry to better wages , hours and working conditions as business improves . It approved the government 's program for a balanced budget without higher taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the income from production , lest higher prices result , or discouraging the building up of reserves necessary to progress and stability . The declaration opposed specula- , tive manipulation of securities , urged government efforts to in- , crease foreign trade , endorsed the ; principle of flexible tariff adjustments up to 50 percent , and favored the reciprocal trade agreements , but urged the abrogation of the unconditional most-favored-nation provisions . It closed by stating industry 's opposition to war and its realization that despite temporary war profits it " thrives only on peace . " S. Clay Williams , chairman of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and chairman of the Resolutions . Committee , introduced the resolutions on the unemployment census and transportation . Both were ? unanimously adopted . That on the unemployment census read as follows : " We urge the government to make an enumeration of the unemployed . defined as those able to accept work , willing to take it , and unable to get it , classified as to States and occupations and as to those who are unemployable . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to American business to study the future in terms of the election results . Their meaning , according to his interpretation , would be reflected in " an attempt at economic readjustment through joint planning between business and government . " Now that the crisis is over , he went on , business need not fear planning so much as before , as people had grown tired ' of " punitive expeditions and economic panaceas . " He urged management to seek to stabilize employment , with increased annual income , and to make a start toward the annual wage . He also advocated more attention by industry to planned public relations . Management Held Quasi-Public Mr. Moley said that management no longer acts exclusively as agent for capitalists , but now has a quasipublic function of equitably distributing the fruits of industry among investors , workers and consumers . Saying that management need have no fear of recognizing its threefold responsibility , he continued : " If your investors complain , you have only to ask them to observe the signs of the times . The brutal fact is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of self-preservation . The security of the return on investment is a primary consideration of investment . And this security must take into consideration the return to labor and to the consumer . Security of an investment is not seldom enhanced by a ' reduction in the amount of its return . Wide public sympathy and . understanding are so essential to . the maintenance of the security of I investment that the wisest possible policy you can adopt is to offer increasingly larger services to the public in terms of more goods for less money . " I regret that labor has fallen so far behind business management on this essential point . Labor , in its fear for the safety of its own share in the products of industry , has failed to recognize clearly that the steady reduction of prices to the consuming public is a necessary factor in winning the support of the public for labor , management and investment . " A Link with Government Mr. McCarl said that his proposed National Industrial Board might be composed of six representatives of industry , an economist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intricacies of present-day government . " He said it could act as a link between industry and government " with a view to laying a sound and enduring foundation for our further industrial progress through encouraging if not exacting , sane management and proper prac- : tices in industry , wide employment and vastly improved relationship between management and worker , and infinitely better and more helpful contact with government . " According to Mr. McCarl , the election did not solve any issues except that of leadership . He said that the brakes should be put on government spending , " not so sharply as to induce a crash ' but in such sane manner as to give ? immediate assurance that another crash can be avoided and with such continuing pressure as actually to avoid another crash . Economize . Stop needless spending . Husband I our resources . Make every dollar count . Our budget can be and it must be brought into balance , by , ' reducinc , costs of government rather than by further increasing our heavy tax burden . " Mr. McCarl said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the granting of relief . " We will rue the day , " he added , " that we put a premium on indolence or encourage ' parasitism ' in America . " Much would depend on the quality of industrial leadership , he continued . He said the test was " whether industry is so fully capable of self-analysis , self-control , self-management and self-discipline . as to render more than reasonable regulation by the government unnecessary . " In order to avoid being managed politically , he said , industry must reorganize itself " on a new and broad basis , in furtherance of trade , fair practices . ' progressive endeavor , and better relations with labor and govern- ' ment . The following new directors were elected : At-Large : 3 . C. Hilton , vice president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , New York City . California : Reese N. Taylor , president of the Consolidated Steel Corp .. Ltd. , Los Angeles . Connecticut : F. F. Barnes , chairman of the board of the WallaceBarnes Company , Bristol ; C. R @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Niles Bement Pond Co .. Hartford . Illinois : Alfred Kaufmann. president of the Link-Belt Company , Chicago . Iowa : Craig R. Sheaffer of the W. A. Sheaffer Pen Company , Fort Madison . Kentucky : William L. Hoge , president of the Mengel Company , Louisville . Massachusetts : Howard Coonley , president of the Walworth Company , Boston . Minnesota : W. L. Huff , treasurer of the Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company , Minneapolis . Missouri : Howard I. Young , president of the American Zinc , Lead and Smelting Company , St. Louis . New Hampshire , Vermont , Maine : Rolland H. Spaulding , president of the Spaulding Fibre Company , North Rochester , N. H. New Jersey : Homer Forsythe , president of the Hyatt Roller Bearing Company , Newark . New York : Hilland G. Batcheller , president of the Ludlum Steel Company , Watervliet ; M. H. Eisenhart , vice president of the Bausch &; Lomb Pptical Company , Rochester . North Carolina : S. Clay Williams , chairman of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company , WinstonSalem . Ohio : J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cleveland . Oklahoma , Texas : R. C. Kuldell , president of the Hughes Tool Company , Houston , Texas . Rhode Island : Robert B. Dresser , trustee of the estate of Frank A. Sayles , Providence . Virginia : A. L. Ivey , president of ' the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corporation , Richmond . Washington : Neil C. Jamison , president of the Sauk River Lumber Company , Everett . Oregon : T. W. Banfield , president of the Iron Fireman Manufacturing Company , Portland .                     