@@701574

txt Judge Elwood Hamilton of the Federal District Court tonight held the Guffey Coal Act constitutional . He declared that Congress has power to regulate wages and prices ? ? ony industry which Congress may conclude bears on interstate commerce and pronounced the courts powerless to review such a conclusion if any facts support it . Federal authority under the Constitution 's interstate commerce and general welfare clauses , as expounded by Judge Hamilton , would sustain legislation whenever the States failed or were helpless to act . " The people of the United States intended to surrender all the rights they had to promote the general welfare that could not be dune by the States acting independently , " he said . Judge Hamilton gave the first complete decision upon constitutionality of the Guffey act . Nineteen coal companies , with sales totaling nearly $700,000 a month , challenged the New Deal 's substitute in the coal industry for the NRA . The judge left these companies free to operate without penalty , on equal terms with submissive companies , until the constitutionality issue is settled on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have to pay the 13% per cent output tax imposed on defiant operators , but only the 1% per cent levied on all companies ? and that to the court and not the government . Judge Hamilton overruled government objections that the action was premature because the Guffey act taxes are not yet due and that revenue laws forbid injunctions against tax collection , requiring objectors to pay and then sue to get their money back . Judge Hamilton 's ruling , if sustained , will require the soft coal industry either to submit to government regulation or to operate under a tax handicap of 13% per cent of the value of its output . Thus the wages paid 450,000 workers would go under control of the Bituminous Coal Labor Board , and the National Bituminous Coal Commission would fix the price of the country 's coal , which produces nearly half the nation 's power , pays nearly a fifth of the country 's freight bills and is a leading product of eight States . Former Judge Charles I. Dawson , chief counsel for the parties resisting the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Covers Three Cases . Judge Hamilton promulgated his doctrine of Federal powers in a fifty-nine-page opinion which disposed of three cases submitted for final decision to him as judge for the Western Kentucky District . The cases were : 1 . The R. C. Tway Coal Company and eighteen other operators in the rich Harlan field sued to restrain Selden R. Glenn , revenue collector , from levying the Guffey act taxes . Judge Hamilton dismissed this action , but stayed his judgment on condition that the companies pay into court the 1% per cent tax and 1 per cent of that amount as costs . The companies claimed the act transgressed the Fifth Amendment by taking property without due process of law ; the Tenth Amendment by arrogating to the Federal Government powers reserved to the States ; that it improperly delegated to the Code Commission the legislative powers of Congress , and that its tax provisions were unconstitutional abuse of the tax power . 2 . C. H. Clark , a Tway stockholder , sued to compel his directors to sign the code and abandon their determination to disobey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but stayed its effect until the act is finally adjudicated . Stockholders Opposed Directory , Mr. Clark asserted that the directors were ruining the company by flouting the Guffey act . They replied with the points made against the collector . They contended they ought not to be enjoined to obey what they termed such an invalid statute . 3 . John N. Macke11 and Sterling S. Lanier Jr. , receivers for the Norton Coal Mining Company , petitioned the court for advice whether the Norton mine must comply with the act . They were directed to do so . The receivers were named on application of the Baltimore Trust Company , a creditor . Congress , in the Guffey act , or , to use its formal name , the Bituminous Coal Conservation Act , proclaimed coal mining to be affected with a national public interest and attempted to stabilize the industry through formulation and enforcement of the " Bituminous Coal Code " by a commission of five appointed by the President . Coal companies were expected to " join " the code . The act divided the country into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a board subordinate to the commission . Each district board was empowered to fix minimum prices for coal , . " with full authority to make such classifications of coals and price variations as to mines and consuming markets as it may deem necessary " The commission was empowered to fix minimum prices . The act set up a labor board of three , appointed by the President , to control relations between operators and miners by fixing wages and hours . Other provisions voided contracts at prices outside the maximum and minimum ; forbade " unfair practices " ; required producers to sell all purchasers similarly circumstancedat the same price ; prohibited interference with or denying collective bargaining to miners ; guaranteed miners the right to name their own check weigh:nen , and allowed a code member injured through violation by another to sue in Federal court for triple damages and costs . The act 's enforcement armament was a 15 per cent tax on all coal produced in the United States , with a 90 per cent rebate of that tax to code members . The commission might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after written complaint and hearing . Accepts Congress Views on Facts . Judge Hamilton used the first half of his opinion to set out the terms of the act , the companies ' arguments and the government 's replies that for years the coal business has been subject to : 1 . Lengthy and frequent stoppages of interstate coal shipments . 2 . Price fluctuations tending to restrict interstate commerce In coal . 3 . Demoralized competition which burdened interstate commerce . The government filed several hundred pages of evidence about industrial conditions , which Mr. Clark 's counsel immediately adopted . On Judge Dawson 's motion Judge Hamilton struck out the evidence as irrelevant , but left it in the file . " I have assumed that this court is without power to hear evidence or find facts upon the constitutionality of the Congressional act here in question , " Judge Hamilton said . " It seems to me a court would be treading on dangerous ground to attempt to go into a factual field . The Congress have already investigated the facts . " Every inquiry into the validity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Congress observed the Constitution , and when the validity of an act depends upon the existence of certain facts the legislative determination will be conclusive on the courts , unless the contrary is shown by facts of which the court may take judicial notice . " Judgment of Congress Upheld . The opinion listed twelve Congressional investigations of coal mining between 1918 and 1935 , summarized their findings on the volume and importance of the business and accorded them judicial notice . Subsequently ( in discussing whether coal mining is interstate commerce ) , Judge Hamilton observed : " In passing on the constitutionality of an act , the court does not sit as a reviewer of the facts before Congress that prompted it to take legislative action . The facts of which the court may take judicial notice and the ultimate facts as shown in the hearings before the Congress are some evidence of its declaration that the bituminous coal industry as now conducted affects interstate commerce , and this being true , the court is without power to substitute a different judgment for that of Congress . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test of constitutionality . " Things standing alone , " be said , " do not affect the happiness or welfare of the people . but when combined produce political and social disaster . Keeping this principle in mind , the mining of coal may not affect interstate commerce , but combined with the work of the miner , the transportation and marketing thereof , may become interstate commerce in its entirety . " In testing any act of Congress by the terms of ( the Constitution ) , a sensible and logical thing to do is to immediately go to the language of the document and to measure the act in question by the basic rules of interpretation and not the decisions of the Supreme Court on some similar , but not related , acts to the one in question . " " The Constitution , " said Judge Hamilton , " was ordained among other purposes to promote the general welfare , and one of the methods for so doing * was to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States , and with the Indian tribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done ( the Constitution ) , empowered the Congress to make all laws which should be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the power specifically conferred . " The people of the States intended to surrender all the rights they had to promote the general welfare that could not be done by the States acting independently . " The Congress should first determine if the act proposed is in the interest of the general welfare ; second , can the States acting independently accomplish the result ; third , if not , should the central governmenit , take action ; and fourth , search the Constitution for authority to carry into statutory form the demands of the people for governmental action . If State action is impotent , Federal action is imperative if public necessities demand , " The facts , as heretofore shown , clearly prove that the States acting alone are unable to rehabilitate the bituminous coal mining industry as it affects the people generally . The Congress should exercise whatever power it has , and if possible , the court should avoid constitutional barriers thereto . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power to regulate commerce among the States gives Congress the power to regulate that which regulates commerce . " Judge Hamilton said that when coal is sold interstate before " the miner begins to dig , " it would seem reasonable " that Congress would ' have power to legislate concerning the industry at the beginning of the Movement that was to continue uninterrupted until ultimate delivery to a consumer , or producer . " States are now unable to regulate industries by legislation , the court said , and that output of products nationally distributed " can be effectively controlled by the States is both constitutionally and economically absurd . " To deny power in such a field to the national government is tantamount to saying there shall be no legislation concerning them , " the decision went on . " When ( the States ) fail or are unable to perform a public duty , the doctrine of States ' rights should not be a barrier to the Federal Government rendering an essential service to the human race . " The court declared that to say coal mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ignore the facts . " " The miner 's silent occupation , living apart , causes him to think of his hard lot and use every power at his command to improve his condition , " Judge Hamilton said . " Because of this , the industry has been one of frequent controversy between employer and employe ( which has ) led to murders and disorders of all kinds . " The court blamed disordered conditions for poverty in the coal fields , which placed a relief burden on the taxpayers , and continued : " Not only the economic , but the political future of the United States is greatly concerned with the condition of the mining industry . No people ever feel the want of work or the pinch of poverty for a long time without reaching out violent hands against their political institutions . " Wage Fixing Is Upheld . Terminating his finding that coal regulation would serve the public interest , Judge Hamilton declared that Congress could buy all the coal mines and nationalize them for the public good and that " it would be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an industry , but had the power to acquire it outright for the public good . ' The court next considered whether the act took property without due process of law , In contravention of the Fifth Amendment . He said the act " primarily is intended to control wages , prices , production and distribution . " Elsewhere in the decision the court said ? " it was the undoubted purpose of the Congress in providing for the 15 per cent tax to use it as a weapon to force persons within the terms of the act to accept its provisions , and thereafter afford them the remedy of contesting the matter In the courts . " However , he said , Congress can regulate these , because coal mining is under the Interstate Commerce Rule , and is affected with the publics interest . Judge Hamilton cited oases holding that Congress could prevent price cutting and fix hours and wages . Nor did the court agree that the taxing power was unconstitutionally employed since " taxation has been used for many purpose . other than the raising of revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluding his opinion : ' If we cling to the doctrine of States ' rights in the matter of commerce as it existed in the early days of the Republic , a palsied hand holds the power and decay will set in in our nation before its time . " If commerce is to be regulated and controlled for the public welfare in this country , it must be by the National Government , because the states lack the power to make effective their own regulations . "                     