@@703742

txt Fresh from the country.with a new mandate the nature of which Is expected to cause contention from the very start , the Seventy-sixth Congress of the United States will assemble in Washington at noon tomorrow to face immediately the problems of national defense and unemployment relief . With opposition to the New Deal heavily augmented in both the Senate and House as a result of the Democratic primaries and the November election , the new Congress will devote the first day to formal organization . On Wednesday it will gather in joint session in the House chamber to hear President Roosevelt personally outline the legislative course he would like to see it follow . From the best information obtainable , including comment by Speaker Bankhead in a radio address tonight , the President will go far in emphasizing the gravity of the international situation and the necessity for improving this nation 's defenses . He will stress , moreover , the need for legislation to reorganize domestic transportation and , particularly , to rehabilitate the railroads . The President is expected to make some general suggestions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Deal , and thus to get ahead of a revisionist movement which has been rapidly gaining headway among the members of the new Congress . It is regarded as certain that he again will propose a sweeping reorganization of the executive branch of the government In the interest of administrative efficiency . Budget Message Due Thursday The President will send his budget message to Congress on Thursday . It will disclose his recommendations for expenditures during the new fiscal year . It also will carry his request for an appropriation to continue Federal unemployment relief under the Works Progress Administration until the end of the present fiscal year on June 30 . The preliminaries to the opening of the session were disposed of today when the Democratic members of the House , meeting in party caucus , renominated Representative William B. Bankhead of Alabama as Speaker , and Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas as majority leader . They will be elected without question when the House assembles tomorrow . The Senate Democrats already had named Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky as majority leader of that chamber . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the practical doubling of their numbers at the last election , and selected Joseph W. Martin Jr . of Massachusetts by acclamation to shepherd the swollen minority . He succeeds Bertrand H. Snell of New York , who declined to stand for reelection . Martin States Minority 's Aim After his election , Representative Martin issued the following statement : " It will be our purpose to be constructive in the consideration of all measures presented before the Congress . " All legislation which promises to promote the progress and prosperity of the country will command our support , and we will not hesitate to oppose vigorously proposals which , in our opinion , are ill-advised , hastily conceived , or which otherwise threaten to be detrimental to the national welfare . " The paramount objective is to restore the solid prosperity of the country  --  to put our 10,000,000 unemployed back to work . Permanent jobs at American wages are the only real index of recovery . " With a minority party of our present size , we will have a real voice in the formulation of policies and programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be restored . " I am confident we will be able to perform our necessary part in a way which will command the approval of the country . " In this critical period , I believe firmly that it must be our responsibility to place patriotism above politics . " The sessions tomorrow in both houses are expected to be short . In the House , the clerk of the previous session , South Trimble , will call it to order and preside until the Speaker is formally elected . The Speaker then will administer the oath of office to the new members and superintend the election of the other House officers  --  clerk , sergeant at arms , doorkeeper , postmaster and chaplain . After a few other formalities the House will adjourn until the joint session Wednesday . Garner to Swear in New Senators In the Senate , the new members will be sworn in by Vice President Garner . They will be thirty-five in number  --  thirty-two for full terms of six years each and the other three to serve unexpired terms of Senators who have died or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notifying the House that it is in session , and joining with that body in sending a committee to the White House to notify the President that the Congress has been organized and is ready to receive his recommendations , the Senate also will quit until the joint session on the following day . These formalities will be unable , however , even for a day , to cover the smoldering contention in which the new Congress is expected to meet . During the short session of the Senate , tomorrow , its Committee on Campaign Expenditures , the Sheppard committee , will file its report detailing , among other things , cases of WPA participation in the recent primary and general elections . With these disclosures one of the most troublesome issues expected for the new Congress  --  unemployment relief  --  will be dumped heavily into its lap . Copies of the Sheppard report were being circulated tonight for release when it is filed in the Senate tomorrow . Undoubtedly it will furnish sufficient ammunition for continuing attacks on the present Federal relief system , and the request of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Feb. 7 , when present funds will be exhausted , until June 30 , will furnish ample occasion for its use . Another occasion will be the consideration by the Senate of the nomination of Harry L. Hopkins , former WPA Administrator , as Secretary of Commerce . President Confers on Relief The relief problem occupied a considerable part of President Roosevelt 's attention during the day . He conferred in his study for two hours with Mr. Hopkins , Colonel F. C. Harrington , the new WPA Administrator , and Daniel W. Bell , Acting Director of the Budget . They discussed mainly the needs for a supplemental appropriation to carry on ' work relief for the rest of the present fiscal year . variously estimated at from $500,000,000 to $750 , - 000,000 . Before conferring with these officials , the President had luncheon with Senator Barkley and Representative Rayburn , and read to them the finished draft of the annual message on the state of the Union , which he will deliver in person to the joint session on Wednesday . The most authoritative intimation of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who had seen the message in a less finished draft a few days ago . Mr. Bankhead spoke tonight over a nation-wide radio hook-up under the auspices of the National Radio Forum He predicted that the President would devote a considerable part of his message to the question of national defense and also would touch heavily on the transportation problem . He added to this his own belief that the relief question would raise sharp controversy , that another attempt would be made to obtain consideration of the reorganization bill and that " vigorous effort " would be made to revise some New Deal acts . d policies , including the National Labor Relations Act , the farm program , the Social Security Act and the relief system . Points to War and Dictatorships " I feel that it is reasonable to assume that the President will discuss at some length and will probably make some very definite suggestions with reference to our international situation and matters which , in his opinion , may be reasonably necessary for the strengthening of our armed national defense , " Speaker Bankhead said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very distressing situation in many parts of the world involving actual aimed conflict among millions of people at this time , and in view of the apparent purpose of some dictator governments to enforce their will upon helpless minorities , that the people of our country will hear with great interest the views presented by our President upon these subjects which so vitally affect the future safety and security of our Republic . " It is also quite probable that part of the President 's message may be devoted to a discussion of our transportation problems , particularly the plight of our great railway systems at the present time . This is a matter of very great concern to the future of our country , and it- may be that a proper solution of the transportation situation may require a basic reconstruction of the entire system of transportation , including not only railroads but also highway , water and air-borne commerce . " It is a problem which , in my opinion , should not be acted upon hastily or without adequate consideration of all the factors involved , and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be necessary to have a very full and complete Congressional survey of every phase of the problem . " Relief Fund Deficiency to the Pore Turning then to his own predictions , the Speaker continued : " One of the first matters that will engage the attention of the Congress is that of providing a deficiency appropriation to carry forward until the first day of July the great burden of relief in its various phases . It has been indicated that the existing appropriation will be sufficient to run this program for only a few weeks longer , and it is quite possible that there will be sharp controversy in Congress , not only over the amount that should be appropriated to carry on the work for the remainder of the fiscal year , but also that some limitations may be proposed as to the manner of the expenditure of these funds . " An effort will , no doubt , be made to secure consideration for another government reorganization bill . Indications also exist that serious efforts will be made to amend or modify certain features of the National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what specific alterations , it is not now apparent . " It is also now apparent that a vigorous effort may be made by certain groups of opinion to modify some of the essential features of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 , and this controversy may be rather vigorously contested before both the House and Senate Committees on Agriculture , and in both branches of Congress . " The present surface indications point to very spirited and possible acrimonious discussion of a great variety of proposed changes in the present Social Security Act . " Old-age pensions , through some form of Federal assistance , is undoubtedly one of the livest issues now before the country . A great number of proposals have been put forward , of varying degrees of liberality and methods of financing . It is rather certain that the House Ways and Means Committee will , early in the session , set down hearings on these issues , and give to all the outstanding proposals a fair opportunity to be heard . " Would Act on Election Results Mr. Bankhead took a realistic view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent elections and the consequent increases in the Republican membership in Congress , in noting legislative possibilities for the session . " Speaking as one representative of the Democratic party , I feel that we can not afford to overlook the result of the last election , " he said . " I think it the part of political expediency , as well as of public service , to undertake to analyze , as far as we may , the causes of the increased vote by the opposition party and if it is the definite conclusion that such results were obtained solely by either bad features of the laws that we have passed or by the unwise administration of those laws and not by local conditions entirely aside from Federal activities , which had a profound reaction in some States , then to take steps to meet public opinion in the modification and correction of such criticisms as may have been influential in the recent election ; and I feel confident that that will be the spirit animating the actions of the majority party in Congress . " If I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be too partisan in this address , it is comforting to us who have been instrumental in securing the passage of many of these so-called New Deal laws that the leaders of the opposition very frankly concede that they recognize the wisdom and justice of most of the outstanding laws we have passed , and that they would not undertake to repeal them in principle or in substance , but that their efforts would be largely upon the basis of correction and modification of some features of such legislation that they see fit to criticize . " As practical politicians and as men who are anxious to preserve the dominance of their party in government , I.feel confident that it will be the objective of Democratic leadership , as well as the purpose of the rank and file , to act with as much harmony and coherence as may be possible without the surrender of individual intellectual integrity upon some particular phases of legislation . " Differ on the Popular Will As the opening of the new Congress drew near , some signs became clearer and clearer . It was apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those who wear his party 's badge on Capitol Hill were still at variance on the interpretation of the November election ' and the results of the Democratic " purges . " The President and his advisers were still holding to the thesis that the result was largely a hodgepodge of local situations . As a result , the mandate of the new Congress was anything but definite . The clearest thing about it was that the very attempt to interpret the popular will would cause contention from the outset of the session . Indications multiplied that the question of relief , and particularly the susceptibility of the present system to political use , would be one of the most explosive issues to face the new Congress , and that many members were feeling the pressure for revision of various New Deal acts and programs . But over and above these specific matters there was developing a general cleavage , indicating probable general lines of action . It was evident that on the one side the President and his more loyal leaders on Capitol Hill would attempt to rivet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense , the necessity for reorganizing the transportation industry and possibly other - measures more in the nature of recovery than reform . It was just as evident that on the other side the Democratic " moderates , " aided and abetted by the Republicans , were determined to return to Congress the control over government spending and possibly to cut down the huge Federal outlays , and at the same time to revise drastically the controversial New Deal measures which have become political liabilities in many States and Congressional districts . In short , there is a substantial movement , and it is growing every day , to make this a revisionist Congress .                     