@@699105

txt Directing his appeal to the " forgotten man " not to change the nation 's leadership during the present crisis , Ogden L. Mills , Secretary of the Treasury , in an address here tonight closing the Republican campaign in Maine for Monday 's State election , declared that President Hoover had come to grips with the country 's economic problems , but that Governor Roosevelt apparently had not . Referring to the Democratic Presidential candidate 's speeches , the Treasury head asserted : " It is this failure to grasp the problems of the hour that gives the Governor 's suggestions an atmosphere of unreality and makes them almost academic in relation to our immediate difficulties . " Now , the plain truth of the matter is that President Hoover has come to grips with this problem . Governor Roosevelt , if his public utterances to date are a fair guide , has not . " Other spe  --  lcer ? at the Hilly , which was held in the City Hall auditorium , were Burleigh Martin . of Augusta , nominee for Governor , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . The Democrats wound up their campaign with Senator David D. Walsh of Massachusetts and NGene Tunney speaking in Portland and Governor Joseph B. Ely of the Bay State delivering an address in Lewiston . " Forgotten Man " in another Light . Opening his address with the statement that he was directing his remarks to the " forgotten man " described by William Graham Sumner in a lecture in 1883 , Secretary Mills said that the " striking phrase " had recently " been put into circulation in counterfeit form . " Sumner 's " forgotten man , " pictured as a home builder , an honest , tax-paying citizen and family head who bears the burdens of the nation , was described by Mr. Mills as clearly " not Governor Roosevelt 's forgotten man . " " He certainly is not ' industrial cannon fodder , ' " Mr. Mills said , quoting a phrase used by Governor Roosevelt in his Columbus , Ohio , speech . " He would resent any such description . * ? ? He is thoughtful , intelligent , alive to his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of working out his own destiny . He is the backbone of the nation . " Mr. Mills said that with the " world shaken and suffering " and in a " period of unequaled and universal eco- nomic depression , in the face of unparalleled complexity , and at the very moment when there is perhaps ground for hope that the peak of the crisis has bee- passed , we are called upon to make the fateful decision as to whether we will change our leaders . " Sees Peril in Shifting Command . Asserting that in " times of crisis " there must be " very compelling reasons for changing the high command . " the New York Republican said that if a new administration were elected the Hoover regime would continue for four months and that after induction into office there would be a further period before those who took over the government " could get a firm grasp , not only of the machinery , but of the problems . " Mr. Mills said it would be next Summer before the government , " which has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout this crisis , would once more function at the maximum of efficiency . " have no effect on agricultural prices ; would offer no relief to those struggling under a burden of debt , and would not furnish a job to a single man or woman throughout , the United States . " Charging that a revision of the tariff along the lines suggested by Governor Roosevelt would add to the " unsettlement and uncertainties , " the Treasury Secretary defended the Smoot-Hawley tariff act . He said that " one can not help but wonder whether our reduced purchasing power should at this time be made available to foreign manufacturers rather than preserved in the interest of our own farmers and unemployed . " The argument against throwing the American market wide open to foreign competition applies with even greater force to Governor Roosevelt 's solution of the foreign debt problem , " he continued . " He would refuse to cancel the debts , but would permit foreign nations indebted to us to sell enough goods in our market to furnish them with profits to equal their debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that whereas the Governor is opposed to cancellation , he , in effect , proposes that we ourselves shall pay the debts owed us by others , and that the process he vaguely outlines carries with it the most serious threat to our commercial and industrial structure , not only today but over a long period of adjustment . " This is exactly the converse of the program suggested by another leading Democrat , Alfred E. Smith , who changing the Commander-in-Chief , but at the height of the conflict of supplanting the Major and Brigadier Generals , the Colonels and the entire General Staff , " he continued . " I do not say that it can not be done , but I do say that there must be very compelling reasons for making the attempt . Much better men and much sounder policies must be offered . Otherwise there is no justification for risking a change . " The real question is : Do any reasons exist , much less compelling ones , for making a change ? What Professor Sumner 's ' forgotten man ' s vitally interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be calling him to work and , if he be a farmer , how soon he will receive some reward for his labor and some return on his property . He is too smart to believe the claims of campaign orators that government can do this for him . ? ? ? " He has got to decide whether he Is more likely to escape from the cruel circumstances in which he finds himself enmeshed , and find once more the comfort , security and happiness which we associate with American life , by continuing the leadership of President Hoover or substituting therefor that of Governor Roosevelt . " Assails Roosevelt Fiscal Plan . Referring to Governor Roosevelt 's suggestions for regulating the Stock E:mhange and placing stricter supervision on the banks , Mr. Mills said that the Governor could have done this in his own State . If accomplished , he added , such measures " could bring no stimulation to business or industrial activity ; would " It is not simply a question of proposes compensation for any debt concessions in the form of increased export markets . Lays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as yet indicated any definite program for the relief of unemployment and the care of destitution , " Mr. Mills said . " In none of his suggestions is there any indication of a real realization of the character of the present emergency . To date be has offered us no program to effect a cure . I am beginning to wonder whether he has one . " Mr. Mills charged that in Governor Roosevelt 's Columbus speech there were significant omissions . " He not only ignores but he actually denies that the events which had their origin in Europe beginning in the latter part of May , 1931 , gave it ( the business slump ) new acceleration in a different form and created a situation which well-nigh overwhelmed us , " the Secretary said , adding : " Any man who can brush aside the collapse of the entire credit structure of Germany , the abandonment of the gold standard by Great Britain and the terrible blow dealt to our own credit structure by the double impact of foreign withdrawals and domestic hoarding , followed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country , with wholesale destruction of values and prices , ha : no conception of the fundamenta character of the economic crisis that has existed in the United States i01 the last ten months . " The second significant omission , In continued , was that Governor Roosevelt criticized everything President Hoover had done up to the end of 1930 , but had had nothing to say against the policies pursued since . " There is only one conclusion to be drawn from this  --  either the Governor agrees with the President 's emergency program or he has nothing better to offer , " Mr. Mills said .                     