@@698651

txt The story of a resourceful divorc ? e who admits swindling a bank out of $30,000 by an unusual scheme will be told to the grand Jury today . She Is Mrs. Agnes Steen , former manager of checking accounts and bookkeeper for the Parkway State bank , 1950 North Clark street , from which she abstracted the funds . The woman has made a full confession , according to officials of the bank , and Assistant State 's Attorney William A. Rittenhouse will be asked to present the matter , to the grand jury and seek an indictment today . The entire loss to the bank Is covered by Insurance and will be paid by the American Surety company , according to , officials of that concern . Mother of Two Children . Mrs. Steen is about 35 years old , the mother of two children ; She is di . vorced from a clerk in another bank . In appearance she is of the average bookkeeper type , medium In height and weight , brown hair and dark eyes , but in efficiency she Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the bank for about four years and her confessed defalcations extended over a period of a year and a half . She opened a checking account in another bank and then drew checks-on the Parkway State bank , where she had no account . These checks would be deposited to her credit in the other bank and when they returned to the Parkway State hank from the clearing house she would destroy them , according to her confession . Being in charge of the checking accounts she was able to escape detection by juggling the amounts of the destroyed checks among the accounts of the various depositors of the . bank , according to Investigators . Innocent Man Accused . Airs . Steen is said to have realized about live weeks ago that she was in danger of being caught , so : The attempted to forestall trouble by going t. , one of the bank 's directors and accusing an innocent man This man is said to have cooperated with the bank officials and I:maritime investigators in clearing up the matter and when he confronted Mrs. ' Steen she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money . Investigators I said they had no means of determining how many ' checks Mrs. Steen put through , for site destroyed them , and they had not had time to consult the records of the other bank and the clearing house in the light of her story . Examination of the Parkway State ' ik 'S ac'moats , however . Indicate that her story is correct as to the total mettletions. that the loss will not exceed Sr0,000 , according to the bank officials . Dr. , Daniel A. Orth is president of the Parkway State bank and Dr. Nelson M. Percy . is vice president . Albert C. ** Is cashier                     