@@703838

txt President Manuel Azana of the Spanish Republic left the Spanish Embassy on Avenue George V this evening at 10 o'clock for his brother-in-law 's home near Geneva . By this act he abandoned all pretension to act as Chief Executive of the Spanish Republic . Senor Azafia drove to the Gars de Lyon , where he took a train for Geneva . A representative of the French Foreign Ministry was at the station . Senor Azafia was accompanied by the Loyalist Ambassador , Dr. Marcelino Pascua y Martinez , and twenty members of the embassy staff , according to The Associated Press . Their departure apparently left the embassy vacant for General Franco 's representative , Jose Maria Quiiiones de Leon , who wag Ambassador to France during King Alfonso 's reign . Left Resignation Terms It is understood Seim ' Azeji a left at the embassy and communicated to the Madrid government the terms of his resignation . These will not be made public until tomorrow afternoon , when the French Cabinet is expected to have recognized Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's Burgos regime as the legal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it may be mentioned that as Senor Azafia left the embassy an exceitonally large falling star dropped westward across the sky . Whether the end of the Spanish Republic came with the resignation of its President or will come only with recognition of the Franco regime by France will be hotly debated . Up to the last minute there had been argument here as to which event should come first . By leaving the embassy tonight , Sefior Azaiia is thought in some measure to have made a compromise and facilitated the French Government 's action tomorrow . It is deemed unlikely that hostilities will be continued in Spain . From Count Francisco Gomez Jordana , the Burgos Foreign Minister , Senator Leon Berard , the French envoy who returned to Paris this morning , obtained in writing confirmation of General Franco 's oftrepeated statement ? that he wants an independent Spain . M. Berard also obtained an agreement that refugees would be allowed to return to Spain and would not be penalized for political offenses . On behalf of France he agreed to restore all Spanish art treasures and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Late tonight the results of his negotiations will be laid before Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet , who has been absent from Paris for twenty-four hours . Tomorrow the French Cabinet will , as Premier Edouard Daladier said it would , be asked to agree to recognition of the Burgos government . No Opposition Likely It has been stated that there was some opposition within the Cabinet , but there seems to be no doubt that Friday 's vote in the Chamber of Deputies , approving the Premier 's attitude , will influence those who , from humanitarian or other reasons , were sympathetic to the Spanish Loyalist cause . Speaking at a Radical Socialist party celebration at Gourdon in the Southwest today , M. Bonnet made this reference to the Spanish situation : " Having common frontiers with Spain , both in Europe and . in Africa , France has been greatly exposed to danger ever since the civil war broke out in 1936 . " But we want to live on good terms with our neighbor . We want to resume commercial exchange . We want to help restore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want a new frontier to defend . " It was for these reasons that we decided France must have a representative at Burgos and sent Leon Berard , who has returned after having successfully accomplished his delicate mission . " M. Bonnet put an end to reports that had been circulated in the United States that he was not in agreement with M. Daladier. - " We have , " he said , " only a common ' desire to serve our country , and we have worked together in most complete harmony . I am proud of the confidence he has shown me and of the friendly loyalty there is between us . " It is understood here that General Franco has rejected two of the three conditions of surrender , made by Dr. Juan Negrin , the Madrid Premier ; namely , the holding of a plebiscite and a guarantee a the independence of Spain . His reply to the latter was that it was not for those who had accepted foreign help to attempt to dictate such a condition . Dr. Negrin 's third condition , clemency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still being discussed . French informs= tion is that something like 10,000 persons are anxious to take advantage of this condition , if it is granted . The French have no desire to see so many Spaniards , many of them , active Communists and anarchists , seeking refuge in France . Evacuation Plans Being Made PARIS , Feb. 26 UM ? The Spanish consulate and Tourist Office here are expected to close , awaiting Franco officials to take them over . The only vestiges of Madrid government agencies remaining in Paris then would be the committee for the aid of civil populations , headed by the former Premier and present President of the Cortes , Diego Martinez Barrio . The proclamation of an armistice in Spain was being withheld temporarily , Loyalist officials here declared , pending definite evacuation plans for the government 's army , political and labor leaders from the Madrid-Valencia-Alicante zone . The British and French Governments , it was understood , have agreed tentatively to carry out the withdrawal with passenger ships escorted by war vessels . Should Spanish . ships be used , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they be turned over to Insurgents on their arrival in foreign ports , probably Marseille or Port Vendres , France . Sources close to the French Forgign Office said that General Jose Miaja had received a visa to enter France . General Miaja was reported yesterday to have relinquished his post as commander-inchief of all Loyalist forces and applied for a visa . French diplomatic reports from Madrid said that Premier Negrin had ordered his private airplane ready for him at an airport near the besieged government capital . Negrin Grants Passports MADRID , Feb. 26 ( A : ) . ? Premier Juan Negrin tonight issued a decree providing passport facilities to all men between 17 and 55 years who are not affected by mobilization orders . Men affected by the mobilization orders must have safe conduct passes issued by the Ministry of Defense , the decree stipulated . Women do not need such visas to leave the country . Interpretation of the decree was lacking , since the efforts of outside powers in connection with the war were not known generally here . It was pointed out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire to leave the Loyalist government 's beleaguered central zone meant little unless outside transport facilities were tendered the people . There are no regular ship schedules , and airplane schedules of Air France are restricted . A preamble to Dr. Negrin 's decree said that he cited " by virtue of powers conferred by the President of the republic . " Considerable significance was attached to a long talk the Premier had with Colonel Segismundo Casado , Loyalist commander in the Madrid area .                     