@@697823

txt Aristide Briand 's scheme for replacing the German Mittel-Europa dream with a comprehensive European economic pact was presented in a note this afternoon to all the nations represented on the Fan-European committee . A detailed outline of the plan obtained here tonight snows it to be the most farreaching attempt to set Europe firmly on the road to economic and financial unity that has yet been evolved . ' Its scope , when considered in connection with the limited purpose of the proposed Austro-German customs union , makes the latter project appear as almost insignificant , but its very breadth compels a certain skepticism . The plan appears to be threefold  --  economic , financial and agrarian . The whole economic structure Of Europe would be coordinated , gradually at first but finally reaching a point where the tariff walls would be lowered and other drastic measures would be taken until Europe functioned as an economic whole . Based on Present Cartels . The seventy or more industrial cartels which are actively or otherwise in existence in Europe would be taken as a basis of European economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole-hearted support of French capital , would operate in the best interests of Europe , assisting weaker States in need of money to reach . a position where they would be important economic units . The depressed agricultural States , with special reference to those along the Danube , would be revived by means of a carefully worked-out scheme of purchases . Although the proposed participants are not actually named , it is clear from the French memorandum that all of Europe would be included . Moreover , so far as can be ascertained , Russia would not be barred from membership , although wide differences of opinion on this issue justify the belief that this event might be postponed for a later date . In the very beginning of the note the French emphasize the point that they agree that it is not sufficient merely to criticize the German project . Some concrete countermove , wider in purpose and more pacific in implication , must be found . That plan , the French assert now , will be found in M. Briand 's proposed European pact . Reference is then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral progress registered at these assemblies . It is hoped that a practical scheme for the stabilization of the European as well as the world wheat problem will result from the London conference opening next Monday . Asks Preferential Wheat Tariffs . The work of the financial committee of the League of Nations in regard to an international agricultural credits bank is reviewed and after noting that the creation of that bank now awaits only the sanction of the Pan-Europe committee the memo adds that France would go further and enter an agreement for preferential tariffs for Danube wheat  --  a concession which the Danube States demanded and failed to obtain at a previous conference . Such tariff revisions , the French note asserts , would not violate the most-favored nation clause of existing trade treaties inasmuch as they would find justification in the urgency and the abnormal nature of the situation . European nations are warned that nothing must be done to irritate " overseas " exporters , since those nations have annual surpluses Of several hundred million bushels , while the excess of the Danube States is less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excesses it is proposed that a central sales office be established . This office would determine export quotas and . the extent of tariff preferences . Here the memo reminds European nations that countries granting these . preferences must be compensated in some form other than the general contribution to European solidarity which such sacrifices would make . The question is left open , however , to the consideration of the whole committee . The next portion of the note deals with the industrial clauses of the plan and recalls the wave of economic nationalism which has swept Europe and caused tariff walls to be built higher and higher . The present economic depression , it is pointed out , brings some necessity of controlling products and sales . Restriction Contemplated . This is where the Briand scheme would bring the system of European industrial cartels into fuller play- and use them to achieve this much-needed industrial restriction and control . The cartels must be fortified , according to the Briand counter-project , and bolstered so as to include every important element in the industrial life of Europe . Particular reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of reorganization ; the proposed electrical equipment cartel , the coal cartel , the chemical cartel and similar agreements for motor cars . textiles , wood and cotton . With such a wide system of cartels the opinion is expressed that the advantages gained would permit the lowering of tariff walls while still assuring the necessary protection to national industries . The note maintains that tariffs must not be abolished , since they are the only weapon against dumping , but that within the framework of cartels mutual concessions could be effected without disturbing the economic equilibrium of European nations . It Is admitted that a scheme of this ambitious character could not be accomplished in a brief time , and meanwhile it is proposed to develop some immediate form of assistance for Austrian industries , which otherwise would be likely to collapse . If the Briand scheme envisages from three to five years for realization , neither does the proposed AustroGerman union admit of accomplishment before the expiration of that time , according to the note . Shuns Political Dangers . ? Great accentuation is placed upon the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question of national frontiers , the Briand counter-scheme offers no political dangers and involves Bothing harmful to the all-important " international confidence " indispensable to the future security of Europe . The note concludes with references to Austria 's economic troubles and states that special measures must be taken to aid that country : With this end in view , France asks the nations which trade with. , Austria to study new treaties providing for a larger sale of Austrian products . To achieve the European program . France stands ready to offer full financial assistance but in return asks that in the matter of State loans , the financing of large national undertakings and the . listing of foreign stocks and bonds , on the . : Paris Bourse the financial committee of the League of Nationekbe the , international intermediary-I.:3 It is disclosed that under the direction of the Bank of France a large group of French financial institutions . are already studying the . tornposed European plan with a view to placing vast stores of French capital at the service of European solidarity . It is admitted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it is felt that the generous measure of European collaboration provided for in , the plan would offer the best - guarantee - to those with money to invest in Europe .                     