@@702099

txt Educational institutions , newspapers , and the radio must be kept from the control of autocratic government or any selfish interest , Gov . Alf M. Landon declared tonight in the second speech of his eastern campaign trip . Gov . Landon spoke in the assembly hall of the Chautauqua institution , which was founded 62 years ago as an experiment in adult education and which has been a great formative force in the building of American liberal opinion . 2 Fundamental Conclusions . As a citizen , a father , and as governor of Kansas , Landon expressed two fundamental conclusions on the subject of education in this country , as follows : Our schools  --  public , parochial , and private  --  must be kept free of all control by the federal government . No teacher shall be required to take any oath not required of all other citizens . The old amphitheater , scene of many famous addresses , was crowded beyond capacity , and the 7,000 seats were filled an hour before Landon appeared . Two thousand more persons stood on the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Howe , the chorus director , led in community singing and " Smiles , " " There 's a Long , Long Trail , " and " The Battle Hymn of the Republic " rang out as a pipe organ formed a thunderous overtone . At 10 minutes before 7 o'clock it was announced that Gov . Landon was entering the hall , and the audience arose and sang " The Star Spangled Banner " as the governor 's party approached the stage . Melvin C. Eaton , New York state chairman , welcomed the governor to the Empire state and presented him to the audience , and Dr. Arthur D. Bestor , president of the Chautauqua , added his welcome . Throng Salutes Landon . Then Gov . Landon , dressed in a blue suit , took his place on the stand , and as he waved his arm in greeting thousands of white handkerchiefs were broken out in the famous " Chautauqua salute . " On the controversial teachers ' oath question , which has been raised in many states , Gov . Landon declared that a teacher has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , social , or religious convictions and to work for accomplishment of these ideas , but that the teacher has no right to become a propagandist and to put forth pet views and theories at the expense of other views and theories . Stands with Teachers . In this attitude Gov . Landon took a stand beside many teachers ' organizations and leading educators , and in opposition to some of his influential supporters . He was particularly emphatic in his denunciation of efforts of the federal government to undermine the faith of the people in the American form of government . More serious than the danger of teachers becoming propagandists , he said , is the " widespread use of the machinery of the federal government to maintain the present administration in power and to bring into question the faith of the people in their way of life and in their form . of government . When money is forcibly taken from citizens and used to tear down those things most precious to our people we see propaganda in its most shabby form . " Great Issue of Campaign . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressing in more concrete form his conception of the great issue in the present campaign  --  the preservation of the American form of government against the insidious drive toward a centralized burocracy which is manifest in the New Deal school of thought . " The right of free inquiry , " he said , " is one of the essentials of free government . It is the very bedrock of democracy . " Both at home and abroad , Gov . Landon said , men are striving today for power through leadership of the mob . This is his interpretation of the Roosevelt acceptance speech , although he does not go into personalities . Urges Background for Youth . " Because of this , " lie said , " I believe that our educators should make a more than normal effort to see that our youth is given a background of our heritage and tradition  --  a fundamental understanding of the form and philosophy of our government . If this is done we need have no fear of allowing our youth to study any and all systems of government to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . Landon said , mirrors better than anything else the philosophy and progress of American democracy . Religion and education , he said , have worked hand in hand throughout our history , and " neither can realize its full possibilities without the other . " " Tide Runs Against Freedom . " Our system of free education has failed , he declared , it class distinctions are allowed to develop in this country . " We may as well face the fact , " he said , " that the tide is running against free government today . In many lands the hand of government is closing down upon education . It is being made into a tool , for autocratic purposes . " In these days of widespread propaganda it is imperative that our teachers be kept free and that our educational institutions , our newspapers , and the radio be kept independent , either from control of autocratic government or from the influence of any selfish interest . " There roust not be censorship of What is spoken or written , and , equally important , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " We Americans , " he concluded , " still are in control of our own destiny . We can remain so only through the processes of sound education . " JOBS HELD ONLY SOLUTION Speaking earlier today at Erie , Pa. , Gov . Landoll declared that real jobs at good wages is the American solution to the problem of unemployment . Discussing the challenge of the depression and relief in a talk to 4,000 persons who greeted him , Gov . Landon said : " To the million of our countrymen who have been forced to accept relief from government in this emergency , and to those other millions Who have had such hard times in making ends meet by taking such Work as they could find , the whole country owes a tribute of gratitude and respect . Cites Real Heroes . " These two groups of our fellow citizens upon whom the burden of this depression has rested most heavily are the real heroes of the hard times , from which , thank God , we finally are fighting our way out . " Every true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once more are available . But , as I have said before and as all of you well know , there is no future for any American on the relief rolls . " The American solution of the prob . lem of unemployment is real jobs at good wages . Toward that solution government ought to lead the way not by squandering the people 's money but by expending it wisely and carefully . It should lead the way not by discouraging business , not by stifling enterprise , not by limiting crops , but by the pursuance of sound policies that will revive business and encourage enterprise , and release once more the boundless energy and initiative of the whole people . " No Time For Despair . " " This is no time for counsels of despair . The American people are not quitters . They have confidence in themselves and in the American institutions . " I believe the time has come when they are entitled , in the field of government and business , to a leadership that will reflect that confidence and be worthy of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery and hasten the day of our return to prosperity . " Until that day comes relief must be continued . This is a matter of plain duty . But in the performance of that duty , while we ought to be generous in relief , we should not reduce the matter of relief to absurdity . " Every man , woman , and child entitled to relief should be given it , with no questions asked regarding race , religion , or political affiliation. "                     