@@699104

txt Prime Minis ter , whose chief anxiety is to prevent failure of the disarmament conference , today assumed personal control of British foreign nolicl , relating to disarmament and the German demand for equality in armaments . As a means of getting out of the deadlock , he suggested  --  to Premier Herriot of France the postponement of the disarmament conference bureau meeting at Geneva which had been fixed for Sept. 21 . Instead he proposed that the British , French . Italian and Polish Governments should consult and decide their policy toward the German demand . By this method Mr. hopes to avert the threatened German with drawal from the disarmament conference , which he wishes above all to prevent . The Prime Minister 's personal initiative today proved that all statements that Great Britain was holding aloof from the Franco-German conversations were unfounded . The British Government , it was said today , intends to carry out its duties fully , alth.mig , h no final decision as to its attitude has been reached . Meantime M. Herriot 's reply is awaited with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's personal intervention might be to imagine a break between him and Sir John Simon , the Foreign Secretary . It is true that there was a hint of divergent views when conflicting interpretations of yesterday 's discussions were issued from the Prime Minister 's house at 10 Downing Street and the Foreign Office . Nevertheless , the two men have been in intimate consultation on the Franco-German issue for the past two days and it is not unusual for Mr. to assume command when an issue of foreign policy becomes critical . The Prime Minister has always believed in personal good-will as a solvent of international difficulties , an attitude that varies from Sir John 's coldly correct legalistic procedure at the Foreign Office . In addition , Mr. 's faith in conferences is unbounded , especially after Lausanne , and it is understandable that he should like the idea of a four-power conference to decide on the German armaments issue instead of leaving it to the usual diplomatic channels . There is reason to believe that he is anxious to keep and utilize the good-will of Chancellor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an old friend of Premier Herriot he may be able to play the role of medi- ator , , which he did so successfully at the reparations conference . Mr. 's anxiety over the disarmament conference reflects the growing anxiety in the British press , which is virtually unanimous in regarding the German demand as a challenge to Geneva . Regardless of their party affiliations or former leanings toward Germany or France , serious newspapers agree that the disarmament conference must produce something genuine if a dangerous situation in Europe is to be averted . The Sunday Times sounds a warning that is typical of many others during the past . week .. " Germany feels herself entitled to equality treatment and no power on earth can prevent her from having it , " the paper asserts . " This being so , it is madness for Europe not to face the fact and act on it . " If Germany fulfills her threat to withdraw from the disarmament coni ference , the conference would break 1 down and Europe would start preparing to commit suicide . " On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis for a real new drive toward general disarmament . There is nothing to prevent the powers from getting to business . They can scotch at the outset the Junkers ' threat to rearm by agreeing to disarm among themselves and ' by so doing can turn the German claim to the advantage of civilization . " Put bluntly , the new situation means eventual war unless the powers are determined it shall mean peace . " H. Wickham Steed , writing in the same paper , is the only British publicist thus far to admit the American view of the connedtion between the war debts and disarmament . The rearmament of Germany , he asserts , would jeopardize the Washington and London naval treaties , wreck the disarmament conference and end all hope of reduction of the war debts . The key to disarmament , in Mr. Steed 's opinion , is the bold adoption of Secretary Stimson 's new conception of neutrality by Britain and France . The German claims , he asserts , can best be met by the question , " Why rearm when the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in international relations ? " " This question , " he writes , " pushed home and accompanied by practical proof in regard to the Far East that no country will he allowed to gain political , territorial or economic advantage by aggression , even under the guise of self-defense , would constrain Germany to desist  --  or to confess that her ultimate purpose is warlike. "                     