@@703051

txt Thomas E. Dewey , who will take office as District Attorney next Sun1 day , announced yesterday that 1 three important assignments in his i office would go to three of his chief 1 assistants on the present special rackets prosecution staff . Barent Ten Eyck , who has handled the prosecution of several rackets cases , including the presentation of testimony to the grand jury that indicted Max Silverman , also a figure in the Drukman murder case , in a flour trucking racket , will receive the post of administrative assistant and will be placed in charge of a Frauds Bureau . ' Murray I. Gurfein , who handled the prosecution of John Dioguardi and James Plumeri in a trucking racket case , will  --  take charge of the Rackets Bureau that Mr. Dewey plans to set up to carry on the work he has been doing as Special Prosecutor as a part of the District Attorney 's duties . Heads Homicide Bureau Jacob J. Rosenblum will be placed in charge of the Homicide Bureau . Mr. Rosenblum conducted the usury prosecutions which constituted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime , and he also prosecuted Arthur ( Tootsie ) ' Herbert and others in breaking up the poultry racket . These appointments , in effect , brought into the regular District Attorney 's office two bureaus which have been operating in the past on a special budget . One was the Accident Frauds Bureau , which has been working for more than a year as a special one , with much of its work being done by volunteer lawyers furnished by the Bar Association . This bureau had been set up to combat the enormously increased number of fraudulent accident claims which were clogging the court calendars and which , when reduced in volume appreciably by prosecution , did much to relieve congestion . In bringing it , as well as his present rackets investigation into the regular business of the office , Mr. Dewey will carry out his one campaign pledge  --  that under his administration the District Attorney would never go outside his staff for the services of lawyers . New Frauds Bureau The new Frauds Bureau will be a combination of a number of smaller bureaus now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work it will do is a diminutive counterpart of the Rackets Bureau , except that the number of cases are far greater . All of those instances of crime which are popularly called rackets but do not fit into Mr. Dewey 's definition of a racket , which is the organized extortion of money through fear and violence , will go to this new department . An example of this type of case was furnished in the " ashcan hat " prosecution , in which a group that took discarded hats and sold them as new after cleaning and re-blocking was broken up . " It will be the function of this bureau , " Mr. Dewey 's announcement said , " to conduct affirmative , continuing investigations where necessary in'these fields , coordinating the work of the police assigned to the District Attorney 's office , the investigators and accountants . " To Complete Pending Cases The Rackets Bureau under Mr. Gurfein will complete all of the pending cases now in the special prosecutor 's office , which include the Silverman case , prosecution of persons indicted in the policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now a fugitive , and the case against Morris Goldis , charged with first-degree murder in the shooting of William Snyder , who was president of Teamsters Local Union 138 . All three of the men whose appointments were announced worked with Mr. Dewey in the United States Attorney 's office from 1931 to 1933 , and have been on the special rackets staff since it was formed in July of 1935 . Mr. Ten Eyck is a graduate of Princeton University and Columbia Law School ; Mr. Gurfein of Columbia College and Harvard Law School and Mr. Rosenblum of City College and New York University Law School . William B. Herlands , who was Mr. Dewey 's fourth chief assistant , has been appointed Commissioner of Investigation by Mayor La Guardia and will assume that post after Jan. 1 .                     