@@699027

txt President Hoover was officially proclaimed the candidate of the Allied Forces for Prohibition today , when Dr. Daniel A. Poling of New York , chairman of the Allied Forces , speaking for the 1,500,000 members of the organization , declared that the President would be supported on the ground that he is opposed to " naked repeal " 1 and that his policy will be one to " confirm the principle of Federal control for a national problem . " The statement was issued simul1 taneously with the departure of the President for a short fishing vacation in the Chesapeake and for that reason no White House comment on the action taken by the drys was forthcoming . Dr. Poling explained that the action followed a poll of 205 1 members of the executive committee of the organization , who ' were asked three questions as to the attitude the Allied Forces should assume in the ca4npaign now under way . These three questions were : " Do you believe the Allied Forces should hold themselves exclusively to a campaign to elect dry Senators and Representatives ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidacy of President Hoover ? " Do you believe ? the Allied Forces should support a third ticket ? " The answer to the first question , said Dr. Poling , was an " overwhelming no , " the second " an overwhelming yes " and the third a " unanimous no . " This action by the allied forces was the first outright endorsement of President Hoover by one of the major dry organizations . It is predicted here that other dry organizations will take similar action in the near future and that within a few weeks the President will have been endorsed by most . of the other dry organizations . The decision of the allied forces was generally accepted in all political camps as marking the end of any worth-while dry opposition to the 1Hoover-Curtis ticket . The statement issued by Dr. Poling on behalf of the allied forces was as follows : " Following the acceptance speech of President Hoover , the executive committee of the allied forces voted to support Mr. Hoover 's candidacy . This action was taken without prejudice to the fundamental position of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its supporting legislation . " The allied forces are against repeal . " The allied forces are against any weakening of enforcement laws " The allied forces do not endorse any proposal for modification . Specifically we reaffirm our former statement : ' As to the Republican plank , we reject the resubmission program . ' Should any amendment to the Constitution be considered , we are opposed to the State convention plan of ratification as untried and without safeguard against misrepresentation and corruption . Also , we oppose any interference with the initiative , and the responsibility of Congress in the matter of amendments to the Constitution . Aggressive Campaign Planned . " Our endorsement of President Hoover is based upon the belief that , in contrast with Governor Roosevelt , his election will safeguard the gains made under prohibition , will move toward the elimination of existing evils resulting from non-observance and non-enforcement in some communities , will prevent naked repeal and the return of the saloon system , will better commit any public officer or candidate to any policy of repeal or modification against his own conscience or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle of Federal control for a national problem .. " In support of this program the allied forces will conduct an aggressive campaign for the election of Senators and Representatives , whether they be Democrats or Republicans , who are against repeal and the re-establishment of the ' old liquor traffic . Our relation to each campaign will be determined by the conditions and circumstances of the individual case . " The formal action of the executive committee confirms a nationwide vote by letter and telegram in which 205 members of the national executive committee and other outstanding supporters of the Allied Forces participated . Every State and the District of Columbia was , represented in this poll , which immediately followed Mr. Hoover 's speech of acceptance. ; . ? . ; Move Reeked by 187 of 205 : : ' " One hundred and eighty-seven of 205 Noted that the Allied roma should support Mr. Hoover . This conclusion carried every section of the country . Among those participating in the action are : ' Willis J. Abbott , Boston ; Mrs. Richard C. Cabot , Cambridge , Mass. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carver , Harvard ; George Dayton , Minneapolis ; Dr. Henry W. Farnum , Yale ; Robert Garrett , Baltimore ; Robert P. Hyams , New Orleans ; Richard Lloyd Jones , Tulsa , Okla. ; Joshua Levering , Baltimore ; Dr. John R. Mott , New York City ; -J . Tom Owens , Dallas , Texas ; Fred D. Parr , San Francisco ; Raymond Robins , Chicago ; Richard H. Scott , Lansing , Mich. ; Fred B. Smith , New ' York City ; Alonzo Stagg , Chicago ; Fielding Yest , Michigan . " The Allied Forces are not officially associated with any group , though they have with all others a common objective in support of prohibition and law enforcement . During the past year they have enrolled more than a million and a half men and women in support of the Eighteenth Amendment , lof whom half a million are young men and young women in the Allied Youth department . " Mrs. Rushmore Patterson of Washington , D. C. , is chairman of the department of Allied Women , Arthur T. Morey of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Men , and Fred Stripp Jr . of the University of California Is - chairman of the Allied Youth . The national campaign of Allied Forces is already launched . " When asked for a specific statement as to the position of the allied forces on the proposal of the President fora new wnstitutional amendment restoring State control but retaining Federal control of the saloon problem , Dr. Poling replied that no action had been taken on that question because of a divided membership . " Some of our people , " said Dr. Poling , " were for supporting the President 's demand for a change , while others were of the opinion that no change whatever should be made . It is worthy of note that we give Mr. Hoover an outright endorsement and do not confine oursdlves to the mere- question of electing dry Senators and Representatives . That would have been an easy way out , but we refused to take it . " Enforcement Let-Up Refused . Demands *hat the Department of Justice should relax its effort to enforce the national prohibition law because both major political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change , were termed unthinkable today by Attorney General Mitchell . In a circular to all officials and agents of the department Mr. Mitchell said : *Beth raajoz pglitica/ parts aaa pledged to submit to the people proposals to amend the constitutional provisions respecting the liquor traffic . " The suggestion has . already been openly made to the department by those who should know better that - because some changes in the prohibition system are under discussion and may be adopted , the Department of Justice should relax its efforts to enfore the existing laws . Such a course is unthinkable . It is our duty to take the law aa'we find it and enforce it as it stands . " Aside from this rigid view of official duty , there are other reasons which must appeal to every thoughtful citizen truly interested in ? the public welfare . ? " So long as the present constitutional . and statutory ' provisions remain in effect , it is impossible for State Governments to legalize and regulate the liquor traffic. - To relax in the enforcement - of the Federal law without substitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orgy - of ' unconstittitional excesses : Regardless of one 's views on prohibition , there should be no. difference of opinion on this point . "                     