@@699738

txt Reconstruction of German Protestantism on National Socialist lines is today occupying the prominence hitherto held by political and economic unification plans . Here as In other spheres the measures likely to be taken are much milder than expected from the utterances of certain overenthusiastic National Socialists during the unstable days following the March 5 elections . Thus the " German Christians , " representing the most extreme opinion of this kind ( though its members are far smaller than its press pronouncements would suggest ) today issues a 10-point program as the basis for a new evangelical church of the Reich . " We desire neither a state church nor church which is a state within the state , but an evangelical church of the Retch acknowledging the supremacy of a National Socialist state from conviction and proclaiming the gospel of the Third Reich . " Popular Vote on Bishop Such a church , the program continues , must be church of German Christianity ; namely , Christians of Aryan descent , and offer a refuge neither for reaction nor democratic parliamentarianism . The church must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Reich 's bishop . Since the majority of German Christians are Lutherans the Reich 's bishop would be a Lutheran with a pastor of the Reformed Calvinistic Church as his substitute . The Reich 's bishop would be chosen by the popular vote of duly authorized members of the evangelical church ( non-Aryan Christians excluded ) Oct. 31 next . Martin Luther 's city of Wittenberg in Prrussia would be the Reich 's new bishopric , and the Wittenberg " Schlosskirche , " on the doors of which Luther nailed his famous 95 theses , marking the beginning of the Reformation , would be the Reich bishop 's church . The evangelical church of the Reich would be divided into not more than 10 state dioceses , with a state bishop over each . Unification Long Sought Undoubtedly certain things in such a program are disapproved at home and abroad , but the essential basis of discussion with other Protestant organizations and representatives is a far milder pronouncement than was generally expected ? tar removed from the ideas of state commissioners for church affairs which once seemed inevitable . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Third Reich " has triumphed over a " Church of the Third Reich " which some Fascist leaders proposed a month ago . Reconstruction of ecclesiastical organisation rather than interference with creeds is now plainly the ideal , and from 28 separate autonomous evangelical churches there would be established two great church federations , one Lutheran and the other Calvinistic , and a common central organization representing 40,000,000 German Protestants . Such an innovation has long been widely sought . Just as the political unification of Germany has been prevented by the misunderstanding of various political parties which nevertheless desired it , so ecclesiastical reconstruction , which - is an essential step which had to come sooner or later . has been overshadowed by the revolution .                     