@@698388

txt The joint resolution approving the Hoover moratorium that postpones payments of foreign debts to this country for one year beginning last July 1 was passed in the House at 9:30 P. M. today by a vote of 317 to 100 . The measure was adopted unchanged from the form in which it was reported last night by the Ways and Means Committee ; it carries as a provision a declaration of policy of Congress against revision or cancellation of the foreign obligations due the United States . Administration followers made no attempt on the floor to strike out the declaration of policy inserted by the Democrats . They joined in resisting attempts to amend the measure , and 196 of the 201 present toted for the resolution . One hundred and twenty Democrats voted for the resolution , while ninety-fiYo opposed it . Amendments offered to the proposals never reached a vote . One provided for a moratorium for American farmers who can not meet their instalments on Federal farm loan mortgages . Another sought to have Congress protest the heavy armaments of Europe . Both were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not germane to the resolution . Smoot to Hasten Senate Action . By its action tonight the House sent the joint resolution to the Senate , which already has a similar measure , offered by Senator Smoot , chairman of the Finance Committee . That committee has the resolution in charge , and Mr. Smoot said tonight that he would ask for a vote tomorrow . There is little likelihood , however , that it will receive a favorable report immediately , as many members of the committee insist that it be delayed until all witnesses are heard on Senator fohnson 's resolution to investigate the floating of foreign loans in this country . The House tonight prepared the way for consideration of another Hoover proposal , which would authorize $100,000,000 additional capital , to be subscribed by the treasury , for the Federal Land Banks . It was agreed that this would come up tomorrow and remain before the House continuously until acted upon , Free Defends the President . Passage of the moratorium resolution in the House followed a tumultuous scene in which Representative Free of California , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University , defended the Chief Executive against the accusation of Representative , Republican , of Pennsylvania , that he had " sold out " his country in negotiating the debt suspension . On the heels of punitive action by his Republican colleagues from Pennsylvania , Representative was a centre of tense interest in the debate . He challenged their attempt to read him from the party so far as patronage is concerned , and declared that he stood ready to submit to the House proof of his charge that President Hoover had " sold out " the country by negotiating the moratorium . Collier Opens the Debate . The debate began at 12:35 o'clock this afternoon , ' with a large number of members constantly in attendance and the public galleries filled most of the time . Until after the dinner hour this evening , there was a scant attendance in the reserved galleries . Speaking first was Chairman Collier of the Ways and Means Committee , who had reported the joint resolution ratifying the moratorium with a committee amendment putting Congress on record as opposed President had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover , in proposing the moratorium , had acted in the utmost good faith and did so for the good of the world . The Georgian contended , however . that : it would have been better had the President called Congress together earlier to ratify the proposal . At . the time of the proposal Germany was on the verge of collapse and the whole world was interested in preventing that catastrophe , Mr. Crisp enntiniirl , to cancellation or reduction of European debts of this government . " I 'm a Democrat and a party man , " said Representative Collier , " but this is not a party issue . " He had never heard a more complete or more frank statement of the case than had been made by the Secretary of State and the Under-Secretary of the Treasury when they appeared before the committee to explain the pressing needs for President Hoover 's proposal . The President , Mr. Collier said . had initiated the movement and had declared the moratorium on the basis of proper information from agents of the government abroad . The President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as nothing else than an honest effort to get this country and the world out of its present slump . Showing of Hands Asked . Representative Sanders of Texas , a new Democratic member of the Ways and Means Committee , who , with Representative Vinson of Kentucky and Representative Eslick of Tennessee , had submitted a minority report opposing ratification , asked all members of the House who had read the committee hearings 10 hold up their hand . No hands went up . Representative Simmons , Republican , of Nebraska , accused Mr. Sanders of a demagogic tricK . Mr. Sanders in turn chalenged anybody to prove that any debtor nation had asked for a moratorium . the movement for which he declared was a campaign of international hankers for cancellation . Debt reduction , he added , would impose a burden on every man , woman and child in the United States . Representative Vinson was asked if any debtor nation had limited its expenditures for armaments . " As far as I know , they have not , " he replied . France . Mr. Vinson contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled her debts . He argued that a quarter of a billion dollars in debt payments suspended by the moratorium fell on the already heavily burdened American taxpayers . The galleries joined the floor in applauding the remark . Representative Eaton , Republican , of New Jersey , was opposed to the I moratorium and the cancellation of Europe 's debts to the United States . ! , hut lit regarded the resolution as a step in educating Congress and the American people as to the conditions prevalent in the world . The whole world , he said , was bound down by debt , and under present conditions , we could not maintain American standards of life and principles if we were to he actuated by a partisan or sectional spirit . He appealed to Americans to stick together . President Hoover , he said . was a poor showman aid that was his misfortune , but his problem had not been equaled by that of any President . with the possible exception of Lincoln . His praise of President Hoover 's integrity , courage and ability was applauded from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wigglesworth of Massachusetts , who was secretary of the World War Debt Commission . assistant to the agent general for reparations payments , and adviser to the Treasury Department in regard to European debts , contended that the year 's postponement made no change in any of the AmericanEuropean debt funding agreements or in the Young Plan . He explained that while it was true that under the London seven-power agreement to carry out the moratorium , the unconditional reparations due from Germany were paid to France through the Bank for International Settlements , the amount involved was loaned back immediately to Germany and France actually received nothing while the moratorium lasted . A tremendous responsibility would have been assumed by the President , he said , if he had not proposed the moratorium , as otherwise there would have been a breakdown not only of Germany but of the world . Mr. Wigglesworth held that . Americans had a tremendous interest in the well-being of Europe and the preservation of civilization . In his judgment the action was more than justified . Crisp Argues for Ratification . Representative Crisp of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee , who was a member of the World War Debt Commission , maintained that the issue was not a partisan one . While Mr. Crisp argued that the Says Good Faith Is Involved . Representative Stafford of ** argued that the good faith of our government was involved in ratification , and that if Woodrow Wilson were in the White . House today he would have done the same thing SR President Hoover did . According to Mr. Stafford , if Germany had collapsed the catastrophe would have spread to France and other countries . " Germany never asked for a moratorium , " a member interjected . " Yes , Hindenburg asked for a moratorium , " Mr. Stafford replied . The chair 's recognition of Representative Percy Quin of Mississippi was accompanied by applause . A picturesque speaker , his oratory is relished by his fellow-members . As usual when preparing to speak , he had unfastened his collar , and his cravat streamed outside his unbuttoned waistcoat . On a table near-bv he placed a small glass of salt and took a pinch of it occasionally as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to giving away all this money over yonder in Europe . " The House laughed when he added : " Talk about a hank failure in Germany ? to hell with I hat ; we 've got plenty of them here . " Mr. Quin was opposed to ratification . Representative . Ragon of Arkansas , author of the Ways and Means Committee 's amendment expressing the opposition of Congress to debt . cancellation or reduction , held that this country was in greater peril today than it was in 1917 and 1918 . " I wish you could have sat in the closed sessions of the Ways and Means Committee and seen the concern manifested by a high official of the government whose duties have to do with our international affairs , " he said . President Hoover 's telegram in Senators and Representatives telling them why he had made the moratorium proposal and virtually asking their support to it bound him to vote for the ratifying resolution , Mr. Ragon observed . There was some criticism of France by Mr. flagon for not having approved the moratorium sooner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ healthier psychology would have been created throughout the world . Representative Rankin of Missisippi , one of the most outspoken opponents of the moratorium , contended that . it was declared in the interest of international bankers . Sees a Precedent by Wilson . Representative La Guardia of New York held that Woodrow Wilson , when President , and Carter Glass , when Secretary of the Treasury , had established a precedent for the moratorium by authorizing the purchase of foreign government securities out of funds obtained from the sale of Liberty Loan bonds before Congress had authorized them to take that action . Mr. La Guardia. maintained that . the course of President Hoover in the moratorium arrangement was an Executive matter . " If you do n't grant this moratorium , " Mr. La Guardia asserted , " Hitler will be in power in Germany in two months . You do n't want a Hohenzollern back in power there . " The House applauded loudly . The bitterest opponent of President Hoover in connection with the moratorium gained the floor . Representative defied certain of his Republican colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! ? charges that President Hoover violated the oath of office by negotiating the postponement . As to the attempt of the Republicans from Pennsylvania to cut off his patronage and attempt to defeat him in the next primaries , Mr. objected " to being tried in this ex parte manner " by a " selfconstituted board of inquiry . " He stood ready , he said , to furnish the House with proof of the statements he has made on the moratorium . Representative Golder of Pennsylvania . , interrupted to declare that the . House must understand that , with all of his apparent " transgressions , " the former Banking and Currency chairman enjoyed the " confidence and affection " of his thirty colleagues in the Pennsylvania Republican delegation . Applause greeted the statement , but it came chiefly from the Democratic side .                     