@@701731

txt John Harlan Amen , former Deputy United States Attorney General , presented his credentials yesterday Ito the clerk of the Federal court in the Southern District of New ' York and became a Special Assistant Attorney General , charged with prosecuting business rackets under the new anti-racketeering act which supplements the Sherman AntiTrust Law . Mr. Amen will put to the test the anti-crime legislation enacted in May , 1934 , as the result of the government 's campaign against crime . The anti-racketeering law , he pointed out last night , puts " teeth " into the Sherman law , under which he has successfully prosecuted racketeers in New York during the past few years . The government has found the Sherman act a potent weapon against racketeers who prey on business , since It has been fairly easy to get convictions against criminals on the ground that their activities interfere with interstate commerce . The penalties that can be enacted under the act , however , were found too mild . Stiff Penalties Provided . The supplementary act provides that the penalty of one to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed for each separate act in violation of the statute . Each racketeering case , it is pointed out , is usually accompanied by a succession of acts of coercion , intimidation or violence . By piling up a succession of counts , it is hoped to achieve the aim of the Department of Justice  --  sentences up to 99 years in extreme cases . Charges of the existence of a trucking racket will be sifted at once by Mr. Amen to determine if the facts warrant making a test case of the act in this field . In connection with the investigation , he will study the activities of Local 807 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , Chauffers , Stablemen and Helpers of America . Mr. Amen , in his former capacity , conducted an investigation of the activities of Local 202 of this union , accused of violating the anti-trust laws . As a result of his investigation , the local union , two of its officials , and five members of a committee ' appointed to enforce its demands were indicted on Jan. 16 by a Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a packagedelivery racket that yielded 4300,000 a year . The indictment , which named eleven other individuals and- concerns in the trucking business , charged that the defendants worked their racket in the $24,000,000-ayear butter , egg and dairy products business in New York , It was charged that , by force and threats they conspired to prevent over-theroad trucks from delivering dairy products to the places of business of the various receivers in New York , forced the transfer of loads to trucks operated by members of the local , and made a handling charge of 7 cents a package . Mr. Amen headed the government 's anti-trust law prosecution of persons and corporations engaged in the fresh-water fish industry at Peck Slip . Last Fall twelve of the defendants pleaded guilty after a mistrial had halted a six-week trial . He has investigated the artichoke racket and other industries in which organized gangs operate . Mr. Amen has been in charge of price-fixing and anti-trust proceedings for the United States Attorney General for the past six years . He is a graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Marine Corps Flying Corps . He is the son of Dr. Harlan Page Amen , long principal of Phillips Exeter Academy . His wife is the former Mrs. Marion Cleveland Dell , daughter of Grover Cleveland .                     