@@704228

txt On the eve of the meeting here tomorrow of the Republican State Committee to nominate a candidate for the chief judgeship of the Court of Appeals it appeared that intraparty politics and control of the party organization figure largely in the calculations of Republican leaders . Externally the only question presented is whether the Republicans should adhere to the policy of nonpartisanship in the judiciary and endorse Associate Judge Irving Lehman , ranking member of the court , or whether the fact that Judge Lehman is a brother of the Governor , and that two of the three branches of government would be headed by members of the same family , presents sufficient objection . Internally , the meetings of the State executive committee and of the State committee itself are looked upon chiefly from the point of view of control of the party organization . The party has been split for some time ; on the one hand into a rural group with the addition of the Syracuse and Rochester organizations , and on the other a group including New York City , Buffalo and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , headed by the New York City group , and the State executive chairman , Edwin F. Jaeckle of Buffalo , have indicated their desire to have the Republicans endorse Judge Lehman , who has been nominated by the Democratic and American Labor parties . At the same time they have taken the attitude that they are not going to wage a vigorous fight for Judge Lehman 's nomination . The rural group , headed by Mayor Marvin of Syracuse and Thomas B. Broderick of Rochester , first chose Supreme Court Justice Edmund Lewis of Syracuse for the nomination , and , when he declined , got Appellate Division Justice William F. Dowling of Utica to agree to make the race if nominated . There was no certainty tonight , however , that there would be an open fight at the meeting of the 300 members of the State committee tomorrow . The State committee will meet at 3 P. M. , while the executive committee will meet between 10 and 11:30 in the morning . It is in the executive committee , behind closed doors , that any tactical manoeuvres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Republicans insist that his chances for the party 's nomination have been enhanced . Nevertheless , the rural group contends that a large part of the membership of the State committee is behind it , although they do not claim a majority . The position of those opposing Judge Lehman 's nomination is weakened tactically , it is argued here , because the Republicans endorsed him for Associate Judge only two years ago , and also because the last two chief judges , Cuthbert W. Pound and Frederick E. Crane , both Republicans , received the Democratic endorsement . Brooklyn May Have Candidate since then . It has officers and holds conventions at stated periods . The feeling was accentuated when Thomas E. Dewey carried the up-State districts by an unprecedented plurality in the Fall of 1938 , only to have the Democrats re-elect Governor Lehman because of the size of the New York City plurality . The group split again with urban leaders over the nature of a State-wide tax during the last legislative session . Republican leaders who are not members of the State committee said that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on whether the urban leaders of the party wanted to adhere to a policy of " appeasement " with the rural leaders , or whether the matter would be fought out . In the event of a move for rural appeasement , Judge Lehman would be rejected , and a straight Republican candidate named . In the event of a fight , Judge Lehman would have an excellent chance of winning , it was held . Word reaching here was to the effect that the New York City support for Judge Lehman may be split , because of the stand taken by the Kings County leader , John R. Crews , in favor of the nomination by the Republicans of Supreme Court Justice Charles C. Lockwood of Brooklyn . Whether Justice Lockwood 's candidacy would be pressed was not ascertained here . The split in the Republican party , which figures so prominently now , came about as a result of the 1938 State convention at Saratoga , at which the leaders of the smaller counties indicated they felt that they , who furnished the votes for the Republican ticket , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group at the convention , and it has been functioning virtually as a State committee of its own                     