@@699745

txt LITTLE ROCK , Ark. , May 4 . ? Acting under laws enacted in 1925 and 1933 , the State Penal Board will farm out surplus convict labor to raise funds to operate the penal system , which is in debt . The laws require the State to retain control of the convicts at all times ; to guard , house and feed them , ' as well as to establish rules for hours and conditions of work . A price of not less than $1.50 a day for each convict 's labor is stipulated , and the board is prohibited from leasing the convicts for any stated period . For some years surplus convicts have been used in getting the oxen of neighboring planters out of the ditch , by helping when there was a scarcity of labor , and the State has been compensated by a share of the crop  --  one-third of corn and onefourth of cotton . Such an arrangement is impossible under the new laws , and convict labor must be paid for in cash . State Farms Do Not Pay . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one . Brutal practices by lessees and inhuman working conditions caused the abolishment of the leasing system . Two large plantations were purchased in 1915 , one for whites , the other for Negroes , and the " walls " in Little Rock became only a receiving station . Since then all Arkansas convicts have been employed at farm labor . A smaller plantation is operated near Little Rock , where white women are imprisoned . The Legislature of 1933 removed the headquarters for the penal system , even the electric chair , to the farm for white men , but , due to financial stringency , the chair has not been installed , and condemned criminals sentenced to die in the meantime have been granted a stay . This condition will probably exist for another three months , when the accumulation will necessitate wholesale executions . The farms do not pay and the penitentiary is $854,000 in debt . Of this , $344,000 is due to merchants for supplies . The balance is owed to State departments , from which funds have been transferred to operate the penitentiary in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Land fund to carry the farms through the crop-growing season . With the accumulating deficit Governor Futrell has made a demand that the system be self-sustaining in the future . At only one time in its history has the penitentiary been selfsustaining , and that was during the administration of Governor T. C. , when a profit of $100,000 was shown in one biennial period . Honor System Used . The Arkansas penitentiary is operated under an honor system , with the convicts themselves making and enforcing the rules and regulations . Outside of the official staff there are fewer than a dozen paid employes in the penal system . The guarding is done by trusties . The convicts are housed in barracks , 100 sleeping on cots in a commodious , well-ventilated room . There are no cells for solitary confinement . There is no bread-and-water diet . Infractions of the rules are punished with the lash , and immediately after its application the convict is placed back in the ranks to do his manual labor . Any convict who has served one-third of his term is eligible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical condition to enter the fields . Long incarceration , physical infirmities and disease make 90 per cent of the newcomers unfit for service . The State is under the expense of transporting the convict to and from the farm , providing clothing and food , and as most of the criminals are one-year men the four months making them eligible to parole has expired before the State has had an opportunity to break even on the deal . Convicts are about evenly distributed between white and black races , and fewer than 5 per cent are secondterm men . It is to turn the loss due to idleness in the eight or nine months a year when convicts are not actually working on the State 's crops into a profit that the State Penal Board is seeking day-to-day leases for convict labor .                     