@@702508

txt ROME  --  Publication of news of the British House of Commons debate of Thursday caused anger , mixed with alarm , among Italians . The people are wondering what is the basis for the British criticism of Italy . Page 1 . VALENCIA  --  Loyalists say they have broken the siege of Pozoblanco and pushed back five miles an Insurgent force , including 10,000 Italians , trying to reach rich mercury mines in that region . The Rebel force that took Malaga has been set back almost to Motril . Page 7 . MADRID  --  Americans at the embassy faced a serious food shortage as Good Friday passed without military activity . Loyalist soldiers left their trenches and played football in sight of the enemy . Page 7 . WASHINGTON  --  A feeling of optimism against a danger of war in Europe grew out of an analysis of official and press reports from abroad . The recent defeats of the Spanish Insurgents contributed to the changed atmosphere . Page 7 . Italians Are Disturbed By ARNALDO CORTESI Wireless to THE NEW YORK Trims . ROME , March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commons , in the course of which some very harsh things were said about Italy , has caused a new wave of resentment and indignation to sweep over the whole Italian peninsula . Public sentiment against Britain is as strong and bitter as it ever was during the height of the Ethiopian conflict and sanctions , but it is now accompanied by a feeling of bewilderment . During the East African crisis the Italians knew exactly where they stood and realized they were doing their best to seize Ethiopia while Britain was doing her best to prevent them . Now the Italians sense that they are again faced by a grave crisis but are at a loss to know what it is all about , and most of them are wondering why their relations with Britain have suddenly become strained almost to the breaking point . Uncertainty Increases Alarm This feeling of uncertainty about the true reasons of their present quarrel with Britain increases the Italian people 's alarm more than did the certainty of British hostility during the Ethiopian conflict . Most Italians believe Britain wishes to avenge the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italo-Ethiopian affair and that she is deliberately trying to goad Italy into doing something  --  now that Britain 's rearmament has advanced far enough to enable her to fear no adversaries . Italians , therefore , look on the future with intense misgivings , for they realize that if Britain is truly bent on re-establishing her prestige at their expense difficult times are in store for them . A section of the Italian press , instead of acting to allay apprehension and decrease tension , is actively engaged in fanning the flames of popular feeling . The newspaper Tevere , for instance , prints today an account of the House of Commons proceedings of yesterday under large headlines , saying : " Laborites , Socialists and Liberals vie with each other in insulting Italy . " It is true the Tevere may be classed with the more unguarded and less responsible Italian newspapers , but it has a large , following among fascism 's extreme wing and may be said to represent its views accurately . The more staid section of the Italian press displays prudent reserve in dealing with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an article entitled " Legitimate Questions to the British , " in which it asks : " What are Britain 's true thoughts and sentiments toward Italy ? which , until proof to the contrary is forthcoming , must be considered a nation at peace with the British Empire and bound to it by the recent understanding of reciprocal confidence ? " Seeks Official View of London The Tribuna admits that every Briton is free to think and say anything he pleases , but adds : " When great political parties , authorized representatives of the church and State and outstanding organs of public opinion systematically insult and slander our country we have a right to know 1 whether a responsible power exists in Britain and what the true feelings of this power are toward Italy . " The Tribuna lays all the blame at the door of the Labor party , which , it says , acts not only under impulse against Fascist tendencies " but is the real agent provocateur in the international field , and , what is more serious , an agent provocateur tolerated , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tenseness in the international situation , Premier Benito Mussolini will leave Rome to spend Easter at his Summer estate of Rocca delle Caminate , where Foreign Minister Count Galeazzo Ciano will join him when he returns by air from Belgrade , Yugoslavia , tomorrow . It is presumed they will spend their time reviewing events I of the last few days and deciding on how best to face the crisis that 1 has developed . Spain , of course , also will come up for a full measure of their attention , since it seems imperative to devise some new line of action , especially now that Italy is so fully committed that she could not draw back even if she wished . The only bright spot in the situation , as the Italians see it , is the signature at Belgrade yesterday of the Italo-Yugoslav agreement , which surprised most people by being ampler and more comprehensive than was expected . It is no mere truce between two irreconcilable enemies , but it prepares the ground for more active and mutually beneficial collaboration , the fruits of which probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the development of Central European I problems . See Wedge in Little Entente Despite the assurances that the Italo-Yugoslav understanding was reached with the Little Entente 's full consent , the general feeling in Italy is that it has driven a wedge in the **30;61;TOOLONG combination that has dominated Southeastern Europe since the end of the World War . Two curious points about the accord deserve special mention ? namely , it contains not a single word either about the League of Nations or about Albania . The first may be accounted sufficiently strange , in view of the fact that Yugoslavia is still an active League member and Italy , though absent from recent Geneva meetings , has not yet tendered her resignation . The silence under which the Albanian situation  --  which holds great interest both for Italy and for Yugoslavia  --  has been passed is accounted for by reports current in . Rome that the matter has been dealt with in an exchange of letters between the Italian and Yugoslav Governments accompanying the signature of the treaty . It is understood that in these letters Italy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of the present status quo and to refrain from obtaining any exclusive advantage in the political , economic and financial fields .                     