@@702510

txt Despite determined resistance by administration leaders , the tide of opposition to sit-down strikes surged forward in both houses of Congress today toward definite action in some form by the Federal Government . In the House , in the face of opposition from administration leaders and labor spokesmen , the way Iwas paved for the first major Congressional investigation of organ ( ized labor in the nation 's history when the Rules Committee favorably reported the Dies resolution for an inquiry into sit-down strikes . The Senate , after a day of fervent oratory , deferred , at least until Monday , a vote on the amendment proposed by Senator Byrnes of South Carolina to the Guffey-Vinson Coal Bill , which , if approved , would place the Senate definitely on record as opposed in principle to the sit-down strike . Leaders tried to induce Senator Byrnes to withdraw his amendment and to prevent a vote upon it , but at the close of the day still were faced with the harassing problem . Action of Rules Committee The action of the House Rules Committee left the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members , in an atmosphere of bewilderment , but it was interpreted immediately as the reflection of public sentiment against sit-down strikes . It was reported , reliably , that only one committee member voted against the resolution , which was in turn taken to mean that the Rules Committee had adopted an independent attitude in a situation of grave political concern , a rare Ii occurrence in recent years in any Congressional committee . Chairman John J. O'Connor of the Rules Committee had luncheon with President Roosevelt only a few hours before the committee acted . He said the President had not spoken to him about sit-down strikes . Ordinarily , the Rules Committee 's ; favorable report on such a resolu1 tion would wield strong influence toward its adoption in the House , but several members voiced the opinion that an added reason would cause the House to favor the measure when it is called up , probably next Thursday . This added reason , they said , was that unfavorable action by the House would be interpreted ? as a condonation of sit-down strikes , an interpretation undoubtedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Up to House , Says Bankhead Speaker Bankhead , while declining to predict what the action on the resolution would be , said : " I have n't discussed the matter with the President , but I just assume that whatever decision is made must be made by the House and not by the Executive . I do n't predict what action the House may take , but admittedly there is strong opposition to sit-down strikes upon the part of the membership . " One influential member said privately that " whatever is the will of the administration , an investigation of sit-down strikes ought to be undertaken . " He added that unless " a responsive , honest leadership " acts now to swing public sentiment irrevocably toward an outlawing of sit-down strikes , they will eventually become legal through evolution of ideas , as in the case of strikes themselves and picketing . The opinion was voiced by another Democratic member that the House could not afford to shelve the resolution , or defeat it , since such an action would operate to in. fluence public sentiment the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " had fallen down on the job . The Dies Resolution The resolution introduced by Representative Martin Dies of Texas would direct the Speaker to name five members to conduct the in quiry . Leaders admitted privately 1 that requests for places on the committee were conspicuously lacking . Naturally , one member pointed out , if the investigation were authorized the committee must of necessity go into records of the Committee on Industrial Organization , headed by John L. Lewis , as well as into records of the unions which have figured in the.sit-down strikes and probably into those of the American Federation of Labor . Mr. Dies , who ordinarily wouldbe named as head of the investigating committee if precedent were followed , has promised that the whole question of the causes and effects of sit-down strikes would be gone into thoroughly . Discussion of such strikes has been in progress for five weeks in the House , and at least a fifth of the membership has voiced opinions . Mr. Dies was one of the first who raised his voice against what he called an " unlawful action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was raised in Republican quarters against President Roosevelt because he failed to do or say anything against the sit-downers . Then a few Democrats took it up and finally , Mr. Dies read on the House floor two sections of the Federal revised statutes which he said not only gave to Mr. Roosevelt the power to intervene in such strikes , but made it mandatory upon him to do so . These sections as recited set forth that in event of an insurrection , or any action by a group which deprives a citizen or group of citizens of the protection of the law , the President is directed to proceed to call out one of the armed branches of the government or use whatever other means he desires , to bring about peace in a disturbed community . Mr. Dies called upon Attorney General Cummings for an opinion on the President 's duty , but so far has received no reply . Then Mr. Dies introduced his resolution which , at first , was not regarded seriously by the leaders . Then the Rules Committee granted hearings early this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , administration leaders and labor spokesmen . The action of the Rules Committee today was all the more startling , since it has been generally agreed for two or three days that the resolution would go the way of i other measures unwanted by the administration , a slow but sure death in a committee pigeon-hole.                     