@@699120

txt The British Government , in a sharply worded official memorandum , today took its stand squarely with France in rejecting the legality of Germany 's claim to equal status and in denouncing in most emphatic terms her threat to rearm . At the same time the government admitted Germany 's moral right to end the status of inferiority imposed on her and other former enemy States by the peace treaties . In the British view , however , the only way Germany can attain her objective is not by rearming but by reentering the disarmament conference in which all the heavily-armed nations will pledge themselves to reduce their own armaments . For Mutual Arms Limits . " The United Kingdom Government , " the memorandum declares , " therefore conceive the object of the conference to be to frame a disarmament convention upon the principle that each State adopts for itself , in I agreement with others , a limitation which is self-imposed and freely entered into as part of the mutual obligations of the signatories to one another . " There will thus be , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; every one 's armaments will be controlled by the same process ; and the limitations which have already been prescribed by existing treaties  --  such as the various peace treaties or the naval treaties of Washington and London  --  will , save so far as they are modified by mutnal consent , reappear in the voluntary and comprehensive compact about to be negotiated at Geneva . ' It will then be this last-named docuIgient which is the effective obligation binding upon all . " The British thus attempt to build e. bridge over which the Germans ban walk back into the disarmament conference , not immediately perhaps but as soon as they see the former allies are in earnest about disarmanent themselves . Stern Reprimand to Papen . The German Government will find no crumb of comfort , however , in the tone of today 's document . From beginning to end it is a stern reprimand and warning to Chancellor von Papen and Defense Minister von Schleicher , one of the sharpest official rebukes , in fact , that Great Britain has given another country in many years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the even more freezing retort that Germany 's demands can not be met by " peremptory challenge or by withdrawal from deliberations which are about to be resumed . " At the very outset the document scolds the Germans for raising the equality issue at a time of economic crisis , when European nations want as little political controversy as possible . It admits that at some time during the disarmament conference the issue of equality would have to he met , but it describes the German Government 's procedure as " unfortunate , " " unwise " and a " grave disadvantage " to world peace . " In view of the concessions so recently granted to Germany by her creditors it must be accounted particularly untimely , " the British assert . Deny Legal Right to Arms . The note proceeds to demolish GerMany 's claim that she has a legal right to rearm . " His Majesty 's Government can give no countenance or encouragement to disregard of treaty obligations , " the document tells the Ger- I ; TIMM Part 5 of the Versailles Treatyn in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarming Germany was to make possible a general limitation of armaments for all nations . " To state what the object or aim of a stipulation is , is a very different thing from making successful fulfillment of that object the condi- tion of the stipulation , " the note continues . " The correct position of the Treaty of Versailles is that Part 5 is still binding and can only cease to be binding by agreement . " From this negative reasoning the British Government recalls the positive accomplishments the disarmament conference is pledged to make . It admits and does not attempt to minimize the force of the German claim that Germany 's disarmament was meant to precede a general reduction in armaments . But it points out that the Geneva conference can achieve a valuable result " only if due allowance Is made both for the needs and for the feeling of all the sixty-four States concerned . " " The objects to be aimed at are , in the case of the more heavily armed powers , the . largest possible reduction and , in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase , " Britain continues . " It would , indeed , be a tragic paradox if the outcome of the first disarmament conference was an increase in armaments and the actual rearming of any State . " Finally , after having reminded Germany how she can obtain equal status , the British Government recognizes the strength of German popular feelings on the subject . It admits questions of status " involve considerations of national pride and dignity which deeply touch the heart of a people and keep alive resentment which would otherwise die down and give place to more kindly feeling . " Therefore the British see all the more reason for settling such problems by friendly negotiation instead of the brusque , peremptory method the German Government has adopted . No Decision on Arms Steps . The note , of course , leaves one big question mark : how far Britain and the other former Allies are prepared to go in the direction of further disarmament . While the Cabinet has reached no decision , it is believed the British will begin considering those categories of weapons which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aircraft , tanks , heavy artillery , poison gases . battleships over 10,000 tons and the ' system of conscription . This is a big order and includes some weapons , like battleships , onl which the British will find it difficult to make serious reductions . But the government has at least pledged itself to follow certain principles at Geneva , and as a result hopes the Germans will come back before the disarmament convention is finally signed .                     