@@701502

txt A sharp warning against the possibilities of inflation accompanied by a distortion of security values was issued by Charles R. Gay , president of the New York Stock Exchange in an address to the American Managament Association last night . The Federal Reserve System , the Treasury , the Securities and Exchange Commission and other controls must have a sound policy and the courage to enforce it vigorously to prevent any near recurrence to the 1929 conditions , Mr. Gay said . The speaker pointed particularly at the powers of the Federal Reserve to set margin requirements as well as its power to raise reserve requirements . The full text of Mr. Gay 's address will be found on Page 13 . Cites Bases for Inflation The principal basis for inflation lies in the huge excess reserves of the banks , resulting in part from the low leyel of business in recent years and in part from the policies of the Government , Mr. Gay said . As a collateral basis he cited the tax on capital gains which he held would prevent holders of securities from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were at a point where it would be profitable to sell . Stating plainly that he was not predicting that stock prices would become inflated , Mr. Gay asserted the Exchange is " concerned with inflation . " " I recognize , however , that the stock market provides an inviting field where this might occur , largely because of that ready marketability which under normal conditions is such a benefit to business , " he continued . Position Now " Entirely Sound " The position today is entirely sound from standpoint of credit directly employed in the securities markets , Mr. Gay said , and it should be kept so . " I am not an alarmist , " Mr. Gay continued , " but we should not close our eyes to the inflammability of the material we are dealing with and to the fact that inflation , if it should once get started , might sweep through the markets as a fire sweeps through a city of wooden houses . Mechanism designed to prevent an outburst of inflation has been set in laws recently passed . Mr. Gay said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but whether they will function to prevent a recurrence of 1929 conditions is an open question . " What I wish to emphasize is that when the Stock Exchanges have done all they can . " Mr. Gay said . " when the member banks of the Federal Reserve System have done all they can , when the SEC has done all that it can , there still remains this immense outside factor of abnormal money market with a gigantic volume of excess reserves , the control of which is not in their hand . Only sound Federal Reserve Bank policy and sound Treasury policy can control that . Unless this fact or i properly controlled . there may be again in the future a. wild and runaway stock market culminating In a crash as violent and as dangerous as that of 1929 . " Funds so far have not been finding their way into the stock market over the roundabout route of commercial loans , Mr. Gay maintained , pointing out that despite better business conditions and advancing securities markets , these loans are now actually lower than they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Board 's index of industrial activity has moved up from 59 in March , 1933 , to about 86 in July , 1935 , according to Mr. Gay . SEC Chairman Landis Speaks Preceding Mr. Gay% speech , the Management Association heard Mr. Landis discuss the possibility of a new and briefer prospectus for new issues and some of the reasons for delay in new issues beyond the statutory period of 20 days after filing . It was Mr. Landis 's first public appearance here since he became head of the SEC . Mr. Landis acknowledged the right of those persons who demand a voluminous prospectus . but declared that the suggestion for a briefer prospectus for the average customer deserves important consideration . Indeed , he said , the very right given the Commission to classify prospectuses according to the circumstances of their use may well be deemed to argue that Congress contemplated some such action . Calling attention to the fact that although the Commission has provided regulations governing use of newspaper prospectuses in connection with offering of securities , none have appeared to date , Chairman Landis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advertising to the fears of liability under the act . " The occasion for such fear is beyond our legal understanding , " he declared . Continuing further on this point , the speaker declared : " That material facts are omitted is patent from both the regulation and the advertisement . Who would deny that the recent financial record of the corporation is a most material set of facts " And yet the regulation permits its entire omission . Obviously , the omission or material facts was designedly implied by the very power granted to the Commission to classify prospectuses under Section 10 And if there be the slightest doubt upon that score , the very regulation of the Commission by force of Section 19 protects any person from liability who acts pursuant to its direction . " Mr. Landis also attributed some of the hesitancy to use newspaper prospectus to the fact that recent markets have been sellers ' markets and thus advertising has been considered an unnecessary luxury . Cost of Registration Lowered Chairman Landis called attention to the continuous decreases that have been taking place in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that the Commission sees several possibilities for additional re-ductions One of the most important factors tending to decrease costs of registration has been the improvement in the registration forms provided by the Commission , he said . In this connection , the speaker said further reductions in costs of registration may lay in the achievement of greater precision in the requirements and the elimination of irrelevant data by the development of forms appropriate to the class of enterprise seeking registration . Steps along this line already have been taken , he said . Annual Reports to Furnish Data Another factor which will contribute to a. decrease in costs , he said , is the yearly reporting by listed corporations under the Securities Exchange Act . The corporation that annually meets those requirements will have no difficulty in registering under the Securities Act , the speaker continued . The annual statement of its operations will provide virtually all the financial data needed when that corporation next seeks funds in the capital market , he added . Mr. Landis assured his audience that the Commission would act to further that advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the problems faced by the Commission is that of factors involving delays in releasing issues beyond the statutorp period of 20 days after filing . One reason for delays , he said , has been carelessness in preparation of data required . Recently , however . Mr. Landis declared , " certain public offerings have encountered delay for a reason that gives us great concern . The very nature of the offering itself  --  for example with outstanding options , sales to be effected against market quotations , often accompanied by an agreement to withhold for a specified time from the public market an overhanging large block of stock  --  is perfectly adapted for traditional manipulative tactics . To expedite such an offering without a thorough investigation of whether manipulation has indeed already begun or is in preparation , would justly bring discredit upon the , administration of the Act . We can and do meet justifiable demands to meet an offering date on schedule and you can be assured that the instances when delay is incurred normally arise from some factor that should never have been permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Landis stated that there were other sig- ? nificant situations when the betterment of the administrative technique could be hoped for . Summing up , the speaker said : " Immediate progress will lie in the development , with your assistance and suggestion , of requirements more precise and more adapted to the variety of situations that confront us both . Continuing study to find where any increase in burden exists without a corresponding need for more information , will enable a continuing piece-meal reduction in expensepiece-meal. true , but gradually mounting to significant proportions . " Berle Tells of Exchange 's Progress " A period of recovery is at hand , " Mr. Berle said . " It must not be accompanied by a parted of irresponsibility such as that which characterized the 1929 incident . " The answer lies in joint action by groupS ? such as yours . The most forward looking steps in finance taken during the 1925-29 boom were taken not by governments , but by that most maligned institution , the New York Stock Exchange . I speak from experience . As a seeker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to weep on was that of the expert staff of the New York Stock Exchange and the listing committee of that Exchange made more forward steps during that period than any other body in the United States . They are continuing and accelerating that work now . I mention this as an illustration to show what can be done when business men themselves decide to protect their public . Other businesses can do likewise. ? This is a moral responsibility . Incidentally , safety lies that way . " Our tremendous outlays for relief are really a subsidy to Industry . When the wheels arc turning over and things are going strong , you employ men and make a profit . When they are going badly , you lay them off and throw the burden on the taxpayer . We are paying back now in relief doles just about the profits we paid out to industry in the boom from 1925 to 1929 . " Recommends Changes in Act Rodney F. Starkey , partner in Price , Waterhouse &; Co. , suggested three changes in the Securities Act " if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Congress intended . " They are a change in the civil liability sections so that experts would no longer be included with the issuers as liable for rescission of the sales contract ; second , in any suit , by a purchaser to rescind his contract , he should be made to show that he had relied on the statement or statements which he attacks and that this reliance caused his loss , and , third , the Commission should be relieved of some of its responsibility , particularly that part which makes it mandatory for it to prescribe fixed rules and regulations governing the methods of keeping and stating accounts . The Commission should function as an advisory body . Definite rules must constantly be expanded and changed until the whole system falls by its own weight , Mr. Starkey said . Methods of arranging allotments to dealers on offerings of new securities were discussed by Arthur H. Dean of Sullivan &; Cromwell , who pointed out that there is a tendency on the part of salesmen to try to beat the starting gun on the 20-day provision on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances have been unwilling to wait for the starting gun and have probably violated or have come pretty close to violating the Act by offering to sell or soliciting an offer to buy the securities during the 20-day waiting period . " The Securities Act is no longer a material deterrent to financing . Mr. Dean said . Two Means of Relief Directors , officers and underwriters of securities have two means of assuring themselves of substantial relief from civil liabilities , Shipley Thomas of Ford , Bacon &; Davis , Inc. , told the Association . These are the expert clause method and the investigation clause method . Under the first , the officers , directors and underwriters do not have to prove they made investigation on what the expert reports . They need only to prove to gain relief that they had no reasonable ground for belief that the export was untruthful . Under the investigation clause method , however , for all registration material not prepared by an expert , each director , officer and underwriter must be prepared to prove that he made reasonable investigation and had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were true and there was no omission to state any material fact required to be stated or necessary to make the statements not misleading , Mr. Thomas said . Other speakers at the meeting were James M. Landis , new chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission , who told of efforts of the commission to simplify and abbreviate prospectus ' requirements for registration of new securities ; A. A. Berle , chamberlain of New York City ; Rodney F. Starkey , partner in Price , Waterhouse &; Co. ; Arthur H. Dean , of Sullivan &; Cromwell , and Shipley Thomas , of Ford , Bacon , &; Davis .                     