@@701046

txt What seemed only a few short weeks ago to be an impending labor crisis in the motor industry has resolved itself into a membership drive of the American Federation of Labor with questionable results . The Federation Saturday night wound up its drive ter enlist members when William Green , president . spoke before motor workers in Buffalo . completing a swing around the automobile manufacturing centers wpere he carried organized labors message to the workers While publicity blasts from the A. F. of L. told of huge crowns attending these meetings , the understanding here is that only moderate and reasonably enthusiastic crowds came to listen . In Detroit for instance , 1,300 turned out to hear Mr. Green and 5.000 had been expected . Stories emanating from Washington labor sources had carried an ominous warning of strike in connection with the drive . But Mr. Green wound up his campaign by urging organization and made a constructive and effective plea for cooperation with the industry and for peace . He did sound a warning that labor , failing to get the kind of cooperation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go out on the strike field " . This statement was met with loud applause in Detroit and similar stateme , its in other cities also were followed by hand clapping and cheers . 176 Organized Federal Unions Mr. Green said there are now 176 federal unions organized under A. F. of L. auspices in 17 states . These unions , he said , have 20,000 paid up members , and approximately the same number who have.permitted their dues to lapse because of unemploymcnt . There are a quarter of a million and more workers employed in the motor industry . In his Detroit speech , Mr. Green read numerous portions from the Henderson-Lupin report issued under NRA auspices which criticized labor practices by the automobile industry . This was the report which a few days previous had been attacked by the Automobile Manufacturers Association and on Saturday by William S. Knudsen , executive vice president of General Motors Corp as unfair and untruthfit . The Manufacturers Association deplored the release of such a " biased " report at this time , saying it would be pounced upon and used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a government report despite its alleged inaccuracies . In attacking the Automobile Labor Board . Mr. Green declared that labor could not depend on any agency outside the A. F. of L. to safeguard the working man 's interest would riot even advise you to depend upon your 1 , overnment . You must depend only upon yourselves through organization . " Only moderate enthusiasm greeted Mr Green 's espousal of the 30-hour work week The National Auto Council , composed of ? -epresenta.tives of the A F of L federal unions in automobile plants , held an all-day session in Detroit Saturday and empowered Green to act as its soie representative in dealing with employers .                     