@@699386

txt Advance of 29 cents a barrel in the price of Portland cement in the greater New York territory , including- northern New Jersey , Westchester County and Long Island , will have the effect of putting the local quotation in line with the level in other parts of the country . The action was made possible by the recent order of the New York Customs Appraiser , who in November issued a notice of suspicion of dumping of British cement into the United States , following allegations by the domestic industry Commissioner Eble . An investigation is now under way : and if dumping is finally proved the British cement will be charged additional duties sufficient to advance the quotation of their product here to the British market price . In the meantime , under the customs order , a bond is required in the amount of the value of each shipment of such cement to guarantee the ability of the importer to pay an anti-dumpmg penalty if such a verdict results . The increased price . which becomes effeelive as of December 30 , was first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other important producers supplying this maiket . It represented the first advance in this section in sonic time . When the general rise in prices of from 19 cents to 29 cents a barrel was put into effect last August in the eastern territory the New York metropolitan district was excluded because of severe competition for business from foreign imports . For a number of years foreign cement imports have adversely affected prices in the American seaboard markets . For a long time a " depressed " price prevailed in Boston to meet importations from Belgium and such action was also necessary to conserve the New York market to domestic producers . With cheap labor . depreciated currencies and extremely low ocean rates ( the product often being carried as ballast ; , the European manufacturer is able to land his cement in American seaports at a price that precludes any profit to the American producer . Cement imports during the first seven months of 1932 totaled 316,950 barrels , compared with 315,935 barrels in the corresponding period of 1931 . During the same period shipments of the domestic producers declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign shippers to the American market include Denmark as well as Great Britain and Belgium . In September , of the 78,600 barrels arriving here . 52,564 barrels came from Denmark and 18,513 from Belgium .                     