@@699086

txt Most of the Tammany talk about running Mr. WALKER again for Mayor turns on the idea , or claim , that he is entitled to a " vindication . " What does this mean ? It does not refer to his personal character . It has no concern with his repute as a faithful member of Tammany Hall . It does not contemplate restoring in the eyes of the country his prestige and power as a leading Democrat . All those things count for little in the Tammany conception of vindicating Mr. WALKER . what would be demanded is approval by the voters of his record in office . He would be held up as the proper and perfect type of what a Mayor of New York should be . Endorsement of his years in office would be asked as an incentive to other Mayors in the future to go and do likewise . This may not be a serious proposal by Tammany , but it deserves serious examination . There are certain qualities in a Mayor which all saber-minded citizens would call essential . How many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of them is surely to be " diligent in business . " Mayor WALKER was notoriously never that . He was away from the city on unprecedentedly long and frequent vacations or absences . When he was here his office hours were always an unknown and variable quantity . He did not keep his appointments . Important officers of the city , heads of departments . often found it impossible to make an appointment with him . to discuss matters of pressing city business . He would not see them . The slackness and insouciance with which he regarded his executive duties necessarily spread a spirit of indifference and carelessness throughout the whole municipal administration . If the chief would not work , why should the subordinates ? A famous administrator once said that the way to get things done was to make the public business a pleasure . Mayor WALKER always kept the two distinct . He found his pleasures , and they were numerous , elsewhere and to the inevitable detriment of the public business . All the private coming and going of Mr. WALKER was scrupulously kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the ex-Mayor were to enter into a violent and heated campaign for re-election , could what he himself admitted in his attack upon Governor ROOSEVELT to be his own personal " wrongdoing " remain uncovered ? It would he certain , on the contrary , to be exploited publicly and made a burning issue privately . Does Tammany Hall think that a steady-going public , does it think that the Catholic Church , would rush to vindicate what Mr. HEARST . with magnificent aplomb , calls Mr. WALKER 'S " deplorable personal behavior " ? It is freely admitted that Mr. WALKER 'S official record is not one of unrelieved badness . Some good things have been done in the departments of the government which he has let alone . A few improvements have been made at his prompting or with his consent . But with the biggest problems before the city since he became Mayor  --  transit and finance  --  he has been one of the most incapable and inefficient men who ever sat in the City Hall . This is not for lack of native ability . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any plan laid before him . But he simply has not put his unusual talents at the service of the city . The result is that , especially in the two matters mentioned , his administration has gone on from one delay to another , one muddle to another , until the city does not know where it stands or what to expect and is reduced almost to despair . Yet Tammany leaders seem to think that the voters of New York would delight to honor and to vindicate the Mayor who ' , brought them to such a pass !                     