@@697407

txt Of the two addresses-made by the President in Boston yesterday , more attention will probably be attracted by the one to the American Federation of Labor . Yet what he said to the American Legion had great significance and timeliness as bearing upon our international relations at the present time . Recalling the fact that the declarations of purpose by the American Legion included efforts to maintain and enlarge goodwill with other nations , Mr. HOOVER justly said that this has become of the greatest importance in recent years . The rapid recovery of the United States after the war , with our great commercial , industrial and financial expansion , has inevitably created in some other countries the belief , or fear , that we in America were setting up " a new Imperial " power intent upon dominating the " destinies and freedom of other " peoples . " Asserting that this is an " utter misconception , " the President did not deny that we must nevertheless take all reasonable steps to remove it . On our part we must avoid every expression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are to carry out the avowed aim of the American Legion , we must all " realize that men and women of " other nations have the same devo " tion to their flags and are as sen ' ' sitive to the dignity of their coun " try as we . " This is well and fittingly said . ' A like spirit of sympathy and friendly understanding was urged by Mr. HOOVER upon the delegates present at the meeting of the Federation of Labor . With justified satisfaction , he dwelt upon the cooperation between employers and workers which has been so useful since the beginning of the business depression a year ago . At that time managers of large employing corporations and representatives of labor unions agreed on a policy of mutual forbearance . Wages were not to be cut . Men were to be kept at work in as large numbers as possible . On the other side , the leaders of organized labor undertook not to make unreasonable demands while the hard times continued . This promise has been well lived up to . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recorded more than 2,000 labor disputes , or strikes , some of them accompanied by serious public disorder . But during the present period there have been reported only 300 , most of these being of a minor character . Upon what has been done in this way the " resident bases his hope of even larger results in the future . His optimism about the well-being of labor is as marked in this speech as was the confidence in financial improvement which he expressed in his address to the bankers at Cleveland . Some who remember the speech which Mr. HOOVER made in Boston during the Presidential campaign of 1928 will be struck by the fact that he did not yesterday repeat his argument about the necessity of a protective tariff to keep American workmen steadily employed at high wages . Time and events have made that seem obsolete , not to say a little absurd . Far more trustworthy is President HOOVER 'S assertion tha our best assurance for the future i a more complete realization of th interdependence between capital an ( labor , with the warranted hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new conception of the kind of relation ' between employer ( and workers which will be to th ( largest benefit of both and to th ( peace and stability of industry throughout our entire country .                     