@@701935

txt Even before the Popular Front Government had been formed . it faced a situation for which it was entirely unprepared and which threatens to paralyze the power of the Government . not only to control events but even to maintain law and order . Once Leon Blum was formerly invited to head the government , he moved swiftly to meet the crisis . Half an hour after the commission , his government was formed , with 33 cabinet members , the largest in French history and including two women for the first time despite the fact that women do not have the ballot in France . Then he called a meeting of the new cabinet for today to consider emergency measures to meet the situation created by the widespread strikes which will be presented to the Chamber of Deputies on Saturday when he takes his government before that body for the first time for the initial vote of confidence . The speed owing to the extraordinarily rapid development of the ? *stay in " strike movement launched a week ago by metallurgical workers in the Paris region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and food industries throughout the country . Beyond Control The movement was launched , if not by the Communists , at least with their approval but it now is already beyond their control as well as that of the labor organizations . Already it has aroused the condemnation of the Socialists who formed government . Before his appointment as Minister of the Interior Roger Salengro publicly demanded an explanation from the Communists and the General Labor Federation and has announced that the Popular Front , if driven to choose between anarchy and order , will choose order . This suggests that the first act of the new government may be to employ force to compel workers to abandon the factories unless they can be persuaded to do so voluntarily by the immediate introduction by the government of legislation for the satisfaction of their demands for higher wages , annual holidays with pay , collective contracts and the 40 hour week . Early Test Feared But the rapidity with which the strikes are still spreading , and especially the threat to the food supply , is causing grave anxiety for fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dangerous test . Workers are impatient and it is doubtful whether they will have sufficient trust or respect for either the government or Parliament to await their action . There is also the risk of disorderly incidents , despite the insistent exhortations from the labor unions , especially in the cases where employers offer resistance to the demands of the workers . Even if the movement Is brought under control , it seems inevitable that the government and Parliament must sanction the full demands of the workers without delay , otherwise the strike movement will break out again more violently than ever . Thus , the executive and legislative branches of the government assume the appearance at the very outset of acting under compulsion from a certain section of the population . Moreover , it is already certain that the granting of the demands which have been detailed above means a sharp rise in industrial prices . 35% Rise In Labor Cost Estimated The leading metallurgical organ estimates that the labor costs would increase by 35% under these demands , thus wiping out even the advantages which might be obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Front already has pledged itself to re-valorize agricultural products . Hence the prospect of a dizzy ascension in the cost of living involving further embarrassment of public finances , renewed social disorders , and further stagnation of external and internal trade arises . Some reliance can be placed upon the common sense of the workers , but Premier Leon Blum and his colleagues appear to be facing at the very outset a more severe test than any government since the foundation of the French Republic and in which the fate of the currency would assume the appearance of a minor issue . A sidelight upon this is afforded by the return of the Bank of France revealing a further borrowing by the state to an amount which is now estimated at over 12,000,000,000 francs . In this same category should be mentioned the net withdrawals of deposits from the ordinary sav ings banks in the last half of May of 300,000.000 francs which is the largest fortnightly loss since the beginning of April and brings the net withdrawals since January 1 to 1.154.000,000 francs . It to reliably stated that on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 500 , - 000,000 francs , and Thursday 's lose certainly was almost equal to that of Wednesday . It is reckoned that after allowance is made for the gold liability in connection with the sterling credit and the current week 's losses , the gold reserve of the Bank of France has approached 50.000,000,000 franca . Rist for Devaluation This fact has brought even Mitzakis , outstanding finacial commentator and stalwart champion of the gold standard , to a declaration in the " Intransigeant " that the drain can not be allowed to continue at the present rate . Urgent decisions . he says , are necessary which should exclude a gold embargo and exchange restrictions . The latest public convert to the theory that there can be no economic revival without abandonment of the present gold standard is Charles Rist , former vice governor of the Bank of France , in which capacity he was mainly responsible for the 1928 stabilization program . Writing in the " Petit Parisien , " Mr. Rist declares that as long as , sterling 's depreciation was limited to between 10% and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold bloc prices might adjust themselves to the Anglo-American level . This hope became vain he states , with the depreciation of 40 , , I in sterling . All efforts have failed to bridge this disparity in prices and in recent months this has tended to increase rather than decrease so that actual disparity is now at least 20 , , ; - . Since this disparity in prices embraces both merchandise and money , a continuance of monetary isolation means decreasing production and increasing unemployment Mr. Rust further declares that " to suppress disparity is the essential goal of devaluation , a goal which may be more surely attained if the franc is first attached to sterling pending the moment when the two currencies simultaneously attach themselves to gold . " He proposes in a subsequent article to prove that devaluation does not imply a corresponding rise in pricee . Mr. Rist is known privately to have abandoned hope for success of a policy of deflation some 18 months ago . However , hitherto he has refrained from making any public pronouncement for devaluation . The victory of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe in devaluation as the only alternative to inflation . A further rapid rise in the bill portfolio of the Bank of France , coinciding with the higtr note circulation has received comment . Inclusive of the 30-day advances , discounts of the Bank of France now exceed 20.000.000,000 francs . naving doubled since early March . At least 14,000,000.000 , and probably 15.000.000,000 of this amount represents government paper . Movements on the Bourse Despite this evidence of the menace to the franc , the Bourse marked up quotations of Rental and domestic stocks but marked down quotations on internationals . This is due to some hope that the new government will be . sole to terminate the strikes , but was due also to short covering and the absolute uncertainty regarding developments over the next ft .. ? days . An easing in the situation is possible with the installation of the new government but it is credited with the intention to begin by demanding authorization of a large additional credit from the Bank of France . There is increasing indication that the policy of the new government will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promotion of public works , elimination of unemployment and consequent revival of business . Under this program , equilibrium of the budget will be ignored on the ground that it can oe attained only if the spending power of the public revives . The Labor Federation 's leader , M. Jouhaux in Thursday evening 's edition of " Information " expressed complete faith in the efficacy of big public works , but also favored the calling of an international monetary conference for stabilization of currencies .                     