@@702239

txt The Italian Government today officially recognized the Insurgent government of Generalissimo Francisco Franco in Spain , giving as its justification the fact that his movement " has taken possession of the greater part of Spain and the development of the situation shows ever more clearly that in the remaining parts no responsible government any longer exists . " It was learned here that the German Government had taken similar action today . The Italian diplomatic representation accredited to the Madrid government has been recalled and an Italian Charg ? d'Affaires will be dispatched to establish diplomatic relations with the Franco government , wherever it may reside . A few minutes after the official announcement Admiral Antonio Magaz , who has been in Rome ever since Aug. 22 as Charg ? d'Affaires on behalf of the Burgos government but to whom official recognition had hitherto been denied , was received by Count Galeazzo Ciano , the Foreign Minister , and remained in conversation with him for more than an hour . Now Sole Spanish Envoy There He is now the accredited representative in Italy of the only Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or another Ambassador appointed by the Burgos regime will soon present his credentials to Victor Emmanuel III as King of Italy and Emperor of Ethiopia , thus effecting from the Italian viewpoint official Spanish recognition of the Italian conquest of Ethiopia . It is regarded as highly probable that the Vatican will very soon follow the example set by the Italian Government and give official recoge nition to General Franco 's movement , thus regularizing also the position of the Spanish Embassy accredited to the Holy See , which broke off its allegiance to Madrid some months ago . Major Ramon Franco , the aviator , brother of General Franco and for ? mer Air Attach ? of the Spanish Embassy in Washington . arrived in Rome today and asked for an audience with Cardinal Pacelli , the Papal Secretary of State , it is believed to urge the Vatican to recognize the Burgos government . Cardinal Pacelli , however , instructed him to see Cardinal Todeschini , the former Papal Nuncio to Spain , and Major Franco did so this evening , but it is not yet known with what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that the Vatican has hitherto been very prudent in its political manifestations regarding the Spanish strife . Politically the Vatican is in favor of the Burgos government because General Franco is fighting communism , but it feels the war has been fought so cruelly and bitterly on both sides that it has carefully avoided any gesture that might be interpreted as a preference for either . The Vatican in any case declared this evening that there was nothing changed for the present in its attitude toward Spain . Italy 's recognition of the Burgos government does not enable her to help General Franco 's movement openly since she is still a member of the non-intervention committee in London and is bound by its stipulations . But obviously the recognition is the prelude to very much closer Italian cooperation with the Burgos regime in its efforts to gain mastery over the whole of Spain . Dino Grandi , Ambassador to London , at a recent meeting of the non-intervention committee declared explicitly that Italy accepted Russia 's challenge , and Italy is now preparing to live up to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully committed to secure the triumph of the Franco cause and intends to see to it , probably in collaboration with Germany , that the Soviet does not gain a foothold on the Mediterranean . Recognition of the Franco government obviously renders it easier for Italy to pursue measures necessary to counterbalance the efforts Russia is reported to be making to bolster the imperiled fortunes of the Leftist regime in Spain . Whether Italy will be able to do so without resigning from the non-intervention committee still remains to be seen , since that will depend very largely upon the attitude Russia assumes . It seems quite clear that if Russian interference in Spain should overstep certain bounds and assume such proportions as to threaten the success of the Franco movement , Italy might be obliged to resign from the committee in order to be freer in her movements . Comment by Burgos Envoy The possibility of Italian withdrawal from the committee was partly confirmed by Admiral Magaz , who , speaking to this correspondent after his audience with Count Ciano said that it was for the latter to make any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has changed very materially from what it was when the non-intervention committee was formed . He added that the committee had never functioned since Russia was continuing not only to send raw materials to Barcelona but to boast of what she was doing . The Charge d'Affaires of the Burgos government also gave it as his opinion that recognition of the Italian empire by the Burgos regime was quite certain . He said it was probable that he himself would not be appointed Ambassador but another one would be sent from Burgos . He declared most emphatically that the question of monarchial restoration had not been discussed with the Italian Government , but it is significant that over his desk in his study was a large poster with the words " Country , God and King " in Spanish . The situation likely to develop ' between Italy and Russia is certainly not devoid of danger . Both are now committed to securing victory for the parties in Spain to which they have bound themselves . Rome Still Optimistic The outlook , however , is still regarded optimistically in Rome , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme measures unless Russia forces her to do so and Russia has no interest in pushing mat-1 ters to such extremes as to render an open breach with Italy unavoidable . But the fact can not be blinked that the constant passage across the Mediterranean of Russian ships laden with war material acts toward Italy as a red rag to a bull and might easily be the cause of some serious complication . Certainly Italy can not see the end of the war in Spain near . Granting that General Franco will soon be in Madrid and that this will represent a victory for him as great morally as materially , he will still be faced by the problem of conquering Barcelona . It is not thought that either the Franco or the Italian Government can afford to let a Socialist republic that it is felt would soon develop into a Soviet republic exist on the shores of the Mediterranean . The conquest of Barcelona , however , would certainly be an extremely long and difficult undertaking , costly in money and human lives and capable of affording unlimited opportunities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              