@@703320

txt Organized business , as represented by the powerful Chamber of Commerce of the United States , now in annual convention here , believes firmly in co-operation between business , government and labor . But organized business at the present time as represented by leading spokesmen from all over the country is. distrustful if not heartily opposed to the Administration 's pump-priming policy on the one hand , and to the Wagner Labor Act , hailed by trade unions as " labor 's magna carta. " on the other . This Is the contradictory situation which makes up a complicated back-drop for the speeches and discussions that have been going on here since Monday , with their windup at the anual dinner tonight . Practically all the addresses fit into this pattern . Business is willing to co-operate with government , but it approaches the round-table in no humble mood . On the contrary , it is belligerent . New speeches today gave the signal for new attacks . Francis E. Frothingham of Boston , President of the Investment Bankers Association of America , riddled most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pump-priming would fail to attain its broad objective of permanent business recovery . Private Industry Put First Fred H. Clausen , Wisconsin manufacturer , picked to make another primary speech of the day , echoed Mr. Frothingham 's declarations . Pump-priming to create and sustain prosperity is futile , and Government spending is no substitute for private industry , he declared vigorously . Take it all in all , it was anti-pump priming day in the big Chamber convention , and the applause and informal comments indicated that a large body of the assembled businessmen agreed with these declarations against Administration policies . Conditions were brighter , by contrast , on the other side of the picture affecting relationships between business and labor . Speaking in a personal capacity , Lewis E. Pierson , Chairman of The Irving Trust Company , a Past President of the Chamber , declared : " Private industry thrives and creates more jobs only when Capital and Labor work together harmoniously for the production of goods and services for the advancement of the American standard of living . " " I believe that the time has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those things of common interest which fairly protect their respective interests , promote industrial peace and stimulate employment on which the enduring prosperity of the Nation depends . " The need for industrial peace was never greater than in this time of economic distress , when it is recognized on all sides that national prosperity can be re-established on a firm and lasting basis only through the revival of private industry . " Meanwhile , the Executive Coun- cil of the American Federation of Labor , issued a statement timed to coincide with the Chamber 's meeting , but otherwise not directly connected with it . This was a conciliatory oppeal for co-operation with business , urging that their essential objectives were the same . " Labor invited industry to discard the weapons of industrial warfare directed against labor by employers ' associations both now and in days gone by , " the Executive Council said . Appeal From A. F. of L. " Unemployment can only be overcome through the creation of work opportunities for working men and women in private industry . . . . Industry and labor should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this real remedy for idleness can be applied . " The American Federation of Labor is committed to the principle of private ownership , private initative and the protection of private property . The right to own and manage property must be conceded and safeguarded . " Working people must be accorded the right to organize and bargain collectively . The highest wages which industry can afford should be paid and a fair return upon legitimate investments to those who own private property must be freely conceded . " Visiting businessmen expressed appreciation for the Federation statement , which found an echo in some of the observations of leaders . Yet the fact remains that the speakers who attracted widest interest and publicity at the earlier meetings were those who assailed the Labor Relations Board and the Wagner Labor Act . With the best will in the world , acordingly , for good relations and teamwork between the three partners of recovery , government , busineis , and labor , it would seem that so far no specific formula for rapprochement had been worked out , although few businessmen would disagree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of L. statement yesterday . On the other hand , the conference has brought out still further complicating issues , in addition to the business " revolt " against pumppriming strategy , These are in the nature of a potential counter-attack by the New Deal forces themselves . Jones Warns Bankers Jesse H. Jones , Chairman of the RFC and one of the few liaison men between the New Deal and business , warned yesterday that the banking system must more adequately meet credit needs if it expected to stay in private hands . Mr. Jones made his statement in an extended speech before a Chamber roundtable . At the same time Henry Morgenthau , Jr. , Secretary of the Treasury , at a press conference made his own observation on the subject  --  that the Nation does not need a " breathing spell " so much as it needs " co-operation , " co-operation by government , business and labor . Mr. Morgenthau 's retort was elicited by the speech of Winthrop W. Aldrich , New York banker , calling for a " breathing spell " in New Deal reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three forces would not " get anywhere " fighting each other , but he voiced the strong feeling of even conservative Administration leaders that business must respect the New Deal legislation already enacted .                     