@@702616

txt Seven Democrats of the Senate Judiciary Committee joined with the three Republican members today to send President Roosevelt 's program for reorganization of the judiciary to the Senate calendar with an adverse report . The other seven Democrats and Senator Norris , Independent , voted for a favorable report on the measure , making the decisive ba:lot 10 to 8 , as had been generally forecast . The committee members received the news of Justice Van Devanter 's retirement just as they entered the committee room for their balloting session , but the resignation appears to have altered no votes . The equal division of the Democratic members placed the Republicans in the position of holding the balance of power , a condition which might prevail when the bill is brought to a vote in the Senate , unless administration leaders find some way of attracting more Democratic votes than they seem to have now . When the bill will reach its supreme test on the floor of the Senate could not be predicted . Group Picked to Draft Report The victorious ten set to work immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill do not pass , and . promised that , there would be as little delay as possible . A subcommittee made up of Senators King of Utah , chairman ; McCarran of Nevada and O'Mahoney of Wyoming , was appointed to draft the report . Mr. King announced that it would meet informally Thursday to receive suggestions from other members of the majority . He predicted the report would be filed within a week . After the majority report is written , it probably will be shown to members of the minority , and they presumably will prepare one or more minority reports to accompany the measure to the Senate . The bill will then be placed on the Senate calendar , in the regular way , and will follow the usual parliamentary experience of any measure which reaches the calendar with an adverse committee finding . What some members interpreted as a clue to the strategy that Senator Robinson , majority leader , and his aides will follow on the floor was afforded in the proposal by Senator Logan of Kentucky of a substitute plan at the committee meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Logan has been one of the most outspoken friends of the President 's bill in the committee . As a subject for the fifth ballot , he pro- posed a new bill which would have provided a Supreme Court of eight associate justices and one Chief Justice , which could be temporarily increased by one justice for each justice over 75 - who did not elect to retire , with the limitation that not more than one additional justice could be appointed in one year . The proposal was defeated by 10 to 8 , despite Mr. Logan 's assurance that Senator Robinson approved it and that he judged it was satisfactory to President Roosevelt . The line-up , however , was different from that which voted to report the bill unfavorably . Ashurst Votes for Substitute On the Logan substitute , Chairman Ashurst of Arizona , who hitherto had insisted that he would accept no compromise , voted for the proposal , as did Senator Hatch of New Mexico . Senator Pittman of Nevada , apparently taking President Roosevelt at his word that he desired no compromise , voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' took at its session of a little - more than an hour , the first decisive test came on the sixth , after the substitute had been beaten . Senator Norris moved that the President 's bill be reported favorably . On this vote the yeas were registered by Senators Neely of West Virginia , Logan , Dieterich of Illinois , of Kansas , Pittman , Hughes of Delaware , Norris and Ashurst . The negative ballots were cast by Senators King , McCarron , Van Nuys of Indiana , Hatch , Burke of Nebraska , Connally of Texas , O'Mahoney , Borah of Idaho , Austin of . Vermont and Steiwer of Oregon . From then on , the lines held fast . Senator Dieterich proposed that the committee report the bill to the Senate without recommendation . Mr. McCarran offered an amendment to the Dieterich motion to the effect that the recommendation- be adverse . The McCarran amendment was voted upon first , adopted by 10 to 8 , the division remaining the same , and the final ballot on the Dieterich motion , as amended by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejected by a vote of 12 to 6 the Norris amendment , requiring the concurrence of more than two-thirds of the members of the Supreme Court to invalidate an act of Congress . It threw out unanimously the proposal for an outright increase to fifteen members of the Supreme Court , to be unchanged for fifteen years . A unanimous vote defeated the Bilbo plan to limit appointments to the Supreme Court to residents of judicial circuits not now represented thereon . Mr. 's motion to strike out every part of the bill except the Supreme Court sections was defeated , 14 to 4 . " Great Victory , " Says Burke " The ( final ) vote speaks for itself , " said Senator Burke , who has led the fight against the bill within the committee . " The discussion of the- committee was very deliberate and friendly , and the action taken fully disposes of the Supreme Court provisions of the pending bill . There- may be some debate on the floor of the Senate , but I think the matter is really at an end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won this morning for the ' American system of government , an independent judiciary . " Mr. Ashurst confined his- comment to one of his usual philosophical dissertations . " Moderation , forbearance and restraint are the virtues of victory , whilst patience and fortitude are the virtues of disaster , " he said . " Almost any American citizen easily endures and quickly forgets disaster , but it requires character and noblesse oblige to endure victory . " I hope to endure victory with becoming humility . " Destiny distributes triumphs and defeats with charming nonchalance . Whether she awards victory or prescribes defeat is up to the individual , but it is of very great importance how the individual receives and carries that which destiny distributes to him . " It was disclosed that the committee , several days ago agreed , without substantial debate and without a record vote , to eliminate the words " hereafter appointed " where they appear in two places in the President 's original bill in Section 2 ( a ) dealing with the assignment of circuit and district judges to duty outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to such extra assign ' meat all such judges instead of lim1 iting the possible assignments to new judges .                     