@@703312

txt Britain 's hard-pressed taxpayers were thunderstruck tonight to learn that they must bear crushing new burdens to help pay for the rearmament program . The standard rate of income tax will be raised from 25 to 272% per cent " for the protection of our native land , " Sir John Simon , Chancellor of the Ekchequer , told the House . of Commons today in submitting the government 's budget for the coming financial year . The House was staggered by the news . The new figures lift the basic rate to 5 shillings sixpence in the pound  --  the highest ever known in Britain except for the wartime rate of 6 shillings , which lasted until 1922 . Even in the depth of the economic crisis , in 1931 , the rate never went above 5 shillings . Sir John also added a penny to the cost of every gallon of gasoline and other motor fuel by raising the tax to ninepence a gallon . And to make sure that the cost of rearmament would be driven home to every household in the land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by twopence in every pound package . Easier Course Shunned The Chancellor argued that it would have been easier to ' cover his prospective deficit by borrowing . But with the expenditure on defense soaring and with , heavier maintenance ' costs ineVitable'ln ' the future , it is far better , he said , to " take some portion of the increase on our own shoulders by additional taxation now . " " By so doing , hard as this may seem for the moment , " he said , " we- shall reduce our difficulties hereafter , we shall assist our further borrowings and we shall show the world that this country does not quail when it faces a burden of expense . " We all realize that the mere piling up of ever greater armaments by itself is not a certain means of securing safety or ensuring peace . But this necessary armament is being accompanied by an active policy for promoting reconciliation ' and good-will with other nations ? an active policy which is already beginning to show results . In the pursuit of this double objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the dogged determination and dauntless courage of the British race . " Food Supplies Laid In Sir John showed , in fact , that the British Government already was operating in certain fields as if the country were at war . He revealed to an astonished House that the government had secretly bought enough wheat , sugar and whale oil ( for margarine ) to supply the civilian population " during the early months of an emergency . " He acknowledged that these immense transactions had been carried through without the sanction of Parliament . " Absolute secrecy was essential to prevent prices from being raised by knowledge of the government , coming into the market , " Sir John explained . " Had it been known , of course , the effect on.sprices would have been disadvantageous consumers generally as well as to the government . " For this reason the government took the very unusual course of acting without first applying for statutory authority , in confidence that the House of Commons would understand our reasons and would in due course enable us to obtain legislation conferring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This explains the almost unprecedented peacetime purchase of 150 , - 000 tons of wheat in a single day earlier this month . It shows , moreover , that the British Government sees the possibility of a sudden " emergency , " no matter how bravely the Ministers may insist that war is not inevitable . The House cheered this.revelatien of the government 's energy , but it listened-in stunned silence while Sir John announced his income-tax proposals . The Chancellor tried , however , to soften the effect of his blow . First , he doubled the tax allowance for wear and tear on industrial plant , with the result that industry as a whole will not be affected , although commercial undertakings must bear the full burden . This was an obvious attempt to keep increased taxation from killing the goose that lays golden eggs in the form of industrial profits and business activity . Second , the Chancellor exempted 2,000,000 small-income taxpayers from the operation of the new 271/4 per cent rate by continuing the existing rate on the first 1135 of taxable income . Under this system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of marriage and other allowances , is taxed at one-third of the 1837-38 basic rate , or 81-3 per cent . Everything above 1135 , however , bears the full brunt of the 271/2 per cent rate , with the surtax starting at an income of 12,000 . Borrowing Is Projected Finally , Sir John announced that this year 's supplementary estimates for the fighting services  --  including virtually the whole of the year 's naval building program  --  would be met by borrowing . This , at least , assures the taxpayers that there will not be a big deficit that might be passed on into still higher taxes a year from now . Sir John did not repeat last year 's ill-fated experiment of trying to restrict the profits of armament manufacturers . To this extent the little taxpayer may resent his added burdens . But the Chancellor did try to reassure the vast numbers of small taxpayers by launching a new sired determined drive against tax dodgers in the higher brackets . There will be retroactive legislation to check abuses of revocable or accumulating trusts ; it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estates to trustees or to foreign companies and receiving income in the form of loans , and there will be a strengthening of the existing law aimed at one-man companies . The prospective expenditures for the year was totaled at 1944,398,000 , not counting ? 90,000,000 to be borrowed for defense . It is the first time in a year of peace that the expenditures of the British Government will exceed ? 1,000,000,000 . The prospective revenue was placed at ? 914,000,000 , leaving a gap of not quite 130,000,000 to be filled . Silent on Irish Payment - Unexpectedly , Sir John made no mention of the ? 10,000,000 lumpsum payment from the Government of Ireland provided in yesterday 's Anglo-Irish agreement . The explanation was , first , that the British Government could not dispose of this money until the agreement had been ratified by the Parliaments of the two countries and , second , that since it was a token payment on land annuities it probably would be regarded as a capital sum and used in the redemption of the national debt . Sir John did say , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would deprive the British Government of ? 4,000,000 in revenue in the year . The Chancellor kept the members squirming impatiently while he argued the relative merits of borrowing and imposing new taxes . At length he came to the point , and when he announced " sixpence on the income tax , " there was a gasp from the Labor benches . The gasps turned into angry heckling when he broke the news of the new tax on tea . It was only too apparent that this budget was thoroughly unpopular , not only with the Laborites but with the Conservatives . When tir John sat down after having spoken an hour and forty minutes , there : was not a murmur of applause from any part of the House . Laborites Bitter on Tea Tax Naturally the Laborites were bitter over the new tax on tea and insisted that Sir John could have borrowed or could have found less onerous indirect taxes to yield the same amount . They also criticized , the government 's failure to check the profits of armaments manufacturers , which , according to latest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the Conservatives were even gloomier . Many of them complained that the new taxes would administer a needless shock to business . Stocks fell off sharply in the " street market " after Stock Exchange hours , and prices in all departments are expected to tumble further when trading begins on the Exchange in the morning . The London Passenger Transport Board , which operates London 's buses , will consider whether to raise fares because the increase in the fuel tax alone will cost the company ? 140,000 in the year . An official of . the Automobile Association complained that motorists had paid more than 175,000,000 in horsepower tale and fuel tax last year  --  an amount almost 81/4 per cent of the national revenue . - Seek to Cut Social Services One of the first consequences of the budget has been the beginning of a drive by Conservative Members of Parliament to cut into the government 's expenditure on *social services . Until now the appropriations for health , education and unemployment relief have been considered safe against attack despite the rearmament program . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not stand the spectacle of an income tax at 271/4 per cent with the prospect of a further increase as . the rearmament ' race grows more furious . This feeling is shared by the Opposition Liberals and their leader , Sir Archibald Sinclair . Tomorrow , when general debate on the budget will open , Sir Archibald will demand the appointment of a committee , in accordance with war-time precedent , to examine the expenditures of all government departments . It may not be long , therefore , before the government decides to slash its social services to pay for gas masks and bombing planes .                     