@@700651

txt Governor Lehman announced yesterday that he would call a special session of the Legislature on or I about July 10 to consider the adoption of a resolution as the first step toward the submission of a constitutional amendment to permit the reorganization , consolidation and abolition of county offices , not only in New York City , but in any county of the State . The Governor made this announcement in a letter to former Governor Alfred E. Smith , chairman of the New York City Charter Commission , which recently requested him to call such a , special session . Governor Lehman said he would recommend the adoption of a resoIlution to submit the proposed amendment . If passed at the special session and again at the regular session next year , the proposed amendment can be submitted to the voters of the State in November , 1935 . Otherwise under the provision requiring adoption of the resolution by two successive Legislatures , the proposed amendment could not be submitted until 1937 . The Governor , who came here from Atlantic City to attend the wedding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not decided whether I he would broaden the scope of the ? special session , but indicated that this was probable . The Governor - at any time during the course of the Special session may broaden its scope by a special message to the Legislature . Reapportionment , taxation and unemployment relief have been mentioned as matters for which consideration may be demanded . THE GOVERNOR 'S LETTER . Governor Lehman 's letter follows : June 1 , 1934 . Honorable Alfred E. Smith , 350 Fifth Avenue , New York , N. Y. Dear Governor Smith : I am in receipt of your letter conveying the request of the New York City Charter Commission that I convene the Legislature in extraordinary session and that I recommend at such extraordinary session the adoption of constitutional amendments which will permit the reorganization , consolidation and abolition of county offices in the five counties within the City of New York . It is clear that if any constitutional amendments are adopted this year and passed again at the regular session next year they can be approved by the people in the Fall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments can not be submitted to the people until November of 1937 . I beg to advise you that I will accede to the request of the New York City Charter Commission and will convene the Legislature in extraordinary session on or about July 10 , 1934 . As I have previously stated in messages and public utterances , it is my strong conviction that reorganization of county governmerit , through constitutional amendment , should be made readily available throughout the State . We should seek economy and efficency both in the five counties within the City of New York and in the up-State counties as well . I shall , therefore , at this extraordinary session afford the Legislature the opportunity of giving consideration to such constitutional amendments as will permit of the reorganization of government in any county of the State in the interest of economy and efficiency . Very sincerely yours , HERBERT H. LEHMAN . Would Permit Drastic Cuts . Adoption of . the proposed amendment would permit the city administration to do what it has been unable to do under the economy bill and make wholesale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The recent pay cuts were ! voluntary on the part of the county officials . In his letter to Governor Lehman asking fora special session , Mr. Smith said that it was the opinion of a majority of the Charter Commission that no charter revision worthy of the name could be accomplished which left " the five present , independent , wasteful , inefficient and overlapping county governments-frozen into the ' constitution and beyond the reach , of the city government . " The State Senate will meet June ! 19 to consider what action it will , take in the case of Senator Warren T. Thayer , whose connection with public utility interests has been under investigation . Governor Lehman said that in deciding , to call the special session of the ' Legislature in July he had been ! influenced by a desire to keep the ? county government question entire ! ly separate from the Thayer or ' , public utility investigation . His decision to ask for an amendment which would permit consolidation and abolition of county offices do the counties outside those of ' New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill vacancies in the Legislature so that its membership might be complete , the Governor said . These special - elections , which will be held on July 5 , will be to fill the vacancies caused by the deaths of Senator J. Griswold Webb of Dutchess County and Assemblyman Walter L. Pratt of St. Lawrence County .                     