@@698172

txt The cabinet decided definitely to accept President Hoover 's invitation to Premier Pierre Laval to visit Washington . Ambassador Walter E. Edge will be notified of the acceptance Friday . . erernier Laval has instructea Amnassaaor Paul Claudel to sail on October 1 for his post in Washington . The embassy will arrange the itinerary of Laval 's American tour , in consultation with the State Department . It was reported that the Hoover-Laval conversations in Washington are likely to lay the ground work for the world arms conference at Geneva , scheduled to begin next February , as the conversations between Hoover and Premier J. Ramsay cleared the way for the London naval conference in 1930 . Officials emphasized that Premier Laval. like Premier , will go to Washington without a definite agenda , but it was pointed out that , while in Washington , told President Hoover that Great Britain would accept parity with the United States in all classes of ships which proved the keystone of the London accord . Similarly , Laval probably will explain the extent to which France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rough plan for budgetary reduction , which it is hoped will lead to an informal Franco-American preliminary agreement . His visit to Washington will be limited to 4 days , but he may postpone the opening of parliament a week after November 12 to enable him to see other parts of the country . Premier Laval desires to talk with Senator Borah and renew personal conversations with Senator Swanson . The premier will be acompanied only by personal aides . Laval turned over to Claudel the cabled invitation of the Chicago Association of Commerce to visit that city . The Premier expressed hope that he would be able to visit the Midwest . " The Champs Elysees is n't France , " he said , " and I suppose New York is n't America . I. represent the abbatoirs in the Paris parliament and so I would be happy to visit Chicago if possible . " Laval is the son of a butcher and represents an abbatoir district of the environs of Paris in Parliament . Plan for European Emigration A. scientific plan of emigration to cure Europe 's unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pierre Laval and Foreign Minister Aristide Briand in discussions with German statesmen . The French will suggest that France and Germany take the lead in an emigration project . They will point out that before the war Europe exported 2,000,000 to 3,000,000 emigrants annually but since the war the United States , Canada , Australia and the Orient have closed . their doors . The plan envisages appointment of experts to study the possibilities of diverting surplus population to the African colonies an America under sound economic conditions . From Tne WALL . STREET JOCRNAL ' Washington Bureau WASHINGTON  --  The administration is very keen to have Premier Laval of France visit this country and if it can be arranged would regard it as an important opportunity to discuss the European situation with him . Observers of this government at the recent Paris-London conferences formed a very high opinion of M. Laval and regard his presence as head of the French government a hopeful augury for the future . His views on Europe are broad and liberal and his visit here would be regarded as an event of first class importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discussed with M. Laval , but point out that the sky is the limit .                     