@@704059

txt Yesterday the Class of 1914 came to town , found quarters , found friends , found welcome , put on a clean shirt , and set out on exploratory excursions . But last night and today , it took the town  --  the town being more generally known as Harvard University . And Harvard has capitulated gracefully and completely . To this twenty-fifth reunion class , the University turned over its sprawling Freshman Union for dining , its 12 Freshman dormitories in the Yard for living accommodations , and its buildings and grounds for inspection . Dr. James B. Conant , President of the University , who is himself a member of the class , was on hand to welcome personally his fellow alumni at an outdoor reception held at his house on Quincy Street . And if there were any keys to the " city " available , the Class of 1914 got them . On the whole , the Class was not hard to find . Distinctive hatbands , armbands , and badges picked them out from the multitudinous other reunion classes-1879 , 1889 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1924 , 1929 , 1933 , and 1936 ? with comparative ease . But to keep track of it ! That was another matter . was like trying to account for the movements of a colony of ants ! Gets Under Way After getting settled the program went something like this : Yesterday afternoon the members , their families , and friends variously went on sight-seeing trips , played informal games , swam , listened to an organ recital and special service in Memorial Chapel , and had tea with President and IVIrs . Conant . But the evening ! Tra Ia . Following an open-air dinner in the Yard , the class settled itself for a long evening of entertainment , featuring fun by both professional actors and amateur skits by wives , daughters , sons , and classmates . Surprise of the evening was a special vaudeville show , starring Miss Julia Sanderson and Frank Crummit , of stage and radio fame . Miss Sanderson and Mr. Crummit were musical comedy stars in the days when the Class of 1914 were undergraduates . The couple played together in numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were called back time and time by popular acclaim , in which the plauditi of the class were no small factor 1914 took them to its heart , practically adopting the popular songsters . And so last night , 25 years later , the class brought its favorites back again for return engagement . Gov . Leverett Saltonstall , who this week is much more Chief Maishal cq the Class of 1914 than Chief Executive of Massachusetts , introduced Miss Sanderson and Mr. Crummit to their audience on a special stage which had been set up in front of Holworthy Hall in the oldest part of the Yard , And what an ovation they received ! Their Old Songs Dressed in many of the same old costumes in which they performed at the Colonial , the two went through a repertoire of six songs , with Mr. Crumit accompanying Miss Sanderson on the ukelele and joining in for the singing of their famed duets . But the amateurs had their innings , too . A five-act pageant entitled " Bygones " included a mammoth cast which sparkled with well known names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dramatic ability . How did it all end ? Here is how the official program of the class put it : " MIDNIGHT  --  And so to bed . " Last night and today provided comparative lulls in the pompous Commencement Week hullabaloo , as alumni and graduates husbanded their strength for Class Day tomorrow . True , the 850 Seniors had their final dance at Harvard at the Senior Dance and Dinner last night , while the Class of 1914 cavorted in the Yard . But for the most part , all was fairly quiet today along the Charles River . Today , however , brought no rellef from the dizzy whirl of activities , as far as the Class of 1914 was concerned . Breakfast was at 7.30. and by 9 o'clock busses were ready to transport one and all to the Hotel Preston in Swampscott for " Field Day . " Class Members Among the better known men in the class , in addition to Dr. Conant and Governor Saltonstall , are William T. Gardiner , former Governor of Maine ; Sinclair Weeks , former Mayor of Newton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Sumner Wells , Under-Secretary of State ; Richard M. Russell , former Mayor of Cambridge ; Robert G. Wilson , former Boston City Councillor ; Junius S. Morgan , son of J. P. Morgan , and member of the banking house ; Morgan Belmont , head of August Belmont and Company ; Charles P. Curtis , Vinton Freedley , producer of Broadway hits ; Quentin Reynolds , writer ; Nicholas Roosevelt ; and Gilbert Seldes , critic and writer . Tonight ? The program continues apace . Governor and Mrs. Salton-stall have invited the class to have refreshments at their home at Chestnut Hill . Following this , the class is scheduled to attend in a body the Pops Concert in Symphony Flail , which has been completely reserved for tonight .                     