@@700611

txt After three days of conferences officers of the General Motors Corporation , the Fisher Body Corporation and unions of automobile workers from seven cities took a temporary recess tonight as a result of an agreement on a method of collective bargaining that will be set up in a few days at several Fisher body plants . For the time being a general strike of automobile forces in the seven cities where workers are affiliated with A. F. of L. unions has been averted through the efforts of the Automobile Labor Board , of which Dr. Leo Wolman is chairman . On Monday a union committee will meet the general superintendent of the Fisher Body Company in Pontiac and confer upon certain grievances which have accumulated in recent months . A similar meeting will begin at the Cleveland plant of the Fisher Body Company on Tuesday . This concession on the contentious question of collective bargaining is regarded here as the longest step taken by the General Motors Corporation toward meeting the demand of the union for outright recognition . The " bogy " of union " recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of the American Fed- eration. of Labor is not given to the union committee . However , the plant managers will meet the union committees in their representative capacity and not as individuals representing individuals . If progress is made at these two meetings , conferences will be held at the Fisher plants in other cities . If the conferences reach , a deadlock , the dispute will be referred back to the principals who have been meeting in this city for the last three days . These principals included W. S. Knudsen , executive vice president of General Motors Corporation ; Edward F. and Charles Fisher of the Fisher Body Corporation ; William Collins , representative of the American Federation of Labor ; Frank Dillon , Flint representative of the A. F. of L. , and Charlton Ogburn , counsel to the unions . Five Points Up at Conferences . The conferences which ended this evening had considered the broad outlines of grievances submitted by the unions . These concerned wages , seniority , lay-offs , company union activity and allegations of coercion . Specific agreement was not reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining in the individual plants . Pontiac was selected as the first plant in which to begin negotiations because lay-offs there are now under way . The question of layoff is determined by the agreement arranged by President Roosevelt , who averted an automobile strike in March . Under this agreement men are to be laid off in order of marital status , seniority and efficiency or merit . There is to be no discrimination in laying off men betanae they belong to an outside union . If the procedure is arranged satisfactorily to both sides at Pontiac it will be used in other plants . If the procedure can not be agreed upon the question will be referred back to the conferees , who will resume negotiations in this ? eity . Cleveland was chosen as the second city for negotiations because the union committee had already made contact with the plant manager . Company Union Issue Open . Although the company union question was discussed at the conference the employers gave no assurance that they would cease from trying to convince their employes that the employe representation form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the union give any promise that they would refrain from continuing to form the employes into A. F. of L. unions . From now on the unions will follow a policy of " watchful waiting . " If the managements of the Fisher Body Company or the General Motors Corporation continue to circularize employes urging them to join the company union the A. F. of L. unions will take the matter up with the employers and then with the Automobile Labor Board . It was understood this evening that Mr. Knudsen had issued instructions to all executives down to the lowliest foremen to carry out the plan to meet the union committees as embodied in the President 's agreement . At the close of the conference tonight Dr. Wolman issued a statement , summarizing the results of the conference .                     