@@704345

txt Governor Lehman made it known through his office today that he would name to the Court of Appeals bench when Chief Judge Frederick E. Crane and Judge Irving G. Hubbs retire , Dec. 31 , Charles B. Sears of Buffalo , Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court , Fourth Department , and Edmund H. Lewis of Syracuse , an associate justice on the same bench . Both are Republicans . Justice Sears will succeed Judge Irving Lehman , who is to become chief judge on Jan. 1 , and he will serve for one year . In 1940 he will reach the mandatory retirement age of 70 . Justice Lewis , who is 55 years old , also will serve for a year , and it is expected that next Fall he will be a candidate for a full term . His present term in the Supreme Court ends in 1943 . In political quarters here the selection of Justice Lewis was regarded as a reward for his declination to oppose Judge Lehman for the chief judgeship . Mr. Lewis had been put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination of Judge Lehman . The appointment of Justice Sears is regarded as a reward for his long years of service in the courts . In 1934 Justice Sears was a candidate for the Court of Appeals bench but was defeated by Judge Edward R. Finch . The selection of two Republicans will maintain the court 's present balance of four Democrats and three Republicans . Before Jan. 1 Governor Lehman is expected to name two Supreme Court justices to take the places of Justices Sears and Lewis in the Appellate Division . Designated Judges Pleased By The Associated Press . BUFFALO , Dec. ** Justice Charles B. Sears said today that " of course I shall accept . " " I am very grateful to the Governor for the confidence that he has shown in this appointment , " he added . SYRACUSE , Dec. 2 UP ) ? Justice Edmund H. Lewis , when informed of Governor Lehman 's choice of him for the Court of Appeals , said : " Of course I am very happy and deeply grateful for the confidence of the Governor and my friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Sears on Bench Since 1917 Presiding Justice Charles B. Sears of the Appellate Division , Fourth Department , has long been a prominent figure on the bench . Born in Brooklyn , Oct. 16 , 1870 , he received his early schooling at Adelphi Academy and was graduated from Yale University with a B. A. degree in 1892 . In the following year Justice Sears studied at the University of Berlin and then returned to this country to enter the Harvard Law School , graduating in 1896 cum laude . Admitted to the New York bar , Justice Sears went to Buffalo and practiced law there until 1917 . He was named to the Supreme Court bench of the Eighth District by Governor Whitman in January , 1917 , to fill an unexpired term . In November of the same year he was nominated by both the Democratic and Republican parties to succeed himself and was elected to the fourteen-year term . In 1931 he was re-elected for an eight-year term through the endorsement of both parties . He was appointed to the Appellate Division , Fourth Department , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the same position by Governor Smith for the term 1927 to 1931 . Appointed Presiding Justice of the department by Governor Roosevelt in 1929 , he was reappointed by Mr. Roosevelt in 1932 after his re-election to the bench . Delegate to Conventions In 1915 Justice Sears was a delegate to the constitutional convention , serving as a member of the judiciary committee . In 1938 he again returned to Albany as a Republican delegate-at-large to the constitutional convention , where he played an important part in the drawing up of the new Constitution , serving as chairman of the judiciary committee . Throughout the 1938 Constitutional Convention , Justice Sears was recognized as a leading authority on judicial questions . The judiciary article which his committee drafted was defeated at the polls , largely through the inclusion of sections dealing with judicial review of administrative decisions and establishments of a new judicial district for Nassau and Suffolk Counties . At the convention Justice Sears opposed both sections , but his opinion was overridden by the convention and the judiciary article was submitted to the electorate with the controversial sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican candidate for associate judge of the Court of Appeals . In 1896 he married the former Florence A. Gilbert of Brookline , Mass . Mrs. Sears died in October , 1939 .. Justice Edmund H. Lewis was appointed to the Appellate Division of the Fourth Department in 1933 by Governor Lehman after serving three years as a trial judge . Born in Syracuse , Aug. 30 , 1884 , Justice Edmund H. Lewis Times Wide World , 1939                     