@@699413

txt Congressional conferees who are to meet with President-elect Roosevelt in New York today will invite him to write his own ticket on governmental policy and the legislative procedure to be followed in putting these policies into effect . Decision to give Governor Roosevelt wide discretion in effecting governmental reorganization and economies already has been reached , and there remain only some details which involve possible constitutional difficulties . There is some doubt here as to how far the President-elect may want to go in making suggestions for other courses of action by the present session of Congress but Democratic leaders in House and Senate are ready to do everything they can to carry out the suggestions he does make . The complete willingness to follow Roosevelt suggestions will continue into the seventy-third Congress , where Democratic leaders will have such heavy majorities that there is no doubt of their ability to make the suggestions effective . Seek to End Barriers to Recovery As the situation is shaping up here , Governor Roosevelt at least during the early months of his Administration will wield a larger power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wilson . The willingness of Congressional leaders to give Governor Roosevelt practically dictatorial budget powers is indicative of their general attitude . They recognize that in the present situation politics is holding back economic progress , and that Congress is probably unable to take the decisive actions necessary to clear away these obstacles . If Governor Roosevelt can do it , they appear wholly willing that he should assume the responsibility . How far this thought . has proceeded is shown by the readiness of the legislature to give the Executive extraordinary authority in fiscal matters , which are a fundamental prerogative of legislative assemblies . In the matter of reorganization , Congress has proved itself helpless- . A number of well thought out plans for revamping the government setup have been offered . As soon as they are made public , interests affected begin to exert pressure . Employes and government officials get into touch with political leaders back home and these leaders get in touch with the Congressmen over whom they have power of political life and deathVeterans Relief Lobby Powerful In the matter of veterans expenditures , Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington ever has known , with workers in every ward and precinct , many of whom are beneficiaries under existing legislation . Economy is not the only subject which seems to defy Congressional solution and if Governor Roosevelt can accomplish something in that line , it is inevitable that other problem. : will be put upon him . War debts is one which Congress might like to avoid . Despite the admitted need , Congress has made but little prog ress on banking legislation . Twansportation legisation has died without final action in the last three sessions . The question of anti-trust law reform has not even been approached . Governor Roosevelt did not hesitate when a budget dictatorship was offered him and it is not believed here that he will decline any responsibility that Congress is willing to give hint in other matters . For one thing he is said to be impatient of red tape and delay which is encountered in the usual slow governmental proceses . Also his Washington experience was during a period when the White House , and not Congress , was all-powerful . Dubious on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he can not go too far with the present session of Congress They point out that it is too closely divided between the tivo parties to enable Democratic leaders to carry out very many major activities in the two months remaining of this session . The next Congress , however , will be a different story . There is also some question concerning the constitutional phases of the budget dictatorship plan . That Congress can delegate to the executive the power to make consolidations of bureaus and departments is not doubted . Whether it can also give him power to eliminate activities and to make changes in laws governing expenditures is another matter . Those who contend that Congress can do this point out that so tarthe U. S. Supreme Court has always held constitutional the right of Congress to delegate Its powers , notably its powers over railroad rates and over tariffs . Roosevelt Studies Farm Aid President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt con-tinues studying a great mass of documents , pre- ' paring for his conterence today with Speaker John N. Garner and a delegation of Democratic Congressional leaders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly : terested in farm relief at the present session of Congress . Today 's conference will be first of a series before January 19 when he leaves for Warm Springs . Ga . He leaves Warm Springs February S for an unnamed Atlantic port where he will hoard the yacht of Vincent Astor for a few weeks of cruising .                     