@@698090

txt Governor ROOSEVELT 'S Board of Parole has just published its first annual report . The indeterminate sentence in New York State is fifty years old , and parole was extended to a few prisoners in State institutions as long ago as 1889 . But in all the intervening years it was never , until last year , given a real chance to show what it could do for the reformation of the prisoner and the protection of society . It remained what Mr. GEORGE W. ALGER has called an " under-financed moral gesture . " Here , as in other States , a man in the old days was generally paroled as a matter of course at the expiration of his minimum sentence . There was no adequate investigation of individual cases and parole officers were too few in number to keep in touch with the men assigned to them . Members of parole boards served on a part-time basis , and too often owed their appointment to political considerations . All this was changed by Chapter 824 of the laws of 1930 , adopted on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that advanced piece of legislation a full-time Parole Board was set up , under the immediate supervision of the Governor , with generous appropriations . and provision for an adequate and expert staff . It is too early to analyze the results . The board has been in existence only a year and its report covers only half of that period . Until its employes could be recruited through the normal civil service channels it had to get along with provisional appointees , most of whom , however selected , seem to have turned out rather badly . There is little evidence yet on which to measure the strength of the board 's resistance to political pressure , on which its whole future depends . For the present it must be judged not so much by works as by faith . The most casual reading of the report will show that it is filled with the " substance of things hoped fur , " and grounded in the conviction that parole , if it is to be effective , must be made new . Take this single sentence : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " fact that release on parole at the ex " piration of a minimum sentence is not " a right but a privilege . " On the success of that effort hang all the law and the prophets . The work of the board begins ? the day a man enters prison . It checks up on his career , criminal or otherwise , on his family life , on his community background . It keeps track of him all the time he is in prison and hears his case personally when , at the expiration of his minimum sentence , he is eligible for parole . It will release him  --  these , at any rate , are the standards set  --  only if there is a " reasonable probability that he will " live and remain at liberty without vio " lating the law . " Before he is turned loose every effort is made to find him a job  --  always a difficult task , for reasons recently set forth in the columns of this newspaper by Warden LAWES of Sing Sing , and never more difficult than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of work . " It is not " expected that employers of labor will " give preferential consideration to pa " rolees seeking work , " says the report , " but an appeal is made that these men " be given an equal chance with other " applicants . " it is able to make the somewhat surprising statement that so far " few if any " men have been released without a job and a place to live . The statistics contained in the report are necessarily rudimentary . They afford little more than a base on which to build . But even the figures for six months reveal tendencies which may shock the general public , no matter how familiar they are to criminologists . One is forced to the melancholy conclusion that young-. sters are not only the most frequent offenders but often the most hardened .                     