@@698771

txt Washington regards the California primary results as having struck a major , and perhaps a decisive blow , at the presidential candidacy of Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt of New York . This opinion can be found in quarter which heretofore have regarded a Roosevelt convention victory as a near certainty . At the same time it is not clear that the chances of Speaker John G. Garner for the I nomination have been greatly increased by his victory , unexpected as it was . It is generally hard to see here bow Mr. Garner can be nominated in view of his failure to control his following in the House of Representatives . Perhaps the most significant phase of the California primary is the evaporation of the idea that Mr. Roosevelt can not be stopped ; ? that the nomination will go to him by default and on an early ballot . It is now very clear that Mr. Roosevelt can be stopped , because a candidate who has been regarded as none too strong did stop him in the first really open and free-for-all primary . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponents , whose opposition has been expressed in a very half hearted way . Band Wagon Jumpers Will Hold Out Then there is the effect on the band wagon jumpers . When Mr. Roosevelt appeared to be protceeding almost unopposed , a great many of this type of political leaders flocked to him . ' They will be just as ready to flock away from him now that it appears that his fortunes may have turned . There is no longer any idea that the various favorite son delegations are going to fall over themselves swinging into the Roosevelt camp at the earliest opportunity . Thera is now every inducement for them to hold back and wait for the probable winner . Again the California primary takes 44 delegates upon which the Roosevelt forces had counted . It follows the results in Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut and Pennsylvania , which also subtracted delegates which Mr. Roosevelt needed to make good the claims of his supporters that he would ? be nominated on an early ballot . That is a development of utmost significance , for it is generally held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York governor must be nominated early in the convention or not at all . Much of his support is too weakly held to stand a long fight . Chances Likely to Recede The sum total of opinion here is Roosevelt is much weaker than he has been at any time within the past eighteen months . He still has a chance of the nomination , but his vulnerability has been established and the chance is likely to decrease from now on . If Mr. Roosevelt is receding the question arises as to who may come forward as a leading Democratic possibility . If Al Smith bad won in California , he would stand very much ? in the limelight today , but he ran behind Mr. Roosevelt . There is some discussion of reviving the boom for Owen D. Young . At the present moment , however , more attention than ever ; s being paid to Governor Albert ? C. Ritchie of Maryland , who has and will continue to have the high regard of some very powerful figures in the Democratic convention . At the moment . the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received a telegraph from Mrs. Charles L. Donohoe , California Democratic National Committeewoman , announcing that the Speaker had carried the state by 35,000 votes . SAN FRANCISCO ( P.P. ) ? Speaker John N. Garner of Texas seemed assured today of winning California 's 44 delegates to the Democratic National Convention . tinted Press tabulation of complete returns from 8,650 of the state 's 10,271 precincts in yesterday 's Presidential preference primary gave Garner a 44,857 lead over Governor Roosevelt of New York , his nearest competitor . Former Governor Alfred E. Smith was running a bad third in the race . He trailed Garner by approximately 65,000 and Roosevelt by 20,000.                     