@@697140

txt PRESERVING THE FORESTS . Hewitt Bill Regarded as Inimical to New York State Preserves . To the Editor of The New York Times : ? The ) city dweller Who goes for rest and refrc7hment to our State forest . preserve should be among the first to help safeguard and extend this great playground of the public and to come forward when it is in - danger ' of ' exploitation . Article VII , Section 7 , of our State Constitution , originally so ably drafted by Elihu Root that it has withstood many attacks , is the great bulwark of defense of our forest preserve , and should be jealously guarded by all public-spirited citizens who are looking toward ' the future . It. , is our natural hope that our present forest preserve will be extended throughout most of our forest preserve counties , since they were designated for that very purpose in our State Constitution ; but tile present proposal . to amend Article VII , Section 7 , in the form of the Hewitt reforestation bill , provides that this constitutional protection shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This bill would allow commercial lumbering operations by . the State and the sale of trees to lumber companies on State lands bought from now on for the purpose of extending the area of the public playgrounds . Experience has shown that a continual conflict will result between commercial and noncommercial interests . While we agree with THE TIMES editorial of . March 25 that the , 1/4reforestation /program is excellent , we submit that it is not necessary to amend the Constitution to plant trees nor to amend the Constitution at this time to cut trees twenty or thirty years hence . Besides , there are several million acres suitable for reforestation outside the forest preserve area . If we also keep in mind the fact that , half of the Adirondack park is privately owned and affords ample opportunity for private enterprises without taking any of the land which belongs to the public , it seems only reasonable to insist that scientific forestry and commercial activities should be ? applied to the great area outside before the playground is taken for any such purposes . In view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into our Constitution in 1894 , ? endorsed and strengthened by the Constitutional Convention of 1915 , and defended against the attack of commercial interests many times , should we not refuse to surrender this protection for our forest preserve as a whole , as the Hewitt ? reforestation bill proposes ? ETHEL E. DREIER , President , ? omen 's City Club of New York . New York , March 29 , 1930.                     