@@699616

txt If a delegation of nuHardly dists could be persuaded to Skin attend the annual convenDeep. tion of International Beauty Shop Owners the results might be interesting . A nudist is a person who believes in going back to nature to the extent of taking off all his clothes . The uninterrupted rays of the sun are a blessing , and nature 's handiwork needs no apology . The beauty specialists , on the other hand , have a poor opinion of nature 's models . They are ready to put on the market detachable finger nails , detachable eyelashes , detachable lips and noses and ears that can be pinned back out of undue prominence . We are assured that many women with straight noses sigh for the saucily tilted kind . Next year , of courses the ' retrousse sisters can be remolded into the Grecian type with equal ease . Demountable lips and noses get away from nature with a vengeance , just as nudism is getting back to nature with a vengeance . We live in a time in which , apparently , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does it with a vengeance . Ownership of an Relief automobile does not and in itself disqualify Automobiles , a family from receiving emergency relief . The problem is sufficiently important to receive notice in the current number of The Survey . Policy varies from State to State and even between localities in the same State . Discretion in the matter is usually left with the relief agents immediately in contact with the public . Everywhere there has been an inclination to admit that a man without a job but with a car of some sort may be able to pick up stray earnings that will more than justify its operation . On the whole , State-wide agencies are apt to take a more generous attitude than local authorities . New Jersey is kinder to car owners than Pennsylvania . Denver began by refusing aid to car owners , but changed its policy as the sweep of the depression increased . Cincinnati is fairly rigorous but will make exceptions . Toledo has a policy of tolerance formally arrived at . Of 12,000 families in receipt of relief , about 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but for reasonable cause in a sufficient number of cases to justify a flexible policy . London 's /at est Limited sensation is a courtIntelligence martial involving Departments . charges of treason . The young officer of a crack regiment is accused of selling information about British tanks and rifles to the agent of a foreign power . And once more a person is tempted to ask just how vital are the secrets which the intelligence departments of all Governments are , presumably , engaged in buying all the time ? In actual wartime it is easy enough to see how a piece of information about specific troop movements or military positions might be of the highest importance . But with those marvelous formulas of new lethal weapons that are always being sold or stolen in the pages of E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM , the loss of which leaves the British Empire at the mercy of Siam  --  what does this international spy business really amount to ? Skepticism on the Every subject is encouraged Nation by the experience of Surprised . the World War . None of the governments seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The French were taken by surprise in the matter of Germany 's heavy artillery at the beginning of the war , and the English at Ypres were surprised by German gas . The speed of the German ships at Jutland was another revelation . Germany , on the other hand , began the war with a very poor knowledge of what England 's plans were , and toward the end of the war was surprised by British tanks . There is some reason for suspecting that the international spy business is like many a civilian business . Mr. OPPENHEIM 'S elegant daredevils usually secure possession of precious secrets that are known to nobody except the editors and readers of the technical journals and a few million other people . In New York the public The agency which touches the People 's lives of most people is , Court . naturally , the school system , with an enrolment of well over a million and representing nearly as many families . Next to the schools would come an institution which does not bulk large in the conscious thought of the community or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Last year this court , with twentyeight justices and 100 trial rooms in the five boroughs , handled 840 , - 000 cases . Allowing for duplication , this is estimated to have affected 1,600,000 persons . It would easily be that ; more than half a million cases were landlord and tenant suits , which would mean , as a rule , family cases . The Municipal Court deals with litigation involving moderate amounts . It delivered judgment , for instance , for a total of $55,000,000 last year . This would be an average of less than $100 for the vast number of cases handled . The Municipal Court 's business embraces the mass of minor jars and adjustments of a community of seven million people . One family ' out of every two in the city , nearly , is brought into contact with the Municipal Court in the course of a year .                     