@@703152

txt Machine tool dealers have noted a definite pickup in inquiries during the past month from a wide variety of industries throughout the country . Actual orders in January , however , continued to decline . A. G. Bryant , president of the Associated Machine Tool Dealers , an organization of about 75 of the larger dealers , said at conclusion of an executive board meeting here that members reported industrialists generally believe business is hitting bottom and that the trend will turn upward in the spring . This expectation has led to a revival of inquiries for new machine tools which will blossom into orders if general business actually does pick up , in Mr. Bryant 's opinion . There is some demand for used machine tools , he said , but the number available has been pretty well depleted , particularly by Japanese buying in recent months . Increase in inquiries has not , of course , been reflected in orders and probably will not be for a month or so if then . The machine tool manufacturing companies here generally report a further decline in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the new order indices for that month are expected to drop below the December level . " The combined index is now approaching the early 1936 level with the December figure of 142.7 comparing with 1936 average of 136.3 . Domestic business alone is back to the early 1935 level , the combined index having been held up by heavy foreign buying . Foreign orders exceeded domestic orders in the last two months of 1937 , a rare phenomenon in the machine tool business . Fear Recession of Foreign Orders While willing to take foreign orders , the machine tool companies feel that in the long run their industry is tied - up with domestic business and will prosper or decline with the trend here . They fear a sudden cessation of foreign orders which would leave them flat . The business recession in England and partial completion of machine tool buying incidental to the rearmament program has enabled English machine tool builders to shorten their backlogs which means less " spill over " business for this country . Likewise , continued Japanese buying is uncertain because of possible invocation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armament program in this country will doubtless provide considerable business but it is probable that the bulk of this buying will not get started for a year or so by which time general business activity may have revived sufficiently to create another order jam similar to that of labt spring when deliveries were delayed as much as six months .                     