@@701214

txt Colonel Thomas E. Lawrence , " Lawrence of Arabia , " is still unconscious tonight in the little military hospital in Bovington Carhp , Dorset , more than thirty-six hours after having sustained grave head injuries in a motor-cycle accident yesterday morning . A specialist from London and a squad of trained nurses are fighting hard to save his life , but they have only a faint hope of pulling him through . He has not only a compound fracture of the skull , but a hemorrhage of the brain , a broken leg and other injuries and he has not regained consciousness since the accident . Colonel Lawrence 's condition early this morning was too critical to permit an operation , The Associated Press reported . Major Gen. J. W. West , honorary surgeon to King George , spent last night at the military hospital and returned to London today . Dr. Hugh Cairns , brain specialist and surgeon at London Hospital , arrived at Colonel Lawrence 's bedside tonight and had an hour 's conference with the medical staff of the military hospital . Performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkable operation , removing a tumor from a particularly inaccessible part of the brain of a patient who was going blind . The operation was successful and the patient 's sight was restored . Dr. Cairns is staying at the hospital all night tonight in case of emergency . Another specialist may be called tomorrow . Only one encouraging note came today from the hospital . It was an announcement that while Colonel Lawrence 's condition was still " ex ' tremely grave " he had not lost ground during the day . Many accident victims with head injuries less severe than Colonel Lawrence 's have lain unconscious for many days and then died without recovering consciousness . There are cases on record , however , particularly during the World War , of men who lay in a coma for several days with severe skull injuries and then slowly recovered . A factor in Colonel Lawrence 's favor is his iron constitution , tempered to the hardest steel by his campaigns in Arabia during the " revolt in the desert . " His endurance in the scorching heat was as great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became legendary even in a country where such feats are not uncommon . Today Colonel Lawrence is a man of 46 instead of the youth of 27 who went into the desert in 1916 to stir up an Arab revolt against the Turks . But he has lived a remarkably healthful outdoor life since he joined the Royal Air Force as a humble private under the name of T. E. Shaw soon after the war and this may tell in his favor . Through the veil of secrecy that surrounded the hospital all day there came a few details of yesterday 's accident . Colonel Lawrence 's motorcycle collided with a bicycle pedaled by a boy named Albert Hargreaves , who also was taken to the hospital , suffering from a slight concussion . The accident occurred at a dip in the road , and while there were no witnesses , it was suggested that Colonel Lawrence braked hard to avoid a collision . This theory is supported by the fact that he was thrown a considerable distance although his motorcycle was only slightly damaged . He struck the roadway almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his clothes were torn off and his overalls were embedded in the tar pavement . A report that Colonel Lawrence 's parents had flown to the hospital was denied today . His mother and one of his brothers are now on their way home from China and news of the accident has been communicated to them . Another brother , who is also abroad , is expected to arrive in London by air tonight .                     