@@704157

txt Leaders on both sides of the Democratic Party 's civil war appear bent upon making it as difficult as possible for the conservative and the New Deal factions to get back together in time to make a creditable showing in the 1940 national election . It is no secret in Washington that some old-time Democrats who have thus far avoided aligning themselves with one group or the other would n't bet a nickel on their party 's chances of electing a president next year . One Administration official recently remarked in the course of a private conversation that all the Democrats could hope to do in 1940 would be to settle their own problems of internal management by handing the election over to the Republicans . Last week the intra-party rift was widened by President Roosevelt 's belligerent letter to the Young Democrat. , at Pittsburgh in which he announced , in effect , that he would not support any presidential nominee in 1940 who was less than a 100% New Dealer . The conservatives countered by calling upon DemocratiC House Floor Leader Rayburn to announce pubii-ly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next year . Neither of these developments is regarded here , upon cool reflection , as mere gestures . True , they might fade into the background before the nominating convention is held next June , but present indications are certainly not such as to support the assumpUon they will be allowed to do so . Makings of a Split When the President of the United States in his capacity as majority party leader openly vows to take no part in the election of a successor whose views do not coincide with his and when that President is as popular as Franklin D. Roosevelt . the makings of a disastrous split in the organization are obviously at hand . But the tactics of the opposition are equally ominous . Representative Rayburn of Texas is supposed to be the Chief Executive ' ? No. 1 supporter in the House of Representatives . When he is persuaded to declare himself in favor of a candidate who moat certainly does not fit Mr. Roosevelt 's specifications for 1940 , it amounts to something like mutiny on the quarterdeck . There is already speculation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his position of House leadership . Those who know Congress best believe that such an effort , were it undertaken by the New Dealers , would be bound to fail . But no matter what happens , the situation is not one which augurs well for a more harmonious session next year . Neither " Logical " Nominee There is , however , one important source of hope within the party that the Democrats will not completely disgrace themselves in the 1940 contest . This hope springs from the fact that while the New Dealers are rallying around Mr. Roosevelt and the conservative Democrats are rallying around Mr. Garner . neither of those two gentlemen is a " logical " nominee for the presidency and presumably they both know it . Mr. Roosevelt would have to run under the third term handicap . Mr. Garner 's advanced age and his southern residence are equally serious drawbacks . This means that both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Garner could withdraw gracefully from personal leadership of the contest over the nomination in 1940 . Neither one would suffer personal disgrace or what the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed over by the nominating convention . Compromise Candidate . Opportunity exists  --  in theory at least  --  for the nomination of a man who can bridge the gap . The trouble is that the gap is already wide and getting wider , and the " bridgers " now in sight are few . Moat frequently mentioned as such possibilities are Cordell Hull and Paul V. . Mr. Hull is at least not considered as an enemy by the conservative Democrats ' and yet he has been the highest ranking cabinet officer through more than five years of the New Deal . He also is handicapped by age , however , and has evinced little interest in a race for the presidency . Mr. , on the other hand . is comparatively young and superlatively aggressive . He has a chance to win conservative support although he was only recently appointed to an important post in the New Deal as federal security administrator . His friends are vigorously campaigning on his behalf . Mr. must stand at about what he considers to be the middle of the gap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directions to the utmost of his ability . That is his opportunity . It is also his peril . He may wind up by being accepted by both factions , in which case his nomination is virtually assured , or he may fail to connect firmly at either end and tumble into no man 's land .                     