@@700681

txt Secretary MORGENTHATI is getting to be a great stickler for political propriety . He has come down heavily upon a few Treasury employes who have been guilty of soliciting campaign contributions in violation of the law . Resignations have been demanded . In addition , the Secretary has recently issued the stiffest kind of instructions to all his subordinates , requiring them to sever their connection with any political organization . He wants all their time and energy to be devoted to their official work . As he believes it to be incompatible- with this to be active in partisan committees of various sorts , his order is that all such connections be at once broken off . There will doubtless be much grumbling among partisans over such puritanic ideas about the civil service , as they will call them . But there is no doubt that Mr. MOMENT/MU has correctly moved in the interest of efficiency as well as of political decency . No such rules as he is prepared to enforce can apply to Cabinet members and other highly placed agents of the Administration who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaker among these will naturally be General JOHNSON . He has fairly earned his reputation as the Mercurius of the New Deal . His announced plans contemplate a sort of evangelistic tour of the country , in the effort to revive the fervor and enthusiasm which were stirred last year by the National Recovery Act . The General gives notice that he is going out to " resell the Blue Eagle . " As this is notoriously the hardest task , General JOHNSON has naturally assigned it to himself . If anybody can warm up a popular zeal that has grown cold , he is the man to do it . Anyhow , he is certain to develop a great amount of heat whenever and wherever he speaks . Several heads of departments and minor officials are making ready to take the field . Strangely enough , their labors are to be directed to parts of the country West and South which had been supposed to be most delighted with the New Deal . Later reports indicate , however , that these missionaries of the Administration will be going into regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Administration who knows no such thing as doubt . Postmaster General FARLEY has an extensive trip planned , ostensibly to " dedicate " new postoffice buildings . But if he does not at the same time confirm the local Democratic machines in the faith , and even pick up a certain number of independent and Republican votes , no one will be more surprised or disappointed than he . These forays by aides of the President show that the era of nonpartisan good feeling is rapidly passing . This was inevitable after the enactment of most of the large measures for recovery , which many Republicans in Congress supported without regard to party . Now a Congressional election is impending , and there is a political Opposition , as well as a certain popular lethargy to be overcome . Hence the appeals and exhortations which will soon be flowing like a flood over the drought-stricken areas of the West .                     