@@700695

txt Donald Richberg , for more than a year general counsel of the National Recovery Administration , was named by President Roosevelt prior to his departure to substitute until Sept. 1 , at least , for Frank C. Walker as executive secretary of the Executive Council and Executive Director of the National Emergency Council . In addition , Mr. Richberg was chosen as Director of an Industrial Emergency Committee which the President created in the same executive order . The order was dated June 30 , but was not issued until today . The unexpected placing of Mr.1 Richberg in a position of such au-I and power immediately led to speculation whether he would rank and act as the principal representative of President Roosevelt during the Executive 's ocean vacation , with coordinating authority over all boards of the government . White House officials discounted such a supposition quickly , however , and said Mr. Richberg 's occupation of Mr. Walker 's posts was only temporary , while the new agency was formed primarily to deal with problems of industrial relief and no other governmental activities . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liaison officer of a group composed of the Cabinet and heads of emergency organizations , and in the same capacity in the National Emergency Council , comprised of five Cabinet : members , the Budget Director and seven government agencies . Chief Among Five Members . As director of the Industrial Emergency Committee Mr. Richberg will will be chief among five members , the other four being Secretaries Ickes and Perkins , General Johnson and Relief Administrator Hopkins . Here he will be superior to General Johnson , under whom he has acted in the NRA and from which he had been granted leave . He will continue to be paid by the NRA , however , and will receive no remuneration in his temporary post . The selection of Mr. Richberg to head the new agency was looked upon as a tribute to his abilities in adjustments and compromises , and also as a realization that if a government officer of greater eminence had been chosen , the suggestion of " an acting president " would have been much more difficult to dispel . Broad powers are given to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are directed to suggest , " through their director , " solution of problems of " relief , public works , labor disputes , and industrial recovery , " and to study and coordinate " the handling of joint problems " affecting these activities . Coordinating Activities Outlined . The agencies to be dealt with by the new committee include the NRA , FERA and PWA , Mr. Richberg said . It also will give attention to labor disputes in which all are concerned . Creation of the National Labor Relations Board last Saturday removed any power the NRA possessed in regard to labor troubles . " It is a small committee for an intensive job on industrial relations in collaboration with the Emergency Council , " Mr. Richberg explained . " It is a job of making a study , so that by the time the President comes back we will have a program of cooperation . " I have n't any plans just now . We will try to work out a study of coordinating activities . " This committee will make recommendations to the President directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President on such matters . " In connection with the co-ordigating activities of the Emergency Council , this committee will do a special job on industrial relations . Co-ordination and coherence in the industrial policy  --  that 's the particular job . " We will function as to recommendations on any matters which might be regarded as joint rather than special problems . " Joint meetings of the executive and emergency councils will be held twice a month . The White House stated that Mr. Walker definitely will return to Washington . It also was suggested there that the joint operations of the executive and emergency councils would dispose of many pressing problems very quickly and leave far less.detail to be attended to by the President . Work of the Industrial Emergency Committee , for the present , will be carried on by only three members , as Mr. Hopkins is sailing on Wednesday from New York . He will study unemployment insurance and housing in England , Germany , Austria , Italy and France . TEXT OF EXECUTIVE ORDER . The executive order , revealed today , read as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By virtue of the authority vested in me by the National Industrial Recovery Act , approved June 16 , 1933 , and to effectuate the purposes of said act and further to effectuate the purposes of the executive order of July 11 , 1933 , appointing a temporary Executive Council , and the executive order of Nov. 17 , 1933 , creating a National Emergency Council : 1 . I hereby appoint Donald R. Richberg to serve ( without compensation except as hereinafter provided ) as executive secretary of the Executive Council and as executive director of the National Emergency Council from and after July 1 , 1934 , until further order and during the absence of Frank C. Walker , who is hereby , at his request , temporarily relieved from the duties of said offices . 2 . I hereby create an Industrial Emergency Committee , which shall be composed of : The Secretary of the Interior , The Secretary of Labor , The Administrator for Industrial Recovery , The Administrator of Federal Emergency Relief and a director to be appointed by the President . It shall be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President , through its director , with respect to problems of relief , public works , labor disputes and industrial recovery , and to study and coordinate the handling of joint problems affecting these activities . 3 . I hereby appoint Donald R. Richberg director of said Industrial Emergeny Committee and direct that he be given lxive of absence as general counsel of the National Recovery Administration until September 1 , with pay , in order that he may fulfill the duties of the positions to which he is hereby appointed and such further functions and duties as shall be prescribed by the President . FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT . The White House , June 30 , 1934.                     