@@703587

txt The German Army today halted its advance into Czechoslovakia , having occupied all the territory agreed upon by international negotiation . With the occupation of the so-called Fifth Zone completed , no further steps were expected until authorized by the International Commission sitting in Berlin . The territory already occupied includes between 80 and 90 per cent of that inhabited by the Sudeten Germans in Czechoslovakia . The occupation was accomplished with very little disorder . The official German news agency , ; MB , reported yesterday , however , that two Sudeten Germans were shot and killed by Czechoslovak soldiers at Troppau a few hours before German troops entered that city . DNB also said that a boy was fatally shot at Schillerdorf as Czechoslovak forces left Plebiscite in Doubt Whether a plebiscite in areas of mixed German and Czech population would be held or some other arrangement made with Prague was being debated . German Army officers said they did not believe a plebiscite would be held . In their view , the matter can be settled by giving Czechoslovakia economic or other advantages in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Czechs . That the territory acquired by Germany will have a considerable Czech minority now seems certain . Many Czechs in the occupied areas fled inland , but large numbers expect to remain where they are . As German Army officers see it , the economic blow dealt Czechoslovakia leaves the country only one choice , to become the vassal of Germany .  - -  Dependence on Germany Economic experts  --  some of them i eserve officers called from private life and others members of the Army 's regular economic staff  --  are attached to the Army of Occupation . This is especially noticeable at the headquarters of Lieut . Gen. Walther von Reichenau in the Third Zone which includes Czechoslovakia 's biggest industries . These officers say the agricultural regions left to Prague can live only through exportation to the industrial centers now in German News in Brief hands and that Czechoslovakia will have to bow to the inevitable . The Army is re-establishing rail , telephone , and postal communications in the new territory as fast as bridges can be repaired and new staffs trained to take the place of evacuated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours between Eger and Karts-bad , but trains on the main Berlin-Prague line go no farther into Czechoslovakia than Bodenbach , a few miles beyond the former German frontier . Negotiations are under way to resume mail relations between Germany and Czechoslovakia . Poles Occupy Junction TEScHEN , Poland , Oct. 10 ( ! P ) ? Polish troops yesterday occupied Bohumin , important railroad junction town , although they were not to have reached that point until Oct. 11 according to the arrangement for cession of the former Czechoslovak territory . Bohumin , northwest of here , is close to the juncture of the German , Polish , and former Czechoslovak frontiers . Polish sentries were posted along the entire length of the new border at noon . The plans for occupation were changed suddenly last night , Warsaw Foreign Office officials said . They declared that Czechoslovakia had requested it because , in view of the rapid advance of German troops through ceded parts of Silesia , Prague feared disorders in areas left to it between Poland and Germany . They said that Czechoslovakia wanted Poland to take Bohumin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in what remains of the country . Col. Joseph Beck , Polish Foreign Minister , visited Teschen today , inspecting Poland 's new territorial acquisitions on an automobile tour through the region . Bene9 Square , named for the resigned President Berea of Czechoslovakia and in the former Czechoslovak side ' Of this city which straddled the border until a week ago , was renamed Colonel Beck Square in his honor . Te Dennis were sung in all Polish churches to celebrate the return of Teschcn to Poland , Slovakia and Ruthenia to have full home rule except defense , foreign policy , and finance . By a Stall Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor PRAGUE . ** Oct 10 ? Decentralization of Czechoslovakia was advanced considerably this week end when the new Provincial Governments of Slovakia and Ruthenia were proclaimed in their respective Capitals . Bratislava , the Slovak Capital flying the State and Provincial flags gave an enthusiastic welcome to the new Provincial Ministers who arrived from Prague Saturday night . The new Slovak Premier , Dr. Josef Tiso , addressing a crowd before the Slovak National Theater , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign affairs , and general State finances , full control was now ceded to the Slovak Government . homier Tiso also appealed for good relations with the Czechs , and loyalty to the Czechoslovak State . Dr. Ivan Parkanyi , the new Ruthenian Pi enner and head of a Government of six members , proclaimed in a speech at Uzhorod that Ruthema now enjoyed complete autonomous rights similar to those of Slovakia . These ceremonies were hardly over and the new Ministers settled into offices than most of them , headed by Premier Tiso and Premier Parkanyi left as an official delegation to represent Czechoslovakia at negotiations which opened Oct. 9 at Komarno with Hungary regarding the revision of the Slovak-Hungarian frontier . Reich 's Support Withdrawn In Warsaw and Budapest there was generally known to have been much agitation for establishmentcpf a common frontier through the division between Poland and Hungary of East Slovakia and Ruthenia . A week ago such a danger , supported as it was by Germany , constituted a threat , bus Czechoslovakia 's submission to certain exorbitant demands is understood to have been responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have meant absorption of 2,500,000 Slovaks and 800,000 Ruthenes  --  a clear violation of self-determination rights . In addition to the fact that Yugoslavia and Rumania would not welcome such a new greater Hungary , Germany would also be unwilling to see a new " neutral front " which sometime might possibly form a barrier to Germany 's " Drang nach Osten " program  --  the advance eastward in which Czechoslovakia hitherto constituted a barrier . Quick Accord Expected Under pressure of this new development . Hungary has wisely adopted other tactics and current news from Komorno has indicated the largest measure of friendly understanding between the representatives of both states . Thus the first results are the Czechoslovak voluntary cession of the railway station , " Nove Mesto , " and the frontier town , " Sally , " by midnight tomorrow as evidence of their good will . Both delegations expressed in a joint communique the hope that a quick settlement would be attainable , satisfactory to both states and to the population areas directly affected . Such a procedure is in marked contrast to Poland 's action in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Czechoslovak representatives are now negotiating in Berlin and London . The Berlin discussions concern economics , railway , and postal service readjustments . Having secured less than nothing from the British and French representation on the Berlin commission , most Czechs are of the opinion that it would have been better to have negotiated directly with Berlin from the beginning , and that it certainly will be in the future . The London negotiations concern a new English loan and industrial credits . Meanwhile a week end protest  --  directed to the whole civilized world and issued by 47 leading Czechoslovak cultural societies  --  contrasts with the joyful Jubilation from many lands over the peace purchased by Czechoslovakia 's dismem ? berment . It declares this country 's position to have been " disgraced through unexampled lies of inimical propaganda and betrayed by those from whom loyalty was expected . " The protest then appeals to the conscience of all those who have hitherto stood for European culture , adding that " through oppression of the weak , betrayal and falsehood , real peace was never attainable . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Slovaks " we shall never surrender our claims to our historical lands , to our free life in them , and to the possibility of tolerable economic development , even should superior material force compel us to recognize externally such demands . " Free Slovakia Pledged ZILANA , Czechoslovakia , Oct. 10 ( 4 ) ? Dr. Joseph Tiso , Roman Catholic priest who became the first Prime Minister of Slovakia in the Czechoslovak Federal State , declared here last , week that his first goal was to maintain Slovakia 's territorial integrity . In his first interview he said he wanted Slovaks in the United States to know " our first thought " was of them , " to whom we are grateful for their moral and financial support . I wish it were possible , " he said . " for all Slovaks to come back and live with their brethren . "                     