@@698206

txt One of the problems of " regionalism , " or the growth of independent communities outside the boundaries of largo cities , was illustrated by the Al Capone case in the address of Prof. Charles E , Merriam of the University of Chicago before the International City Managers ' Association ' yesterday . Long a friend of good government , Professor Merriam told the convention how gangsters succeeded in obtaining a large supply of machine guns by having them delivered to the chief of police of Cicero , Ill. , " Al Capone 's capital , " whose government ; vas in the hands of the anti-social element , thus evading a law which prevented the sale of the weapons to any but officials . As for remedies for such conditions , annexr  --  tion is still possible in middle-size communities , though largely passed in the larger , but the growth of the city-state may be a development of the future , lie thought . Federation of Cities Professor Merriam also suggested a federation of cities , each with local ' self-government , but all being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smailcr towns , and the exercise of extraurban power by the cities in the establishment of metropolitan park , water , police and sanitation areas , which might be bridges to some form of union . His conclusion was that the meat metropolitan areas will experiment with some kind of city-state , under which Chicago , for instance , might become an administrative unit of Illinois , or of the United States . Motorization of traffic , rapid transit , the garden city , the desire for better built communities and the effort to escape high taxes were listed among the causes of regional problems . Effects are that the more Progressive element pushes out anti that the cities lose not only the votes but the political leadership of the better element and that cities lose taxable assets . Mr. C. A. Dykstra , city manager of Cincinnati , Ohio , disagreeing with the theory that feeding and clothing of unemployed should be a permanent municipal task , declared that if employment is a problem of industry , unemployment too , is its responsibility . Mr. Dykstra deplored lack of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representation on the President 's official and semiofficial commissions and conferences . The Cincinnatian said city managers believe they can help state and national governments to a better understanding of urban problems . The latter , he said , remain rural in conception and action , despite the fact that the population is now two-thirds urban instead of two-thirds rural , as in the nineties . Philadelphia and Chicago were cited as examples of cities lacking home rule and " still bound by national parties . " Prof. A. R. Hatton of Northwestern University , Evanston , Ill. , author of the city manager charter of Cleveland and a large number of cities , declared the city . manager movement to be a success and as adaptable to the largest cities as to the smaller . He commented upon the improved standards and said that city managers live up to their code of ethics as closely as any ether profession . " In some cases the city manager has become the dispenser of political patronage , " said Professor Hatton regretfully.e , ' There are two outstanding examples in manager cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city manager is frankly , and in Cleveland actually , a political appointee . Obviously here the operation of the system has fallen short of the highest ideals of the movement . " ' ' ' ' ' , Mr. Charles A. Carran , East Cleveland , Ohio , was elected president of the association ; Mr. George D. Fair-trace , Fort Worth , Texas ; P. P. Pitcher , Winchester , Va. , ' and C. A. Harrell , Portsmouth , Ohio , vice-presidents . The only woman city manager in the United States was present . She is Miss V. I. Milner , ' *Insley , Kan . Previously there have been , three women city managers , one in Oregon and two in Virginia ,                     