@@704314

txt The total of Czechs executed in the last two days reached twelve this morning when three more , two of them Czech policemen , were shot " because of acts of violence against a German . " Word of yesterday 's execution of nine students by Schutzstaffel Elite Guard troops quickly spread into country districts adjoining Prague and resulted today in further anti-German demonstrations . As a direct result , " martial law " was decreed by the Czech Protectorate Government in the districts of Greater Prague , Prague-land , Kladno , Beroun and Horowice , although it does not apply to German citizens . President Emil Hacha , furthermore , broadcast an appeal to the Czech people to maintain calm and quiet . Mr. Hacha is virtually a prisoner of the Germans , Jan Masaryk , son of the founder of the Czech Republic , declared in London , according to The United Press . Agitators Are Blamed The events of the last few days , Mr. Hacha stated , endanger the status granted to the protectorate last March 16 by Chancellor Hitler . The Czech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been exemplary , Mr. Hacha said , have allowed themselves to be agitated by " irresponsible persons " into actions which he most extremely regretted . These elements , he added , are under the influence of enemy propaganda and agitation of emigres whose interference in Czech matters must not be allowed . The Czech people now are joined within the living space of the German people . he explained , and must understand the results . It is understandable , the Czech President continued , that the warring German people must establish all the prerequisites for their victory and they have all the necessary means to do so by force . Czech territory was spared the ravages inflicted on Poland , Mr. Hacha added , and this should be a lesson to them . They will not be drawn into this war as they were under the Austro-Hungarian Empire , he stated , but can pursue their peaceful activities , having perhaps in many things as advantageous a position as neutral peoples . The Czech President then urged the population to refrain from any and all disturbances , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for individuals as well as for the entire people . " Further sacrifices would be senseless , he concluded , and the population should not let itself be misled . What martial law means in the protectorate is not yet clear . It is thought , however , to mean erection of special courts to try quickly those accused of serious offenses against the State . Although the black-shirted German Elite Guards  --  three regiments marched in Friday after a night of terror in the student quarter  --  were plainly in evidence in the city tonight , outwardly everything is tensely quiet . The background of the present disturbances , in the absence of any official explanation , remains obscure . On the night from Thursday to Friday , however , Elite Guards , apparently acting on suspicion that the demonstrations that began on Oct. 28 , the Czech independence day , were not spontaneous and that an underground antiGerman movement was at work among student groups , decided on a general round-up of students . Elite Guards with machine guns , therefore , were deployed throughout the student quarter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hlava College , which were barricaded by students , were then stormed amidst continuous firing of German machine guns . Toward morning all schools and student homes were occupied by Germans . Students and Professor Seized At the Svehla Institute the Elite Guards are variously reported to have discovered a secret printing press for anti-German propaganda and a secret radio station in process of broadcasting . Here they are said to have arrested eight students and one professor , all of whom still are reported missing . Whether these are the nine executed yesterday is not known . In the early morning hours of Friday Masaryk College was stormed and some students , allegedly still in their night clothes , endeavored to flee amidst the spraying fire of German machine guns . Some of the students succeeded in reaching the Yugoslav student home , where they later were arrested by the Germans but , according to reports , not until Yugoslav students also had participated in the fighting on the side of the Czechs . Many students still are missing and in the absence of a complete official list of casualties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed , or how many were wounded . That some at least were wounded seems probable , however , in were arrested and carted away to neighboring suburbs . The total arrested is estimated to have been 2,000 , of whom fewer than 1,000 were released . Expelled From Czech Party The names of two prominent figures in the Czech Unity party were struck from the list of party members today . Dr. Josef Matunschek , who was head of the Committee on Understanding Between Germans and Czechs , and Dr. Klima , a leadet of student affairs ; both were stricken from the parts , rolls  --  and are reported as missing . Prague , meanwhile , is host to a number of unexpected visitors . For , although the press brings no details of the happenings , parents or relatives of the boys studying in the protectorate 's capital they began arriving today to learn the fate of their sons or relations . Information of this nature spreads rapidly and is rumored to have reached Bruenn , second largest Czech city , where anti-German demonstrations are alleged to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is closed to all the curious . Only persons bearing special permission may enter , for here evidently the victims of machine-gun fire and the general fighting have been brought . President Hacha made his speech today from his palace , where he has been confined with a slight illness . He met last night and this morning with his government colleagues to debate measures to meet the situation . German Sentries Reduced The number of Elite Guard sentries before the university and student buildings was reduced today to one at each entrance , although all the buildings remained in the hands of the German Black Shirts . Throughout the city squadrons of Czech police were posted at strategic points . Outwardly there was no reason for the presence of these MARTIAL LAW IN PRAGUE The city and surrounding districts indicated by cross-checking were placed under military rule by the Germans yesterday as three more Czechs were executed as ringleaders of outbreaks . augmented police patrols , for the single evidence of extreme tension in Prague was the relative absence of people from the streets , which for Saturday is most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reich Protecto ? Baron Constantin von Neurath in the form of red placards posted on street corners calling attention to the many previous warnings issued by German authorities , and alleging that Czech intellectual circles were collaborating with emigres against their best interests . Some of those arrested seemingly have been transported to the Buchenwald concentration camp near Weimar . It is also expected those who have not been transported far from the city , and are under 20 , will be released very shortly . Explains Martial Law Order PRAGUE , Nov. 18 ( UP ) ? At the office of the Reich Protector , Baron Constantin von Neurath , it was said today that the martial law declared by the government did not mean transfer of civil authority to military officials . " Martial law means that special courts are established with special procedure in order to simplify and shorten trials for disorder , incitement to uprising and similar charges , " a spokesman said . " Everything is calm in the city . All is peaceful . " Nazis Warn Demonstrators BERLIN , Nov. 18 ( UP ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as resulted in twelve executions this week " seriously endanger " the status of the protectorate . The implication was that the status of protectorate might be abandoned for something less desirable from the Czech point of view , as was rumored last Summer during the Kladno disorders . The official German news agency commented : " The Czech people , who have shown exemplary conduct during the course of the war , have shown that they realize their position amid today 's historic events . but the people unfortunately let themselves he influenced by small groups of irresponsible persons . " At the same time , the Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung , in a dispatch from Prague , said that German treason laws could be enforced throughout the protectorate in addition to the old Czech law for protection of the republic . Nazis said tonight that " harsh measures " had been taken against Czech demonstrators as a warning that the government will " relentlessly crush " any disorder or dissension anywhere in Greater Germany . The warning , they said , should be heeded by all minorities in the Reich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquered Polish territory . Official proclamations were issued making it punishable for Poles to " refuse to work ' ' and imposing penalties for insubordination . News Kept From Germans WiEcleEs to THE NEW YOP.K . TIMEE . BERLIN , Nov. ** news of the Czech nationalist uprising in Prague and its bloody consequences are unknown to the German public . Neither yesterday 's nor today 's press makes mention of the events and the only suggestion the public might have that all is not right in Bohemia and Moravia would have been gleaned from foreign news broadcasts , listening to which is forbidden under severe penalties . Only foreign correspondents were allowed to gather some notion of what is going on in Prague through terse bulletins released by the semiofficial news agency only for foreign consumption . Telephone communication with the protectorate , continued , seemingly , however , only when initiated in Berlin . So far as can be judged here , Prague appears to he under censorship and the nerves of the Czechs apparently are so taut they hesitate to make other than noncommital statements on the telephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ? Czechs once high in the government of the dismembered Czecho-Slovak republic reported tonight that President Emil Hacha is held a " virtual prisoner " by Nazi police . " I think the protectorate can be aptly described as Adolf Hitler 's biggest concentration camp , " said Jan Masaryk , son of the first President of the republic . " I was informed through secret sources from Czecho-Slovakia that Hacha is confined to the village where my father once lived and that he is occupying the house in which my father died . I am sorry for him . He is now virtually a prisoner . " YUGOSLAVS ARE AROUSED Demonstrations of Sympathy for Czechs Held in Belgrade By Telephone to THE Naw YORK TIMES . BELGRADE , Yugoslavia , Nov. 18 ? The closing of Prague University and the execution of Czech students caused demonstrations of sympathy and indignation at Belgrade University today . The German Legation is under heavy guard . Stench bombs were thrown during a concert given here last night by a German chamber orchestra . A neutral journalist arriving today , describes the events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Prague 's mood has changed much since Oct. 28 . This was the first time since the occupation that the citizens in Prague saw the German police in full action . When I left Prague last Wednesday I ascertained that there were twenty-six persons in the hospital suffering from severe revolver wounds . Diso ? de ? s continued on Sunday and during the next two days the Gestapo headquarters and the local Czech prisons were filled to overflowing . Many of those dragged there were wounded . " On Monday Himmler Heinrich Himmler , chief of all German police came to Prague and it is rumored that he advised leniency . Recent events , however , seemed to have disproved that rumor . It was the same on Monday , when about 500 women assembled outside the Gestapo headquarters carrying signs reading : ' Give us our men , dead or alive , ' Fifty of the women were arrested . Since then demonstrations have occurred almost daily . " Last Monday the students learned that the 22-year-old medical student Jan Opletal had died in hospital as a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednee ? day his funeral was attended by thousands of his fellow-students . They assembled in the Vinohradsky where torches were lit and speeches of defiance made , interrupted by cries of ' Away With the Murderers ' and ' Long Live Freedom . ' It was interesting that not only the Czech but also the Slovak national anthems wore sung several times . " Czech police edged the crowd down toward the river , but a portion entered the old Palace Square , sacred to many Czech martyrs . Here there were large numbers of Czech police , but without truncheons or revolvers . They were boring forced forward against the crowd by German civilians carrying revolvers . " The Czechs were content with singing the national anthem and to shout defiance . I saw no weapons being used by the Czechs . The students returned ' o the university , followed by German police in armored cars . The police broke into the faculties and arrested professors and students in their classes . " It is generally felt in Prague that the Germans laid a trap after the 28th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would otherwise have lain low to come into the open . Thousands are now in prison and throughout the country there is a feeling of dread . "                     