@@698951

txt President Hoover has invited Governor Julius Meier of Oregon to institute a test suit an connection with the proposed distribution agreement of lumber producers in Oregon and Washington , Senator Steiwer ( Rep Ore. ) revealed after urging the Chief Executive 's support to the agreement . Mr. Steiwer declared that the President is sympathetic with the joint distribution proposal . but that his hands are tied by existing anti-trust laws . The Senator let it be known that the Attorney General will cooperate with the lumber interests in the two states if they desire to make a test case of the proposal in court . The Oregonian recalled that the President in his last two regular messages to Congress urged that the anti-trust laws pertaining to natural resources be somewhat revised in order to prevent waste . Mr. Stetwer declared : hat about 60% of the timber in the Northwest is going to waste and that the joint distribution proposal is in line with the President 's suggestion . He also said it would have a salutary effect on employment . A similar case , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come up before a United States court in North Carolina early in August . Appalachian Coals , Inc. , organized by certain coal producers in what is known as the high volatile Appalachian coal fields , embracing a part of southern West Virginia , a. part of eastern Kentucky , a portion of southwest Virginia and eastern Tennessee , is the organization which will bring suit against the law . Another Case of Overproduction The object of the organization is to act as the common selling agency for all of the stockholders who are coal producers . As in the case of the lumber industry in the Pacific Northwest . Appalachian Coals oflicialq state that the effort has been brought about by the deplorable condition of the bituminous coal industry as a whole . These conditions have been caused in this industry by a great excess productive capacity , which grew out of the abnormal war demand for coal , along with Increased corefftetition by oil , natural gas and electric power . Nothing " Hoot er Can Do About It " In commenting on the conditions in the Northwest lumber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shutdown in some areas of Washington and Oregon . " As a temporary expedient , " he said , " such an agreement would do a great deal to help out in the employment situation in the two states . President Hoover is very sympathetic with the present conditions in the lumber industry , because he knows how wasteful the lumber industry is . Although the President is interested in this situation , there Is nothing he can do about it . "                     