@@702308

txt Behind all the gay and gaudy buntings and other trappings decorating . The Hague for the wedding on Thursday of Crown.Princess Juliana , future queen of The Nether . lands , to Prince Bernhard zu LippeBiesterfeld of Germany smoulder intense political hatreds . These hatreds were emphasized today when the Dutch government sent a sharp note to Germany protesting against Nazi insults to the Netherlands and its royal family . The clash between the two nations arose because the Dutch shunned Nazi swastika flags and anthems in the pre-wedding festivities . The Hague 's protest to Berlin centered on Germany 's confiscation of passports of three German princesses who were chosen by Princess Juliana to serve as her bridesmaids . ? Dutch " Deplore " Action . The Dutch government 's note said it " deplored " the fact that the German government had seen fit to insult Queen Wilhelmina , the bride-tobe 's mother , by taking such action against her guests merely on the strength of Nazi newspaper reports about the flag " incidents " without first verifying them . The Nazis now have granted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sophie of SaxeWeimar-Eisenach , one of the bridesmaids , has sent word that she could not attend the wedding . The - Dutch ascribed this to her fear she would be persecuted by the Nazis upon her return to Germany . Baroness van Heekeren van Kell , a Dutch girl , will replace the princess at the - ceremony . The other princesses involved in the dispute . are Sieglinde and Elizabeth zu Lippe . . Alt. , . of them , - 0. re cousins of Prince Bernhard , who personally interceded with Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler for the return of the confiscated passports . Prince Bernhard , who has become a Dutch citizen , is reported to be afraid his three ' cousins will be made scapegoats of the row between the two countries . Dutch Patience Snaps . A r  --  sum ? of ? Holland 's protest note which was handed out by the government press bureau was considerably milder in tone than the actual note , it was said , because the Dutch do not wish to prod the Nazis into a further display " of defense of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originally had intended to wait until after the wedding to protest against the so-called Nazi insults in the hope of avoiding - as much unpleasantness as possible while the nation was celebrating Juliana 's marriage . The news that the German princess had been frightened out of coming to Holland for the wedding is said to have been the final straw to break their ? patience . Princess Armgard , ? rince Bernhard ' : mother . suffered a slight heart at tack yesterday as a result of the nervous tension . The princess - hat been ill for some time . She was ac companied by a- trained nurse wher she arrived at the royal palace here to await the wedding . Princess Armgard has been unable to attend any of the preliminary festivities and may be unable to attend her son 's marriage to the crown princess . Dutch official circles are worried , it is said , about the entire situatian , Which they fear will end , all friendly feeling between The Netherlands and Nazi Germany ; Symptoms of Deeper Feelings . Even the recent " incidents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insults to the swastika flag , merely were symptoms of much deeper feelings . What really galls the Nazis is the proof given by events accompanying the wedding preparations that most of the Dutch do not like them . Consequently some German newspaper correspondents have been ordered , by their editors to send no further dispatches on the wedding . Other German writers denied a report that an official boycott of the marriage was being planned . In all the jungle of flags and streamers that festoon every street , building , tree , and monument of the capital of The Netherlands , there are not more than 25 or 30 swastika banners . Those are on German buildings , Whether official or unofficial . Holland in a Dilemma . The Dutch are in a dilemma . If they put up more swastika flags in spite of their dislike for the intolerance they say the flag symbolizes it is feared there would be many " incidents " instead of an isolated two or three . Instead of beflagging buildings with the swastika side by side with their own tricolor as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lippe family colors  --  red and gold ? and unfurled them . The Netherlands has a strong Socialist minority estimated at nearly a quarter of the population of more than 8,000,000 . The country has a great Jewish population , which in Amsterdam alone numbers 150,000 . On the other side it has a small but noisy Nazi party . Though not allowed to parade or wear uniforms , it has considerable strength and is expected to make a strong showing at the next elections and , perhaps , win as much as a dozen seats out of 100 . The feeling between the groups has risen to a high pitch since the announcement the princess was to marry Prince Bernhard , a former member of Hitler 's Schutz Staffel band picked guards . A new attack on Holland by the National-Zeitung of Essen , Germany , because Jews of the nation are raising a fund for a wedding gift for the royal couple , has aroused resentment here . The newspaper is reported to have charged that the gift merely comes from German Jewish refuges in Holland and that Bernhard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aroused . The Dutch pointed out that he would insult a large section of Germany 's population if he refuses it , while accepting gifts from others . One Hollander remarked today the whole wedding was too German to suit the Dutch and that they would be glad when it was over . The Nazis feel that the prince is a renegade Nazi . The anti-Nazis feel he is tainted from past associations . Prince Bernhard himself let it be known through the official news agency that he dislikes the practice of playing an old German song about Lippe after the Dutch national anthem whenever he appears in public with his future bride . This announcement was made to avoid one of the slights to which the Nazis have objected most . They in sisted that the Nazi " Horst Wessel Lied " should be played instead . The reasons for choosing the Lippe song in the first place was a desire to avoid contact with National Social-ismDespite the political conflict all preparations for the royal wedding are going ahead on schedule . Great holiday crowds thronged the streets today admiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal palace in the hope of seeing some member of the royal family .                     