@@701071

txt The Afendieta government declared a state of war throughout Cuba early this morning after another day and night of sporadic violence that followed Saturday 's night of terror . This step was preceded by strong measures taken by the government to curb the threatened revolutionary general strike set for today . Saturday , President Carlos Mendieta had proclaimed a state of siege in Havana Province , and yesterday this was extended to Camaguey Province . WIth labor rapidly throwing its support behind the revolutionary strike and with the reiterated intention of the government to break the backbone of the movement by use of its ' armed forces , the Cuban public viewed the situation with intense alarm . The Railway Brotherhood of the United Railways walked out during the afternoon , tying up all traffic at this end of the island . Taxi drivers had already staged a strike in the morning , leaving Havana without transportation except for a few street cars Ind omnibuses manned by soldiers and police . Theatre employes also joined the strike . Employes of all Industries , factories , shops and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Drivers of milk , ice and beer trucks advised their clients they were making their last deliveries . Leaders of the movement hope to bring about a walk-out of more than 80,000 workers by today . More than 1,000 persons are reported to have been arrested , and although many of them were later released after questioning , the police and military continue to detain large numbers of suspects . A group of unidentified men raided the offices of the Medical Federation during the night , smashed the furniture , destroyed the files and tossed them into the street . Considerable shooting followed , but the raiders escaped . The federation is supporting the strike movement , doctors belonging to their organization having walked out of all government , municipal and private hospitals . The military issued an order to the authorities of the city of Santiago prohibiting movements of pedestrians or vehicles of all classes in the streets . Strike Ordered in Santiago . Twenty-three unions in Santiago , including that of the Bacardi Company 's employes , were ordered to walk out at midnight , according to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , American owned , were expected to join the movement , also at midnight . A strike on this railway will tie up ten sugar mills now grinding in that zone . A bomb explosion in Guanabacoa , across the bay from Havana , interrupted light service for several minutes . During this period soldiers and sailors kept up an intense fire throughout the town . The first application of the dreaded ley de fuga. ( law of flight ) under the Mendieta administration came to light with the discovery yesterday of the bodies of Miguel Roque Frage , chief of the miscellaneous tax bureau at the City Hall , and his son-in-law , Armando Feito , a prominent student leader during the Machado regime and also an employe of the municipality . One Not Under Arrest . The family asserted Senores Frage and Feito were taken from their home after midnight by soldiers and five plainclothes men . Senor Fraga , members of the family said , was not under arrest but asked permission to accompany his son-in-law in order that he might return to advise the family as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges on which he was held . The soldiers acceeded to the request . Police deny any knowledge of these killings . The bodies were later found in the Miramar residential section . Two other bodies were reported to have been found , riddled by bullets in the back as were Senores Fraga end Feito , and in the same section of the city . The names of these reported victims have not yet been learned . Two of nine persons wounded by bullets or bombs have died . An assault on the Tenth Street I police station , which is situated in a strategic position in the city , was repulsed early in the morning , according to the police version . There was intense firing in the district . A bomb exploded late in the afternoon in a caf ? , but little damage and no casualties were reported . Sporadic shooting occurred throughout the city , but no one was reported as wounded . The streets are practically deserted , with scarcely any vehicular traffic . What few private cars are circulating affix two brooms to the bumpers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Students Arrested . Police and military authorities rounded up many students , laborers and government workers . They refuse to give the names of any of those detained or any information concerning the activities of the armed forces . The student strike committee this afternoon issued mimeographed manifestoes appealing to the Cuban people to join the general strike at midnight " against administrative corruption . " In a conference with commercial and industrial representatives , who visited President Carlos Mendieta in alarm because of the present situation , the Chief Executive reiterated he would not resign and that the government was sufficiently strong to put down this movement . Pearl L. Bergoff , professional strike-breakers , cabled to Senor Mendieta from New York of , fering to send 10,000 men immediately to break the strike . Bergoff reminded the President he was in Havana in 1916 with 1,000 men and broke a tram strike . The President cabled Bergoff that he " appreciated the offer but the common sense of Cuban labor with a desire to work would not permit me to accept . However , if it is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Workers installing p. new radio antenna were fired on by soldiers and marines posted in adjoining buildings who claimed they thought the laborers were snipers . No one was hit . Reports of Killings . Reports of killings and intense firing in all districts and numerous explosions of bombs have caused the public to become fearful as to the outcome of the strike movement . It is freely predicted the coming week will be a dangerous one , owing to the stand taken by the government with a large army backing it and the desperate aims of the strikers . Students and radical labor ele-1 ments as well as known political factions opposing the government and working for a general strike reiterate the movement is directed primarily against Colonel Fulgencio Batista and his armed forces rather than at President Mendieta . While a passive resistance strike can not hope to oust the govern . ment , it can place the administration in. a highly difficult position , cutting off revenue and breaking down the administrative machinery . It will be practically impossible to staff the government offices owing to lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods being used by ' the strikers . Dr. Rafael Lorie , Secretary of Health , presented his resignation to Senor Mendieta and it was immediately accepted . Dr. Aurelio Ituarte , Chief Health Officer of Havana , was named to fill the vacancy . Government forces examining the credentials of a truck driver at the Havana Custom House .                     