@@699157

txt F. Trubee Davison , Assistant Secretary of War , withdrew early this evening as a candidate for the Republican Gubernatorial nomination , and his action will leave the State convention which opens tomorrow free to nominate Colonel William J. Donovan on the first ballot . Colonel Donovan 's remaining rivals will be in no position to obtain more than a scattering of complimentary support and probably will be out of the running before the result of the opening ballot has been announced . Mr. Davison announced his withdrawal after a conference with Chairman W. Ki .. gsland Macy of the State committee and other prominent leaders . Whether his action would leave him open tot ' Cootie lar iecand on the ticket remained unanswered by Mr. Davison and his advisers . Chairman Macy stated that as he understood the situation the plan to nominate Mr. Davison for Lieutenant Governor had not been changed . This Vas the outstanding development of a day in which there have been a series of conferences among the State chairman and leaders from various sections of the State . Late in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with whom he discussed prospective candidates for places on the ticket below that of Governor . Whether Mr. Macy submitted a tentative slate is not known . If he did . it was not accepted . To Pick Slate of Electors . Another conference among Chairman Macy and the county chairmen was set for tills evening . After the afternoon parley the State chairman announced that while tonight 's meeting had been called originally to discuss candidates - and possibly the platform , these subjects probably would not be taken up . Instead , the conferees would concentrate on selections for electors ' places on the national ballot . This will be preliminary t ? the formal selection of Presidential electors by the State committee at a meeting tomorrow afternoon . Further discussion of the unfilled places on the ticket , the State chairman said , probably would go over until tomorrow evening when the convention will be in session . The convention will be called to order at the Broadway Auditorium at 11 o'clock . Representative Hamilton Fish Jr . will deliver the keynote speech as temporary chairman . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Representative Fish and function for the remainder of the deliberations as permanent chairman . Adoption of the platform and the nominations of candidates will come on Tuesday , the last day of the gathering . All through today the leaders here have watched the preliminaries of their own convention with an eye cocked at Albany and the Democratic convention . " Is Lieut . Gov . Lehman going to be nominated ? " is the anxious query heard in the lobbies and corridors of the hotels where delegates assemble and in the headquarters of the aspirants for nominations . Hope Lehman Will Be Shelved . The Republican leaders are hoping that Tammany and its allies in New York City and up-State will keep the Lieutenant Governor off their ticket as a candidate for Governor . " If they only do that ; the election of Colonel Donovan and the entire ticket we are going to-nominate here next week will be afisitz- . ed , " was the way one of the leaders put it . The wet and dry controversy that is likely to flame tip before the platform is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , head of the New York division of the Women 's Organization for National Prohibition Reform , made a formal demand on Chairman Macy and other leaders for the presentation of a plank pledging the party to repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Fred A. Victor , State superintendent of the New York Anti-Saloon League , will be here tomorrow . Colonel Donovan stated that he would be ? very ; 51ad to receive the State head of i.ne dry league . The likelihood a+ this writing is that the conv. : - .. cion will adopt a plank in k. : . ping with the views expressed by President Hoover in his speech of acceptance . Despite the urgent demand from many quarters that economic issues be brought into the foreground in the platform and campaign , prohibition is occupying a conspicuous place in the preliminaries and will , perhaps , in the proceedings of the convention . The line dividing the drys and the wets appears to be as rigidly drawn as ever . Harry Bareham , the Monroe County leader , was visibly disturbed over a rumor that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Syracuse tomorrow and Tuesday , might vote an endorsement of Colonel Donovan to benefit their local candidates in Monroe , Onondaga and other counties in that section . In Monroe the Law Preservation party has named candidates not only for Congress and the Legislature but for county offices , including one opposing Mr. Bareham himself , who is a candidate for County Treasurer . Colonel Donovan evinced a willingness to accept such an endorsement provided he could do so without sacrifice of principle . " Everybody , " he said , " knows where I stand on , prohibition . I favor repeal , but am willing to stand on dr . Hoover 's acceptance speech statement . I will not compromise with principle . I have an opinion which I want respected as I respect the opinion of those who do not feel as I do on this question . If under those circumstances a group of that character should want to support me I do not see how I could stop them . " Mr. Davison 's Statement . of James L. Dowsey of Nassau County as Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a candidate for the nomination for Governor and for no other office . Having withdrawn , I support the candidacy of Mr. Dowsey , who sometime ago graciously surrendered his call upon the Nassau delegation as a candidate for Attorney General , for which office he had been previously endorsed by the county organization . He stepped aside to give my friends every opportunity to conduct a campaign for Governor on my behalf . I appreciate Mr. Dowsey 's loyal support and , in withdrawing , I am happy not only to leave the road clear for him but also earnestly request the convention to give his candidacy the favorable consideration it deserves . " I leave the race with the warmest feelings toward Colonel Donovan , who is one of my most intimate friends and for whom I have the highest regard . I assure him and the Republican State organization that I am prepared to do everything within my power to assist during the coming campaign . " I also take this opportunity to thank my friends who have worked so devotedly and unselfishly in my behalf ' during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their confidence and enthusiasm . " Davison for Second Place . Chairman Macy expressed neither surprise nor regret at Mr. Davison 's step , taken after consultation with him . " In view of the fact that the nomination of Colonel Donovan appears certain , I do not know that any comment on his action from me is necessary , " the State chairman said . Mr. Macy was asked it Mr. Davison 's action had put him out of the running for second place on the ticket . " I do not think so , " he said . " As I see it , the situation with regard to second place on the ticket remains just what it was , although some other names have been brought forward this afternoon , both for that and other places on the ticket . In no instance , however , has a decision been reached . " " Have you talked to Mr. Davison about the possibility of his being drafted for the nomination for Lieutenant Governor ? " Mr. , Macy was asked . " I have not , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Donovan remained at his Cosmo A. Cilano of Monroe County . With him Colonel Donovan discussed the expediency of placing an Italian of prominence on the State ticket . With the formation of the Columbian League , the Italians are coming to be regarded as an important factor in elections and this year are said to have shown leanings toward Presiden ; : . Hoover and the Republican State ticket . Mr. Bareham was one of the prime movers in the organization of the league . Senator Cilano 's name has been mentioned for a. place on the State ticket but Bareham said he would have no candidate to offer , preferring to send Mr. Cilano back to the State Senate . Medalie In Favorable Place . The understanding is that George Z. Medalie , United States Attorney in the Southern District , still remains in a favorable position for the nomination for United States Senator . Chairman Macy thinks well of his qualifications . There is an intimation , however , that fear of retaliatory tactics on the part of members of the Loyal Order of Moose , due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Davis of Pennsylvania , might adversely affect his chance of election . Albert Ottinger of New York City , former Attorney General , is also a candidate for this nomination . Mayor Rolland B. Marvin of Syra. cuse , wlio yesterday denounced Chairman Macy for " double crossing " the several aspirants for the Gubernatorial nomination , among whom he is one , conferred today with Mr. Macy and Clarence R. King , leader of Mayor Marvin 's home county . Mayor Marvin assured Chairman Macy that he was a loyal Republican , disposed to help in any way he could , but with no particular hankering for any place on the ticket unless it was the head . The understanding Is that Chairman Macy told the Mayor of Syracuse that he could have his pick of vacant places and could become the candidate for Lieutenant Governor , Controller , Attorney General or Congressman-at-Large if he was so minded . This evening the influx of delegates Is beginning . Hotel lobbies are taking on their convention aspect ; but so far it is a spiritless crowd . Control of the Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislative elections . While Chairman Macy , who says he has been in close touch with the situation throughout the State as it relates to retaining present control of the Senate and Assembly , speaks in a hopeful vein . Some apprehension has been engendered by the reports of some county chairmen and others as to the chances for success of their local legislative candidates . Farmers in the rural counties are said to be in a rebellious mood , qwq                     