@@701646

txt Two major developments in science 's fight to control infantile paralysis were reported yesterday at the opeting of the annual convention of the Society of American Bacteriologists at the Hotel Pennsylvania . The report that Vitamin C , which prevents scurvy and which is found in many fruits and vegetables , may provide the long-sought remedy for infantile paralysis was ithe first of the two announcements to hearten the 800 bacteriologists from all parts of the country . The other announcement revealed that a chemical spray of simple ingredients , when applied through the nose , apparently is a potent protector against the disease . When the convention opened the first of its three day sessions in the morning , the bacteriologists were saddened to learn of the death of a distinguished colleague and of the grave illness of their president , both of whom were to present papers . Martyr to Research . Miss Anna M. Pabst , a 39-year-old research worker with the United States Public Health Service 's National Institute , had been working for many arduous hours of the day with germ cultures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the dreaded disease . On Dec. 17 , while she was giving la guinea pig an injection , a few I drops of the dangerous liquid spurted into her eyes . She died on Christmas Day , a few hours before she was to have taken a train for this city to present a paper dealing with her researches . The annual presidential address , scheduled for delivery at the society 's annual dinner tonight , will not be read by its author , Dr. Karl F. Meyer of the University of Cantor-. nia . Dr. Meyer is gravely ill from an infection of the psittacosis germ incurred recently while he was seeking a serum to combat what is popularly known as " parrot 's disease . " The announcement regarding Vitamin C came from Columbia University 's research laboratories at the Medical Center . Dr , Claus W. Jungeblut , bacteriologist in the College of Physicians and Surgeons , presented a preliminary report which declared that researches now being pursued at the university pointed to " a strong probability that Vitamin C , when injected in proper doses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Made Immune . By injecting small , carefully determined doses of Vitamin C under the skin of monkeys , beginning with the day on which the animals were infected with infantile paralysis , the Columbia scientists found that the animals were rendered immune to the disease . Dr. Jungeblut reported that the treatment yielded the unusual discovery that a small dose provided complete protection , while larger doses did not . Thirty monkeys , divided into four groups , were used in the Columbia experiments . Three groups were injected subcutaneously with various doses of Vitamin C , beginning with the day of infection and repeated Ohio State University and the ' University of Chicago . This pointed out that measures designed to protect humans against infantile pa ralysis should try to provide resistance to the disease at three key centers in the body : the membranes lining the nose and pharynx ; the spleen and the central nervous system . daily for two and one-half weeks . The fourth group was left untreated for control purposes . The monkeys treated with the five milligrams of Vitamin C survived without showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the virus of the disease . . Ten monkeys which had no Vitamin C treatment , but had received the same dose of infantile paralysis virus , were victims of typical poliomyelitis . Dr. Jungeblut explained that the experiment with monkeys followed an earlier discovery that when very small amounts of Vitamin C are added to infantile paralysis virus ' in the test tube , the virus loses its power to produce the disease . The . Columbia scientist pointed out that , since small amounts of the vitamin are normally present in the central ' nervous ' system of human beings . the presence of the vitamin may be . the determining factor in providing immunity to the disease in the majority of humans . " On the other hand , " Dr. Jungeblut continued , " we have evidence that the exceptional susceptibility to poliomyelitis of certain children and adults depends upon some endocrine disturbance . This might well be correlated with a faulty Vitamin C metabolism . " Drs . A. B .. Sabin , P. K. Olitsky and H. R. Cox , all of the Rocke- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joint paper on the protection against infantile paralysis provided by chemical spray that " experimentally there is now sufficient basis for a trial ins man of these chemicals in the prevention of poliomyelitis during epidemics . " They recommended the use of a spray consisting of solutions of either sodium alum or tannic acid . The spray , to be effective , should be used in the nose , which apparently is the organ through which the germs of infantile paralysis most frequently find their way into the body , it was explained . These chemicals apparently serve as a shield . The chemical spray treatment has proved an effective agency to combat infantile paralysis in experiments with both monkeys and human beings , it was reported . Although most of the conclusions in the Rockefeller Institute report were based on studies with monkeys , it was pointed out that a number of volunteers also received a treatment consisting of a 4 per cent sodium alum . The human volunteers showed no untoward symptoms , other than slight irritation in the nose and nasal discharges for a few hours following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the treatment , added : " Typical poliomyelitis ( infantile paralysis ) was induced in twentysix of thirty-four untreated monkeys b3 the instillation on two occasions , forty-eight hours apart , of 1 cc. of a 10 per cent suspension of poliomyelitic cords into each nostril . The majority of monkeys treated with either sodium alum or tannic acid for a number of days prior to the instillation of virus were distinctly resistant to poliomyelitis . " The report emphasized that the monkeys which had received the chemical treatment showed neither fever nor any other sign that could be attributed to infantile paralysis . However , the immunity provided by the chemical treatment is apparently short-lived , for the same monkeys , when tested from one to two months later , no longer were disease-resistant . A third paper dealing with infantile paralysis was presented by Drs . N. Paul Hudson , Edwin H. Lennette and Francis B. Gordon of                     