@@700679

txt In the squabble that has developed between the British and German Governments as a result of the latter 's six-month debt moratorium neither side has so far shown anything that looks like brilliant statesmanship . To the outward eye their threats and counter-threats look merely like displays of ill temper , which may have serious consequences not only for themselves but for other countries . Dr. SCHACHT began the business in his bellicose announcement of the moratorium . The German debt problem of today , he declared , was nothing less than the reparation problem of yesterday , and Germany 's creditors had only brought the moratorium on themselves by their refusal to buy enough German goods . Various answers could have been made to Dr. SCHACHT 'S statement as a whole , but one might at least have expected the British Government  --  which had just " postponed " payment on a debt of its own , and on the same ground , that its creditor was refusing to take payment in goods ? to give this particular contention of Germany 's careful and sympathetic consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seize German bank balances in England and make the Dawes and Young loan payments itself , and it has introduced a bill in the House of Commons to carry this plan into effect . One would think that a Government Itself in default would think twice before establishing such a precedent . Even apart from this , it is impossible to see how the proposed " clearing offices " will help British nationals in the long run to collect their debts from Germany . They can seize the existing balances , but once this is done German exporters and banks will certainly not be foolish enough to establish new ones , and German exports will either go into Great Britain by way of other countries or not at all . The blow to German trade will make it still more difficult for Germany to make payments on the debt it owes in Great Britain and other foreign countries . The British Empire as a whole may gain nothing  --  even from the first seizure , for while Germany has a " favorable " balance of trade with Great Britain , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has . threatened to seize their balances as a reprisal if Britain seizes German balances . Dr. SCHAGHT , far from being alarmed by the threatened British measures , is more bellicose than ever . If things go on like this , he announces , " Germans might lose interest in paying at all " Nor is that the worst . If England goes ahead with her threat , Germany will " decline to have any further intercourse " with her , and will stop buying raw materials even from the Dominions . That such a course , particularly if it were also taken with France and other countries , would have the gravest economic consequences for Germany , and imperil still further the hold . of the present Hitler regime , Is something that does not seem to have occurred to the Reichsbank president and his colleagues . Perhaps this is precisely the result at which Mr. CHAMBERLAIN is aiming ; perhaps he sees quite clearly what the economic results for Great Britain will be of seizing the German balances , but is willing to risk them on the chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or perhaps he is merely bluffing on the hope of getting better immediate terms for British creditors , and perhaps Dr. Sciu.cwr is merely bluffing in return . One difficulty about such bluffs is that when the other side does not back down , one feels obliged to go through with them .                     