@@699114

txt Speaking front the steps of the Kansas State Capitol , Governor Roosevelt presented today to an immediate audience of about 10,000 persons and , a vastly larger radio audience his program of farm relief , on which he expects to carry all or most of the disaffected agricultural States of the Middle West . Criticising President Hoover and the Republican natEonal administration for complete failure to realize the desperate position of the farmers OF to do anything useful to relieve their distress and prevent the fore- ' 1 eiesure of thousands of farm mortgages in the corn and wheat belt . Govet nor Roosevelt made three definite proposals for immediate remeHe also presented a six-point pro . grant of principles , which , while not offering any very concrete plan . formed a basis for something more definite to be worked out after advice from those best fitted to suggest remedies . The Governor did not suggest any particular method to make effective his program of principles , but both the phraseology of the principles and information from his advisers indicated that he had in mind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his stay here Governor llooeeveit , as the guest of Governor Woodring at the Executive Mansion , conferred with party leaders from Aliesouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Texas and Nebraska as well as from Kansas , and . was informed that the present indications were that he would carry all these States . " Ninety per cent of the farmers in Kansas will vote for Governor Roosevelt , " Governor Woodring said . " This means that he will carry the State by between 60,000 and ' moo . President 1-iooyer in 1928 carried Kansas by more than 500 , - 000 . Iffy predecessor won by more than 250,000 . I was elected by 251. votes . " R. M. McCool , Oklahoma State chairman , sent a telegram predicting ** plurality for Governor Roosevelt in that State . Sgriator Thomas P. Gore telegraphed that Mr. Roosevelt would carry Iowa , native State of President le7oover , and added congratulations on the result of the Maine election . Governor Roosevelt in his speech bloke away from the panaceas which have been offered for the ills of agriculture in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board as useless and costly to the taxpayers ; ridiculed crop control . as a hardship on the farmers ; urged cooperative marketing and stressed " t4. - .. riff adjustment " as the chief hope ci immediate improvement . Urges " Planned Use of Land . " Sharply separating the steps he declared should be taken for permanent remedies and immediate relief , Governor Roosevelt proposed as permanent measures reorganization of the Department of Agriculture , planned use . of farm land , with elimination of relatively poor or marginal land for the raising of farm products , and the lightening of the tax burden on farm property . For immediate relief he suggested the refinancing of farm mortgages to relieve the burden of excessive interest charges and the threat of fore- closure and reciprocal tariff agreements with foreign countries to restore international trade , enable the farmer to sell his surplus abroad and reduce the difference between the prices of the things the farmer sells and the prices of the things he buys . Coupled with the suggestion for the refinancing of farm mortgages was a proposal that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies and other corporations or individuals to whom Federal credit had been extended must give every reasonable assistance to mortgagors and a further proposal that the Federal Government should adopt the policy of giving to those who have lost their farms through foreclosure preferential opportunity to get them back , in case title to them is now held by institutions seeking credit from governmental agencies . In his . six-point program Governor Roosevelt repeated his proposal that the producer of staple agricultural surplus commodities receive a tariff benefit over world prices equivalent to the benefit given by the tariff to industrial products . He declared that the plan must finance itself and that it must not use any mechanism which would cause European countries to retaliate on the ground of " dumping . " He also declared it must make use of existing agencies and be " decentralized " in its operation , and said that any definite plan adopted must be operated as nearly as possible on a cooperative basis . The sixth point , in the framing of which Governor Roosevelt is known to have had the advice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any plan adopted must be voluntary so far as possible . The Governor expressed belief that the plan should not be adopted until it had the support of a reasonable majority of the producers of the exportable commodity to which it was Ito apply . The phrasing of this paragraph led to the opinion that what the speaker had in mind was some form of the so-called domestic allotment plan , under which the producer of wheat , for example , would receive money equal to half the tariff on the amount of wheat he raised for domestic use . under his allotment and would have to sell any surplus he raised in the world market . Farm Board Attack Cheered . To judge by the applause which greeted it , Governor Roosevelt 's speech was well received by his auditors . Nearly double the number who heard the acceptance speech of Vice President Curtis enjoyed particularly Governor Roosevelt 's criticism of President Hoover and the Farm Board . Their most enthusiastic applause came when Mr. Roosevelt attacked the Republican administration , and was particularly noticeable when he declared for reorganization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt to make one of the most import tent speeches of his campaign , a ( speech in which a large proportion of the men and women of the farm States had a vital interest , brought a large crowd from the surrounding country . Thirteen airplanes of the 430th Pursuit Squadron , in command of Lieutenant Roy C. Farrell , escorted the Governor 's special train from Kansas City . A large crowd gathered at the station and during the early part of the day the Governor was busy receiving visitors . At noon , Governor Roosevelt , accompanied by Governor Woodring and members of his party , started for the Capitol in a parade which wound through the principal streets of the city . Crowds which lined the sidewalks watched Mr. Roosevelt closely , but there was a strange lack of applause or enthusiasm among them . earner Predicts Victory . There was no lack of enthusiasm , however , when Governor Roosevelt arrived at the Capitol and found a huge crowd facing him . With a blazing hot sun glaring down on speakers and audience , virtually all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest during the hour and a quarter it took Governor Roosevelt to deliver his speech . Governor Woodring , who is running for re-election , was cheered warmly when he appeared on the speakers ' platform . He introduced Speaker Garner , candidate for Vice President , who had come from his home in Uvalde . Texas , for a conference with Mr. Roosevelt . " I came here today tot ) pay my respects to one of the greatest men in America , the next President of the United States , " Mr. Garner said , and was stopped by cheers . " I wish to convince you that I have neither horns nor hoofs , though I come from the Lone . Star State , " Mr. Garner continued . " Governor Roosevelt has ' an important message for you , important not only to you farmers , but for the benefit of the entire United States , because , without your participation , the Republic can not be prosperous . " On March 4 next Governor Roosevelt will be inaugurated as President and the people again will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It iim Leader . " As Governor of the greatest agriculture State  --  for Kansas is the bread-basket of the nation ? I am proud to welcome Governor Roosevelt , " Governor ' Woodring said in his introductory address . " My fellow Kansans , agriculture today is prostrate . Under Republican rule every agricultural product is selling below the cost of production . " This has brought ruin to millions . Prosperity never will return to this country until his purchasing power has been restored to the farmer . The West and the South are pleading for the rehabilitation of the farmer . The farmer does not ask " for special aid from the government . He is a business man or he could ? not have stayed on the farm during the Hoover Administration . " Our troubles are many and the way is dark . " We do not doubt viptory now that we have found a leader , a leader who knows and understands our problems . " We have found a man who has not a quack remedy but a sound solution . I present Franklin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smiling , with his face red and perspiring from the heat , waved his hand in acknowledgment , and as a prologue to his prepared speech , said : " My colleague , Governor Woodring , and my friends of Kansas : " It is a privilege to be here again . So far it has been an auspicious trip . Yesterday we heard from the State of Maine and in November we shall hear in even greater measure from the State of Kansas . " This reference to the Democratic victory in the Maine State election , which has convinced every Middle Western Democrat and insurgent Republican of the certainty of the election of Roosevelt and Garner , brought more cheers from the crowd . Governor Roosevelt then proceeded with his speech , departing from the typewritten text with only a. few minor interpolations . He brought a laugh when he said that he had run a farm in the State of Georgia for eight years and- added " without profit . " Asserting that he proposed to speak frankly , as the agricultural question was too important to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applause by declaring that the country could not continue to exist " half boom and half broke . " Hits " Governmental Underbrush . " Governor Roosevelt told his hearers of what he had accomplished for farm relief in New York State , which he declared he had cited to show that there was no single cure-all for the ailments of agriculture and that progress could come only from a comprehension of many factors and an attempt to move forward along many lines at the same time . Admitting that there had been a slight rise in the price of farm products , Mr. Roosevelt said that there were still 6,500,000 - farm families living in distress and apprehension of the future . He stressed the interdependence of industry and agriculture and declared that industrial prosperity could reach only artificial and tetnporary heights without agricultural prosperity . The Governor scored with his hear- ers when he urged reduction of the tax burden oh farm properties and advocated the abolitioin of UnnecesFARM RELIEF PLAN s offices . This applause /deve/-B with ; 11 ; rienfteor e cheering e rt a hoheelly he adde @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years , should be cleared away with a , brush hook . " Perhaps the most vigorous cheering came when Governor Roosevelt announced that he favored the refinancing of farm mortgages and maing , governmental pressure on institutions holding title to farms through foreclosure proceedings to Make them give preference to the ; original owners of the properties in buying back these farms . There have been many such fore'closures hi this section , and the holding out of hope of getting the farms back pleased many of those who heard the Governor . ? Despite this , Governor Roosevelt within an hour after delivery had received a score of telegrams congratulating him , and the number had more than doubled before the end of the afternoon , In criticizing President Hoover for alleged lack of understanding of the farm problem Governor Roosevelt recited in detail what had been done by the three successive Republican Administration since the agricultural depression began , as he said , in 1921 . Hoover Attacked on Farm Policy . The Republicans , Mr. Roosevelt declared , contended that the -Fordney-McCumber tariff would suffice ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then Secretary of Commerce , did not ' realize that post-war conditions , with the United States a creditor instead of a debtor nation , stopped Europe from buying surplus American farm products . Governor Roosevelt said that in 1922 Mr. Hoover , as ' Secretary of Commerce , had an influential ' part in inducing a Republican agricultural conference to declare for a policy of " starving out " the farmer . He quoted Mr. Hoover as having said that " continuance of overproduction could be corrected only by prices low enough to make production unprofitable for some of the acreage in use . " Governor Roosevelt added that Mr. Hoover did not see or did not care that this meant allowing wheat land in Kansas to remain idle , forcing foreclosure of farm mortgages and wrecking farm families . Mr. Hoover , he declared , made no fight for agriculture 's share of world trade , though he could find plenty of time to assist foreign sales of every nonagricultural produce . The Governor characterized the Republican claim that a discriminatory tariff benefits the farmer as " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Squandering . " Mr. Roosevelt won applause by attacking the Farm Board for the " squandering of hundreds of millions of the taxpayers ' money " End creating an undigested surplus overhanging the market by its unsuccessful effort to stabilize prices . " Farm Board speculative operations must and shall come to an end , " he shouted as the crowd cheered . The Governor expressed the hope that the Republican campaign committee would send a copy of President Hoover 's speech . to all the farmers in the country so that they might- know what they could expect from a continuance of Republican leadership . He closed with a profession of his faith in the restoration and rehabilitation of agriculture and a plea for his hearers to join those who intended to work out a solution and lead the country to a better-ordered economic life . The Governor left late tonight on his special train for . Denver .                     