@@702056

txt Not for many years has the organized labor movement in this country been so deeply divided as it is today . Ten powerful unions , numbering about one-third of the entire membership of the American Federation of Labor , have had notice served on them that they will be suspended next month unless they withdraw from Mr. LEWIS 'S Committee for Industrial Organization . Mr. LEWIS himself insists that this committee will not be disbanded . If the ten unions stand by that decision , they will in effect challenge the A. F. of L. to revoke , their charters when it meets in convention next November . The question now is whether some compromise can be reached before that time , despite the bitter feeling which prevails , or whether the controversy will lead on to a final break and an attempt to raise the banner of a rival federation . The dispute dates back to November of last year , when Mr. LEWIS formed the C. I. 0 . as an agency to organize workers in steel and other mass-production industries . From the outset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " dual union , " inherently rival to the A. F. of L. itself , an upstart created by a minority , fomenting insurrection and rebellion . It is on these grounds that the unions represented in the C. L 0 . have now been threatened with suspension . But behind these charges lies a larger issue . Mr. LEWIS and his colleagues are ( *ermined to organize labor in " industrial " unions which will include all workers in a given industry from top to bottom , regardless of the nature of their craft . The A. F. of L. itself is primarily an alliance of " craft " unions , cutting across industrial lines . In these circumstances , Mr. LEWIS 'S C. I. 0 . inevitably represents an attempt to take over workers in the mass-production industries , on behalf of new unions which the old-line leaders will not control . But , more than this , it is a potential threat to the very existence of the old-line unions . For if the principle of " industrial " organization is carried to its logical conclusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominate the A. F. of L. The fact that this disagreement goes to the very roots of power in the labor movement makes it hazardous to predict that a compromise will be reached , either within the next month 's period of grace or before the A. F. of L. convention in November . But other predictions concerning the possible consequences of the controversy are also hazardous . It has been said , for example , that the present dispute will have an important effect on this year 's national election . But this zeems doubtful , considering the fact that leaders of the " craft " unions are actively associated with leaders of the C. L 0 . in support of Mr. ROOSEVELT , and that any larger plans which Mr. LEWIS may have in mind , to use either the C. I. 0 . or the new " Labor Non-Partisan League " as -a stepping-stone to an independent Labor party , necessarily lie some distance in the future . It has also been said that if a split comes , and the ten recalcitrant unions are expelled , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic power of union labor will be divided and therefore greatly weakened . But this prediction , too , must be taken with a grain of salt . The powerful railway brotherhoods stand wholly outside the A. F. of L. But this has neither prevented them from establishing a closed shop in their industry nor curbed the great influence they wield in Congress . The most certain result of a definite split , and the division of the A. F. of L. into two separate federations , would be bitter internecine war in which both groups invaded one another 's territory in an effort to enroll members . That might have unfortunate consequences for industry itself , since jurisdictional disputes between rival labor factions are already a formidable problem .                     