@@703377

txt As has been the space late last fall , production schedules far virtually all automobile producers are on a week-to-week basis and subject to wide and frequent . changes Present tentative plans of the majority of producers , including Ford . General Motors Corp . and Chrysler Corp. , are understood to call for the assembling of current models through this month and into varying dates in July , with output being scaled downward weekly for some makes A limited August production appears a possibility for a few makes , depending upon the current sales and field stock conditions prevailing in July . For the plants suspending in July , production on 1939 models is scheduled for late August or early September . with most assembly Imes apparently likely to be down for four to seven weeks , against suspensions of from five to nine weeks and more in most years prior to 1937 and 1936 Reports of a general two-months shutdown are without foundation . September to Show Upturn There will be some deviation from this outline , but in the main the larger part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the third quarter as usual , mostly in July and August . with September likely to be the first month since March to show a production gain over the previous month . With several Ford Motor Co. assembly plants resuming operations after having been down from varying dates in the week ended May 28 , production of the automobile industry this week will rebound sharply from last week 's holiday-reduced total of 26,980 units , but will be under 40,000 units or more than a third below the spring peak production of 62.021 attained in the week ended April 16 . A year ago this week , 118,798 cars and trucks were produced in U. S and Canadian plants . Sales and production which in 1937 were sustained at abnormally high levels through the ordinarily dull summer months , now are conforming . generally . to what is considered a more nearly normal pattern . Consequently comparisons of weekly output figures with corresponding 1937 weeks from now on through the remainder of the 1938 model run are likely to be progressively more unfavorable . Last year . forewarned by the wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material costs , consumers took summer deliveries of cars that ordinarily would have been deferred till fall . Thus they avoided the automobile price increases that Caine in August and again in September-October . Slight Model Changes In 1937 Influenced by a combination of circumstances . most manufacturers last year made only relatively slight changes In the 1937 lines for the 1938 models . This means that the annual periods of production suspension for the joint purpose of taking inventory at the end of the current run , and of retooling plants and rearranging production lines for the manufacture of new models , were of unprecedentedly short duration . Bulk of the assembly plants were down for around three to five weeks . whereas in the previous year the close-downs ranged from three to seven weeks . ' Up until the last two model years . changeover periods ran from five to nine weeks for the majority of assembly plants . Several factors had important bearing up .. n last year 's decisions to restrict model changes and upon the resultant reduced change-over periods . Acceptance by the public of current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1929 . Shortages of new ears during the fall selling season seemed possible because of the threatened further labor trouble in auto company and supplier plants , making it desirable to build up heavier field stocks as quickly as possible . Delivery of the necessarily large volume of new tools and dies involved in a wide model change program was made un certain by the labor outlook in the tool and die plants . Most important of all , by holding down the new tooling costs for 1938 models . the manufacturers held down the price advance to the minimum allowed by their sharply higher costs . Murphy on Auto Industry From Tux WALL . Si near JOUTiNAT . Washisiglon Bureau WASHINGTON ? If the automobile industry can get back to something like a normal production schedule , it will be " the forerunner of recovery as it was in 1931 . " Governor Frank Murphy of Michigan predicted yesterday following a two-hour conference with President Roosevelt He said be believed that it was possible for the government and the automobile industry to get together in a way that would prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that would add a quarter of a million more to the unemployed rolls . He said he was not at liberty to say whether or not he bad discussed with the President the possibility of future meetings between the chief executive and leading automobile manufacturers .                     