@@699901

txt Whatever else may be expected of the " new deal " in progress at Washington , America witnessed last week a spectacle few even hoped to see this side of a social and economic millennium . It saw labor and capital adjourn their age-old animosities and sit down at a table with representatives of the consuming public and authorized agents of the government to plan how a certain industry could best use its facilities to re-employ men and women willing to work . Specifically it witnessed the public formulation of a self-imposed " code " for cotton textile manufacturers of the country wherein they proposed , by a fixing of maximum hours of work and minimum wages ? themselves a revolution in this particular field  --  to employ 100,000 more persons in that industry than in the peak year of 1929 , at a scale of pay which , according to government statisticians , would return pre-depression purchasing power to the workers and their dependent thousands . A Model for 7,000 Industries . And with the evolution of this first fair competition code under the National Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plan under which , its proponents believe , the 7,000 industries of the country might be so handled through the new partnership of business and government that the bounties of the nation might be more equitably distributed to its 122,000,000 . This model , devised by the cotton textile men with the advice of the National Recovery Administration , served to carry the recovery program far beyond its primary purpose of returning 22,000,000 unemployed to their jobs . It proposed to lead the way in the future economic planning of American industry to the end that the machine shall be held in check in its threatened domination of man ; that unwarranted industrial expansion shall not again bring a famine of plenty ; that the public , through its government , shall have a throttle on heretofore wild competition ; fundamentally , that causes of the four-year depression from which the country is now apparently emerging shall be removed by industry itself . Other Codes Near Completion . Regardless of the apparent lagging of some other industries , reports from all sections of the country indicated that this week would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York came word that the steel industry and the retail dry goods trade would soon be ready . From Chicago came a report that the lumber manufacturers had about agreed on their terms for maximum hours and minimum wage scales . In the capital clear indications were that the coal and oil industries were nearing the point where they could submit their codes for public scrutiny . The garment manufacturing industry is expected to submit its compact , affecting probably 500,000 workers , immediately after the holiday . The general contractors have been called for a meeting here next Monday to approve an agreement for the basic building industry . What took place in Washington last week was the government 's first actual step into industrial control as contemplated in the recovery program of President Roosevelt . It was the formation , under public gaze , of the terms under which the government will assume a measure of control and coordination over the cotton textile industry . In the view of officials , it developed a definite pattern of procedure and policy for the thou sands of other industries which must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drastic licensing provision of the recovery act . The cotton textile code , which lacks only the formal approval of the administration to become law for the industry , was initiated by the industry itself . It was submitted to General Hugh S. Johnson , Recovery Administrator , when the President 's signature was hardly dry on the National Recovery Act . A committee of the industry had been working under the advice of prospective recovery officials even before the act was passed . It was necessary that some industry be selected as the pioneer ; the cotton men were willing . Labor 's Fears Found Groundless . The trail - blazing procedure reached its climax at the public hearings last week . This open court was the " gold fish bowl " in which General Johnson had decreed the codes of industry must be formulated . When the hearings started Tuesday the whole field was untried . Even how to proceed was a question . There was only one thing in sight , and that was the general goal , namely , a code for the textile industry which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at industrial coordination would be started with such a rush that it could not fail . Between the Industrial Recovery Administration and that goal was a span of darkness in which were no one knew how many barb-wire entanglements. uncharted ditches or even percussion bombs . There were indications from the very start of trouble with labor over the hour and wage provisions of the code . And while the industry was entirely responsible for the code , this was viewed with some alarm . There was the question , too , as to the attitude of the public generally . As the hearings got under way these fears and uncertainties disappeared . Even before labor leaders had a chance to strike a blow , the textile industry committee came forward voluntarily with a proposal to abandon child labor in the cotton mills . While the working of child labor in the factories under the minimum wage proposal in the code was thought out of the question anyway , the voluntary offer of the industry to abandon this age-old practice sweetened some of the bitterness which might have appeared . Green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was received with rounds of applause by some 800 spectators who saw the " gold fish bowl " proceedings at first hand in the Department of Commerce auditorium . When the labor leaders later had a day in court , their attitude was obviously softened . The harangues , *I accusations and demands which observers had come to expect of some of them after years of appearances before committees of Congress were softened into reasoning requests for concessions on wages and hours of labor , mixed with compliments to the textile operators for their public-spiritedness and patriotism . The manufacturers . on the other hand , were noticeably lacking in that aggressiveness observed so often before Congressional bodies . Not even the most violent tempered labor leader thought for a moment that proffered abandonment of child labor was a play of strategy by the operators . And when , as a climax to the whole proceeding , the textile operators volunteered to increase the minimum wage provisions of the code to $12 for Southern mills and $13 for Northern factories for a 40-hour week , as against the original $10 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new deal , " had been truly ushered for the American worker . Labor took occasion to start its campaign for a 30-hour week in all industry . Its failure to induce the cotton textile people to accept it left no evident rancor . While lamenting the fact that a shorter work week and a higher minimum wage were not offered , William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , took special pains to speak of the " heartening " response of the textile manufacturers . He held some hope that they would go further in the final settlement of the code . In this atmosphere the cotton textile code , first under the Industrial Recovery Act , was brought into being two days ahead of schedule . All the while the consumers ' committee , appointed to represent the general consuming public , sat by and applauded the unprecedented display of cooperation between labor and capital . The public good was evidently thought amply and well served . Johnson Seeks Swifter race . With completion of the cotton code the recovery administration saw its program off to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compact served to emphasize , however , that some were lagging and again General Johnson and his aides turned to a consideration of methods for gaining additional speed . Ultimate success of the venture necessitates the re-employment of 3,000,000 to 4,000,000 people by Labor Day , in General Johnson 's opinion . Many other industries were known to have been awaiting the outcome of the cotton code . Realizing that , General Johnson expects to get this trail-blazer to the President for his final approval just as soon as possible . This code not only has shown how the basic agreements as to maximum hours and minimum pay may be framed , but by the device of a committee of the industry to act with the administration it has indicated a method for working out new functions for these fair practice agreements . It has pointed a way for industries generally to enjoy to the fullest the proposed two-year vacation from the anti-trust laws ; and in so doing , how to approach the hitherto unrighteous aspirations of price- , fixing , regulation of production , curtailment of machinery and any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this new adjustment of industry to the common weal . Whatever general considerations may have been worked out in the cotton code , two practical policies were emphasized by the recovery administration , to wit : 1 . That no industry will be asked under the " new deal " to re-employ much more than its normal predepression employment , and , 2 . That the specific provisions of a forty-hour-week and $12 . and $13 minimum pay for the cotton textile industry can not be considered in any measure a precedent for other industries .                     