@@701875

txt Senator Homer T. Bone Dem. , ' Wash. today urged a senate investigation of the " nascent and budding OGPU " in the government departments , which he said might become " the instrument of tyranny in the hands of ambitious men . " The New Dealers have often been charged with terrorism and oppression , especially since the inception of the Black inquisition , but Senator Bone was the first New Dealer to make such charges . He accused the undercover operatives of the government departments of " a low form of spying and general espionage " on members of congress . Meanwhile the listless , anxious-togo-home senate passed without a record vote and with little opposition the Wheeler bill drastically increaslug the inquisitorial powers of the federal trade commission and permitting the President to use that agency as an instrument of harassment . Cites Newspaper Article . Senator Bone called attention to an article in a Washington newspaper condemning the espionage system employed by the WPA , the PWA , Prof. Tugwell 's resettlement administration , and other New Deal burcaus . " I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an utterly indefensible case of this very thing , " he declared . ' " I ' am concerned over the fact that such practices exist . If they are not checked by the salutary force of public opinion they might readily lend themselves to the most odious form of oppression and coercion and might easily become the basis for what might amount to political blackmail . " What is to prevent such practices from being used to coerce members of congress into attitudes favorable to the ends sought by the people who control these undercover operatives ? if the activities of these are not brought to light , what is to prevent them from becoming the instruments of tyranny in the hands of ambitious men ? May Seek Investigation . " In the near future I shall have something more to say about this matter , and probably offer a resolution looking to an investigation by the senate , to determine the extent to which its own members may have been the object of attentions at the hands of this , nascent and budding OGPU . " I think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it . would give an opportunity to - the super-sleuths to come before the corninAtee , where the bright light of Nibbetty could and would be turned on their work . " During the recent controversy between Senator Rush . Holt Dem. , W. Va. and Harry ; L. Hopkins , WPA administrator , over the relief frauds and political corruption in West Virginia , the senator charged that his office desk had been jimmied and his papers ransacked . Several other senators who have been most actively opposing various activities of the New Deal have stated privately that they were certain their telephone wires had been lapped and their files rifled . They : , ef ? ained from making the charges publicly , however , because of the difficulty of proving them . Recall Ickes ' 300 Agents . Senator Bone did not specify the government departments whose undercover operatives have been spying and attempting coercion , but it is known that Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes had 300 so-called investigators in his department , headed by Louis L. Glavis . There are 98 in the WPA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , under Prof. Tugwell . Senator Wallace White Rep , Me.l denounced the federal trade commission bill on the grounds that it would permit the President or either house of congress to use the trade commission as " an instrument of harassment of individuals and corporations . " He pointed out that the commission was a quasi-judicial establishment and said it should be kept independent of the executive and legislative branches . Senator Warren Austin Rep. , Vt. , while agreeing in principle with some features of the bill , objected to the effort by legislative fiat to prevent judicial review of the commission 's findings .                     