@@703135

txt The possibility that the changes in the Reich 's Cabinet may mean a more vigorous German policy in central and southeastern Europe raises grave questions for Austria . The placing of the German foreign policy in the hands of exponents of a so-called German " continental " policy may create a situation in which the effect on such nations as Austria and Czechoslovakia may prove one of the most important aspects of the consolidation of National Socialism 's control of Germany . For this reason the recall of the German Minister , Franz von Papen , is of tar more significance than any personal connection with the domestic aspects of the Reich 's changes . Not only did Herr von Papen enjoy the confidence of Roman Catholic quarters , being himself a member of that Church , but he had been appointed to Vienna July 26 1934. directly after the assassination of Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss with the special mission to make peace between the two German states . Also , he was one of the framers of the agreement of July 11 , 1936 , between Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the closing of the National Socialist " office " of Capt . Joseph Leopold in the center of Vienna . This bureau was said to be allowed in Vienna as compensation to Austrian National Socialists who were not allowed to have their own party organization in Austria It was conducted openly and served those National Socialists who would have nothing to do with the Fatherland Front  --  the one and only party allowed in Austria . Faced Unfriendly Comment The Austrian Government hoped to control the National Socialists through this office . The bureau has functioned fairly peacefully , but has been the object of unfriendly comment on the part of the Fatherland Front . the Legitimists , the Roman Catholic press , and even of late of the Government papers . A few weeks ago one of the seven men conducting the work of this bureau , Dr. Leopold Tays , made a boasting remark in a private talk to the effect that it was remarkable he was allowed to carry on " illegal " work in the center of Vienna . This statement was published in a Polish paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground of this statement " an investigation was made , the Leopold bureau was sealed and all papers removed for examination . Sixty-five persons were arrested , fifteen detained for further inquiry and Dr. Tays was imprisoned for high treason , although Captain Leopold , head of the bureau itself , was allowed to return to his home . Finally an official communique was issued saying that serious incrinu- nating documents had been found in the office , the most compromising being a " program of action for 1938 . " Breach of Agreement Seen So far this is all that is known about the affair except that Herr von Papen suddenly left Vienna last ? week end for Berlin . This National Socialist office existed under an additional protocol , article nine B , to the agreement of July 11 and its closing must have meant a breach of this agreement by Austria and an invitation to Germany to break the agreement . Now Berlin instead of annulling the agreement has recalled its Minister from Vienna and ended his service . It is regarded probable thAt this post may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Vienna has been waiting to see what step would be taken by Germany but did not seem to be able to beprepared for this one . It will take some time for the Vienna Government to find itself in the new situation and a stern course of German foreign policy toward Austria is apprehended here . The position of Austria and Czechoslovakia will certainly be affected by the new change of Berlingind it may be by accident that Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg ? and Premier Milan Hodza of Czechoslovakia are meeting this week end in a winter resort in Austria , Kitzbilhel . Disorder in Vienna Last evening between 8 and 7 o'clock . National Socialists here began a new window-breaking campaign in various parts of the city . They smashed windows in shops and hotels and even in a Jewish synagogue . Some 40 cases were reported . This window breaking has been going on since the middle of December when a window of the German Tourists Bureau across from the Opera was broken by a passerby . National Socialists retaliated and off and on have been destroying some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all has been quiet . This fresh outbreak of National Socialist activity came after a series of articles the past few days published in Government papers in which it was alleged that the Government had recently closed the National Socialist Bureau which had organized the earlier outrages . National Socialists have now shown they can organize their own campaign even when this Bureau is closed .                     