@@697309

txt Industrial strife in the anthracite region was definitely averted last night for five and a half years when the miners ' full scale committee , meeting at the Hotel Pennsylvania , unanimously confirmed provisions of the tentative agreement affecting 150,000 men , drawn up Thursday night between the miners ' and operators ' committee at the Anthracite Institute , 90 West Street . The agreement , running until April 1 , 1936 , and superseding the present one expiring Sept. 1 of this year . will be overwhelmingly ratified by the Tri-District convention of the hard coal miners to be held at Scranton Aug. 4 , according to John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , and other union chiefs participating in the negotiations . As indicated yesterday , the principal features of the new agreement are a definite concession to the miners of the check-off system of payment of dues and to the operators a modified form of " arbitration " for the consideration of wage scales and other questions . No Wage Cut , Leaders Say . Mr. Lewis , speaking on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Glen Alden Coal Company . chairman of the operators ' group , declared that the new compact will bring no reduction in wages . Industrial peace is assured , he declared , and the workers will produce more efficiently in return for the check-off . The agreement provides for a permanent committee of twelve , six from each side , who may call in outside experts to aid in the resolution of problems developing during the life of the agreement .. Yesterday was one of activity . The miners ' full scale committee consisting of forty men met at 10:30 A. M. at the Pennsylvania and , after a heated debate , approved the tentative agreement , with one or two minor reservations on the delicate clause dealing with arbitration in the adjustment of wage scales . The joint operators ' and miners ' subcommittees then resumed negotiations at 2 P. M. at the Anthracite Institute and remained in session until 5 P. M. At that time both groups emerged with the text of the agreement . Mr. Lewis then made his statement on behalf of the miners and operators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his associates appeared before the miners ' full scale committee at the Pennsylvania ; to read the final draft of the agreement . Unanimous approval followed one and a half hours later , with the prediction that the miners ' convention at Scranton would overwhelmingly adopt the peace plan . Chief Clauses of Agreement . The principal clauses of the agreement read : " The mine workers have requested the operators to assist them in the collection of union dues , stating that such assistance will not only be an accomm6dation to them but will substantially lessen their cost of operation as an organization . " The mine workers have also stated their desire and intention to take active and affirmative steps to eliminate , as far as possible , strikes and shut-downs in violation of this agreement ; to eliminate group action designed to restrict output ; to restrict general mine committees to their . constitutional functions within the union ; recognizing that such committees have no power under this agreement ; to cooperate with the operators for the promotion of efficiency and the production of an improved car of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covering refuse shall be continued ; and to make effective all of the terms and provisions of this contract . " With these requests and declarations in mind , and in consideration thereof and conditioned upon the full , complete and continuing performance thereof to the mutual satisfaction of the contracting parties , the operators agree as follows : " The parties of the second part ( the operators ) upon request of any employe will receive from such employe on pay day , at a point convenient to the pay office , and transmit to the district treasurer of the United Mine Workers of America , an amount not in excess of $1 per month . The operators shall be under no obligation to solicit or compel contributions , but shall fulfill their entire obligation hereunder when they receive and transmit the foregoing payments , as and when tendered by the employe . It is understood that payments shall not be tendered or received more than once a month , and that the operators will provide some suitable record of payments , showing from whom received . " The Negotiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scales and other matters during the life of the agreement , calls for a negotiation committee of twelve men , six from each side , as in the old agreement , but declares additionally : " The committee shall meet from time to time on call of the chairman , either at the discretion of the chairman or on written request of any five members of the committee . " The committee shall consider and discuss all questions arising under this contract relating to cooperation : and efficiency and performance of the contract by the parties and the relations of the parties which either party may present for consideration and discussion . " The committee may employ such skilled expert assistance from time to time as the committee shall deem advisable in order that the committee may be informed and advised as to any facts or information which the committee may desire to have determined . " Mr. Lewis , in his statement to which Mr. Inglis subscribed , de-clared : " We are gratified to confirm the negotiations of a new agreement that will spell industrial peace in the anthracite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after expiration of the present contract . This will mean an unbroken era approximating ten years . " The agreement is predicated upon a continuance of present wages and speaks for itself . It also provides in a comprehensive fashion for the working out of a concrete program of cooperation . It provides for mutual accommodation to each other . " The arrangement for collection of dues will reduce operating expenses of the union . In consideration for this accommodation , the agreement provides for practical cooperation by the miners in promoting efficiency in operating methods and economy in the cost of production , without decreasing the miners ' earnings , " The arrangement set forth in the contract for meetings from time to time of the negotiating parties will , in our estimation , prove to be a vehicle for the extension of the goodwill now existing in the industry and promotion of its wellbeing . " We feel that not alone the miners and the operators but the citizens of anthracite communities and the nation are to be congratulated on the successful outcome of the negotiations . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks .. I t - . ?                     