@@700525

txt Two of the major producers of copper in this country , and possibly others , will object at the public hearing today to provisions in the copper code offered by H. 0 . King . deputy administrator of NRA in charge of copper , even in the revised form that was put in the hands of copper producers Saturday . This revision was of Article VII , and the parts following- the public hearing today and it is not impossible that even the latter part may be revised again for the public hearing , as Mr. King was in conference Saturday at New York with some of the copper producers after they had had time to study the revision placed in their hands that morning . One of the most important features of the King code and retained in the revised form is a clause providing for the branding with the NRA eagle of all copper made under the code . It is hoped , by making It necessary to use only copper bearing the NRA eagle upon all government work or work financed directly or indirectly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any copper producer of magnitude to operate independently and outside of the code . By provision of NRA branding of all code copper , the Administrator feels that the federal government can put teeth into the copper code in case that it becomes necessary to impose -a code on the copper industry . While modifications in the provisions of certain clauses probably will meet the objections of one of the large copper companies , it is believed that the revised form of the code touching upon redistribution of sales made by producer-owned fabricating subsidiaries still does not meet the objections of Anaconda Copper Mining Co. to the inclusion of any fixed percentages in the matter of redistribution of the buying capacity of producer-owned fabricating plants . If a copper code is imposed on the copper industry , it is believed that Anaconda will question the legal power of the Administrator to impose such a code in so far as it forces the redistribution among others than the parent company of purchases by subsidiary fabricating plants Whether it will be possible to avoid an open break and carry the discussion over into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be seen . A meeting of members of the United States Copper Association with Mr. King is called for late Wednesday to discuss the proposed code . This would be necessary as the producing- capacities and the allotted quotas of the various producing companies are still left blank in the proposed King code . Consequently the calling of the meeting for late Wednesday does not throw any light upon whether or not it is the intention of the deputy administrator to try to avoid an open break at the public hearing today . It is understood that Anaconda ( and some time ago several other copper producers held the same opinion ) believes that there is nothing in the National Industrial Recovery Act which enables the Administrator to " commandeer " private property or confiscate its use .                     