@@697556

txt Marked irregularity developed in the main body of stocks in yesterday s late trading following further substantial gains in many sections of the list during the first three or four hours . General advances during the earlier stages of the day were featured by sharp uprushes in high-grade rails . which had a stimulating influence on the whole market . New highs on the current movement were reached by New ' York Central . Baltimore &; Ohi and Atchison , and the entire carrier group displayed a strong tone . Advancing tendencies spread to the leading industrials and utilities . U. S. Steel mounted to its best price since early December , and vigorous bullish demonstrations were staged in special groups like the motor and entertainment shares . However , the upswing in the general list was checked during the afternoon by selling which followed publication of a statement by President Atterbury , of the Pennsylvania Re.ilroad . Czneral Atterbury declared that several years must elapse before the effects of the eastern railwayconsolidation program could be cepected to exert a beneficial influence on the economic situation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought considerable selling into the rails , halting their progress on the upside . Unsettlement was increased by pronounced weakness in Allied Chemical , which broke to a new low since 1928 under large offerings . Reactions spread to the general list , and price swings during the last hour were nervous and uncertain . ? Recent pressure on Allied Chemical has undoubtedly been based on the collapse in soda ash prices . Allied Chemical , through its subsidiary , the Solvay Co .. is the largest producer of soda ash in the industry , and a substantial amount of Allied Chemical 's profits are understood to come from this soda ash business . As the break in prices started several weeks ago . Allied 's earnings in the final stages of 1930 were probably affected by the decline . However , Allied hae the ruling hand in the soda ash market , and the downward revision in prices is considered by some trade authorities as a. strategic move . It is felt that the management took this step to keep its large plants busy at this time , with little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ users of this product are willing to stock up at the low prices . . ? Remarks of Paul M. Warburg relative to the present economic situation were read with a good deal of interest in financial circles . Aside from his able description of the world-wide causes that led to recent price collapse , there were certain points brought out by the international banker that particularly interested Wall Street . He at once dismisses the theory that the present situation was due to a shortage in the gold supply . Banking science today , he said , provided sufficient elasticity in credit to overcome this , if it existed . The tenor of Mr. Warburg 's explanation was that no such fundamental cause was responsible for the present depression . Rather it was due to temporary excesses and abuses in economics . such as overproduction and price-fixing measures , which were capable of ready correction In this respect . 2dr . Warburg refutes the idea which some theorists have been inclined to hold to , that America is approaching a period of business stagnation Mr. Warburg- , on the contrary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country swinging back in the other direction . He predicts that a few years hence present prices will look as ridiculously low as they were excessively high before the break in 1929 . Mr. Warburg 's present remarks carry unusual weight in view of the fact that in his annual address to stockholders in January , 1929 , he issued a warning that the market was then " riding for a fall ? ? This week 's bank statements , as is usual after the year-end , show sharp fluctuations in many important items , due to the return to " normalcy " following the year-end windowdressing period . Borrowings of member banks from the Federal Reserve increased $41,000,000. due in large part to the fact that borrov.ings the week before , December 31 , had been reduced to a minimum to make bank year-end statements look as strung as possible . The 12 Reserve banks reduced their portfolios of government securities and bankers ' acceptances a combined total of S169,000,000 This sharp drop in open market holdings does not indicate a change of policy by Reserve banks . but rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the year on " repurchase " agreements- - and also the maturing of a large volume of bills . Circulation declined $107.000,000 , bringing total decline in the past two weeks to $232,000,000 as compared with $368.000,000 in the corresponding period last year . ) There has been a slower return flow of currency this year because Christmas trade was not as great as a year ago , and also partly because in some out-of-town districts banking difficulties are still a factor in keeping customers ' assets in the form of . cash rather than deposits . Contrary to general expectations , New York City reporting member banks last week increased their holdings of government securities and sold other securities . Probable explanation of the latter sales is that over the year-end banks were carrying for secirrity affiliates and bond houses a considerable volume of bonds acquired under " repurchase " agreements . This is another phase of " window dressing . " It is expected that over the next several weeks the trend of bank investments in non-government securities will be upward rather than down . ? Banking interests identified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American NVoulen common and preferred shares over the last several weeks . Buying of this character has been largely done through Carreau 8c Snedeker . This firm expresses the belief that the management has no present intention of liquidating the ** back dividends on the preferred owing to the desirability of maintaining the company 's present strong financial position pending the introduction of a more flexible and efficient system of merchandising , coupled with a closer alignment of the manufacturing and selling departments of the business . In a circular analysing American Woolen 's status , Carreau Snedeker point out that the new management is exceptionally qualified to introduce these needed reforms , and predict a decided change for the better in the al/fairs of American Woolen Co. in the next few years provided the new management receives proper support from shareholders .                     