@@701840

txt Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin emerged today from his recent sphinxlike role and for the first time in several weeks gave some public indication of the way his mind is moving on the problems of British foreign policy . There were four chief points in the speech which , according to his annual custom , he delivered to the local Conservative association of his own constituency in Worcestershire . First , be ' complained that at present the League of Nations was bound to be ineffective without the United States , Germany and Japan as members . This argument lent color to recent reports that Mr. Baldwin would cite faulty machinery of the League as an excuse for its failure in the Italo-EthioPian crisis . Second , he emphatically ruled out military or naval sanctions under ' the League of Nations at the present time and chided pacifists in this country for their " light-hearted " attitude toward a possible naval blockade of Italy . Third , he expressed alarm at the use of poison gas by Italy , not out of sympathy for Ethiopia , but out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas onto the cities of Europe . Finally , he declared Chancellor Hitler had it in his power to " do more at this moment to lift the black shadow of fear from Europe than any other man living . " " 1 say he has it in his power , " said Mr. Baldwin . " God grant he may have the will . If he has the will , nothing that this country can do will be left undone , and I believe that if he can convince Europe he has the will there is not a people in Europe but would cooperate , for the hearts of the people of every country in Europe are set on peace . They look on war with horror . " In addition , Mr. Baldwin announced that " when I retire it will be at my own time and no one else 's . " " I will only add to that , " he said , " that I have no intention of going on if the time comes when I do not feel myself capable of doing the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Thus he left the question of his retirement in the near future as much open to question as ever . His whole speech , in fact , was as remarkable for its omissions as for what he said . The Prime Minister gave no suggestion as to how he would end the Italo-Ethiopian war without diplomatic defeat for Britain , nor did he even hint at British policy in the event of a new " hammer blow " by the Nazis in Central or Eastern Europe . He admitted , however , that rearmament by Germany and the attempt to apply the covenant of the League of Nations were " two events of first-class importance , which must leave their mark for good or otherwise on those international politics in which the fate of the world is so much involved today . " Links Events to Rearming " It was the combination of these two events that made it perfectly plain to me that an increase in certain branches of the arms of this country and the re-equipment of all branches were an absolute necessity if this country was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League of Nations or if , indeed , she was to maintain her position ultimately in the world . " If you will throw your minds back to those strange days at the conclusion of the war , when it seemed possible that the League might embrace in its arms every nation of the world , what could seem easier and what , indeed , could be easier than for an aggressor nation to be brought to book in a moment by world pressure ? " But , alas , no league ever came into existence with the world of nations in it , and today if you take the great powers who combine armed resources with industrial resources you have three of the greatest outside of the League altogether  --  the United States , Germany and Japan . Their absence makes the imposition of sanctions of less force than they would be were they imposing them too . " But the nations within the League , though unable to prevent war from beginning between Italy and Ethiopia , took all the prescribed collective steps in declaring the aggressor and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no effective machinery for stopping a war before it begins if one party is determined to go to war and not submit the differences in dispute to discussion and arbitration . To a great extent sanctions are slow in action and lose a great deal of their force unless they can be supported by the ultimate sanction , which is a blockade or force . It is difficult to see how , under the existing membership , a League blockade would be agreed to inside the League . " Stresses Collective Effort Mr. Baldwin referred to a tendency to single out individual men and individual nations for praise or blame , instead of regarding the effort of the League as it should be regarded ? as a collective effort . " For instance , I notice in the Italian press that our Foreign Secretary , Anthony Eden , is being attacked with a lack of restraint which we much regret for what is regarded in Italy as an anti-Italian policy , " said Mr. Baldwin . " There are two misconceptions underlying these attacks which as Prime Minister I wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I wish to make it clear beyond all doubt that the policy the Foreign Secretary is conducting in this matter is not his own personal policy but the considered policy of the whole government , and I add it is a policy which I am convinced is supported by the overwhelming majority of the British people . " Secondly , it is not an anti-Italian policy . Its motive is not the defeat or humiliation of Italy but support of the covenant of the League . We want the covenant of the League to become the law of the world , and unless we are to abandon that hope we regard ourselves as bound to give our full support to the League when the covenant is broken . " That is our motive in this matter . I believe it is well understood to be our motive in the rest of the world . For Italy to misconceive it is a ' profound mistake on her part . I have said that because many fierce and bitter attacks are being made on our Foreign Secretary , who has one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lot of a British Foreign Secretary . " Cites the Responsibility Discussing collective security , the Prime Minister said : " Collective security will never work unless all the nations that take part in it are prepared simulI taneously to threaten with sanctions and fight if necessary an aggressor , and that means that the nations taking part in that collective security must be ready . " I think you will agree with me I was wise when I said , I think in my broadcast at the election , that never again would I as head of this country apply sanctions unless the people of this country gave me the authority and the rearmament and equipment . " Let us at all events in working for collective security know what we mean and understand what it involves . Sometimes I am aghast at the light-hearted way people even of pacifist inclinations will speak of collective security and of Britain playing her part in that security . " I will tell you what I mean by light-hearted . They speak as though you can allocate between various nations in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to collective security . " If that horror ever breaks upon this world again , if there is another Great War , there will be no limited liability about it for any party that goes into it . It will be every man , woman and child in the country . That is the reason we should devote the whole of our energies , hopes and prayers to seeing that war does not come . " Inveighs Against Poison Gas Mr. Baldwin said he had often uttered the truism that the next war would be the end of civilization in Europe . " That would be more than ever certain if the nations of Europe went back on their word and signature and used poison gases in Europe , " he said . " I believe that if such a thing were done , when that war ended the raging peoples of every country , torn with passion , suffering and horror , would wipe out every government in Europe and you would have a state of anarchy from end to end of it as man 's protest against wickedness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if we need it , to pursue the path to , peace ; to see , if the League has not accomplished all we should have hoped , where it has been lacking and how it can be made strong . That is the reason we strive to see how collective security can be obtained and what more guarantees we can get in Europe that these gases shall not be used . " But what chance have we ? I would not say the omens are wholly unfavorable . The sky is dark in many quarters , but we have before us proposals , both French and German , to which we are giving our most serious attention . It is the first time and hing of the kind has come simultaneously from those two countries , and who , I ask it in all sincerity , is more fitted to investigate this question and try to bring these two countries together than we ourselves ? "                     