@@701268

txt Governor Lehman announced yesterday that he had agreed to a conference at 11 A. M. Monday with the March New York County grand jury , which had investigated vice and racket conditions for several months . It was dismissed at its own request last Monday by General Sessions Judge Morris Koenig after District Attorney William C. Dodge had refused to designate a special prosecutor to continue the investigation . The Governor , through his secretary , said he had made the appointment in a telephone conversation with Lee Thompson Smith , foreman of the grand jurors . Mr. Smith had led the jury committee of seven when it declined , by authority of the entire body , to accept Mr. Dodge 's designation of Harold H. Corbin two weeks ago as special prosecutor . The conference will take place at Governor Lehman 's home at 820 Park Avenue . When the grand jury was dismissed by Judge Koenig last Monday , the foreman announced it would request Governor Lehman to convene an extraordinary term of the Supreme Court and appoint a special prosecutor for a resumption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which the grand jurors previously had intimated they believed prominent politicians might be found to be the actual backers . Had Called Rackets " Rampant . " The grand jurors , in a statement handed up to Judge Koenig , declared that rackets were " rampant " in the city and insisted that an investigation should be conducted independent of District Attorney Dodge . Three days before , Mr. Corbin withdrew his previous acceptance of Mr. Dodge 's appointment of him as the grand jurors ' special prosecutor . He told the District Attorney he had decided to quit because of the controversy over his appointment . Mr. Corbin is a law partner of former Governor Nathan L. Miller . A few hours prior to their discharge Mr. Dodge appeared before the grand jurors and told them he would not designate any other outside lawyer as their special inquisitor , but offered the personal services of himself or any of the sixty-four assistant prosecutors on his staff as their special counsel . This was declined without comment , it was reported , and Mr. Dodge then reviewed before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appoint a special prosecutor from a list of names of eight prominent lawyers . Mr. Corbin 's name did not appear on this list when it was submitted about a week after the agreement , but Mr. Dodge insisted he had asked Mr. Corbin to accept on the suggestion of Augustine J. Smith , secretary of the grand jurors . Mr. Smith made the suggestion , he said , in the presence of six other members of the jurors ' committee , including the foreman , and he assumed Mr. Corbin 's selection was acceptable to all . Says Secretary Verified Choice . Mr. Dodge further charged that he did not entertain the suggestion to appoint Mr , Corbin until Mr. Smith , the secretary , had called Mr. Corbin 's office on the telephone to verify whether he would accept . The feud between the grand jurors and the District Attorney began about six weeks ago when the grand jurors extended their investigation of bail bond abuses in the courts to the policy racket . At that time Maurice G. Wahl and Lyon Boston , Assistant District Attorneys , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first witnesses called In the grand jurors ' policy investigation was J. Richard Davis , attorney for Arthur ( Dutch Schultz ) Flegenheimer , who a few days before was said to have told Paul Blanshard , Commissioner of Accounts , that the " take " of the policy bankers in this city in recent years had reached " millions . " Mr. Davis was questioned before the grand jurors by Mr. Wahl , and there was a report at the time that he had been asked if he knew of any connection between Schultz in the policy racket and James J. Hines , Tammany leader of the lower West Harlem district . After the testimony Mr. Wahl served on Mr. Davis a subpoena duces tecum , signed by District Attorney Dodge , for the production of any documents or bank accounts of Schultz and several other reported clients of the lawyer . When Mr. Davis moved before Judge Koenig to have this subpoena set aside , District Attorney Dodge served a supplemental duces tecum subpoena on him , more specific in its demands , which Judge Koenig ordered him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , produced Mr. Davis for questioning as the last witness in the policy investigation . He was on the witness stand about twenty minutes and was reported to have denied ' having any papers belonging to Schultz except copies of documents connected with his Federal Court trial on an income tax charge . This was less than two hours before the grand jurors asked Judge Koenig that they be dismissed . It was reported that the grand jurors at first indicated an unwillingness to hear Mr. Davis 's testimony , but that Mr. Dodge insisted they must do so in accordance with Judge Koenig 's order . Prior to that the grand jurors had excluded Mr. Wahl or any other prosecutor of Mr. Dodge 's staff from their sessions in the policy investigation .                     