@@700612

txt Plans for a swift campaign in thirty to sixty days to revive interest in code enforcement , necessitated by wan , ing public enthusiasm in the NRA , were made known by General Johnson tonight in connection with the convention of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . The 1,400 delegates to the convention had spent the day in dissecting the New Deal . While commendation of the recovery policies dominated the discussions among those engaged in the manufacturing and natural resource fields of , industry , opponents of banking and I financial restrictions adopted or contemplated , led in round table studies devoted to those branches , General Yohnson disclosed the plans for the new drive at an " informal press conference " following a dinner at the Mayflower Hotel , given by the American Trade Association Executives in connection with the convention of the chamber . Appearance by Error . On being introduced he said his appearance was due to an error in the program , but that since the error was made , he had decided to come . After a brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry in the administration of the Recovery Act , the Administrator opened the meeting up for questions by any who had particular problems to be answered . General Johnson said that the new NRA campaign had been made necessary " due to a ' aim of public enthusiasm over the codes , " and that while " the details of the campaign are still a little obscure , we are working on it every day and will have it ready within the next thirty to sixty days . " " If you ca n't get public support , you just ca n't make the thing go , " he added . At the same time he said that distribution of the new Blue Eagles to participants in codes of fair competition would be left to Code Authorities , but that the NRA would exercise strict control over any budget assessments in connection with the distribution . He Warns of Blue Eagle Graft . " Distribution of the new eagles provides the biggest chance for graft and racketeering in the world , " he declared , " and if we do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the recovery program . " Welcomed to an orchestra 's playing of " Who 's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf , " the administrator went ' before the gathering to invite questions concerning the administration of the NRA . He said he expected criticism , and before concluding he had made a few criticisms of his own . General Johnson declared that " there has been too much of a tendency for members of Code authorities to come to such positions thinking that they are to represent their respective companies instead of the whole industry and the country generally . " As for trade associations , he said , while they were essential to the proper functioning of Code Authorities , they could never take the place of Code Authorities , because of their inability to represent labor and the public generally . Questioners Hang Back . " Both belong together , just as much as man and wife , " General Johnson said of the two agencies . " But if husband and wife do n't function properly there is going to be a divorce . " There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the delegates that he was ready for questions , and he exclaimed : " So everybody 's satisfied , eh ? " After a little prodding from the toastmaster and a reminder that General Johnson had been Invited as a " serious matter , " Charles J. Brand , former co-administrator of the AAA , took the floor . Mr. Brand wanted to know if it was safe for industry to go ahead with its plans for expenditures in the next few years . He recalled that on June 16 , 1935 , the NRA was scheduled to expire . " I have always held that if there is anything good about the Recovery Act it will live , and it ought to live , " General Johnson replied . " And if there is anything bad about it , it will die and it ought to die . " " I think that planning for the future has proved itself since the war , but planning is no good without some form of control . " But I do n't know what form that control of industry will take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalties and policemen , General Johnson continued . Whether the principle involved was to be continued as a permanent thing would depend upon what industry wanted and what the public thought it should have , he added . He thought there was considerable support for the continuation of the code system throughout industry and added : " If you want to know about the codes , ask the man who owns one . I do n't think myself that you could get the codes away from those now under them with a pair of pincers . " Price-Fixing Is Opposed . On the subject of price-fixing , General Johnson said it was the general policy of the NRA not to encourage it . With a request for a reply from the general " if the question is a fair one , " he was asked " which has been the most loyal to the NRA , industry or organized labor ? " There was a roar of laughter , and on hearing the question he rocked backward as if from some shock . " They have been equally both ways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Does the NRA in its mere completed form lead , in your opinion , to the complete unionization of industry ? " The general replied that it would be foolish to attempt to prophesy , but gave it as his personal opinion that the ideal situation was to be found in the bituminous coal industry , " where you have a. partnership between the workers and management . " Earlier , in his formal speech , General Johnson remarked that under the new conditions brought about by the passage of the Recovery Act an umpire was needed to decide between the conflicting claims of industry , labor and the public . He went on : " I have heard about criticism of General Johnson . I did n't have to wait to get it . I knew that anybody that sat in as an umpire in that kind of a controversy was bound to have pop bottles thrown at him , and I have had plenty , but I anticipated them and I was n't disappointed . " Now , we have n't asked anybody to refrain from throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticism . " 1 Chamber Opposes Bank Bills . In the general sessions of the convention today , it was evident that the business men conferring here , whether bankers or not , were mostly opposed to the Banking Act of 1933 , the Securities Act and the proposed Stock Exchange Control Bill . It was regarded as likely that the convention would adopt resolutions urging substantial amendment of the measures already enacted and the defeat of the Stock Exchange Bill . President Roosevelt had declined to address the convention , and the administration was represented at today 's sessions not only by General Johnson but also by Joseph B. Eastman , Transportation Coordinator . Features of the President 's tariff program , as embodied in legislation now pending , were criticized by James A. Farrell , chairman of the National Foreign Trade Council , during a round-table discussion on foreign trade . He declared that no scientific approach to an acceptable tariff could be made until its basic principles were sharply defined by Congress and changes were made , saying : " Three changes we regard as essential : That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that no rate be lowered to a point where American industry and agriculture shall be subjected to destructive foreign competition , that the flexible provisions which the President has agreed to maintain should embody a basic controlling formula defined by Congress . " This should provide for an adequate protective level for determining individual rates . " Harriman Voices Optimism . Henry I. Harriman , president of the chamber , who last year advocated a constitutional amendment empowering the government to regulate business for two years , found reason in his opening address for " conservative optimism " in the domestic business situation . " Economic horizons have indeed brightened , " Mr. Harriman said . " The normal gross income of those engaged in agriculture is between ten and eleven billions . In 1932 it sank to a sum barely in excess of five billions , but in 1933 it rose to between six and seven billions . In this same period , farm prices rose from an index number of 40 to an index number of 60 . " General business has also improved , as is well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rose from 61.7 in February , 1933 , to 78.5 in March of the present year . " ' Wholesale price levels in the same period have risen from an index number of 59.8 to an index number of 73.7 , and the advance of retail prices , while not so marked , has still been material . " But the most hopeful statistical figure is that of unemployment . The roll of the men and women who were out of work in February , 1933 , included nearly 13,000,000 people . " Today it is not even 7,000,000 , and from this number must be- deducted about 3,000,000 who are normally out of work , leaving the present excess of the unemployed around 4,000,000 of our people . " Thus far I have recorded cold facts , but there has also been a. gain in other values that it is impossible to estimate in dollars and cents . Child labor has been abolished in many industries . The sweat shop is going . " The ruthless exploitation of labor and the equally heartless exploitation of the investor , I trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record of American Industry . " Mr. Harriman predicted that the Recovery Act and the Agricultural Adjustment Act would ultimately be challenged in the courts on these grounds : 1 . That they transcended the power of Congress in the degree of regulation imposed on industry and agriculture . 2 . That they violated the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution , which forbids the taking of property without due process of law . 3 . That Congress had improperly delegated some powers to the Executive . He felt the courts would not sustain the power of Code Authorities to regulatd purely intrastate commerce in making rules for the " local butcher , baker and barber , " and said it was neither legal nor desirable for the President to have power to license minorities or to impose codes . " But I am sure that in basic industries , " he added , " codes of fair practice are essential , that the chaos of unbridled competition can not be permitted to return , and that some Federal agencies cooperating with business must continue to carry out the major functions exercised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the judgment of business men on the workings of the Industrial Recovery Act , it is that the law has done much good ; that many undesirable business practices have been eliminated , and that the foundations have been laid for the orderly conduct of business . " Robertson Points to Record . A. W. Robertson , chairman of the board of the Westinghouse Electric Manufacturing Company , defended the past record of American business . " When we speak , of business we think of that part of human endeavor and initiative that is expended on manufacturing , trade , and the transportation of men - and goods , " he said . " It is upon business as so defined that the spotlight of criticism is now focused ; so , let us take a close look . " There are 24,000,000 automobiles in use , or a greater number than in all the rest of the entire world . There are 17,000,000 telephones , or a greater number than in the rest of the world . " There are 18,000,000 radio receiving sets , with free concerts and free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8100,000,000 worth of life insurance in force . or more than the rest of the world combined . " We have 23,000,000 one-family houses , of which the majority are owned by the occupants . There are 30,000,000 students in our schools and an additional 1,000,000 in American universities . " Whoever ran our world in the past does not need to bow his head in shame or to apologize . I see no good reason for turning over its management to the control of those who have no record of performance back of them . " Mr. Robertson criticized A. A. Berle Jr. , one of the original members of the " brain trust , " for a statement in which Mr. Berle was quoted as saying that the country needed an economic machine that would work , and that he did not care whether that machine was individualistic , Fascist , Communistic or Socialistic . " I confess the scope of such planning takes my breath away , " said Mr. Robertson . " It may not make the slightest difference to A. A. Berle Jr. , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States of America . " There is as much difference between planning improvements and making improvements as there is between feeling good and being good . " The cotton textile industry has been put back on Its feet by its code , according to B. P. Gossett , president of the Chadwick Hoskins Company of Charlotte , N. C. He said : " Employment has been spread ; the excessive over-capacity has been measurably reduced ; small units are being better protected ; surplus stocks have not ' increased alarmingly , and no improper burden has been placed upon the consumer . "                     