@@699262

txt Sir John Simon , Foreign Secretary , announced this evening that Sir Ronald Lindsay , British Ambassador to the United States , had been instructed today to present immediately to Secretary I Stimson. the British Government 's note concerning the $95,550,000 due Dec. 15 as an Instalment on account of principal and interest of the war debt . Neither the Foreign Office nor the British Treasury will reveal the details or character of this communication until after Mr. Stimson has had time to consider it and reply . There Is now , however , after months of reticence because of the American Presidential campaign , a desire to give publicity to the whole situation as soon as possible , because it is deemed here such knowledge will be a useful psychological factor in reviving world confidence . Confident of Relief Here . Such an assumption is based , of course , on the confidence of the British Government that Its note to Washington will receive sympathetic consideration and be followed by Congressional action early next month to declare a moratorium for a long enough period to allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-examination is now under consideration by the British in view of the fact that Germany has been relieved of reparations . Although President Hoover , as well as President-elect Roosevelt , declared in the campaign he was opposed to cancellation , neither he nor his successful opponent for the Presidency has closed the door on reconsideration of existing debts with a view to their reduction or modificai ' Lion of the terms . On the contrary , both Ambassador Mellon and Norman H. Davis have been under MI structions from President Hoover for some time to keep him informed on Ithe situation . Various talks that Mr. Davis had with Prime Minister , Stanley Baldwin , Lord President of the Council , and Sir 1 John Simon , on his recent visit to London covered war debts as well as disarmament . It was undoubtedly the reassuring hints that they received from Mr. Davis that induced members of the British Government to send their statement of the case to Washington as soon as the Presidential campaign was over . No Intimation of Default . As cabled to Tnn NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for cancellation and certainly is not intimating default npr repudiation . If the negotiations Just begun fail , the British will pay the $95,550,000 promptly on Dec. 25. - It was asserted on excellent authority in the lobby of the House of Commons tonight that the British Government already has on deposit in New York funds sufficient to make the . December payment in full , but the - government is confident the ' United States will not demand payment and that it will not be made . What the British are trying to show now is not only that it will be tre- 000 would be paid by Italy and the lesser debtor States . See , France Favored . France has repeatedly " said she would ? pay that $400,000,000 owed for war stocks anyhow . But if she paid only that , it would mean total cancellation of her whole remaining war debt for borrowed money . This would be regarded as further discrimination by- the United States in favor of France and would be considered unfair by the British , who have already voluntarily borne the brunt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the settlement concluded by Stanley Baldwin nine years ago . That is one reason why the reported - terms are considered fantastic in . Great Britain . A second reason is that the suggested plan implies willingness of Great Britain to join France and other Continental countries ht presenting a so-called " united front " against the United States . That is one thing the British Government is determined not to do . In the first place , the idea ' of a united front implies a spirit of aggressiveness and defiance toward the United States with a veiled suggestion of repudiation or default in the backgroutIcl , in this Britain refuses to participate . In the second ? place , Britain made her present burdensome and rigorous debt arrangements by a separate settlement . She does not intend impairing her present chances for amelioration of the terms by acting jointly with powers that have already received much more generous treatment than she has , and want tan ram amckfaionvi mendously difficult for them to pay , but that the transaction will be a Ifurther disturbing factor in the finance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . It might , for example , cause further serious depreciation in the value of the pound , which would automatically force underselling by British exporters in the world markets . Reports from the United States to the effect that Britain and the . European debtor States were going to make a joint attempt to settle their war debts to the United States by payment of a lump sum of $1,000,000,000 are not considered plausible in ' either government or diplomatic quarters in London . According to the reported details of this supposed plan , France would contribute $400,000,000 , which is the amount ' she owes for war materials and which is separate from the amount of her obligation to the United States for borrowed money . Great Britain would also pay $400 , - 409,5100 and MA balawest atA. -                     