@@697803

txt The urgent need for a world accord providing a large measure of stability in the production and exportation of wheat has resulted in a movement in Europe to obtain the services of Thomas L. Chadbourne . New York lawyer , whose unrelenting efforts for the last nine months have finally brought the principal sugar-producing countries within the framework of a five-year agreement . A permanent legal contract binding Cuba , Java and all:the European beet-sugar nations to atty . Chadbourne scheme will be signed at Brussels next Saturday , and it is.tbe feeling of most of the sugar experts concerned that Mr. Chadbourne 's comprehensive experience ' in the sugar problem fits him for tackling the equally delicate wheat problem . The European signatories of the sugar accord  --  Germany , Poland , Czechoslovakia , Hungary and Belgium ? are understood to be strongly in favor of the selection of a man of Mr. Chadbourne 's personality and ability , and their influence is considerable in view of the vital role which wheat plays in their economic life . It is also reported that the French influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plan . It is significant that France , a nonexporting nation and therefore not a party to the Chadbourne plan , has nevertheless put into effect what has been called " a little Chadbourne plan " for the stabilization of its own sugar industry . The initial success of the domestic scheme modeled on the larger plan has been such as to bring high praise to those responsible , and the enthusiasm for the se16ction of Mr. Chadbourne is not difficult to understand . Without trying to anticipate what may take place at the world wheat conference opening in London on May 19 , observers here would not be surprised if a definite invitation to Mr. Chadbourne to assume direction of the world wheat stabilization negotiations were approved by the participants . Now that the American Government has decided to be officially represented there is an impression ? in European wheat circles that the London meeting will offer the first real opportunity for the consideration of a world understanding . The absence at the recent wheat conferences of official American delegates , in the opinion of Europeans , - has prevented the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agreement is now admitted on all sides and the success which has attended the sugar negotiations is pointed to by most observers as one which should be emulated by those attempting a solution of the wheat problem .. Equal Effectiveness Seen . Furthermore , it is emphasized that the broad outlines of the Chadbourne plan could be applied with equal effectiveness to the world wheat problem . There is also a feeling that public opinion in the various countries most affected has now progressed to a point where the sacrifices necessary to a successful world wheat accord could be counted on - with reasonable certainty . By unanimous consent , however , the . key to the whole problem is admitted to be in the hands of American wheat interests . A surplus of 275,000.000 bushels , in the European view , is a barrier to any accord , while the threat to dump the vast surplus on the world markets has already disturbed the European wheat situation to an extent hardly appre- ciated in the United States . The point is accentuated , therefore , that an agreement clearly defining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary preliminary to any kind of world agreement . Another great problem to be faced by the projected world agreement is to be the manner of withdrawing from the markets the difference between the anticipated export stocks of exporting countries for the coming harvest , now estimated at 35 , - 000,000 tons , and the needs of importing nations , fixed approximately at 23,000,000 tons . The sugar agreement was based on the withdrawal from the world markets of the present excess over the estimated consumption , roughly 13 , - 000,000 tons , and the gradual marketing of this amount over the fiveyear period . Those who have studied the wheat problem say the same general principle could be applied . To protect the consumer and to silence the inevitable charge of price fixing , it is suggested that the same protective clauses contained in the sugar agreement be written into the wheat accord . rapidly the world will spring back to prosperity . " Washington Sees Logical Move . Special to The New York limes . WASHINGTON , May 2 . ? Reported plans of European wheat exporting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a view to a world wheat agreement similar to the agreement on sugar production which bears his name were unknown to agricultural officials who could be reached here tonight . Secretary of Agriculture Arthur M. Hyde stated that while it was the first he had heard of the movement , it was a logical development in view of the conference of wheat exporting nations to be held in London on May 18 . His best conjecture , he said , was that delegates to the g comin conference were " thinking ahead . " Asked whether the United States would be in sympathy with a world agreement for the curtailment of wheat production similar to the Chadbourne plan on sugar , Secretary Hyde replied that to answer in the affirmative would be going a , little strong at this time . " We are going into the London conference with an open mind , " he said , " and with a willingness to consider whatever suggestions may be put forth at that time . " Secretary Hyde with James C. Stone , chairman of the Federal Farm Board , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world-wide wheat acreage curtailment if production is to be brought in line with consumption and the consequent upward adjustment of wheat prices accomplished . Would Cancel War Debts . LONDON , May 2 ** an interview published in The London Sunday Express tonight Thomas L. Chadbourne is quoted as saying that the solution for the present problem of economic depression lies in the cancellation of the European war debts and limitation of production of staple commodities on a world-wide scale . There are two business problems in the world today , Mr. Chadbourne is quoted as saying , overproduction of staple goods and immense surpluses throughout the world , together with the inability of millions of people to obtain the necessities of life . This lack of balance between production and consumption is blamed by Mr. Ohadbourne for throwing millions of people out of work in every country . " More governments and crowns may fall , " he says , " unless steps are taken to remedy the situation and unless heart is given to Europe by the cancellation of war debts which in no event can ever be paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power would be restored toZuropean nations . " One of the greatest deterrents to business recovery in the world is the ' refusal of America to cancel the debts . The quicker the American people realize that the war indebtedness must be washed put the more                     