@@701889

txt A veritable new Pandora 's box of diseases resulting from hypersensitive-. ness to heat , cold or slight effort , and simple methods of relief for these sufferers , who have hitherto gone mostly unrelieved because the factors bringing about their ailments had been unknown , were demonstrated here today at the scientific exhibit of the American Medical Association on the eve oi the opening of the association 's eighty-seventh annual session . Some patients have been found to be so supersensitive to slight degrees of cold , beat or physical effort , the exhibit shows , that ever . social conversation resulted in severe digestive disturbances . Other symptoms , the report adds , are asthma , hysteria , many varieties of skin disease , functional heart disorders , headache , paralysis , phobias , epileptiform attacks , sunstroke , convulsions , collapse , coma and shock . Death sometimes results , it is declared . The condition Is known as physical allergy , as contrasted with the well-known forms of plain allergy , in which a person is supersensitive to certain foods or other substances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemical reaction in the body . The condition was described by Dr. William W. Duke of this city , noted authority on allergy . Three Factors in Condition Physical allergy , Dr. Duke reports , may be brought about by three factors , cold , heat and effort , or mechanical irritation , such as a scratch . He suggests the name " thermophilia " for the " condition of altered reactability to the effect of heat and effort or of cold , " and the word " actinophilia " for the condition of altered reactability to the effect of light . The third condition he names tentatively " scratch sensitiveness . " These conditions , Dr. Duke states , may be either congenital , hereditary , idiophatic , symptomatic , temporary , permanent or intractable . The condition may lie dormant in a person until brought out by some change , physical or mental ; for example , certain illnesses or change in living habits . The treatment , Dr. Duke reports , consists in applying the reverse of the physical factor which brought about the condition . If it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cold have been found to bring relief ; if caused by cold , applications of heat have been found effective . Physical allergy , Dr. Duke says , may be brought about by gross change in habit  --  such as change from mental or physical activity to sedentary ease or quiet life to one of activity . Change to Inactivity a Cause " Retirement from athletic or active business careers , " he reported , " are common antecedents of heat or cold sensitiveness . " One of the cases reported by Dr. Duke was the production of emotional disturbance and fits of crying by the application of heat and effort , which was immediately relieved by applications of cold . Another patient went into " terrific convulsions after application of a warm cloth to the forearm for ten seconds and was relieved by ice rubs . " In a third case convulsion was caused by the effect of raising the arms three times , " with relaxation and relief obtained by cold applications . " In a fourth , case even the act of smiling produced convulsions for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold treatments . Another patient was subject to terrific headaches , with visual disturbances , hay fever , asthma , hives and vomiting , caused by heat and effort , and relieved quickly by cold . A number of other patients , Dr. Duke says , were severely affected by slight exposures to cold , and in these cases relief was afforded by application of heat . For cold sensitiveness , Dr. Duke reports , the patient is treated with cold each day to the point of causing the illness complained of , then immediate stoppage of the reaction is produced by heat , effort or adrenalin . For heat and effort sensitiveness , on the other hand , the treatment consists in applying heat to the skin from a large nitrogen lamp to the point of producing the illness complained of by the patient . " The illness produced must be stopped immediately by the opposite application , care being taken not to produce shivering , " the report adds . " This treatment , " Dr. Duke states , " should be given once or twice daily , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoided by extreme care in dosage of both heat and cold . " Scratch sensitiveness can be treated successfully through having the patient scratch himself thoroughly each morning and evening with a stiff hair brush or bath brush . " Additional treatment to be given1 are physical and mental exercise , Dr. Duke adds . Another study on hypersensitiveness to cold , caused by other factors than physical allergy , is described in an exhibit by the Mayo Foundation of Rochester , Minn. , summarizing work by Dr. Bayard T. Horton , the late Dr. George Brown and Dr. Grace Roth ; The Mayo workers also report relief with a simple treatment , but their treatment is the opposite of that described by Dr. Duke . Instead of applying the reverse they bring about desensitization to cold , by cold treatments . " Danger lurks in the bathing beaches for those who are hypersensitive to cold , " the Mayo workers report . " More than 40 per cent of the subjects of this study collapsed after they had been in swimming . Four had to be rescued . " Patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayo report states , the manifestations suggest that the condition is brought about by the secretion in the body of too much histamine , one of the amino acids essential to life . Immersion of the patient 's extremities in 50 degree Fahrenheit water for five minutes daily for six consecutive days hardened the patient to cold to the extent that the bad effect sometimes disappeared completely , the Mayo workers report . Discovery of the mechanism whereby the maggot , one of the real heroes of the World War , produces its remarkable healing effects on wounds , effects to which countless numbers of wounded soldiers in the last war owe their lives , is described in an exhibit by the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine of the United States Department of Agriculture . The wound healing properties of the maggot , the bureau has found , derive from its manufacture of a chemical substance known as allantoin . Allantoin had previously been known as a plant product , but its remarkable healing effects were unknown until the lowly maggot brought it to attention , the report says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body cells and activates the nucleus to the point where the cell begins to proliferate and build up new healthy tissue . Allantoin can now be made synthetically from the urea of animals , but so efficient a chemical factory is the maggot that it can manufacture the allantoin more effectively and cheaply than it can be produced in the laboratory . The allantoin has now supplanted the maggot in the treatment of badly infected wounds . In addition zo the allantoin , the bureau reports , the maggot also manufactures a very potent bactericidal substance , a , drop of which in solution kills the most virulent germs in five minutes . This germ-killing substance has not yet been obtained in pure form .                     