@@699573

txt New York Clearing House Association at 4 p. m . Thursday began clearing last Friday 's check .. The tur , soct R , 9 inn is accepting pass books for entries when full reopening of the banks is permitted . For the first time since the beginning of the banking holiday , local banks on Thursday began accepting new deposits . These were largely in the form of checks which will be credited to the account of customers when the New York Clearing House resumes operations . Some banks also were taking in currency , as well as gold and gold certificates , for regular accounts with restrictions on withdrawals . Savings banks hoped to reopen today . Although some further progress has been made in widening the activities of banks here and although arrangements have been completed for reopening under whatever restrictions Washington may impose , local bankers did not expect to broaden their services very much before next week . Bankers held a number of informal meetings at the Clearing House where the heads of most of the important local institutions were observed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the bankers were themselves looking for news and seeking latest developments from NeVashington . Gold Pours in Steady Stream Cold poured into the Reserve Bank in unexectedly large amounts from both member banks and individuals The return of hoarded metal resulted from the Washington ruling that member banks must return all gold and gold certificates to the Reserve Bank before getting advances on other assets and the order of the Reserve Board for member banks and Reserve Banks to report the names of persons who have withdrawn gold since February 1 and who fall to return it by March 13 . The Chase National , the Chemical Bank R. Trust , the Commercial National , Irving Trust and the National City were among the institutions accepting deposits . The savings banks in New York State have every hope of being open Friday morning for the transaction of such business as the federal and state authorities will permit , said Paul W. Albright , general secretary of the Savings Banks Association of the State of New York . Kinsey on Savings Banks Henry R. Kinsey , president of the Savings Bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Savings bank depositors are wondering when they can get access to funds which undoubtedly many of them need . We have had a number of inquiries on this point We hale not announced any plan because none of the plans which have been purposed from varloiis quarters have been decided upon as the final one under v , ? ch banks of the country will reopen . " While the savings banks ale the only hanks in this state which can , by themselves , fully protect their depositors without recourse In special emergency legislation , we are ready to cooperate in any plan which will operate for the protection of depositors in our type of banking institutions . " Our method of protection to which I refer is the 60-day notice of intention to withdraw . It has been used In each of the four financial crises which have occurred since the founding of savings banks in this state over a century ago . Never , when this clause has been invoked , has a depositor lacked one penny of his savings . Pending final word of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do not want to add to the general confusion of the problem by premature announcement . It ' Is vitally necessary for every type of institution to coperate with the federal and state authorities in their efforts to cope with this situation . " Lehman Awaits Capitol Plans Governor Lehman said he could form no judgment as to the extension of the New York bank holiday until he had heard from Washington regarding plans of the federal government . The Governor said he would keep intact the personnel of the Emergency Certificate ' Corp. , so that if the opportunity arose in which they could be of service in other directions , they would he able to do so . The morale of the state is excellent , he said Morris S. Trernaine , State Comptroller , on leaving Governor Lehman 's , stated in reply to a question : " I know that the great majority of banks in New York City are in extraordinarily good shape . The Albany banks because of the large volume of state business which they have been called upon to handle have always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will meet all payrolls in cash and in full . " No bond sale is contemplated by the State of New York at present . "                     