@@703412

txt W. Oscar Bruce came to Chicago yesterday and immediately made for the detective bureau . Mrs. W. Oscar Bruce was here Saturday , looked around a while , then boarded a fast eastbound train . Both are searching for their plump and pretty daughter , Mary Jane , who left home in Kansas City , Kas. , last Friday and is presumably bound for Syracuse , N. Y. , in quest of love . " I think she 's eloping with that young man from the university and I wish you 'd help me find her , " Papa Bruce explained to the desk sergeant . Mary Jane , he said , is 19 years old and a student at the University of Kansas . The " young man from the university " is William B. Schaffrath. 24 , a graduate instructor in the school 's German department . His home is in Syracuse , where his father is head of the German department in the city high schools . Thoughts Turn to Swain . " She liked to go out with boys , and we objected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words and then we found she was gone . Right away we thought of young Schaffrath . My wife 's on her way to his home , now . " But in Syracuse Schaffrath protested against the accusations of the Bruces and said he had n't seen Mary Jane since the close of the spring term last week . " Elope ? That 's the first 1 heard of it , " he told THE TRIBUNE by telephone . " Sure , we 've been going out together a lot . We had a sort of informal agreement to get married some day when things worked out . " Since the end of the term , we 've been writing to each other almost every day . Mary Jane told me she was quarreling with her parents again  --  they did n't want her to have any boy friends . Last Friday I got a letter from her in which she said she was coming to me . I promptly sent her a telegram telling her not to do any such thing . " Sure to Meet Parents Now . Informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he cried . " 0 , my goodness ! What a surprise that is ! X ' know , all the time I went with Mary Jane 1 never had a chance to meet her parents . I guess this 'll be rather sudden . " As for Mary Jane , the Bruces want her to come back home . " It 's not that we have anything against young Schaffrath , " Papa Bruce said . " We just think Mary Jane is too young to think about marrying . We want her to look around a while . " The desk sergeant notified police and railroad agents to keep a sharp eye out for a young lady with that certain look in her big brown Oyes.                     