@@704077

txt How to establish the " way " of de . mocracy by dramatizing it ? by t protecting civil liberties ? by keeping out antagonistic " isms "  --  and by unfolding a national way of thinking and living that gives jobs to youth , education and security to all ; this is the all-Amer --  . lean , problem laid before the Nation 's school teachers assembled in national convention here . These problems and arrows indicating , at least in part , ways towards successful accomplishment are being presented here to the 12,000 delegates to the seventh annual National Education Association convention which is meeting in every available hall in this city . The vigor and freedom , as well as the intensity , with which this convention is attacking its annual " house cleaning " and " refurbishing " is seen as particularly significant . Despite the wideness of its scope of topics the minuteness with which each topic is scrutinized indicates the thoroughness . The agenda includes national figures speaking on every program First day of the convention tVas taken up with getting under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversary of teacher training . Amy 0 . Hinrichs , Principal of the Audubon School , New Orleans , La. , received the unopposed nomination for the N. E. A. Presidency in 1939-40 . Independence Day saw the issues of American youth come to the fore . A tremendous audience gathered to hear United States Senator Elbert Thomas of Utah , once a teacher , and a member of the La Follette Senate Committee on Civil Liberties , and United States Representative Noah Mason from Illinois , member of the Dies Committee on Un-American Activities , These two legislators urged strongly that teachers point out the value of living and thinking in the " democratic way " as over any other system , but in doing so that they show students what the democratic system gives . Consistent Education Senator Thomas stressed the value of consistent education in the church , the home , and the school . This is the way the division may he visualized , he said ? the church furnishes the bond that puts " purpose into life by making it a part of a greater scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and the school teaches the " iscs " and " arcs . " Upon the teacher rests the responsibility for teaching the facts of Government and obligations of citizens , he said . Despite the fact that democracy may be " weak " because of lack of a strong central power due to the Preamble of the Constitution giving this power to " we the people , " Senator Thomas maintained this weakness was only as weak as the people allowed it to become . He urged all citizens not to be afraid of the consequences of freedom of speech , assembly and press for " the American system of trial and error , and freedom ? of expression will prove itself to make a very much more stable society in the limg run than a system where only those things are taught which the teachers have assumed are for the good of those taught . Ndne of these things can be preserved by force . " Communism 's Extent Representative Mason dwelt on the force of Communism in the United States , pointed out the American League for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best way to stop the spread of Communism in this country would be to transplant all Communist leaders , pink intellectuals , and parlor advocates of Communism to Red Russia and compel them to live there for a period of three to five years . I guarantee this would permanently , cure 999 out of every 1,000 . " Other things that should be done to check the growth of Communism , he said , are " put the unemployed back to work at decent wages , stop spreading class prejudice and hate , bring about a better and more equitable distribution of the products of labor . " He criticized Miss Frances Perkins , Secretary of Labor , in her administration and the alien longshore leader , Harry Bridges . Margaret Griffin , State Director of the National Youth Administration , of Reno , Nev. ; Floyd W. Reeves , Chairman of the President 's Advisory Committee on Education , of Washington ; Dr. Robert J. ? Kerner , Professor of Modern Eurdpean History at the University of California , Berkeley ; and Julia Emery , Wichita High School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aubrey Williams , Administrator of the National Youth Administration in Washington , studied the youth problem . Problem of Youth The ' consensus , although mostly stated by Federal employees dealing with the issues of jobs for youth , security , and education , seemed to be that youth 's problem and that of public welfare go hand in hand . It 's education'i task to prepare youth to take a more active and more efficient place in the whole ? national mechanism , they said . Professor Kerner summed it up concisely when he reported , " Our task is to dramatize the deniocratic way ? of ' life . We must make it dynamic instead of passive The parent , the school teactier , minister , businessman , Government official , and politician each has a task to see that our youth does not feel orphaned or outlawed hs a class by itself , that its problems are comprehended and sympathetically dealt with , and that its ideals and hopes are sublimated into a partnership of youth and adults in the great adventure of life . The future American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. Q. Attacked SAN . FRANCISCO , - July 5 , ( /PP ? Value of the ' intelligence quotient as a permanent and , definite means of determining ' a child 's intelligence was attacked and defended at an N. ? E : A. symposum . Dr. George Stoddtird of the University of IoWa advanced the theory that primary ? intelligence is acquired . It was immediately challenged by Dr. Lewis N. Ter-man , Stanford University ; considered.an authority on the. ! . Q. . L. R. Alderman , DirectOr of the Works - PrOgreis Administration Education , Division at Washington , told delegates that " the most optimisti ? thing that has come to my attention is that adults want to learn . " . He said more than 7,000,000 adults had attended WPA classes " to acquire knowledge and skill that would open the doors of opportunity . " James Roosevelt , eldest son of the President , urged educators to fight " isms " by , emphasizing the " things which we have and which we would have to give up If we adopted any other system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to relax efforts " to remind all those around you that to be an American , - to be in America , and there to be able to live with the dignity of a human being is the ideal of a vast number of people who live outside , as well as within our shores . " Mr. Roosevelt conceded there " are difficulties in getting a start and in finding steady employment ? for a young American , " but said " these difficulties are not inherent in the custom of the country . " Equal OnifortunitY Earlier in the keynote address of the convention , Reuben T. Shaw of Philadelphia , President , pleaded for " equal educational opportunities for all . because ... democracy can only function through an educated and enlightened citizenry . " " Anti-Americanism ... develops only in the soil of ignorance fertilized with poverty or fear or irreligion , " Mr. Shaw declared . " Crime in America costs $15 , - 000,000,000 per year , while education costs 21/ , billions . . . . The public are not aware of these facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools and at the same time .. . permit appropriations for the control of crime to be increased . " In defining " ignorance , " Mr. Shaw said he meant " definitely and specifically an ignorance of what democracy really is . ? . . The definition ( of democracy ) which appeals to me most is this : ' Democracy is intelligent compromise . ' " He cited the report of a Government committee recommending Federal assistance in establishing and maintaining public schools , and said- a measure providing for such aid now was awaiting Senate action . - ' The President of the NEA advocated Federal assistance for schools in recognizing that " democratic education . . . is the most impdrtant phase of our internal program of national defense . " . He cited  --  that there were 4,300 , - 000 children of elementary and high school age who were not in school , most of them because schools were not available for them . Mr. Shaw termed teaching " the most important profession in the United States " ; urged closer cooperation between teacher , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for teachers would be " readily provided " if " we carry through our responsibility of pre .. senting to the public ? . the needs of education " in the production of an " educated and enlightened citizenry , " He also urged closer co-ordination between related educational organizations and bureaus . The 100th - anniversary of the ? founding of the Nation 's first state teachers ' college at Lexington ,                     