@@704049

txt In its present frame of mind , Congress probably will demand a thorough reorganization of the Federal Communications Commission before it even considers granting that agency additional funds and additional power to regulate the telephon.e . industry . The FCC yesterday sent to Congress the report of its $1,500,000 investigation of the telephone industry , in which it asked broad additional power of regulation , including authority to pass on issue of securities . Since reorganization plans have been dropped for the present session , it is not likely that anything will be done this year towards carrying out the FCC proposals . Congressional leaders yesterday said they thought it was " a little late in the session " for any action on FCC legislation . FCC Funds Held Up As a matter of fact , some observers on Capitol Hill believe the FCC will be lucky to get its regular appropriation for the fiscal year beginning July 1 . next , because the House of Representatives held up these funds when the independent offices appropriation bill went through and the matter will have to be handled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been sponsored in the Senate by Senator Wheeler , chair-man of the Interstate Commerce Committee , but the Senator recently stated that nothing would be done with it this year . New legislation proposed by the FCC in its report would have to be handled by this same committee and by the House interstate and foreign commerce committee so the reorganization plan could be expected to take precedence . The FCC 's request for more money to enlarge its staff , although no amount was specified , would have to go to the House appropriations committee which has thus far held up that agency 's regular funds pending the outcome of reorganization proceedings . - On the whole . Congress is inclined to be hoatila:to the . FGC. - Congressional sentiment in favor of investigating the Commission has been on the rise for Some time and it is probable that an investigation was averted some time ago only by President Roosevelt 's action in shifting Frank from the Federal Power Commission to the FCC and his appointment of a new member , Commander T. A. M. Craven . While it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the FCC only temporarily and would return thereafter to the power commission . this arrangement was recently changed and Mr. 's place on the FPC was filled by the appointment of Leland Olds . Dissatisfaction With Inquiry Evident Influential members of both House and Senate are of the opinion that the FCC still requires a " housecleaning " and they naturally will oppose any enlargement of its operations and authority until they are satisfied it is qualified to perform the functions already assigned to it . Dissatisfaction with thee manner in which the Commitsion conducted its telephone investigation is also in evidence , and the American Telephone &; Telegraph Co. has continuously protested that it was never allowed to tell its side of the story . Part of this dissatisfaction probably will be eliminated , however , by reason of the fact that the Commission after long months of work and study finally was able to agree on a much more temperate discussion of the telephone industry than had been proposed by Coramissionee Walker in his tentative report published last year . The FCC in its report declared itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry and that Congress would be asked for an appropriation to provide a highly trained staff . experts in legal , accounting . engineering , statistical and other related branches of regulatory technique . Calls Profits " Unusually High ' Asserting that profits of the Bell System since its inception 60 years ago have been " unusually high " for a system engaged in rendering a public service . the Commission said that the former high earnings of the industry may be expected in the future - unless rates are reduced either voluntarily or through action by regulatory authorities " Declaring that savings to telephone subscribers of more than $30,000,000 through reductions in rates resulted from the telephone investigation , the Commission said this result justified the Congressional reference that - the American people are entitled to know if they are being oyer-charged for this service even though they may be satisfied with the serviLe . " With minor exceptions , the Commission said that it considered itself now to be possessed of " inclusive statutory authority , and . as a direct result of the telephone investigation , to be provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the inauguration and development of continuous and efficient administrative processes in this highly technical field of governmental effort . " Asks Amendments While stating that additional amendatory legislation may be required from time to time , the Commission said it was deemed necessary and advisable at this time to ask the following amendments which would : 1 . Specifically authorize the Commission to prescribe basic cost accounting methods to be followed by manufacturing companies under contract with operating telephone companies for the general supplying of equipment or ma-terial ; 2 . Make mandatory approval by the commission for , and as a condition precedent to , the issuance or refunding of any securities of telephone - corporations ; 3 . Clarify the Commission 's jurisdiction over the division of joint interstate rates ; 4 . Make clear the Commission 's power to regulate services one charges for wires used in chain broadcasting ; 5 . Prohibit the abandonment of any interstate line by a carrier subject to the act without FCC approval ; 6 . Make the application for consolidations of telephone companies mandatory ; 7 . Require FCC approval of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock of another company for purposes of control ; 8 . Empower the FCC. in the event of the refusal of any common carrier utility engaged in interstate communications to license others upon reasonable terms under any patents obtained in connection with communication service to the general public as a carrier utility , to order the issuance of such license ; provided that the granting thereof will not be detrimental to the communication service rendered by the utility holding such patents and not detrimental to techMeal progress . Also , it was suggested that Congress give consideration to the question of assessing the cost of regulation against the industry to be regulated . Comparison With Walker Report This broad request for legislative changes in the Communications Act was mild in comparison with proposals offered by Commissioner Walker in his " proposed report " made public last year . Although Mr. Walker , in connection with issuance of the Commission 's report , expressed gratification that his report had been approved " in principle , and largely in substance , " the Commission by its own language did not suggest the rigid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Walker . Furthermore , the Commission did not see fit to be as highly critical of many of the Bell System practices as did Mr. Walker in his report . While Commissioner Walker proposed specific legislation to enable the Commission to review , approve or disapprove all the system 's policies as well as intercompany contracts and loans advanced by the parent company to Bell system companies , the commission made no particular reference to these matters . As a matter of fact , the Commission did not specify in any way Just how its regulation would be applied , stating merely that " numerous ! ; specific issues must be faced . " Important Issues Among the more important isues which the FCC said must be faced an connection with active - and positive regulation were listed the following : The problem of developing an effective method of determining the reasonableness of costs and prices of telephone apparatus , equipment and supplies whenever the manufacturer or supplier and the operating company are under common control or ownership ; the question of proper separation or allocation of property , expense and revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of the simplification of existing allocation procedures ; the problem of determining just and equitable divisions as between the various entities which render the component parts of certain phases of telephone service ; the problem of effectively meeting the issue of Bell System license contract charges as well as other time company transactions and agreements : and the problem of developing processes and rnschinery of an accounting nature which will enable the public authorities to keep at all times fully abreast of progress in the business , and to determine continuously and with accuracy the reasonableness of particular rates and charges . The proper determination of these issues , by the Commission 's own statement , will eventuate-with the development of a thorough regulatory program . Corporate Structure Simple Tracing the history and growth of the Bell System . the commission found that , while it is a 36,000,000,000 enterprise , its corporate structure is simple in comparison with many smaller companies and its capital structure of about 73% stock and 27% long-term debt " reflects a generally conservative financial policy over the years . " The Commission criticized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fees to the parent company , and said that A. T &; T. should be required to keep its accounts so as to show the disbursements made by it on behalf of the operating units under the contracts and the disbursements assignable to its corporate activities as a holding company . The Commission likewise inferentially criticized what it called " self-perpetuating management " of the system , and denied claims of A. T. &; T. that the operating units were free to exercise independent judgment . Patent Practices Criticized Patent practices of the system also were criticized , and the commission said that telephone subscribers had paid for the research work carried on by the system . Dwelling at length on Western Electric Company cost and prices , the Commission offers its most severe criticism regarding this phase of the investigation . The company 's prices . the Commission said . bear no reasonable relation to the indicated cost of manufacture . The Commission said there were two methods of regulating or controlling the price of telephone equipment which warranted consideration : First , the establishment of competition among the manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce for use of the Bell company ; and second , regulation of the Western Electric Company . The Commission weighed the relative merits of each of these proposals . but gave no definite indication as to which it favored . The FCC criticized the depreciation policy of the company and also declared its intention of developing a simple and equitable method for the division of toll rates , both domestic and international . Regulation Declared Necessary In its conclusions and recommendations . the FCC said in part : " The telephone industry of the United States renders an essential public service which , by reason of its very nature , is not only subject to , but definitely requires regulation by public authority . It is today a six billion dollar industry . The development of the Bell Telephone System has resulted in the concentration in the hands of a single corporate aggregate of by far the greater portion of the telephone service , equipment and facihties of the nation . a concentration which in the interstate telephone field is well nigh absolute . While this high integration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem of regulation in the geld , both local and national . it likewise imposes upon the regulatory authorities art unusual responsibility in one of the most difficult and complex fields of governmental effort . " Indeed . the report here offered to the Congress discloses that the public authorities , particularly those which have to do with interstate telephone operations , are faced with a problem of no small moment even in respect to the creation and development of underlying regulatory machinery . However , the investigation conducted under the mandate of Public Resolution No 8 has resulted in the development and analysis of a large and important fund of data , and in the production of a background of fundamental experience upon which it is believed that adequate future regulation of Interstate telephone operations may successfully be founded . and in connection with which positive cooperation may be afforded to the various state regulatory authorities . The possibility of developing sound regulatory processes in this general field may fairly be said to have been demonstrated . " It is fundamental that the administrative process must be so developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the highly technical field of telephone rate and service regulation this fact is of peculiar import . Only if it be fortified with an adequate staff . continuously employed solely in the exploration of these problems , can any agency hope to develop the sound , positive and effective regulatory methods which are requisite . Indeed , it has become obvious that the experience , expertness and continuity of management attained by the American telephone industry must be matched to the highest practicable degree by equivalent experience , expertness and continuity of supervision on the part of the representatives of the public , if the regulatory process is to become even measurably successful in this technical and highly specialized field of interstate public administration . This means that a staff of adequately trained experts must be developed with specific responsibility in connection with wire communication problems , consistent with the declared purposes of the Communications Act of 1934 , ' to make available , so-far as possible , to all the people of the United States a rapid , efficient , nation-wide and world-wide wire ? ? ? communication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturation Point Not Reached ' . ' The earning power disclosed by the major elements of the American telephone industry , even in the teeth of the country 's most severe economic depression , discloses that the saturation point is as yet far from reached ih this sphere of communication activity . Maintenance and improvement of the quality of service which has already been attained in respect to most phases of this service is important , and the public is entitled to know whether repeated company claims that such service is being rendered at the lowest possible rates consistent with the maintenance of adequate service are in fact justified . The accomplishment of these ends will require a program of constant effort and a policy of persistent exploration in a rapidly changing field . The fundamental problem consists in the development of adequate machinery for the continuous provisions , effective analysis , and prompt publication of the underlying facts . Experience over the years demonstrates that , ' under existing conditions in the telephone industry , this result can not be brought about in the most effective manner excesit , through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , equipped with a staff of high calibre , training and capacity . and prepared not only to carry forward positive regulatory effort in the interstate sphere , but also to afford the states with access to those facts which they today frequently find themselves unable satisfactorily to obtain . So long as the Bell System continues to be organized upon its present basis the individual states must continue to look to the federal regulatory agency to afford them with many elements of the essential factual background of telephone regulation . Not only , therefore . is an adequately staffed and properly organized federal regulatory agency important in itself , but there is need for such a body to act in some measure as a cooperating agency with the states . Only through such a program may the public authorities of both the nation and  --  the states be enabled to cope with this complex situation , and only thus may assurance be had that the public moneys which have been expended on the telephone investigation may rind full fruition . " The instituting of an active program of telephone regulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . From time to time we shall be impelled to request of the Congress additional legislation either declaratory in character of the intent . of Congress or expressly granting additional regulatory powers to this Commission . The telephone investigation , however , has provided the Commission with basic data to serve as the foundation for the inauguration and development of continuous and efficient administrative processes in the highly technical field of telephone regulation . It must be noted that the development of effective regulatory process consistent with the magnitude of this general problem and with the statutory responsibilities already vested in this Commission will require the provision of funds sufficient to enable the Commission to meet the exigencies of the situation and the need for expertness of legal , accounting , engineering , statistical and certain related branches of regulatory technique . The exploratory efforts put forth during the course of the telephone investigation afford a basis of experience upon which it is possible with assurance to predicate estimates of the amounts required to accomplish these purposes and certain concrete suggestions ' in this direction will be made the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . "                     