@@701743

txt Brig . Gen. William Mitchell ? " Billy " . to the men of the United States air forces he commanded during the world war ? died unexpectedly in Doctors ' hospital late today . He was 56 years old . Gen. Mitchell entered the hospital on Jan. 28 for what his doctor said was " merely a rest . " He had come here from his family home near Warrenton , Va. , where he had recovered from . a heart seizure . Influenza complicated his illness , but Dr. Samuel Lambert Jr. , his physician , said the war hero , was not on the hospital 's danger list ? Condition Seemed Improved . Dr. Lambert was with him when he died . He said Gen. Mitchell apparently had been much improved during the last week . The first American officer to fly over the enemy 's lines in the . world war , Mitchell emerged from the conflict ' critical ' of the policies of the war and navy departments on aviation defense . His criticism , sharpened by four years as assistant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his court martial after he returned to the service and was stationed as a colonel at the - army 's flying school in San Antonio , ? . Tex . own the service , ' followed by his own resignation , intensified his critical attitude toward the government 's air preparedness policy . Takes Battle to People . ? On the lecture platform , in pamphlets and magazine articles , he continued his thrusts . As late as 1931 he said American aviation was not the equal ' of European aviation In speed , carrying capacity , or arm &; ment ; A year later he asserted in a magazine article that war between the United States and Japan was inevitable . His assertion in 1934 that private aircraft companies ' were stifling im. provements , in plane mechanism and designs for profit motives was carried into the congressional committee inquiry last December . There he Irepeated , the charges and accused Elliott Roosevelt , son of the President , of . having been an employe of a " powerful lobby " which he charged die . tatcd the nation 's aviation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Restoration Defeated . Shortly before his fatal illness a house committee attempted unsuccessfully to have Mitchell restored to the rolls at retirement pay . His death recalls Maj. Gen. Charles P. Summeralfs characterization of ? him at tile tithe Mitchell resigned . " One of that damn kind of soldier who is wonderful in war and terrible in pence , " said Gen. Summerall . He was . regarded.as " the bad boy o aviation " by i higher governmental forces because , of his open criticisms of the war and navy departmenti.His suspension ' sentence was upheld by President Coolidge but was modified by allowance of italf pay . But Mitchell , not wishing to be held in such Atatits , resigned his commission on Jan. 29 , 1926 , and . announced he would go on lecture tour to show that the United States had inadequate air defenses . Rose from Ranks to Ton . The son of United States Senator John Ledrum - and Harriet Danforth Mitchell , Mitchell- rose from a , volun. teer in the ' First Wisconsin infantry to command of ? the entire . air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1918 he commanded the largest aerial concentration in tape history ' of the world . For his exploits in the World war he was awarded the Distinguished Service cross ; the Distinguished Service ** French Croix de Guerre with five palms and was made a commander of  - -  the - French - Legion of Honor . The British made him a companion of the Order of St. Michael and SC- George and Italy honored him as a eommandatore of S. S. Maurizio a Lazzaro , the war cross , andgrand officer of the Crown . " Billy , " as his men called him , was destined for great things in a martial sense . Six days after he enlisted as a Wisconsin Infantry private . on May // with permission of the copyright owner . Further reproduction prohibited without permission . Associated Press Pbotol FORMER ARMY AIR CHIEF DEAD ? Brig . Gen. William Mitchell , retired , former chief of the army air corps and center of numerous controversies , who died late yesterday at hospital in New York . 14 , 1898 , he was made a second lieutenant and . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he got his first lieutenant 's cominission and wan honorably discharged on April 17 , 1899 . Gets Regular Army , Post . That same day . he was commissioned a lieutenant in the regular army and was promoted through all grades to lieutenant colonel on May 15 , - 1917 . On Aug. 5 , 1917 , be was given the temporary rank of colonel and on Oct. 1 , 1918 , . he was given the temporary rank of brigadier general of the air service in charge of all. ? aircraft in the A. E. F. Returning to America after the armistice , Mitchell was named assistant to the chief of the air service on July 16 , 1920 , but after four years in : Washington ' as a " desk aviator " he . reverted to the rank of colonel and was assigned to the 8th corps area at San Antonio , Tex . It was while ' stationed in Texas that Mitchell began baiting the war and navy departments for their alleged negligence and mismanagement of the air service . This-brought about his court martial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not his only military experience . He was on the star of Gen. Fitzhugh ' Lee in Cuba and participated in the Philip . pine campaign In 1899 . In. 1903 he completed construction , of the Alaskan telegraph system and duly in 1914 , before the United States had entered the world conflict , he was in Europe as a military observer , going to the front with the French air forces . In 1922 Mitchell predicted an airspeed of 300 miles in the near future . He had held the speed mark himself at 221.05 m. p. h. , made at Mount Clemens , Mich. , on Oct. 18 , 1922 . Mitchell attended Racine college Wis. , and was graduated as a bachelor of arts from George Washington university in 1899 . Ile was married to Elizabeth Trumbull Miller of Grosse Pointe , Mich. , on Oct. 11 , 1923 , she being his second wife . They had one daughter , Lucy Trumbull Mitchell .                     