@@702949

txt The beat and throb of New York City will slacken to a murmur at 11 o'clock this morning while the city pays its respect to the memory of those who gave their lives in the World War . It is the nineteenth anniversary of Armistice Day and is being observed in all the principal nations of the world , except perhaps in Germany where its place has been taken by the celebration of the Hitler " putsch , " of Nov. 9 . The national services in the United States will be broadcast from Arlington Cemetery near Washington . President Roosevelt with his aides will motor to the cemetery to lay a wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Soldier . Cities throughout the land - will have observances , most of them centering around war memorials at 11 o'clock in the morning . In England King George VI will lay a wreath on the cenotaph of the Unknown Soldier and will also decorate the equestrian statue of Field Marshal Earl Haig . Throughout the land two minutes of silence will be observed as Big Ben strikes 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be decorated and there will be military parades today . King Leopold III in Brussels will lead the Belgian observance , standing at salute at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier . Torchbearers from all parts of Belgium and the Congo will arrive in the evening to rekindle the flame on the tomb , according to The Associated . Press . Italy observed the cessation of fighting on the Italian front week ago . Subway Trains to Pause Except for essential services the city 's activities will halt for two minutes of silence . Underground the subway trains will stop , on the surface street traffic will halt at the principal intersections . At Times Square ten Boy Scout buglers , two from each borough , posted under the marquee of the Astor Hotel , will sound taps as a signal for silence . The ceremony in Times Square will be conducted by James E. Finegan , president of the Municipal Civil Service Commission . Meanwhile the annual observance at the Eternal Light in Madison Square will take place . There , too , the silent period will be observed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mayor La Guardia . After the services the veterans ' organizations participating will march to the World War Monument in Union Square , where another ceremony will be held with Magistrate Thomas A. Aurelio as the speaker . The public schools , banks , the 1 i Stock Exchange and specialty exchanges will be closed for the day , as well as a number of business houses . 1 Special armistice services will be held in a number of the larger churches today . Several churches held services last night . " They Shall Not Be Forgotten " will be the theme of an armistice service in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine . Bishop William T. Manning will preside . The third annual national memorial mass of the Catholic War Vetvans will be held at St. Patrick 's Cathedral . A patriotic sermon will follow the mass and " The StarSpangled Banner " will be played on the organ by Pietro A. Yon . Colors will be massed before the veterans enter the church . The veterans societies of the old Seventh Regiment will hold the annual memorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fifty-third Street , at 11 A. M. , with the Rev. Dr. Roelif H. Brooks , the rector and chaplain , officiating . This will be under the auspices of the 107th Infantry Post , American Legion . Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament will take place beginning with a 9:30 A. M. Mass and closing at 5:45 P. M. with benediction in the Episcopal Church of St. Mary the Virgin , 139 West Forty-sixth Street . The observance will be under the auspices of the women 's auxiliary of the parish . A " Quiet Day of Prayer " will be observed in St. Bartholomew 's Episcopal Church , Park Avenue and Fifty-first Street . St. George 's Episcopal Church , Stuyvesant Square and East Sixteenth Street , will hold a " Quiet Day of Prayer " under the auspices of the women 's auxiliary . A communion mass for Boy Scouts of the Catholic faith will be offered in Our Lady of Grace Chapel , Fordham University , followed by a communion breakfast in Keating Hall . The sermon will be preached by the Rev. David C. O'Connor , pastor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mass and breakfast will be under the auspices of the Committee on Scouting of the Bronx Council Boy Scouts of America and the Catholic Youth organization . Two minutes of silence will be observed , followed by Roll-Call and Taps In St. Paul 's Episcopal Chapel , Trinity Parish , Broadway , between Fulton and Vesey Streets , at 12:05 P. M. Women of the Episcopal k Church throughout this country and all parts of the world will for the fifth year observe Armistice Day as a day of " Corporate Prayer for the Peace of the World . " Men 's organizations in various parts of the country will join in the intercessions . The Salvation Army will conduct an annual service at the Eternal Light at 9:45 o'clock this morning . A wreath will be placed by a group who served overseas . This will be followed by the Service of Remembrance at the Centennial Memorial ' Temple , 122 West Fourteenth Street , at 10:45 o'clock . Another early morning celebration is that on the outdoor balcony of Hearn 's Store , ? Fourteenth Street and Fifth Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commander of the Coast Artillery Brigade , will make the principal address . Taps will be sounded in the Grand Central Terminal at 11 o'clock while the activities of the station halt . The ceremonies are under the auspices of Commodore Vanderbilt Post , American Legion . The Women 's Overseas Service League will hold its annual reunion and luncheon at the Hotel Brevoort at 12:30 o'clock , after the services at the Eternal Light . The Canadian Club of New York will listen to speeches by Sir Gerald Campbell , British Consul General , and Gordon B. Conant , Attorney General of the Province of Ontario , and Arthur Slaght , at a luncheon at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . The speeches will be broadcast . The New York County Council of the Veterans of Foreign Wars will conduct a memorial service at the Memorial Flag Pole in Central Park at 2:30 o'clock . Mayor La Guardia is among the scheduled speakers . The British Great War Veterans in America will have their seventeenth annual Armistice Ball at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel tonight . A roll-call for peace will be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hotel Commodore at which plans for a world movement for peace will be discussed . Aviators Post 743 , American Legion , will dine at the Hotel New Yorker with noted aviators expected from all parts of the country . The Washington Heights Peace Committee is having a Day of Remembrance meeting at the Fort George Presbyterian Church , St. Nicholas Avenue and 186th Street , at 8 o'clock tonight . The Holy Name Society of the Department of Sanitation will have its third reunion at the Hotel Astor tonight .                     