@@702974

txt Mrs. Dixie Graves , who is a United States senator because Hugo L. Black is a Supreme court justice , made her maiden speech today  --  a speech against the anti-lynching bill . Mrs. Graves is the wife of Gov . Bibb Graves of Alabama , an acknowledged member of the Ku Klux Klan . Mr. Justice Black , whose place in the senate she took , is an ex-klansman . And Mrs. Graves is a southern lady . The senators have been squabbling in a filibuster over the lynch bill since the opening of the special session . The Wagner-Van Nuys anti-lynch bill provides that any state officer who surrenders a prisoner to a mob shall be guilty of a felony and subject to prosecution in federal court . Penalties of a $5,000 fine or a five year prison sentence , or both , are provided . The county in which the , lynching takes place shall be liable for damages from $2,000 to $10,000 , to be paid to the family of the victim . Would Penalize Taxpayer . " When I first walked into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mutual understanding  --  a feeling that we , as ambassadors of great , sovereign , indestructible states were meeting here to study , consider and pass on legislation for the general welfare , " Mrs. Graves said . " And then I found the anti-lynching bill . " The bill , she argued , would penalize every taxpayer on the ground that some law enforcement officers fail to attend their duties . " A general wrong avenging a particular wrong , " she declared , " is all wrong . There is no justice in this plea . " " I abhor lynching , " said Mrs. Graves . " But we know that lynch law , not the law of the law books , cleared the forests and valleys of the west of cattle thieves and horse thieves . The ranchers who banded together and executed punishment committed a crime . I know that . And 11 abhor lynching . " Apologizes for Talking . " I know , " she continued , " that a new senator should be seen and not heard . But I feel that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression of my convictions . I shall not speak to consume time . " In the south , lynching was born when helpless women and children in isolated sections began to be the victims of the most vicious of all crimes . Incensed by these outrages , the men banded themselves together and sometimes meted out punish . went . The south , strengthened by public opinion and the firm resolve of her peace officers , is abolishing the crime of lynching . Asks 5 Years ' Time . " And at the rate we are going , in about five years there will not be a single lynching in the south . 1 do not know what the record of the machine gunners of the great north . ern cities is , and if I did , I would not mention it in this chamber , but surely it is more terrible than the lynchings that have taken place in the southI land . "                     