@@699159

txt Warned by the Secretary of the Treasury , Mr. Ogden L. Mills , that it , is not the duty of the Goverriment to direct the economic affairs of the nation , the American Bankers Association today turned to the task of considering taxes and their relationship to the public welfare . Mr. Mills , as guest speaker at a special meeting of the association 's fifty-eighth annual convention last night , said the Goveinment 's aim is to replace private credit with public credit until private credit again will perform its normal functions . In connection with the Government 's program of reconstruction , he said bankers have an indispensable role to play in providing credit for the productive use of the population . " It is the responsibility of the bankers , as dispensers of credit , to encourage the return of a normal volume of business activity by resuming their normal attitude of sympathetic cooperation with those who are their customers , whose prosperity means the prosperity of the banks themselves , as well as the nation  --  the producers and distributors of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America . " The basic thought underlying the Government 's reconstruction program , Mr. Mills stated , is that prosperity is the normal condition of American economic life . Strongly . organized " self-serving minorities " were accused today by Mr. Mills ' of blocking the Government 's efforts to reduce taxation . " If the organized minorities are not to ' dominate our Government and to make reforms and reduced expenditures an impossible task , " he told a joint meeting of the Chamber of Commerce , the Clearing House Association and the Advertising Club , " it is evident that the majority must be organized to cooperate with public officials in the establishment of a sound policy and to give them a sense of security . " This ; Mr. Mills said , can be done only by assuring them of support against pressures which " run counter to the real public interest when the time comes for the public servant to submit his case to the verdict of the electorate . " Miss Agnes M. Kenny of Milwaukee , manager of a large women 's banking . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Women yesterday at a meeting held simultaneously with the convention of the American Bankers Association . Other officers are : Miss Catherine Olney of Worcester , Mass. , vice-president ; Miss Lillian C. Hoge , Los Angeles , treasurer ; Miss Gertrude M. Jacobs , Milwaukee , recording secretary , and Miss Emma M. Steinke , Oshkosh , Wis. , corresponding secretary .                     