@@701526

txt New York State will cooperate heartily with other States in raising and improving labor standards , but it will enter into no alliances " if there is the slightest likelihood " that these will be used as " an excuse or pretext for leveling down our own labor standards to those existing in some of our competing States , " Governor Lehman stated in an address here tonight . The Governor spoke at the dinner meeting of the Conference on Interstate Labor Compacts , which convened this morning in the Senate Chamber of the State Capitol with delegates from thirteen States and the District of Columbia . The conference , the largest since the inception of the interstate compact movement , assumes particular interest because of the nullification of the National Industrial Recovery Act by the Supreme Court and the prospect held out by the movement , its supporters say , of aiding in the solution of the problems of wages , hours and working conditions through cooperation of the States themselves . Organized labor has assumed an attitude of watchful waiting , if not hostility , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coping with the problems on a national scale . Some labor leaders look askance at the movement , they say , because they fear it may interfere with ratification of the Federal Child Labor Amendment . Geneva Office Represented , The New York Commission on Industrial Compacts , ka which Elmer F. Andrews , State Industrial Commissioner , is chairman , is acting as host to the conference here . The commission was set up at the last session of the Legislature to study the compact movement and present a report , which may largely determine the attitude of the State . Among the States represented at the conference , in addition to New York , are Massachusetts , Connecticut , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island . New Jersey , Pennsylvania , Ohio , Illinois , Indiana , Kentucky and Colorado . Mrs. Marguerite Thibert of Geneva and Alice S. Cheney of Washington are attending as observers i for the International Labor Office , which is vitally interested in the idea of labor compacts on an international scale . " Industry in the State of New York and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be particularly interested in achieving the greatest uniformity of statutory regulation among the various States , especial : ly between the competing industrial States , " Governor Lehman said , urging Congressional legislation to facilitate labor compacts between the States . " In the State of New York , experience has shown that industry and trade have prospered under the progressive labor and social legislation which has been enacted in the past twenty years . An analysis made by the Division of Statistics and Information of the State Department of Labor shows that New York has more than held its own as the leading industrial State . Measured by value of products , by value added by fabrication , by wages or by number of employes , we have more than held our own . Cites New York Wage Scales . " It is significant that in periods of depression New York has suffered less than the country as a whole in the curtailment of industrial activity . We believe that this is due in large part to the fact that wage-earners in this State are relatively better paid , work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in their homes and are able to provide in a measure against the onset of slack times . " We have in this State a strong market of our own . As has been pointed out , our industries are diversified . They have accustomed themselves to compliance with laws safelmarding the health and safety of their employes . They are not hothouse growths . They do not wither away under the first adverse wind . " At the same time I am determined that no alliances shall be accepted by the State of New York if there is the slightest likelihood that they may be used as an excuse or pretext for leveling down our own labor standards to those existing in some of our competing States . In brief , what I seek for the State of New York is the fullest opportunity to maintain high standards for its working population . " We in New York realize the necessity of protecting and improving labor standards by all proper means . If the interstate compacts idea can be so implemented as to be practical and effective , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its thorough and honest support , not merely in the signing of compacts but in their application . " Urges Appeal to Congress . He urged the present conference ' to give " careful consideration to definite plans to obtain from Congress the enactment of a measure to make it easier for the States to get together through the compact procedure to make " our labor standards and working conditions even and uniform in the different competing industrial States . " " I think this is a course worth pursuing energetically , " the Governor said . Under the Federal Constitution the consent of Congress is required before compacts between States can become effective . It is the purpose of the Conference on Interstate Labor Compacts to obtain blanket consent from Congress for agreements between States as well as for regional compacts . In urging such cooperation between States as would promote the general lifting of labor standards , Governor Lehman emphasized the importance of uniform standards of administration if compacts were to prove effective in serving the purposes for which they would be intended . " While there is rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of uniform standards in labor legislation as a means of improving the living conditions , security and happiness of the wage-earners in this country , less attention has been given to the equally important problem of uniform standards of administration , " the Governor said . " It is very well to express a high moral tone and agree formally at conferences upon standards which must be applauded by all intelligent , socially minded citizens , but all this is of little effect , or possibly even harmful in fact , if we do not carry out these high resolutions in actual administration in our own communities . " In the past it has happened more than once that good laws , well-intentioned , well-written and adapted to pressing public needs , have been put upon the statute books , there to become dead letters because , through open or concealed antagonism or indifference , their administration was neglected . " It is especially true of labor laws that proper respect from employers , employes and the public can be obtained only by impartial , alert and effective administration . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Massachusetts Commission on Interstate Compacts and permanent chairman of the conference , outlined the history and the purpose of the conference , after which various committees presented reports . At the afternoon session committees on future compacts , minimum wages , child labor and hours of labor were appointed . These committees tomorrow will present recommendations to be acted upon by the conference . Southern States Absent . Mr. Parkman and various delegates expressed disappointment at the absence from the conference of delegates from Southern States , which are regarded as occupying a strategic position in the interstate labor compact movement . While North Carolina has expressed interest and was expected to be represented at the conference , advocates of the movement feel that without cooperation from the South , where wage and work standards are below those in other parts of the country , it will be difficult to make much headway in the matter of labor legislation and control of standards through interstate cooperation . " The effort to achieve substantial uniformity in basic labor standards by means of national legislation and the codes of the NRA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference . " By the Schechter decision the Supreme Court has said that we still have a dual form of government and that the field of action of the national government is narrowly restricted by the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution . In so doing the court has put squarely to the States the duty of action in the vast field of government denied to Federal power and at the same time has given the States their opportunity to demon ' strate their capacity to act in concert and thus to check the tendency to centralize all control , all authority , at Washington . We must make the most of it . " The economist , the representative of organized labor , the industrialist and the humble politician of both parties seem to have been in general agreement that there was some good in NRA . A minimum wage , the regulation of child labor , the establishment of a basic work week have seemed to meet almost universal approval . " Our first problem should be to pick up these pieces left by the shattering of NRA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left available by the Supreme Court decision . " Senator Parkman saw a cause for optimism concerning future State cooperation in the fact that onehalf of the States have already established commissions on interstate compacts , while seven States , through their representatives , have agreed to a compact providing for minimum-wage legislation of the mandatory type , of which two have ratified the compact and three others have enacted laws conforming to the standards set by the compact . L. Metcalf Walling of Rhode Island , chairman of the conference commission on minimum wage , dwelt on the importance of cooperation from the Southern States , pointing out that these States claimed to have a fair objection to cooperation in the fact that the States in the Northeast enjoyed a substantial competitive margin in freight rates . - Calling attention to the opinion expressed by the American Federation of Labor to some aspects of the conference aims , Mr. Walling suggested that it might be ' advisable if the conference refrained from action on the question of child labor in order to remove the objection of the trade unions with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Amendment .                     