@@700989

txt Identical bills calling for the extension of the functions of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for another two years after Jan 31 , granting the corporation permission to make loans of ten years maturity and increasing its powers to enable it to be more helpful in the mortgage field and in cooperating in the reorganization of railroads were introduced today by Senator Fletcher and Representative Steagall . No additional appropriation was asked . The measure also contains provisions for the continuance for another two years of the Commodity Credit Corporation and the ExportImport Banks . Section 10 of the measure also would bring the expenditures of the RFC under close budgetary control , providing as follows : " No obligation , contingent or absolute , shall be incurred for the expenditure or other disposition of funds heretofore , hereby or hereafter appropriated , or otherwise obtained for the carrying out of functions of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation unless within estimates of such obligations and expenditures approved by the Director of the Budget ; and , to the extent that the Secretary of the Treasury may consider practicable and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescribe , there shall be made on the books of the Treasury Department such accounts as may be necessary to give full force and effect to this provision . " Summary of the Provisions . The sections of the bill were summarized as follows : Sec. 1 . Extends the functions of the corporation until Feb. 1 , 1937 , subject to prior termination at such earlier date as the President , by proclamation , may determine . Sec. 2 . Puts a one-year limitation on disbursement of future commitments ( except commitments to aid in the completion , repair , or improvement of self-liquidating projects heretofore financed under the Emergency Relief and Construction Act of 1932 ) by the corporation and authorizes the disbursement of past commitments at any time prior to Jan. 31 , 1936 . Sec. 3 . Authorizes the corporation to make loans or renewals with maturities up to Jan. 31 , 1945 , instead of Jan. 31 , 1940 , as now provided . Sec. 4 Authorizes the corporation , with the approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission and with certain other limitations for the purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintenance , or construction of railroads , to purchase or guarantee railroad obligations , including equipment trust certificates , or to make loans to railroads , receivers , or trustees thereof upon full and adequate Security . Sec. 4a . Eliminates a duplication which will exist in . Section 5 of the RFC Act , as amended , if the amended Section 4 herein proposed is adopted . Sec. 5 . Authorizes the corporation , when requested by the Secretary of the Treasury with the approval of the President , to purchase stock in mortgage loan institutions ( the same as in banks and insurance companies ) for the purpose of aiding in the re-establishment of a normal mortgage market . It also authorizes the corporation to sell under certain conditions ? the stock , capital notes , or debentures acquired pursuant to this section , and the preferred stock , capital notes , or debentures of banks heretofore or hereafter purchased . Sec. 6 . Section 5e now authorizes the corporation to purchase all of the assets of a closed bank under certain conditions . The- proposed Section 5e would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as all of the assets of such closed banks . Commodity Credit Corporation . Sec. 7 . Authorizes the continuance until April 1 , 1937 , of the Commodity Credit Corporation as an agency of the government . Sec. ** an increase in the total funds of the corporation which may be invested in purchases of , or loans on , preferred stock and capital notes of insurance companies from $50,000,000 to $75,000,000 . Sec. 9 . Authorizes the continuance until June 16 , 1937 , of the ExportImport Banks as agencies of the government and broadens the powers of these banks subject to certain restrictions . Sec. 10 . Places in the Director of the Budget determination of the expenditures which shall be made by the corporation notwithstanding the availability of funds authorized by Congress . Section 3 of the bill also provides that , as a condition of making loans to railroads or purchasing obligations thereof for a period longer than five years , the corporation may require that such arrangements be made for the reduction or amortization of the indebtedness of the railroad , either in whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation after the prior approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission . " This proviso is considered to protect adequately the corporation 's interest in and connection with these long-term loans as in accordance with the plan for scaling down of the debt structure of railroads , approved by the President , " a corporation statement said . Section 4 of the bill also provides that the ICC , in connection with loans to or purchase of obligations of a railroad not in receivership , shall certify that such railroad may reasonably be expected to meet its fixed charges . No such certification is required in connection with loans for maintenance , or purchase of equipment for railroads.                     