@@704071

txt Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain tonight delivered still another in the series of resonant warnings that have gone out toward Germany from the British and French Governments in the last few days . " We are living in critical and dangerous times , " the Prime Minister said in a radio speech on preparedness to a nation-wide audience . " We are ourselves a peaceful nation and we desire no quarrels with any one . " But let no one make the mistake of supposing that we are not ready to throw our whole strength into the scale , if need be , to resist aggression , whether against ourselves or against those whose independence we have undertaken to defend . " Mr. Chamberlain spoke a few hours after 20,000 National Service volunteers , representing 1,500,000 men and women in all branches of civilian defense , had marched past King George and Queen Elizabeth in Hyde Park in a demonstration of Britain 's readiness on the home front . Ring Echoes Warning The Prime Minister 's warning was echoed by the King in a message that Mr. Chamberlain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our preparations are designed not to provoke war but to preserve peace , " the King wrote . " We still preserve the hope that nations may learn to live together in fellowship and harmony . But in the meantime we are resolved to leave nothing undone to maintain our country 's security , and to that task the National Service volunteers are making a contribution which deserves all our gratitude . " Meanwhile , there has been another revival of optimism here over the prospects of an Anglo-Russian alliance . The foreign affairs subcommittee of the Cabinet will meet tomorrow to consider a report received over the week-end from Sir William Seeds , British Ambassador in Moscow , following his latest talk with Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , Soviet Premier and Foreign Commissar . According to well - informed sources , only one point of difference remains . The British are said to have agreed to name the Baltic States in the proposed guarantee if the Kremlin insists ; they have agreed that the alliance shall not become operative until military staff consultations have taken place ; they have agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a separate peace in time of war and thus leave Russia to bear the brunt of the fighting . Want Internal Status Quo The only obstacle now is said to be a Russian demand that the guarantee of the Baltic States should operate against internal changes of regime in those countries as well as against aggression . In other words , the Russians want Britain and France to go to war to prevent or defeat any internal fascist rising in Finland , Latvia or Estonia . ? This , of course , is a tall order , and if the Russians press it there may be further difficulties in these negotiations , which have already dragged on almost three months . The British are hopeful , however , that the tension over Danzig may bring the negotiators in Moscow to an agreement more quickly than otherwise , especially since the British and the French have already yielded to every important Russian demand . For reasons best known to himself Mr. Chamberlain made no mention of Danzig in his speech tonight , although his government has been alert over the week-end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain 's Ministers have been equally shy of specific warnings in the last few days . Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , and others have said a good deal about " aggression " and about an " attack " that might threaten Poland 's independence , but none of them has said what Britain would do if , for example , the Danzig Senate simply proclaimed the Free City 's annexation to Germany . Assurances Satisfy Poles The Poles apparently are satisfied with the assurances they have had from London and Paris in recent days ; they seem sure that if Poland should decide to fight against a " peaceful " annexation of Danzig from within , Britain and France would fight , too , in accordance with their guarantees . The same interpretation is being put out by official quarters in Whitehall , which said today that if Poland had to resist a sudden attempt to join the Free City to the Reich , then Britain and France would be immediately at her side . Yet there is a belief here that German action in Danzig may not I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sudden annexation , but perhaps a series of gradual steps by the Danzig Nazis over a period of weeks . In the circumstances , new doubts are being caused by the silence of the British Ministers on the subject  --  doubts that , according to all reports reaching London , have left Germany convinced that Britain would not fight against a " peaceful " change of Danzig 's status . The British Foreign Office assured the Polish Ambassador here on April 1 that " it is up to Poland to decide if at any moment it feels its independence is threatened . " Mr. Chamberlain on April 3 told the House of Commons that , although the British guarantee did not concern " some minor little frontier incident , " it would operate " if the independence of the State of Poland were threatened " and if the Poles decided to resist by force . Nevertheless the question is beginning to be asked whether Mr. Chamberlain would allow the Poles to resist a " peaceful " change in Danzig and whether he would not urge them to negotiate after such annexation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Into war with them . Until the Ministers speak more precisely on these points old doubts will persist and they will probably find expression in questions to the Ministers in the Commons this week . British Public Is Determined Certainly all shades of public opinion in this country appear determined to resist any aggression , open or veiled , and would resent any " surrender " at the expense of the Poles . The British people , as far as one can judge from political speeches and newspaper editorials , are in an exasperated mood . They have never been so united or so articulate in their unity as on this issue of further German conquest , in Danzig or elsewhere . The Labor and Liberal parties have vied with the Conservatives in acclaiming Lord Halifax 's speech of Thursday night , which , despite its omission of the Danzig issue , is described as a , historic utterance of the sort that Sir Edward Grey should have made on the eve of the World War . Arthur Greenwood , deputy leader of the Labor party , followed it up tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resist further acts of aggression such as those that have led in the recent past to the present unsettlement , uncertainty and apprehension in Europe . " The desire for war or peace , therefore , rests entirely in the hands of the potential aggressor , " Mr. Greenwood said . " The die will be cast by him , not by us . This is a truth which I earnestly hope the people of Germany will grasp with all its implications . " Former supporters of the Munich agreement are more violent than any one against the very idea of " another Munich " over Danzig . Thus J. L. Garvin warned Mr. Chamberlain in The Observer today that if Britain shirked the first test over Danzig " and bilked her pledges , " no one in the world " would believe that we had the guts for any test . " " Our name would smell , " Mr. Garvin wrote . " Our diplomatic connections would dissolve . Our repute would perish . The Entente Cordiale itself would be untenable . The United States would be alienated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earn the world 's contempt . " To remove all doubts Mr. Garvin begged Mr. Chamberlain to reconstruct his Cabinet and to " speak as plainly as Lord Halifax acid with specific reference to Danzig . " The Times of London , which last year urged the cession of the Sudetenland to Germany , thundered tonight against any change in the status of Danzig . The issue is not the liberties of Danzig , " but the freedom and independence of Poland and of all the smaller countries of Central and Eastern Europe , " The Times declared . Danzig Viewed as Wedge " Danzig lacks nothing but formal incorporation in the Reich  --  nothing , that is , but the freedom of Nazism to make it a means to the destruction of Polish independence in the same way as the cession of the Sudetenland was perverted for the subjugation of the Czechs , " The Times went on . " While this is the German purpose and this the function of Danzig in German eyes , there is far more than a local issue in the relations of the Free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been no hesitation about the British guarantee . It offers no kind of impediment to negotiations between Warsaw and Danzig or between Warsaw and Berlin , which might have been possible in quite other circumstances and with a different spirit ruling in Berlin . Its purpose and effect are to give Poland assurance that she will not stand alone against a subversive campaign with Danzig as its fulcrum , promoted by a government whose unconditional zeal for German rights is proclaimed in South Tyrol and whose loyalty to self-determination is manifest in Prague . " Present Nazi activities in the Free City , according to The Times , can not confuse the determination of the Poles " to act forthwith in the moment their security is directly threatened . " " The countries concerned , " The Times added , " know exactly where they stand  --  including the German Government , unless it is still beset with wishful thinking and false information . There will be no conflict unless Germany provokes it , and war is not inevitable unless Germany makes it so . "     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       