@@702378

txt A battered but unyielding levee line repulsed the Mississippi 's greatest crests today while rehabilitation , control and relief problems engaged the flood-scourged Ohio Valley and the nation 's Congress . Army engineers maintained a force of 120,000 river fighters along the defenses to keep the country 's worst flood from multiplying its toll of 381 dead , nearly 1,000,000 homeless and $550,000,000 in property loss . The Mississippi was receding slowly in the Cairo , Ill. , sector and , barring storms to send the muddy water smashing against improvised dikes , engineers considered the battle won but promised a ceaseless watch for days or perhaps weeks to come . President Roosevelt 's $5,0ll,000,000 public works program to curb raiding rivers lay before a Congress receptive to flood control plans . The proposal calls for a plan of water control for the Ohio and Mississippi in combination with a six-year program of public works . Norris for More TVA 's Senator George W. Norris ' ( R ) of Nebraska , " daddy " of the Tennessee Valley- Authority Act , offered a proposal to handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover the entire country . " Such a program , he contended , would mean " the maximum navigation development , the maximum flood control , the maximum reforestation , the maximum correction of soil erosion , and the maximum amount of power . " Along the Ohio , the hardest hit towns emerged further from flood waters and began thinking in terms of reconstruction , Cincinnati reported a shopping " boom " reminiscent of holiday trade as stores reopened to meet buyers ' long-denied heeds , The Ohio overflow continued to retreat from Louisville at the rate of three feet a day , leaving the city with an acute housing problem . Lower River Still Rises Hickman , Ky. , nestled snugly and . apparently safely behind its concrete flood defense . Just below , the Reelfoot levee , protecting a hundred square miles of western Tennessee , stanchly resisted the crest of the flood . At Hickman and around the Mississippi 's Hairpin Bend to New Madrid , Mo. , the river fell slowly . Downstream , the river still was on the rise . It edged up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a crest of 48 feet due in a few days . A rise , too , was recorded at Helena , Ark. , where the river gauged slightly above 58 feet . With levee weak spots reinforced at Meliwood and Ferguson . Ark. , engineers saw little difficulty ahead . ' Sand bolls , created when the flood water finds a loose stratum of earth under the levee and bubbles up through it , were proving bothersome at Cairo , along the Reelfoot levee and in Mississippi ,                     