@@703434

txt Organizations t epremilting the interests of 12,000,000 cyclists in this country are planning a national fight against recommendations of the Transport Advisory Council for the regulation of cycling . The Council 's recommendations include ; Compulsory use of cycle tracks . Red rear lights in addition to reflectors . Prohibition of riding more than two abreast . Identity discs on all machines . Opposition to the Council 's report Is being organized through the National Committee on Cycling , which represents all organized cylists , and includes representatives of traders and manufacturers . Cyclists feel that the aim pf the recommendations Is to keep down the number of bicycles on the roads . This number is increasing steadily each month and , although no official total has ever been registered , is believed to top the 12,000,000 mark . Cyclists are being advised to Inform their member of Parliament that he can count on active hostility In future If he does not oppose the.se measures should they come before the House . Inside Parliament . Itself a group of sympathetic M. P. 's Is being gathered together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red rear lights the recommendation was that " the value to all of a rear light on cycles is so great AA to outweigh the considers-61011 Of trouble and cost to the cyclist , " This verdict is particularly disputed by cyclists . Pedestrians , too , through the Pedestrians Association , announce themselves again : 1 , it . " We believe , " declared Mr. Robes Williamson , the lion , Secretary to the National Committee on Cycling , " that efficient reflectors are quite as good as rear lights , The trouble has been that inefficient reflectors of foreign 01 gin have been put on the market on a huge scale . We would like to see reflectors conforming to a national standard made compulsory . " It is over the question of cycle paths , however , that main opposl11011 arises , Although some cyclists believe special roads valuable , the great majority refuse to admit that they have any real use . It is pointed out that three out of four mishaps Involving bicycles occur at cross roads , where cycle tracks are not possible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " that the Minister of Transport should de-Posit the Report in the nearest convenient pigeon hole and forget about it . "                     