@@702947

txt Plans for stimulating a nation-wide private housing program , involving large and small construction , began to take shape today in a conference held by President Roosevelt with five business leaders and economic advisers within the administration . The housing plan is part of a twopoint program for stimulating both residential and industrial construction , toward which the President has been veering in his efforts to halt the business recession without the resumption of large scale Federal expenditures . The conference had to do only with housing , but steps are expected to be taken soon toward Iaccelerating industrial construction as well . Those conferring with the President included Gerard Swope , president of the General Electric Company ; S. Sloan Colt , president of the Bankers Trust Company of New York ; Henry C. Turner , president of the Turner Construction Company ; Robert E. Wood , president of Sears , Roebuck &; Co. ; Edward F. , vice president and director of labor relations of the Radio Corporation of America ; Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Eccles , now financial adviser to the Federal Housing Administration ; and Isador Lubin , commissioner of labor statistics of the Department of Labor . The group evolved no hard and fast program , but Mr. Eccles , its spokesman , said there was every hope that a plan would be worked out whereby a nation-wide housing campaign would be started and carried along " entirely by private capital . " Neither Mr. Eccles nor any other member of the conference would disclose the details of the discussions , but various suggestions and proposals looking to government action along a broad front were believed to have figured in the conversations . Various Proposals to the Fore Among the possible government moves which have been coming to the fore , either through actual suggestions to the President and his advisers or in memoranda in preparation for them , are : Use of the proceeds of Social Security taxation as well as the funds already accumulated in the old-age reserve account as a government insurance fund to guarantee repayment of private loans on largescale building operations . Establishment of a Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( banking basis without undue government red tape . Encouragement of large-scale construction corporations strong enough financially to carry on mass building projects and responsible enough to enter into annual wage agreements with labor . Some measure either of voluntary or compulsory control over building material costs to avoid skyrocketing prices . Reduction of the base interest rate on insured Federal Housing Administration loans , , ECs well as service fees and mortgage insurance premiums so that the gross would be per cent instead of the present 614 per cent . Increase in the amount of insured mortgages acceptable on apartments up to $200,000 . Extension of the coverage of insured mortgages-on moderate-priced houses from the present limit of 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the total cost . Seeks to Attract Private Capital All of these suggestions are didected toward inducing private capital to start the building drive , without which , in the view of most of the government economists , the government may be compelled to resume large-scale spending to avert a dangerous business slump . " It is our hope to be able to de- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involving housing for sale and housing for rent , " Mr. Eccles said . " The entire field of housing , large and small , will be covered , wholly disconnected with any government funds . " Mr. Eccles said he could not discuss the program in terms of possible expenditure , but intimated that this of necessity must be large enough to accomplish the purposes in view . He remarked that the business interests represented covered a wide range of the industrial and banking field and mentioned that the " particular men called into the discussions had had much experience with . the subject . White House sources revealed that Messrs . Wood , Swope , Turner and Colt had been making a private study of housing construction for the President . Observers noted particularly that Nathan Straus , Administrator of the new Housing Authority , was not called into the conferences . This was believed to have been due to the fact that Mr. Straus 's agency involves Federal financing , whereas the plans discussed had to do strictly with the employment of private capital in building . Further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schemes to keep as far away from government spending as possible was seen in a remark of Secretary Ickes as he left the White House earlier in the day . Asked if the President had modified his order regarding the disbandment of the Public Works Administration , of which he is the head , the Secretary of the Interior said the order still stood . Secretary Morgenthau 's speech in New York , copies of which were circulated in Washington , was taken as additional proof of the Administration 's desire , if possible , to avoid a resumption of grandiose government spending . Despite all these efforts , the opinion persists at the capital  --  and it is not confined to " spending " quarters  --  that the Administration will not be able to turn the business curve upward again without resortto large governmental expenditures . For various reasons , some of them psychological , private investment may not be stimulated , according to this view , to the degree necessary or with the speed required to take the load so completely off the Treasury . Nevertheless , the efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Capitol , where the Ways and Means subcommittee on taxation was studying such changes in the undistributed profits tax as might encourage the use of tint the group decided to strike at porate earnings for plant exile at the two principal obstacles sions and new enterprise . to home construction , the high cost The committee discussed ** materials and the high Treasury experts nine specific plaints of business against the II involving the following situat . Debt-ridden corporations ; corp tions with impaired capital ; ex ditures for business expansion ; corporations ; inventory probl forgiveness of indebtedness ; dis fivaga a plan , under which the buildlowed capital losses ; dividends shortly after the taxable year trades would accept a lower deficiency and refund probleme.hourly wage in return for a guar " Our committee intends to taulde ad total income over a specific up these ' complaints one by crpretiod . The present situation is said Representative Vinson , c alliat , while paid well when workman of the subcommittee . " I nil* there are many weeks in the there are merits in some andygot in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective " Fp chief goal is the stimulation to relieve the hardships an.c ofibbilding by individuals and coraequities of the law . " The cases were presented t Under-Secretary Magill of Treasury ; Arthur H. Kent , assis counsel , and L. H. Parker , chi ? . staff of the Joint Congress . Committee on Internal Reven taxation . Mr. Vinson explained the corki post simultaneously a spokes-nl for the Federal Housing Adplaint regarding forgiveness ** said that that agency debtedness as involving a corps devoting special attention to tion whic.k might buy its own bolrldg bar m , said he , This par . below e scale rental housing projects . the question as to whether the Wife FHA may be the key agency in ference between the price paid Nrizr par value is taxable income . Complaints regarding inventories , he added , apparently have been based on the misapprehension that inventory appreciation is taxable . Under the law the tax falls only when the articles are sold , and profit realized , he said . " As for the complaints regarding expenditures for business expansion , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden is not anything like what is claimed . " Nevertheless he and other members of the subcommittee have practically agreed that some modification must be written into the undistributed profits tax to clear away inequities and encourage business , and the President is understood to have given a " go-ahead " signal to such changes . , Group Asked to Work Out Details WASHINGTON , Nov. 10 ( . P ) . ? Following President Roosevelt 's conference today with Chairman Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board and a committee drawn from industry and banking , Mr. Eccles made it plain that , although the proposal is still in the discussion stage and may require legislation at the coming session of Congress , Mr. Roosevelt gave at least tentative approval , and asked the group to go ahead and work out the details of a. private housing drive . In response to questions , Mr. Eccles said the plan dealt with " houses for sale and houses for rent , large and small , " that " naturally " the purpose was " to get a large volume of building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program as it is finally evolved . The FHA 's function is to Insure mortgage loans obtained by the builder from private financing concerns . It will insure such mortgages up to 80 per cent of the value of , the building . But , to be eligible for insurance the project must meet FHA standards , including stipulations as to the rent charges . Mr. Eccles said today that legislation might be necessary and this was promptly taken to mean that he had in mind some relaxation of the restrictions imposed by the FHA as one means of encouraging builders . Senator Thomas , Democrat , of Oklahbma , returned to Washington asserting that the business- recession had wiped out billions in property values . He will seek a readjustment of the value of the dollar as a remedy . His plan , he continued , is to propose as an amendment to the Farm Bill his measure to have the Federal Reserve Board determine the value of the dollar and take steps to fix it at that level . " There is no other way of remedying this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator said . es paid to workers in the buildtrades . Individual members of conference were delegated to uss the problem with organized r and the construction materials ii try . - project under consideration ni.s which construct houses for purpose of selling or renting ? not home construction by induals for the use of themselves eir families . Considers Large Projects                     