@@704361

txt Halfway through . charges today that Edwin S. Smith , member of the Labor Board , had encouraged a Boston department Store to join a strikers ' boycott against a Pennsylvania Knitting Mill , the House Committee today dramatically summoned Mr. Smith himself to the hearing . All morning long ? and part of yesterday Roger Robb , a former district . attorney ? in Washington . and . assistant to Edmund M. To-land , Committee Counsel , was on the stand , discussing the correspondence seized in Labor Board files between Mr. , Smith and Louis Kirstein of Filene 's , Boston , and also between-Mr . Smith and John W. Edelman , Research Director of the American Federation of Hosiery Workers , which was striking against the Berkshire Knitting Mills of Reading , Pa . The Smith correspondence took place before the Labor Board took any action . Mr. Edelman wrote Mr. Smith of low ' wages paid workers and alleged tyrannical treatment . The union , he said , " will appreciate any co-operation possible from large purchasers of Berkshire goods . " Wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then wrote to Mr. Kirstein at Filene 's , where he had formerly been personnel director , outlining the Union 's contentions and declaring : ' " I do not know whether you wilt care to make any approaches on the matter to the Berkshire manage ' ! pent nor do I know what volume of business Filene 's does with Berkshire . I do most certainly feel that any stand which you might adopt would be listened to with the greatest respect by the Berkshire company . " Mr. Kirstein replied , Oct. 28 , to Mr. Smith that he would like confirmation of Mr. Edelman 's wage and hour charges  --  charges which included assertions that the management spoken - for Hitler , the G. 0 . P. , and the Liberty League . " - The Committee hearing suddenly stopped as members went into a huddle . Representative Arthur D. Healy ( D ) of Massachusetts demanded that Mr. Smith himself be called . The Committee waited in growing tension for his appearance . In a statement issued at his office yesterday , Mr. Smith denied the implication of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He declared his letters to Mr. Kirstein " do not suggest a boycott and I am sure Mr. Kirstein did not so construe them , " he said . On His Toes Mr. Smith identified himself to the Committee as a Harvard graduate of 1915 and former Commissioner of Industry and Labor in Massachusetts . Around his personality has centered much of the attack on the Board , with American Federation of Labor charges of sympathy to the Congress of Industrial Organizations . Mr. Smith appeared as a young , leanish man , of the alert , Facts so far uncovered by the Committee fall into three classes . Hearings at the same time have revealed the type of procedure the Committee will follow , and the publ c now knows that every corner and cranny of the Board 's doings over the past four years will be explored with as much care as a posse following the lead of a bloodhound The three categories are : 1 . Prejudices , beliefs and a trail wherever it may lead , until points of view within the Labor he catches a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ful committee is the one that knows who was sent to the three-man how to use this unswerving guide , Board six months ago by Presi- when to encourage it and when dent Roosevelt to find what faults to check it . In Edmund M. Toland . The discussion of the charges existed and try to correct them , is counsel for the present Committee , director , quoting miners alleging against Mr. Smith , in the labor shown to have an antipathy to it has such a driving force ; a law- that Van A. Bittner of the United boycott matter , today , is typical qwq                     