@@701517

txt The delegates of fifty governments agreed tonight on a complete credit blockade of Italy . This unexpectedly drastic measure prohibits commercial credits , through which most international trade is done , and makes only cash and barter business possible between Italy and those applying the measure once it goes into effect . The delegates agreed to try to have their governments put this blockade  --  which is Proposal 2 ? into effect completely by Oct. 31 . They also agreed to name a subcommittee to work out immediately Proposal 3 for plugging this cash and barter loophole , to reaffirm the pledge of mutual financial and economic assistance in Paragraph 3 of Article XVI of the covenant and to name another subcommittee to arrange compensation for those suffering most from applying these sanctions . Only Hungary definitely abstained from these actions taken by the Committee of Coordination of fiftyone states . Four Make Reservations . Among the others four made reservations . The Austrian delegate made a puzzling statement interpreted by some as an abstention but treated generally as an unimportant reservation . The Argentine delegate warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political reasons . The delegate of Venezuela , which is a big oil producer , stressed that he had no powers to adopt these proposals , and the Uruguayan delegate emphasized that he agreed subject to approval by his government . Although this last qualification is true of many others , the fact that only one mentioned it hints at the possibility of trouble in that quarter . None of the five who abstained or made reservations is , of course , of any importance financially , and if the position of these five shows a weakness it also refleets how strong is the position the others are taking . Argentina , moreover , received a severe if polite rebuke for her attitude from G. Howard Ferguson of Canada and Charles Theodore to Water of South Africa and an even curter one from Nicolas Titulescu of Rumania , which led Dr. Enrique Ruiz Guinazu , the Argentine delegate , to soften his attitude somewhat . Legal Groups Named . A legal committee was named to consider the questions Argentina had raised and legal and constitutional problems generally . These would presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-member States , which Salvador de Madariaga of Spain raised in the committee of eighteen today , and the question of the Austrian and Hungarian attitude , particularly as regards transit of commodities , although these two problems were left by the committee of eighteen for the full coordination committee to deal with later . Reaffirmation of the non-military part of Paragraph 3 of Article XVI was proposed by Anthony Eden of Great Britain apparently to meet the difficulties of the appliers of sanctions , but it may prove more important still . This paragraph may be found later to permit positive financial and economic assistance to Ethiopia in the shape of loans and supplies , including arms and munitions . Today 's reaffirmation of this pledge was worded in a way that seems also not to exclude this . Mr. Eden notified the League to- day that the United Kingdom had lifted the arms embargo against Ethiopia , this being the first such notice received . Much speculation was roused by the discovery tonight that in the excitement of the last few days Joseph A. C. Avenol , the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say he is taking a rest on the Riviera which seems doubtful at such a time as this . Others say he has gone to Paris and still others say he has gone to Milan or elsewhere in Italy . The trend is to connect his absence with talk that Premier Mussolini is soon to open new negotiations . Proposal 2 falls short of severing financial relations with Italy completely , as Article XVI requires , but experts do seem agreed that it severs completely loan and credit relations . It does this by an apparently exhaustive list of five categories , each impressively beginning with the sweeping word " all " and covering public and private , long and short term lending with no exceptions listed . Maxim Litvinoff , the Soviet delegate , whose arrival in the committee of eighteen today indicates the importance attached to the present work , and who was always pushingl in this meeting for strong action , asked whether the proposal covered1 all credits , including specifically the main point at issue  --  ordinary commercial credits  --  and was assured that it did . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 of the proposal , which reads : " All banking or other credits to or for any public authority , person or corporation in Italian territory , and any further execution by advance overdraft or otherwise of existing contracts to lend directly or indirectly to such authority , person or corporation . " Some Deals Exempted . It was explained in answer to questions by delegates that a number of financial transactions were excluded . Switzerland and Austria were assured that payment of interest on debts to Italy was permitted to all her debtors , so also are payments of insurance premiums and religious , Red Cross and other humanitarian payments . Emigrant remittances continue possible and there is no question , at least yet , of stopping Italian bank accounts abroad or otherwise confiscating the property of Italians abroad . The sudden desire of various countries to make sure they could pay their debt services to Italy is causing some amusement . It is wondered what this really means . In the committee of eighteen , where all today 's action had been worked out before the matter went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that by payment of debt service it was not intended to allow either full or abnormally fast repayment of principal nor allow those who have opened credits to Italy to let her use the unused portions thereof . The part of Proposal 2 asking action by Oct. 31 was proposed by Mr. Eden . It is not quite clear how Proposal 2 works regarding those many European countries that trade with Italy through clearing arrangements and that , like Yugoslavia and Rumania , have big credit balances now through having sold Italy more than they have bought from her . If Proposal 2 cuts off these indirect credits , as it seems to do , it apparently eliminates all such trade until Italy pays the balance due . Thereafter trade could continue only on a strictly balanced basis . As it seems difficult to work out in practice any continuously perfect barter balance never requiring credits , Proposal 2 may end by reducing trade in these cases to a cash basis . There is interest in how far Proposal 2 will depress the lira . That depreciation in turn will affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most existing commercial credits to Italy have been worked out on the basis of the lira 's gold value it is a good guess that the central banks of most countries trading with Italy are now faced with losses from lira depreciation , for usually they are the ones to discount such commercial paper . The more one looks into this credit blockade the more ramifying it seems . High Prices for Italy Likely . Although it does not directly affect Italian trade with the few nonparticipating countries  --  of which only the United States is financially important  --  it affects this indirectly by increasing the cost to Italy of supplies from them . The more Italy is forced to depend on a few countries the more they seem certain under natural economic laws to charge her higher prices for everything she is forced to buy from them , both as regards interest rates and commodity prices . The Hungarian delegate pointed out that his country was a debtor country and consequently not concerned in today 's proposal . The Austrian delegate stressed his country 's gratitude to Italy , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria , but merely asked whether Austria could pay the service on such a loan under Proposal 2 . Hungary , although in the same condition , omitted this point . Importance is attached to the Argentine position . Dr. Ruiz Guinazu explained in the committee of eighteen that Argentina 's Constitution raised difficulties . In applying any sanctions , these were increased by the country 's federal character and all proposals would at best have to be ratified by the National Congress . Re said Argentina faced a difficult political problem because her population included 1,000,000 Italians and she thought herself entitled to the special dispensations promised States in specially difficult circumstances by the League Assembly 's 1921 resolution . The impression made by all this was , the worse , as it all came from the country furnishing the President of the Council . The delegates of Canada and South Africa stressed that their countries were prepared to carry out their obligations and thought they were entitled to have at the outset a clean-cut statement of what Argentina meant to do . Mr. Ferguson emphasized that Canada as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there  --  and other raw materials was facing an especially heavy loss through keeping her word . Mr. Titulescu sharply declared he could understand no need for the Argentine Congress to ratify now any of these proposals . It has already ratified Article XVI , he said , which bound Argentina , once its government declared this article in effect through a violation of the covenant , as it did last Monday , to go much further in sanctions than has yet been proposed , Economic Study Mapped . The economic subcommittee created today will " undertake an immediate study of the application of measures concerning an embargo on raw materials and products essential to Italy for the continuance of the hostilities and concerning a cessation of Italian exports to i countries members of the League . " This is part of the program proposed by France today with British support . It combines their two pro ' posals with the French one on top . It seems confirmed that the key products on which the swiftest action is expected include pickle , chrome and tungsten . The countries represented on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S.S.R. , Spain , Poland , Canada , The Netherlands , ' Switzerland , Sweden , Belgium , Turkey and Rumania , with Dr. Augusto de Vasconcellos of Portugal in the chair . The compensation subcommittee created under the same FrancoBritish proposal is composed of the United Kingdom , France , the U.S.S.R. , Spain , Poland , Yugoslavia , iouth Africa , Greece , Mexico and Rumania . The legal committee is composed of the United Kingdom , France , Belguim , The Netherlands , Greece and Poland . The subcommittees begin work tomorrow . A committee of military officers began today considering a possible extension of the arms embargo . It is considering among other things the inclusion of mules as a. key war material in so wild a country as Ethiopia . Nothing , it seems , is being forgotten .                     