@@699564

txt President ROOSEVELT 'S proclamation of a four-day nation-wide bank moratorium and of an embargo during that period on hoarding , export or earmarking of gold , is based on a wartime statute of 1917 . That was designed solely to control export of gold and speculation in foreign exchange . The ' United States Government was then supporting by its loans to its European Allies the exchange value of their currencies at New York . It virtually assumed part of the burden of international payments which had accrued against the European belligerents on neutral markets . In the four months preceding the enactment of the statute our gold exports had exceeded imports by 896,000,000 . The provision that " the President may investigate , regulate , or prohibit " transactions in exchange , " export " or earmarkings of gold or silver " coin or bullion or currency , " under " such rules and regulations as " he shall prescribe , by means of " licenses or otherwise , " was designed to protect our own market against an exhausting drain of gold . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regulatory power to " hoarding and melting " of gold as well as " export or earmarking . " Since there was then no question of internal currency-hoarding or bank difficulties , the occasion for the law of 1917 differed widely from that reinvoking it today . But the wartime act remained upon the statute books . The President now extends its application to domestic money-hoarding . His power to declare a bank moratorium arises from the provision for regulation " by means of licenses or otherwise . " But the embargo on both foreign exchange dealings and ordinary banking business is modified by empowering the Secretary of the Treasury , with the President 's approval , to permit during the four-day period " any or all " banking institutions " to perform " any or all of the usual bank " ing functions , " or to authorize " issuance of clearing house cer " tificates , " or to provide for " special trust accounts " in which " new deposits shall be subject to withdrawal on demand . " The design was to meet , first , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for hoarding purposes . That not only depleted individual bank resources and blocked the banking business , but imposed an abnormal strain on the Reserve system 's note circulation , which had to be excessively increased to fill the void . The further purpose was to arrest the panicky hoarding and export of gold , which was pulling down the Federal Banks ' reserve while note liabilities were expanding . Prohibition of gold exports , while undoubtedly a temporary suspension of free gold payments , is not abandonment of the gold standard any more than it was from Oct. 6 , 1917 , to June 9 , 1919 . But the Government will have to deal with the foreign exchange situation after the expiration of the moratorium . The policy adopted in the wartime period , when regulation of gold exports $ was placed in the hands of a committee under the Federal Reserve Board 's auspices , will presumably be repeated . The power was then exercised judiciously ; even gold exports were permitted when they were shown to be in response to commercial requirements . Resumption of normal activity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though it may be preceded or accompanied by issue of " emergency currency " through the clearing houses  --  currency , it may be presumed , - carrying the guarantee of the associated ' banks in separate localities . Naturally , it would be put out with the purpose of early redemption and extinction ; the object of its issue now would be to provide , without reimposing an unnatural strain on Federal Reserve facilities , for payrolls and hand-to-hand money circulation . But use of discretionary powers by the Treasury , with a view to permitting " performance of the usual banking functions " by any or all banking institutions , will be a matter of the highest importance . The emergency has been of a peculiar character . The reassuring facts are that the Government has grasped the nettle firmly and is acting under the advice of our soundest and most experienced financial authorities .                     