@@701899

txt This correspondent has just seen Prince Ernst Ruediger von Starhemberg , leader of the Heimwehr , who was forced out of his position as Vice Chancellor last night , leave for Rome from Vienna 's South Station . He received a warm send-off from several thousand supporters . Replying to a question put just as his train was moving out , the Prince declared : " The fight for fascism in Austria is only beginning . When I return in a week it will start in earnest and fascism will finally triumph . " The Heimwehr district commanders issued orders to their followers to observe discipline and avoid clashes with their political opponents , but a number of them also declared their readiness to follow Prince Starhemberg wherever he would lead them . This was regarded in government circles as an open challenge , and orders have been given to the police to prevent the publication of such declarations . Country Is Orderly Order remained complete throughout the country , however , and no special measures on the part of police and gendarmerie headquarters were needed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up their hands in the Fascist salute and cheered as he arrived to board the train for Italy . On the platform to see him off were Minister of Fi- nance Ludwig Draxler , in Heimwehr uniform ; former Foreign Minister Egon Berger-Waldenegg , many officials and many uniformed Heimwehr officers . Prince Starhemberg , in civilian clothes , looked dazed , as if he did not quite realize what had happened to him when he was summoned last night from a dinner party on the terrace of a restaurant on the hills above Vienna to find that Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg had succeeded in disposing of him . His supporters shouted , " Heil Starhemberg , heil Fascism ! " The former Vice Chancellor stood smiling nervously in the door of his sleeping car , obviously anxious for the train to move off . He acknowledged the cheers with the Fascist salute and occasionally replied , " Heil , fascism ! " Mr. Draxler told the writer , " Please make clear that the Prince 's departure has nothing to I do with what has just happened in the political world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ team to Rome as he is keenly interested in the match and has presented the challenge cup for which the teams will compete . " The Viennese learned this morning from extras that Chancellor Schuschnigg had formed a new Cabinet not including Prince Starhemberg . Cock-feathered Heimwehrmen eagerly discussed the changed situation , while both the Socialists and the Nazis did not conceal their joy that the supreme Heimwehr leader who had helped to crush the two " putsches " in 1934 had been ousted . The Austrian press in its comments evidently followed lines indicated by the official press bureau . All the newspapers emphasized that the Cabinet change was the result of Dr. Schuschnigg 's desire to eliminate the " dualism " in the conduct of the State 's affairs produced by the fact that Prince Starhemberg stood by the Chancellor 's side in the important role of chief of the Patriotic Front . " The new Cabinet is the result of the process of rationalization , " the head of the official press bureau explained this afternoon to foreign correspondents . " On major questions the Chancellor and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters the dualism proved fatal . The building up of a corporative Austria as envisaged by the late Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss was greatly handicapped by this dualism . " Now virtually all power is centralized in Dr. Schuschnigg 's hands and he will certainly be able to accelerate the construction of the new Austria . " It is not true that the new Cabinet was formed without or even against the Heimwehr . Several important portfolios are held by Heimwehrmen in the new government and Prince Starhemberg himself has agreed to continue in his post of supreme leader of Austrian sport . " The regime 's basis is unchanged . It has been enlarged , enabling all Austrians to join the Patriotic Front . The militia that was hitherto under Prince Starhemberg 's command will in future be under Dr. Schuschnigg as chief of the Patriotic Front . " Asked whether a rapprochement with Germany could be expected as a result of the Cabinet change , the press chief answered : " None of the so-called German nationalists keeps a portfolio in the Cabinet . Austria 's attitude toward Germany remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleared for a rapprochement , but only on the condition that Germany unreservedly acknowledges her independence . " Questioned about the new Cabinet 's attitude toward a Hapsburg restoration , the press chief replied that the government 's views were unchanged . The problem was still regarded as not pressing , he added , and the only negotiations now going on related to the settlement of financial claims advanced by the Hapsburg family .                     