@@700427

txt New York was virtually a taxi-less city yesterday , following an unexpected walk-out of drivers . Adding to the traffic troubles caused by the heavy snowfall , the strike developed at 6:30 A. M. as a result of the dispute over what should be done with the five-cent tax levied on cab riders by the O'Brien administration . By nightfall it was estimated that 80 per cent of the city 's 15,000 licensed cabs were off the streets . Evening crowds in Times Square were astonished to see the streets comparatively deserted . Earlier the situation had caused such congestion at railway terminals that incoming travelers were forced to walk to their hotels , with plodding red-caps carrying their baggage . As the night wore on the taxi shortage became more acute , for the independent operators , not affected by the walk-out during the day , were asked to withdraw their cabs from service . Mayor iVarns on Disorder . Mayor LaGuardia received a delegation of the strikers at City Hall at 9 A. M. He let them know that he sympathized with them , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I want to warn you against trying any rough stuff , " he said . " If you do I will get rough , too , and I can be rough if 1 try it . I warn you against hiring any strong-arm men or gangsters , and I want you to inform me if you hear of any of the companies doing so . " Later the Mayor revealed that he had learned of the strike when he encountered a group of pickets on Lafayette Street while he was driving to City Hall . He advised them to seek leadership from the American Federation of Labor and told them he would communicate with William Green , president of the federation , in an effort to help them . Mayor LaGuardia , in a recent letter to the operators of large fleets , pointed out that the five-cent tax had been declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court . He offered to drop an appeal taken by the city if the operators would give the tax to the drivers , who contended that their tips have been curtailed since the five-cent levy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested that they keep 60 per cent of the tax and give 40 per cent to the drivers . Some companies circulated petitions among their men , asking authorization for this , but it provoked resentment among the drivers , according to the strikers . The operators , however , declared the majority of their men had not I been unfavorable to the 40 per cent ' payment , but had been intimidated into striking by a minority . The operators admitted there was vir-1 tually a complete tie-up of their Depts. but contended that this was because they had voluntarily withdrawn their cabs from service , fearing disorder and damage to the cabs , or injuries to drivers and passengers . Operators Confer With Mayor . Some of the operators blamed the Mayor for the strike , asserting that the attitude of the drivers could be traced to Mr. LaGuardia 's suggestion that the entire tax be given to the men . Nevertheless representatives of the Terminal , Parmelee , Keystone , Radio and Alliance Cab companies conferred with the Mayor at City Rail in the afternoon . Afterward they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingness to accept any settlement made by the companies and the drivers . They renewed their offer to give the drivers 40 per cent of the tax =Honey , as soon as its legal status has been decided . They " notified " the drivers that they might return to work , and declared that if the ' , men would cooperate the strike could be settled by tomorrow aftetsnoon . It was said that each fleet would try to deal with its own employes . This method of individual negotiation was decided upon , it was understood , because the drivers had achieved the unusual feat of calling a city-wide strike before they had organized a union . Organization meetings went forward yesterday afternoon in Manhattan , the Bronx and in Brooklyn , and plans were being considered Yor unification of the organizations thus created . The Mayor , however , wished immediate action on peace proposals . Organizations Are Formed . Organizations were formed at meetings in the afternoon at Lorraine Hall , 790 Broadway , Brooklyn ; at Vasa Castle Hall , 138 East 149th Street , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall , 83 East Fourth Street . In charge of the latter meeting were William Gandell , who organized a group for the support of the Fusion ticket in the recent city campaign , and Frank R. Ettinger , his associate . The Brooklyn meeting also was arranged by their organization , and they reported last night that they had signed up more than 5,000 strikers . The organizers said this union would insist upon recognition , limitation of the number of drivers and limitation of the number of cabs , as well as upon collection of the 5-cent tax . Under the name of the United Taxi Drivers Union , the organization has set up headquarters at 229 West Forty-second Street . Fifty delegates were chosen at the Rayol Hall meeting to press an organization drive at the main garages . In an attempt to get the major hotels and the railroads to bring pressure for quick settlement , persons were chosen to " peaceably solicit the independent drivers to join the strike before 6 A. M. , " Mr. Gandell announced . The independents had provided cab facilities at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chairmanship of Samuel Smith of 1,765 Walton Avenue , was the Empire Taxi Chauffeurs Union . More than 1,000 members were signed up , It was said after the meeting , which was addressed by Borough President James J. Lyons . The East Fourth Street meeting received a telegram from the Mayor last night , summing up the results of his conferences during the day . " Met representatives of all fleet owners , also met some groups of drivers , " the telegram said . " Employers have agreed to meet all their employes tonight and tomorrow , and have promised to adjust existing differences . I am receiving a report on these phases tomorrow morning , and will advise you. , , About 1.000 drivers met last night in the Brooklyn Labor Lyceum , Myrtle and Willoughby Avenues . Brooklyn , where speakers expressed determination to remain on strike until the full 5-cent tax was promised to them . The meeting was orderly . Hyman Goldstein presided . Police Dispense Pickets . At Grand Central Terminal policemen were called to disperse pickets whose activity caused excitement among a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The taxi shortage was felt at the terminal shortly after 8 A. M. , when two sections of the Fifth Avenue Special arrived . ? The passengers were accommodated by the Terminal Cab Company , which provides taxis for the station , normally about 500 . By the time the Twentieth Century Limited arrived at 9 o'clock . with the Southwestern Limited from St. Louis following it five min- , utes later , practically no cabs were available . J. H. Hustis Jr. , manager of the station , ordered the red-cap porters , whose territory is usually limited to the building , to accompany passengers to hotels and other destina-1 tions . Pedestrians on Park Avenue , accordingly , saw passengers trekking to hotels as distant as the Waldorf-Astoria accompanied by one or more porters carrying luggage . Most of the travelers , however , checked in at nearer hotels . At the Pennsylvania station there was no disorder , but a sergeant and five patrolmen were assigned there as a matter of precaution . Officials of the station force invited independent cabs to come into the station , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by mid-afternoon , moved from the station without serious inconvenience . The same plan of allowing independent operators to pick up , passengers from the station was ' adopted at Grand Central Terminal . Officials of the Keystone Transportation Company , operators of about 550 taxicabs from five Manhattan garages , announced just before 9 A. M. that they had no cabs on the streets . The Crown Transportation Company , 804 East 138th Street , the Bronx , followed with an announcement that their 200 cabs had been turned back by pickets and were in the garage . The Terminal company offices at 501 Tenth Avenue reported that all but about 100 of their 1,000 taxicabs were out of operation , and declared that this was largely because the drivers , despite the Mayor 's injunction against " rough stuff , " had ' been threatened with bodily harm , by pickets . Throughout the day , despite excitement caused by picketing , little disorder was reported to police headquarters . Some precincts , however , reported arrests and fleet op ' erators declared that they had received reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was to be a strike came to them , the operators said , at the time when the day shifts were about to take cabs from the company garages . Drivers of the day shifts , who had gathered as if to go to work , suddenly refused to take out their cabs and organized themselves into picketing parties . These climbed upon the running boards of cabs that did leave the garages and induced the chauffeurs who had gone to work to return to the garages in many instances . Others of the strikers hurried away to the railroad stations , to the North River piers and to the midtown business area . Hailing drivers along the way , they induced these to go back to the garages . Reports by the Companies . The Yellow taxi company garages at 530 East Twenty-third Street and at 320 East Thirty-eighth Street announced that more than 500 of their cabs were laid up . The Parmalee System , the Radio Fleet Owners and the Super Paramount Cab Company reported almost complete stoppage of service . In the . Bronx the Starlight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brothers , Washington Avenue , and 163d Street , and the Publix Cab Company , Longfellow and Whitelock Avenues , announced that each of them had withdrawn about a hundred cabs from service . Brooklyn operators reporting similar tie-ups were the Union Hall Cab Company , 925 Knickerbocker Avenue , and the Elmore Cab Company , Taylor Street and Kent Avenue . The trouble at the Elmore garages began . on Thursday , when some of the drivers walked out . In their statement as to the cause of the strike , officials of the Radio Fleet Owners system and of the Terminal system placed the blame for the strike directly upon the Mayor . B. M. Seymour , president of the Terminal system , and Se ' rome Hyman , traffic manager of the Radio Fleet Owners , issued statements declaring that the drivers of their fleets had not wished to strike , but had been intimidated by pickets . Both said they were willing to pay their employes 40 per cent of the tax collected , as soon as it became legally possible . " It is very unfortunate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precipitated the strike , " Mr. Seymour said . " Mayor LaGuardia made the impossible proposal that the entire tax should go to the driver . ? The added 5 cents on the meter has decreased taxicab receipts . If the tax is given to the driver , it will be worse than if we returned to the 15-cent drop . " By the 15-cent drop , he referred to the fact that the tax is collected by charging 20 cents on the meter for the first quarter mile . instead of the 15 cents collected formerly . Mr. Seymour said he had written to the Mayor on Jan. 22 , declaring that all the major cab companies lost money in 1932 and 1933 , and were entitled to consideration now because of their capital investment . The Mayor did not reply to the charge that he was responsible for the strike . He made it plain , however , that he regarded the taxi drivers of the city as underpaid , and that he was determined to do whatever he could to ameliorate their condition . The Police Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence , directed borough commanders to instruct policemen to observe all cabs and , particularly , to stop all violent picketing . Strikebreakers Barred . At the same time , on instructions from City Hall , the license bureau stopped issuing licenses to taxi drivers to prevent strikebreakers being brought into the city . Any such importation of outside drivers , the Mayor and the police believed , might result in violence which would endanger passengers as well as the imported drivers . As the result of police activity , Thomas Cleary , 27 years old , of 324 Convent Avenue , and Cornelius Brown , 26 , of 1,259 Leland Avenue , the Bronx , ' went to jail for three days in default of paying $10 fines ' in Harlem court . They were arraigned there before Magistrate Stanley Renaud on charges that they had stopped cabs belonging to the Publix Cab Corporation of 1,060 Whitlock Avenue , the Bronx , and had taken the ignition keys from the vehicles to prevent them from being started again . The damage reported by the cab companies included the slashing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned also by the Publix Cab Corporation . This was taken by a group of strikers , according to David Greenwald , secretary and treasurer of the corporation .                     