@@702377

txt The report of the President 's Committee on Administrative Management . ( commonly called the Brownlow Report , after the chairman , Louis Brown-low ) which forms the base of Mr. Roosevelt 's proposals for the reorganiuttion of the Executive side of government is obtainable from the superintendent of documents in Washington for 15 cents . It should he required reading for all who profess to be good citizens . For here at long lust is the blueprint . of the good government which has been advocated for so long by public-spirited organizations . It is a breathtaking request that Mr. Roosevelt makes to Congress . For , as Walter Lippmann says , it seeks to cure " the organic political defects of federal government . " Much of the trouble in administration in Washington derives from the perennial conflict In American government between the separate branches of government : legislative , executive , and judiciary . In theory , each is independent ; in practice there Is not only constant , strife as to which is primus Inter pares , but also constant , and often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the border the between the legislature and the Executive clear and distinct . ) " , , ' Much was said In Mr. Roosevelt 's first term of the unconstitutional powers which he obtained , ( " usurped " was the word mistakenly used by Republicans ) from Congress . Not so much was said of the interference of Congress with plainly Executive functions . The interference takes the form of commission government . Regulatory laws have been passed in the administration of which comniissioni have been set up that are responsible to nobody ; such commissions as the Securities and Exchange Commission . They have been added to existing commissions which beginning with the ' establishment of the Interstate Commerce Conudission in 1887 , reflect the growth of economic regulation.So there has come into being a " head/ess ' fourth branch ' of Ciovernment. " ? something that the devisers of the constitution never contemplated , ? The headlessness of this commission government was Illustrated in 1033 in the Humphrey case . William E. Humphrey was a member of the Federal Trade Commission . He had been appointed in 1931 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office , President Roosevelt asked for his resignation , on the grounds of Humphrey 's lack Of sympathy with the aims of Ow Roosevelt Administration , Mr. Humphrey refused . In the end the President simply removed the still protesting commissioner from office . In due course the case came b-fGre the Supreme Court . The judiciary decided that Mr , Roosevelt waswithout the necessary power to remove members of ' he regulatory commissions just because they were out of sympa. iy with the White Rouse . A commissioner can be removed only " for inefficiency , neglect of duty , or malfeasance in office . ' For the commissions are set up by Congress to exercise independent ( the report prefers the word irresponsible ) functions , Congress having found no effective way of supervising them . The argument against their present status is not adequately summed up by calling them either independent or irresponsible . They take powers from all three branches of government : legislative , judicial , and executive . The regulations issued by the commis , ' ms have the force of law . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is fundamentally opliesed to the American concept of the rule of law , because the regulations are laid down by officials and not by the representatives of the people . The French have an expression for this kind of law ; they call it " droll administratif , " administrative law. ? Not only do the commisLuners make law , however ; they administer it . In this respect they are trenching upon the powers of the Executive . And , finally , they have power as a court to punish any infractions of the law , and thus enjoy judicial authority . It is perfectly obvious , therefore , that , with the growth of regulation over economic activity , the powers of all the three branches of government are being adulterated . A A A The position calls for some kind of regularization . There are three independent branches of government , and it is necessary to see how this fourth branch may bo absorbed , Administrative law is here to stay , though one hopes that it will be kept in bounds by a ' people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men . " In the interest:1 of orderliness , therefore , the commissions should be merged in that branch of govern , - rnent which is constitutionally endowed with the administrative power , namely , the executive . This is what the Browniow report recommends , In so far as the Judicial activities of the commissions are concerned , the report recommends that these be segregated . They would still be housed in one of the departments , but only for purposes of " administrative housekeeping . " This solution Is not altogether happy . For the commissions would still remain " headless " as to their judicial functions . The suggestion has been made that such functions should be taken over by the judiciary . It is a good way out of the dilemma , and would restore American government to its pristine ' ' three power " Condition ,                     