@@704193

txt President Roosevelt today defined the territorial waters of the United States , over which the Nation exercises the prerogatives of sovereignty , as being as far out as our interests require them to go . When a reporter asked : " Dues that reach to the Rhine ? ' the P/ esident answered that he was talking about salt water . Asked about the'rIghts of neutrals under international law in a blockade . the President recommended that reporters , look up the Civil War position of the United States ? of the North ? in applying its blockade against shipments from Europe intended for the SOuth . The question of blockade , he summarized realistically , depends on the efficiency of the blockade . These remarks all indicate the flexibility of current American policy in its relations with the belligerent sides . First , it is plainly intimated that the United States patrol of American waters , extending in intention from Newfoundland to South America , will operate on the theory that these waters are within the Nation 's " sphere of influence , " so to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat as territorial waters . Warning to Belligerents A literal extension of territorial waters several hundred miles out to sea probably was not intended by the President , for that might involve future complications . But Mr. Roosevelt was plainly warning belligerents from attempting " funny business " within the area of American patrol . If ships were torpedoed within this general zone , or if they were searched or seized there , the President 's warning might be followed by sterner measures . Second Mr. Roosevelt 's statement about blockade was the other side of the picture : it was a recoknition that in wartime neutrals have little recourse against an effective blockade . His recollection of the Civil War position of the North was a remark that would hardly have been made by American officials prior to entrance into the World War , because every effort was being made to forget the free-handed application of the northern blockade . In a word , President Roosevelt appears to take entirely the British view , that a belligerent is entitled to what he can get away with . Recognizing the informality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afterward that it came hot Oft the bat , and that nobody ever had defined terri ' todal waters that way before ! The President said that the fact 1 the present neutrality patrol Is operating as far as 200 1 miles off shore in the North Atlantic does not necessarily imply that the United States is extending its territorial waters that far . He said the patrol is operating in those waters only to obtain information . Concedes British Position The President 's two positions from one viewpoint cancel one another in relation to the historic neutrality debate : from another viewpoint they are both on the side of noninvolvement . Taking the first viewpoint : the President 's assertion of territorial waters means that he abandons traditional neutral assertions , and is conceding the British position . But in the second viewpoint , both assertions could be viewed as those of a President determined to prevent American involvement at all costs . He is first warning war makers away from the Americas : he Is second refusing to be drawn into disputes over neutral rights which threatened American involvement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither read nor heard Senator William E. Borah 's radio speech , the opening gun in the neutrality debate . The Idaho Senator , with the manner and force of an elder statesman , defined the position of the " peace bloc . " Repeal of the arms embargo , he sought to define as the first step to war , and an act of inevitable Involvement . Remarks Challenged In two passages , in particular , Senator Borah 's remarks are challenged in Administration circles . He spoke of " the announced and declared program of furnishing arms and munitions to one side and withholding them from the other ... " He also said " the cash-and-carry plan repeals the embargo law and enables our Government to direct the arms and munitions to one side and withhold them from the other .... " Advocates of repeal point out that nobody proposes the United States should " withhold " arms . The " withholding " of arms from one side does not result from any act of the American Government , they say , but from the historical fact of sea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government did not produce this sea power , they add , any more than it did the land power now enjoyed by Germany . But they insist that the present arms embargo partially nullifies the sea power while not touching the land power , hence is not an impartial law . Of greater importance than Senator Borah 's speech was the assertion of neutral rights by Cordell Hull , Secretary of State . The Secretary 's statement did not define neutral rights , and it indicated a good deal of latitude in their interpretation , though it formally notified belligerents that the United States adheres still to its basic conception of the privileges of neutral nations . The statement , therefore , was in line with President Roosevelt 's remarks . Secretary Hull significantly asserted that neutral rights will be pressed only in so far as is " most practical and prudent . " He pointed out , also , that the United States had " for the time being " invoked certain restrictions of its own which deliberately surrender various neutral rights . Edison Gives Advice In short , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States is not " waging " neutrality in the 1914-17 sense anywhere except in the Western Hemisphere . This is a vital change from the position in the late war . In line with the foregoing expressions of policy was the advice of Charles Edison , Acting Secretary of Navy , that stranded Americans in Europe wait for American ships to bring them home . " The safest thing for Americans to do , ' he said , " is to ride American ships , properly marked , and traveling in regular sea lanes without convoy . If Germany or some other power wants to take a chance and torpedo one of these ships , they are taking a long chance . " Further indications of national or congressional opinion in support of the Administration foreign policy come regularly to hand . Vice-President Garner , it is understood in sources close to him here , is prepared to endorse repeal of the arms embargo . Senator Pat Harrison ( D ) of Mississippi , latterly a frequent anti-New Deal factor , also warmly endorsed repeal . Bernard M. Baruch. who was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the arms embargo to place trade in wheat and oil and instruments of war on the same plane . He also urged full expansion of American armed forces at once . And he said forcibly : " If we get involved in war nobody is going to make the profits they may think they 're going to make , because there will be a " oiling on prices and taxes will be boosted plenty to take it away from those trying to take advanlace of the situation . "                     