@@703277

txt Britain and Italy agreed yesterday to the signature of their accord in Rome tomorrow afternoon . The various documents will total about 7,000 words , going to the bottom of all outstanding issues . Mussolini showed he was extremely pleased , and the cordial spirit in which the negotiations ended was regarded as most important . Italians now expect an accord with France will be reached . Page 1 . Many departures in b rench foreign policy were expected by Paris under Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet . More rigid impartiality in the Spanish affair and possible sending of an envoy to Franco were forecast . A new Ambassador may be sent to Rome . New harmony between Paris and London was predicted . Page 4 . The drive of the Insurgents in Eastern Spain was reported reaching its peak and it was expected the next day or two would determine whether they could reach the seacoast . Page 2 . Anglo-Italian Agreement By ARNALDO CORTESI Wireless to TIC Disvr Tons Timms . ROME , April ** Anglo-Italian agreement , negotiations for which started March 8 , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was decided today by Premier Mussolini and the Earl of Perth , the British envoy , at a meeting in Palazzo Venezia at which Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano also was present . Today 's meeting definitely closes the negotiations , the Italian and English texts of the document to be signed Saturday having been read , compared and approved . The various protocols and . annexes composing the agreement are to be signed by Count Ciano for Italy and Lord Perth for Britain in the presence of many Italian and British officials who took part in the negotiations . The Egyptian Minister probably also will be present to sign a further document dealing with some of the aspects of Anglo-Italian relations to which his country is a party . The text of the agreement signed or , at least , a very full summary will be published Immediately afterward . All Issues Are Included The agreement will comprise a main protocol consisting of a preamble and nine paragraphs , a number of annexes and an exchange of letters between the two negotiators . The main protocol deals with fundamental political issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular problems , such as Palestine , the Nile waters and the like . The letters , believed to have been exchanged some days ago , deal with the main points contemplated in the agreement and contain reciprocal assurances - that rendered possible Britain 's step at Geneva a few days ago in asking a discussion of the situation resulting from the Italian conquest of Ethiopia . The various documents are extremely numerous and are reported to run about 7,000 words : This is considered a good omen for the agreement 's success since both Italian and British statesmen , still remembering the gentlemen 's agreement on January , 1937 , did not limit themselves to a superficial examination of Anglo-Italian relations , but went to the bottom of all the problems outstanding between the two countries . British circles say that no particular importance is to be attached to the fact that the agreement is to be signed , not merely initialed , on Saturday as originally reported . It is stated , in fact , that the intention has been right along to sign and not initial the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them arose only because in Europe the practice is for treaties to be signed on the printed text , whereas in America they are usually typewritten , and it was not known whether the printing-would be completed by Saturday . If it had been typewritten the text would have been initialed and the printed text signed later . Today 's meeting of Lord Perth and Mussolini was preceded by a meeting of Lord Perth and Count Ciano . Lord Perth called at the Palazzo Chigi , where he remained conversing with Count Ciano for about a half hour , then he drove to the Palazzo Venezia where Mussolini received and detained them foil a full hour . British circles say that Mussolini was in excellent humor and evidently extremely pleased by the solution of the Anglo-Italian difficulties . Cordial Spirit Stressed In both Italian and British quarters it is said that even more important than the agreement to be signed Saturday is the cordial spirit in which it was concluded . The task now confronting the two governments is to maintain their relations in the atmosphere of cordiality at present so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection to the visit Leslie Hore-Belisha , British War Minister , is to pay Mussolini on his return home from Malta . It will be purely a courtesy call , devoid , it is said on all sides , of any particular political significance , but it can hardly be doubted that the future of Anglo-Italian relations will be discussed . In any case , the visit at this precise moment assumes importance it might have lacked at another time . NOW that a firm agreement with Britain has been . reached , Italian attention is concentrated chiefly on France . It is felt that France can not but follow Britain 's lead in the long run , and the fact that Edouard Daladier is now in power at the head of a Cabinet not containing the more inflamed Leftist elements is regarded as a hopeful opportunity to explore the possibilities of removing the difficulties standing between Italy and France . Voices raised in France demanding the dispatch of an Ambassador to Rome , which necessarily entails recognition of the Italian conquest of Ethiopia , create particular interest . In any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Italo-French commercial treaty was signed today . The particular importance of the treaty lies in the fact that it abolishes the clearing systeth between the two countries within certain limits . It happens by pure chance , but it is nevertheless a fact that may have considerable importance that the Anglo-Italian agreement has been concluded only a short time before Chancellor Hitler 's visit to Italy . Mussolini and Hitler will be able to review the European situation in the light of this new development and examine future relations between their countries on the bays of re-established Anglo-Italian friendship . It is noteworthy however , that the conclusion of an Anglo-Italian agreement must not necessarily be considered a blow to the Rome-Berlin axis , since Mussolini and Hitler agreed when they met in Berlin last September that Anglo-Italian friendship was a thing to be desired and worked for .                     