@@700363

txt Plans were announced last night for the purchase of control of the Munson Steamship Line by the International Mercantile Marine Company and the merger of their operations at sea and ashore . A joint statement issued by Frank C. Munson and P. A. S. Franklin , presidents of the two companies , said that details had been completed . By this merger , the I. M. M. will enter the South American trade with ships of one of the oldest steamship lines flying the American flag . With negotiations under way for the merger of the Cunard Line and the White Star Line , which threatens to terminate the functioning of the I. M. M. as American agent of the White Star fleet , the acquisition of the Munson fleet will provide an outlet for the extensive operating and agency organization of the M. M. The officials did not disclose the price to be paid for the Munson Line , nor were other terms discussed in detail . It is expected , ) however , that the Munson staff at 67 Wall Street will be transferred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Munson ships will be operated from the Chelsea piers in the North River which are held in lease by the I. M. M. Reorganization Is Planned . " After many conferences with government officials and the bondholders , debenture holders and stockholders of the Munson Steamship Line , " according to the joint announcement of Mr. Munson and Mr. Franklin , are working out a plan for the complete reorganization of the Munson Line which they believe will be in the best interests of all the security holders of the Munson Line and general creditors , and for the upbuilding of the American merchant marine , and especially the great service of the Munson Line to South America . " If the plan of reorganization was approved the International Mercantile Marine Company would acquire a substantial majority of the common stock of the Munson Steamship Line , and , with the assistance of Frank C. Munson and Carlos W. Munson , and the officials of both companies , would act as managers and operators of all the Munson Line properties . " Mr. Franklin and Mr. Munson were emphatic that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American merchant marine in the South American trade and elsewhere . " A statement issued by Mr. Mun- son to holders of the line 's 6 per cent secured bonds , R ; per cent debentures , preferred and common stocks , and to the general creditors of the company , indicated that a plan for readjustment of the company 's capital structure had been worked out in principle with the approval of the I. M. M. , and the bankers who originated the securities . Terms of the plan are to be announced soon , and the deposit of securities under the plan will be called for . Meanwhile , holders of the company 's bonds and debentures and the general creditors are asked to communicate their names and addresses and the amount of their holdings or claims to the company as soon as possible . The bonds , which are secured by a first mortgage on the line 's ships , are outstanding in the amount of $4,354 , . 000 , and the debentures , which are unsecured , in the amount of $2 , - 430,000 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ building at 67 Wall Street , has approximately $3,000,000 of first mortgage bonds outstanding , which bond : are guaranteed by the Munson Steamship Line . The Bahamas Hotel Company , Ltd. , a subsidiary of the line , owns the New Colonial and Royal Victoria Hotels in Nassau , Bahamas . No specific mention of the disposition of these properties was made in the joint announcement but a more detailed statement was expected today . The first announcement followed a meeting of the directors of the I. M. M. which lasted until late yesterday afternoon . It had been rumored that the meeting would consider important matters and it was believed the situation with respect to the White Star agency was on the docket . On his departure from the meeting Mr. Franklin said there was nothing of importance to announce . An hour later the joint statement of Mr. Franklin and Mr. Munson was issued at the I. M. M. offices . Rumors of changes in the Munson Line ownership had circulated recently in shipping circles , but had failed to link the I. M. M. as the possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who had been associated with the North German Lloyd Line and who would be displaced because of the merger of that line with the Hamburg-American Line , had attempted to buy the Munson Line . It was pointed out at the time that mail contracts held by the Munson Line would necessitate American citizenship of its owners . These rumors ? were not considered seriously enough to warrant an official denial by the Munson Line . The sudden announcement of the purchase by the I. M. M. came as a complete surprise to shipping men . Negotiations had been conducted without the knowledge of the members of both organizations who were usually acquainted with the plans of the companies . It was accepted as the most important deal in American shipping since the I. M. M. and Pacific Coast associates bought the United StategLines in 1930 . Munson Operates 29 Ships . The Munson Line operates a fleet of twenty-nine ships of about 140 , - 000 gross tons to South America and the West Indies . The assets of the company in 1929 were estimated at $38,000,000 . Since that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been badly depleted , especially in the transportation of sugar from Cuba , and the value of the company 's assets has been reduced . The Munson Line was founded by Walter D. Munson and now is headed by his two sons , Frank C. Munson , president , and Carlos W. Munson , chairman of the board . The founder of the company , a veteran of the Civil War In search of employment , landed a job in 1865 on a boat that went to Cuba . Later he worked for an oil refining company , and branched out for himself as a charterer of tonnage which carried molasses , sugar and other freight . He established offices in New York in 1882 , operating several chartered clipper ships , and two years later chartered several steamships and declared the Munson Line in being . The company started to use its own tonnage , however , in 1893 when three ships were acquired for operation to Havana and ports of Northern Cuba . The service was then developed to Santo Domingo , Haiti and Mexico , with New and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1895 the sons who now manage the affairs of the company went to work on the Munson docks and learned the business from the bottom by checking cargo . The end of the Spanish-American War brought about the development of service to Honduras , Costa Rica and Colombia , operating from New York and Gulf ports . The founder of the company remained its director almost until his death in 1908 . Carlos W. Munson succeeded as president and remained until 1913 , when he retired because of ill health . Frank C. Munson then became president and has continued in that posilton . With the coming of the World War the company started building new tonnage in 1915 and became one of the most important American lines . Frank C. Munson went to Washington in 1917 as a member of the Shipping Board in charge of negotiating charters of ships from Norway , Sweden and Denmark and other details . He directed negotiations for the chartering of ships from Japan and the construction of 350,000 tons of Japanese ships with American steel . He was a member of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Munson Line vessels were taken over by the government during the war , but in 1919 the line organized freight service between Gulf ports and South America with ten Shipping Board vessels , supplemented by four more passenger ships . This became the Pan-American Line , which the Munson interests operated for the government in the great post-war development of the American merchant marine and later acquired . Ships Are Listed . The ships and their tonnage listed by the American Bureau of Shipping as now owned by the Munson company are as follows : American Legion 13,736 , Munalbro 4,281 , Munardan 3,809 , Munbeaver 4,835 , Mundeita 4,746 , Hundixie 3,285 , Mundolphin 3,285 , Muneric 5,035 , Munisla 2,220 , Hunlisto 2.606 , Munloyal 2,674 , Hunmystic 5,685 , Munorleans 4,418 , Munplace 3,235 , Munrio 3,378 , Huntropic 5,670 , Pan America 13,712 , Rajah 2,264 , Southern Cross 1.3,788 , Walter D. Munson 3,703 , Western World 13,712 , Fritzoe 667 , Munaires 4,620 , Munamar 3,440 , Munargo 6,484 , Muncove 2,437 , Munindies 4,576 , Munmotor 2,450 and Munsomo 2,949 . The acquisition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Mercantile Marine Company as the most important American shipping company . The I. M. M. owns outright the Panama Pacific , Red Star , Atlantic Transport and Leyland lines , and is also part owner of the United States Lids and American Merchant Line . The company formerly owned the Oceanic Steamship Navigation Company , Ltd. , the holding company of the White Star Line , and sold it three years ago to the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company .                     