@@698620

txt The copper producers are in practical agreement on curtailment to a basis of 20 ' , of maximum rated capacity . Negotiations now are under way : n an attempt to reduce to 15 " , of maximum At present output is about 26 , , of maximum capacity . Many independent producers are willing to cut production to the low rate . It is believed that even such companies as are able on account of gold production to make a profit be willing to reduce their copper output . A reduction to 20 , , , from 26 , , , would not make a radical change in the situation , since it would cut output only about 12,500 tons a month in output . A reduction to 15 " - , would mean a further reduction of 10.000 tons a month or a total of 22.500 tons below the current level . The important feature is that either rate will force most mines to shut down completely for some months until their accumulated quota permits them to operate at a practical basis . Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ w ould likely result in an increase in price of copper after two three months . Such a situation would cause fabricators and users of copper to build up their plant stocks before an inevitable advance in the price of copper . Practically all the mines that do not halve considerable gold in their ores would doubtless prefer to shut down completely , but either because of government pressure or because of political or social reasons they feel that it is not possible for them to do so . Mines using a mass caving system of mining are afraid to cease mining entirely , believing that complete cessation of mining for a period of months would result in collapse of the drawing chutes and packing of the broken ore so tightly that it would have to be undercut again to induce caving . Adoption of a low rate of operation permits the caving mines to protect their properties by drawing moderately in rotation from the various blocks of ore that are being mined , and so preventing excessive loads from developing on the drawing chutes . It also permits companies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate at a rate that will not result in retaliation . While it is probable that an agreement in principle on curtailment will be arrived at either Thursday or Friday , the rules regarding the manner of selling metal out of stocks , and regulation of operations of companies which have fabricating subsidiaries , probably will be left for settlement in the future . One of the main reasons why it is fairly certain that an agreement in principle will soon be reached regarding curtailment is that F. Pisart , Katanga representative ; Sir Auckland 3eddes , chairman of P-honkana Corp . and of Rio Tinto Co. , and Arthur D. Storke , managing director of Roan Antelope Copper Mine ' , ant sa.11-Lug Friday night on the Majestic .                     