@@702019

txt Mark Wollner , 35-year-old violinist who has appeared on national radio hookups , was held for questioning tonight in the mysterious murder of 18-year-old Helen Clevenger , New York University co-ed . Soon afterward Sheriff Laurence E. Brown announced that his deputies had checked up on an alibi offered by Wollner to account for his , whereabouts at the hour the Staten Island girl was slain in a hotel here Thursday morning . Sheriff Brown said Wollner told investigators he was with a young woman at 1 A. M. , the hour fixed as the probable time Miss Clevenger was shot to death by an intruder who stabbed her in the face and attempted to attack her . After the deputies had made their check the Sheriff reported that Mildred Ward , 19 , told them Wollner was at her mother 's house , where he has a room , from 9:30 Wednesday night until 8 A. M. Thursday . The questioning of Wollner continued , however , Sheriff Brown said . In discussing the case the Sheriff said one witness had told him Wollner had remarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a date with a girl at the Battery Park " that night . It was in that hotel that the slaying occurred . Deputies brought Wollner , a native of Germany , to the jail shortly before 9:30 tonight , and officers began at once to question him behind barred doors . He was booked simply " for questioning . " Under this classification , officers said , they could hold the violinist for forty-eight hours without preferring a specific charge . Two other persons , taken into custody previously , were held on the same technicality . Wollner , widely known in this resort section , has made his home in Asheville for about two years , and has frequently given concerts from the radio station here . He studied both at the Berlin Normal School and the Ecole Normale in Paris under Jacques Thibeaud , and made his American debut at Town Hall in New York City a few years ago . Wollner had not been connected with the case in testimony before a coroner 's jury which returned a verdict that the young honor stu- ' dent died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The dozen witnesses questioned at the inquest were guests and employes of the Battery Park Hotel . Two Others Detained Meanwhile , officers continued to detain two employes of the hotel , Daniel 1-1 . Gaddy , night watchman , and Joe Urey , 27-year-old Negro bellhop . Urev first was arrested by city police last night after a red-stained shirt was found at his home . He was questioned today and Police Chief William J. Everett said he had established an airtight alibi . While Urey freed himself of suspicion and was ordered released by the police , Sheriff Brown detained both him and the night watchman , who told the coroner 's jury he was making a round of inspection . He said at the hour fixed as the time of the killing he was probably on the twelfth floor of the hotel , whereas Miss Clevenger 's room was on the fourth . Several guests on the same floor testified they heard a woman scream around 1 A. M. The voice , they said , carried above a terrific electric storm . A bellboy testified he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storm at about 1 o'clock and a taxi driver said he noticed apparently the same man leap a balustrade into the street a moment later . While officers declined to discuss details of their investigation , they admitted the day after the shooting that they were seeking a socalled - mystery man "  --  the hatless stranger who rushed into the storm . The bellboy and the taxi driver could furnish but a scant description of him . Father Confident of Solution J. F. Clevenger of Staten Island , N. Y. , father of the girl , conferred with Sheriff Brown concerning any connections she had which might bear on the case . Miss Clevenger came here Wednesday with her uncle , Professor W. L. Clevenger of North Carolina State College , Raleigh . Another uncle . C. B. Clevenger. who also is a member of the college faculty , was here today for conferences with his brothers and the Sheriff . Mr. Clevenger declared today tie was " confident the slayer will be captured shortly . " " Probably nobody has more interest in the case than myself , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Drug Administration . " I want to help the authorities in every way . " My impression is that something is being accomplished . I feel that the clearing up of this case is only a matter of a short time . This is , of course , some satisfaction to me. "                     