@@698623

txt Nine days had passed last night since Charles A. Lindbergh Jr . was stolen from his home near Hopewell , N. J. , and his father 's efforts to ransom him seemed to have produced no more tangible results than the police hunt for the kidnappers . Of the many persons questioned and held since the sensationally daring crime of a week ago last Tuesday in the lonely Sourland Hills of New Jersey only one man , Henry Johnson , a sailor suitor of the baby 's nurse , Betty Gow , remained in custody . No charge had been made against him in the kidnapping case . However , he was arrested last night on a charge of violating the immigration laws . The warrant on which he was held was dated March 6 , two days after he was picked up on suspicion in West Hartford , Conn. , for questioning by State 's Attorney Hugh M. Alcorn of Hartford . Just before the warrant was filed Colonel H. Norman Schwarzkopf , superintendent of State police at Trenton , announced that Johnson had entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even though he managed to clear himself of complicity in the kidnapping . May be Another Betty Gow . Colonel Schwarzkopf revealed also that an inquiry is under way to determine whether the Lindbergh nursemaid was the same Betty Gow who was deported in 1927 after serving a six months ' sentence for violation of the immigration laws . Evidence already discovered , he said , would " tend to disprove that the two are one and the same . " The private negotiations between agents of Colonel and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh and the supposed kidnappers seemed to have reached a stalemate , with the criminals biding their time and the parents anxiously waiting . It was reported that the original demand for $50,000 ransom had been increased materially in later communications from the kidnappers , who have managed thus far to keep their identity a secret from Colonel Lindbergh as well as the police . Colonel Lindbergh , however , was reported as willing to meet the increased demands of the persons he believes are holding his baby , and it was understood that only the kidnappers ' fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the return of the missing child . The promise of the famous aviator and his wife , not to " try to injure " the kidnappers if only they would return the baby , and the apparent willingness of New Jersey officials to cooperate in private efforts to regain the child , all have failed to allay the suspicions of the kidnappers . New Aide Reported in Case . Reports that a new negotiator , Morris Rosner , or Rossner , had entered the case and was making efforts to regain possession of the child for Colonel Lindbergh lacked official confirmation . New Jersey authorities said they had never heard of it and Police Commissioner Mulrooney said it was news to him . A man named Rossner is under indictment for larceny here in a stock-fraud case . It was reported that the latest man of mystery to enter the case had taken up his residence at the Lindbergh home , but the police at Hcpewell , who have a tightly drawn picket line around the estate , when asked who Rosner might be and whether he was there , replied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas of Oklahoma said in Washington that he had a slight acquaintance with a man named Rosner who made frequent visits to the capital . This man , the Senator said , had tried to obtain a position in the Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice , but for some reason had been unsuccessful . Thus far even the desperate attempt of the Lindberghs to establish contact with the kidnappers through the good offices of Salvy Spitale and Irving Bitz , two figures who have the confidence of many factions of the underworld , have failed to produce positive results , it was reported . Spitale and Bitz , who have been reported in mysterious midnight conferences here , there and everywhere since they were authorized by the Lindberghs to act as go-betweens , bobbed up in the course of the day in Brooklyn Federal court to stand trial on an old indictment charging them with conspiracy to smuggle liquor ashore at Gerritsen Beach last July 26 . They were named in the indictment as James Martin and Morris Grossman and to those names they answered when their trial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martin as Spitale and Grossman as Bitz . United States Attorney Howard W. Ameli said that although he had " beard rumors , " he had no official information about the identity of the two defendants . Settle Down to Hunt . Meanwhile , the State police at Trenton and at Hopewell appeared to have dropped their whirlwind tactics and settled down to what promised to be a long and unspectacular siege . Observers reported that the police seemed to have started their investigation all over again , beginning with a minute search of the wooded country near the aviator 's 500-acre estate . At the request of New Jersey authorities the search for the baby was extended to Europe when the first ships to sail from United States ports after the kidnapping began arriving at their destinations . Detectives of Scotland Yard met the liners President Roosevelt and Ile de France at Plymouth , England , and the French Government ordered investigation made on all ships touching at Mediterranean ports . No child even resembling the missing baby was reported , however . ? It was revealed by Colonel Schwarzkopf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made . It is the practice of all hospitals to take the prints of babies as soon after birth as possible to prevent disputes and mixups , but the missing baby was born at the home of his grandparents in Englewood and there was no need for the making of footprints or fingerprints . The baby has been described throughout the country as a blond . curly-haired youngster , and the possibility has been suggested that the kidnappers might dye his hair or cut it short to hide his identity . Colonel Schwarzkopf revealed yesterday for the first time that the baby 's hair was trimmed exactly one week before he disappeared by Erna Schulz. an Englewood hairdresser , but not so that it would change his appearance materially . Fail to Trace Ladder . Police efforts to trace the origin of a chisel found beneath the window of the Lindbergh nursery and a ladder which the kidnappers used to reach the second-story room continued , but Colonel Schwarzkopf admitted that little progress had been made . The chisel , on the surface of which were found fingerprints so blurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common type that it might have been purchased at any one of a hundred hardware stores in the State . The wood in the ladder was said at one time to have been traced t6-the Skillman Village for Epileptics near the Lindbergh home , but R. B. Bullfish , the contractor who supervised construction of the white stone home of Colonel Lindbergh and his wife , said it might have come from a number of building jobs in the neighborhood . He suggested the possibility that the scraps of wood used for rungs of the ladder might even have been picked up on the Lindbergh estate . The rungs , he said , were made of cheap pine , such as is used for cleats on bundles of building materials . With the police returning to a search of the Hopewell area , they were asked why they had not yet searched the ruins of an old barn that burned about four miles from the Lindbergh estate on the morning after the kidnapping . At first Cplonel Schwarzkopf said no report of the fire had been received at his headquarters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not considered significant or connected with the case . " Fire Chief Charles Williamson . who went through the ruins and supervised his men in " wetting down , " the embers . said he saw nothing suspicious in the fire but admitted that no thorough investigation or search was made . He pointer out that Hopewell lies between the barn and the Lindbergh estate and that it would be difficult for any one from the estate to reach the barn without going through the town . Denies Aid by Sailor . The continued holding of Johnson , a deckhand on the yacht of Thomas W. Lamont , led to reports that he had unknowingly given the kidnappers information and was now remisdoing in custody to help the police catch those guilty of the crime . Colonel Schwarzkopf denied this . The police officer declined to answer when he was asked if he believed it possible that " inside information " on the Lindbergh family 's plan to remain at Hopewell longer than they expected had been given to Johansen Junge , the sailor 's friend , and conveyed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicating that the police were not overlooking a possible connection between the kidnappers and Johnson or Miss Gow was given out late last night in response to a series of questions regarding the status of both . The statement follows : " The Newark police have been investigating Henry Johnson because most of his activities have been centred in North Jersey . A statement was taken from him accounting for his actions before the crime and immediately following the crime up until the time he was apprehended in Connecticut . " The investigation is being conducted by interviewing all people who could have any knowledge concerning his movements and actions during the time mentioned . So far , his story has checked satisfactorily . So far , we have not been able to fix any definite responsibility for the kidnapping upon Henry Johnson or Betty Gow , but because of international investigations of both of - these subjects with reference to their previous lives abroad , we are not in a position to vindicate them . " A communication was received from States Attorney Hugh M. Alcorn to the effect that one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for illegal entry into the United States and was deported to Europe in 1927 ' and returned to the - United States in 1929 . The verification of the fingerprints of the Betty Gow who is employed by the Lindbergh family by . the United States Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice show no criminal records in the United States and this would tend to disprove the fact that the two are one and the same . " The investigation has brought out that Henry Johnson entered this country illegally . Both Henry Johnson and Betty Gow 's fingerprints have been sent to Europe for any criminal records that may be on file there . If we can not fix any responsibility on Henry Johnson for participation in this crime , he will be turned over to the immigration authorities for deportation . In anticipation of this he is being held by the Newark authorities . " The officials at Trenton and Hopewell would not discuss Johnson 's status to any great extent during the early part of the day , but The Associated Press reported that Police Chief Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been found who would dispute his story that he spent the night of the kidnapping riding around with Junge , his friend . Johnson met Junge. the chief was quoted as saying , after he called Miss Gow at Hopewell some time between 7:30 and So'clock on the fatefill Tuesday night . Junge and Johnson then went to the Plaza Theatre in Englewood , Chief Paterson said . There Johnson asked for a friend r med Billy Boland. and upon learning the latter was not there went inside with Junge . Chief Paterson said he learned these facts from Frank Stanford , the doorman . Afterward , Chief Paterson said . Mrs. Nancy Carlson , a waitress in an ice-cream parlor near the theatre , said she saw the two rney at a table in the place where she is employed . Mrs. Carlson , it was reported , was questioned at Newark police headquarters during the day . No Callers on Night of Crime . It was established definitely yesterday that the Lindberghs had no callers on the day of the kidnapping and that Miss Gow , the nursemaid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . Colonel Lindbergh reached home about 8:20 from New York and dined with his wife soon afterward . It was about 10 o'clock when Miss Gow noticed that the baby -a as gone from its crib . In addition to the daily rumors that the child had been found in various parts of the country , yesterday produced a new report that Colonel Lindbergh , disguised as a State trooper , had made several trips away from his home supposedly to meet the kidnappers State troopers denied the report without comment . and later it was learned that the aviator had not left the grounds of his estate for several days . Between fifty and sixty State troopers remain at the temporary headquarters in the garage on the Lindbergh property . The detectives from Jersey City and Newark are included in this number , as are also the several troopers acting as clerks , dispatch riders , telephone operators , guards , fingerprint men and photographers . The men sleep at the barracks near the Skillman Village . A police cook prepares the meals .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      