@@699187

txt Ripping apart the asphalt pavement with irresistible force , thousands of gallons of water rushed from a break in a 48-inch main in Fortieth Street just east of Seventh Avenue at 8:25 o'clock last night . The west side I. R. T. subway was blocked ; trolley service and automobile traffic along Seventh and Eighth Avenues was halted , and the basements of many buildings were flooded . Surging so strongly that those who , waded knee-deep across Fortieth Street had difficulty keeping on their feet , the flood continued with undiminished force for more than two hours as emergency crews from the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity labored to shut off the five gates controlling the flow in the broken main . It was 10:40 P. M. before they succeeded . The flood poured through the sidewalk gratings into the I. It . T. subway in such volume that it was necessary to shut off the power between the Pennsylvania and the Times Square stations . Several trains were stalled and persons on the Times Square platform were drenched until laborers built dikes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour 's delay . Following the contour of the ground , the rushing streams poured west from the point of the break as far as Ninth Avenue and south as far as Thirty-sixth Street . Although they ran curb-deep in Seventh and Eighth Avenues , they did not halt the new city subway system under the latter thoroughfare . Broadway and the B. M. T. completely escaped the flood . When the waters had subsided they left the vicinity looking like a battlefield . At the point of the break there was a crater like a shell-hole , about twenty feet square and fifteen feet deep . Hanging on its brink was an automobile , one of several which had been marooned by the rushing flood . Sand and gravel and bits of broken brick were deposited thickly over their neighborhood . Despite the extent of the flood , the police said last night that they did not believe the property damage was very serious . One of the few places which was badly flooded was the ballet costume room of the Metropolitan Opera House , where the water was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One of them remarked philosophically to his companion : " We 're getting plenty of help tonight . " Opera Costume Room Flooded . The costume room of the Metropolitan Opera House , which is about // 7TH MI . TUBE FLOOD TRAPS NIGHT CROWD basements in the neighborhood It was only about a foot deep . Normal Water Supply Today . When the break occurred the water supply in Many near-by buildings lost pressure briefly , but was quickly restored . Chief Engineer W. W. Brush of the Department of Water Supply , Gas and Electricity said last night that the supply had not been interrupted . for more than a few Minutes and would be normal today . At no time was the high-pressure fire-fighting system affected . Mr. Brush was unable to offer any explanation for the mishap , beyond the obvious one that a defective spot in the main , which was laid in 1902 , had given way . He explained that the delay in shutting off the flood came from the fact that five control gates , at widely separated spots , had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributed the break to a heavy bus which passed just as the pavement opened , but the engineers were inclined to think that this was a mere coincidence . Mr. Brush ridiculed a theory advanced by Sewer Department employes that the pressure had been above normal because of the cessation of activity in the garment dia .. trict on Yom Kippur yesterday . Breaks With Loud Explosion . A boom like that of a subterranean explosion marked the break , according to Patrolman Joseph Bartnick of Traffic B , who was on duty at the corner of Seventh Avenue and Fortieth Street at the time . He rushed to a telephone and notified headquarters , which sent police , Edison company and Water Department emergency crews to the spot . The strength of the current was so great , however , that their efforts to reach a control gate almost at the spot of the break were balked until after the four other gates had been shut off . These were at Madison Avenue and Fortieth Street , Fifth Avenue and Fortieth Street , Sixth Avenue and Forty-first Street in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second Street . Sweeping along more than curb deep , the current halted trolley service on both Seventh and Eighth Avenues for about two hours . On the latter thoroughfare two southbound cars were stalled between Fortieth and Forty-first Street , and one north-bound car was stopped near Thirty-eighth Street . The Seventh Avenue line was still blocked late last night by the buckling of the pavement from the point of the break , and it was not expected that service would be resumed before morning . Several automobiles were rendered temporarily  --  useless by the flood . A car owned by Isidore Halpern of 1,738 Weeks Avenue , the Bronx , was yawning on the very brink of the hole out of which the water gushed . After the flood had been stopped a police emergency crew and a Department of Sanitation derrick managed to extricate it just as Mr. Halpern arrived from a theatre . II was only slightly damaged . When the water poured into the subway guards closed the entrance : to the flooded platforms and issuec " block passes " to those maroonec within . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date , are pro vided for pacifying those who hay ( paid their fares but can not be trans ported because of an accident . Never theless the guards had their hand : full last night with disgruntle ( would-be subway riders . The water followed the local track : in the I. R. T. subway as far a : Thirty-fourth Street and entered thi Pennsylvania station . As the floor was at its height two Negro sweep ers were observed leaning on their brooms on one of the flooded plat forty feet below the street level , was flooded five feet deep within a few minutes after the break occurred . At the time there was no one in the building except the night watchman and the engineer . They said that the main basement of the building , in which are stored most of the stage accessories , had not been penetrated by the flood . The basement of the Heidelburger Fass restaurant , which is on the north side of Fortieth Street , just opposite the spot where the break occurred , was flooded by the streams . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Broadway , but not sufficiently to interfere with the lighting or elevator service . Water reached a depth of a foot or more in the basements of many buildings , along the south side of Fortieth Street , including an eighteenstory structure at 202-204 ; a threestory building at 206-216 , and a fifteen-story building at 220 Fortieth Street . Most of the stores on Seventh Avenue south to Thirty-ninth Street reported comparatively little damage . On Thirty-ninth Street , between Seventh and Eighth Avenues , the roadway was flooded from curb to curb , the water being about two inches deep in the middle of the street and nearly eight inches deep at the gutters . Quick-witted work by officers and employes of the woolen goods firm of Morris Kaplan &; Co. at 222 West Thirty-ninth Street saved the firm from a heavy loss . They built a dam of bales of cardboard across the ramp leading to the ? cellar , where thousands of dollars worth of woolens were stored . This barricade not only prevented the water from flooding their cellar but also the cellars of other firms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 534 Seventh Avenue and Huyler 's at 550 Seventh Avenue , both of which are located between Thirty-ninth and Fortieth Streets , reported virtually no damage . The rivers running along Eighth Avenue did not turn into the office buildings lining the thoroughfare except in one instance , where a parked automobile diverted the stream from the gutter into a twelve-story building at 590 Eighth ? Avenue , between Thirty-eighth and Thirty-ninth Streets . Gas and Light Mains Turned Off . Gas and electrical companies that have conduits running under the street in the vicinity ' Were on hand soon after the water main ' burst attempting to shut off all gas and electricity likely to be affected by the spreading water . The New York Subway Electrical Company was one of the first to have a crew working and they immediately set about finding the location of various fuse boxer and section control boxes .                     