@@700295

txt Automobile corkers are returning to their pm this week . Detroit 's 1934 season is under way . The dies are set to turn out cars of the most radical design ever attempted . The industry has gone aerodynamic . By the first of the year 75 , - 000 or more autos , needed for the a New York Show and for dealers ' stocks will have been turned out . At the Dodge plant of the Chrysler group , 2500 foundry men are casting engine blocks for new models . and other departments are scheduled to fall in quickly . At the height of the 1933 season more than 25,000 men and women Were employed at the Dodge plant , where Plymouth parts are also made . Officials say it is reasonable to expect that this level of employment will again be reached . When Ford starts at least 30,000 more men will be back on the pay General Motors and independent plants may bring the total up to 100,000 in the Detroit area . That the models for 1934 will depart radically from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance from the manufacturers . But for the present they have omitted details . All they have told is that they have reached up into - the air for true streamlining and have gone far into the sandy desert to copy camels ' knees for Independent springing of wheels . Broadly there are said to be two principal types , one using a form of the transverse spring and the other the coil spring . Whether they will use one or the other type , or both , manufacturers are not ready to announce . It can be said , without divulging any secrets , that the independent springing device , of whatever type , might be likened to the contraption with which doors are automatically closed without slamming . ? As for streamlining , Mr. L. G. Peed of the De Soto Division of Chrysler said , " Every trace of the horse and buggy tradition has been eliminated An entirely new idea of weight distribution will be introduced in De Soto cars . Bumping and bouncing in both front and rear seats will disappear . Passengers will ride between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rear axle , and the engine will be moved ahead over the front axle , thus equalizing the distribution of weight . " The streamlining type would indicate a design that would give no out ' ward hint of which way the car should travel . It might look the same in front as it does in back .                     