@@698844

txt James R. Garfield , selected by President Hoover to be chairman of the resolutions committee of the Republican National Convention , resumed his conferences with Republican leaders here today to obtain a consensus of views on the perplexing plank of prohibition . While a declaration acceptable to the majority of Republican voters would be sought , Mr. Garfield declined to say whether the plank would be satisfactory to the wet electors in the Eastern States or would include some of Senator Borah 's suggestions . But , in his conversations with Senators , he made it clear that the aim was a " definite . and courageous " plank . Indications that the Administration wishes to win over Senator Borah on the prohibition plank were evident in the engagement Mr. Garfield made with the Idahoan for an interview on the subject tomorrow . Borah Adverse to Compromise . It is understood that Mr. Garfield intends to submit a rough draft that differs slightly from Senator Borah 's proposals in that it gives more comfort to the " thirsting voters of the industrial centres . " Senator Borah @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plank offers the only " honest , constitutional way " to deal with liquor . He is willing to fight for it only on one condition , namely , that it is approved by the President . In such an event he would go to the convention and lead the drys in the fight that is expected there . If President Hoover should give his approval to the Borah plank the Senator , who was zealous in his support in 1928 , might take to the stump again this Fall . If not , he will not enter into the Republican campaign proper , but will devote himself to aiding his insurgent colleagues in their re-election campaigns . Completing Plank This Week . Administration advisers were authority for the statement that the prohibition plank would be completed here this week by Mr. Garfield , working with Republican Senators and others who have formulated a tentative draft under the direction of the President . It was said further that the language of the prohibition plank , as well as other declarations , would be approved by the President before the platform was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should virtually write the platform , as has been the practice in the past when a President is a candidate to succeed himself , and his record will be made the basis of the party 's appeal for retention of power . And this is what is now being done with the aid of Secretary Mills , Postmaster General Brown and Senators Moses and Reed , all of whom are contributing planks . Senator Moses has written the foreign-policy plank , Senator Reed is understood to have cooperated with Secretary Mills in stating the eco- nomic and financial phases of the administration , while Mr. Brown is devoting himself chiefly to prohibition . Shouse for " Real Referendum . " Jouett Shouse , chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee , commenting upon Mr. Brown 's promises , termed him a " miracle man . " and added that the President 's view on this plank " will be one which both wets and drys construe as inclining toward their divergent views . " The Democrats , he thought , would ascertain the majority view in the convention and " make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would provide for " a real referendum . " Mr. Shouse said : " Perhaps this may be the era of the miracle man of the administration after all . " Postmaster General and Republican Generalissimo Walter F. Brown is authority for the statement that a prohibition plank satisfactory to everybody , wets and drys alike , will be written in the Republican platform two weeks hence . It would be indeed a magical plank that would be equally pleasing to Nicholas Murray Butler , grand prophet of the Republican wets ; to the Anti-Saloon League , which has just declared that any party making a gesture in the wet direction can expect ' organized , aggressive , relentless opposition ' ; to Senator Borah , who has advised the President that no referendum or resubmission on the prohibition amendment is possible except that afforded by the usual election of Congressmen , and to the authors of proclamations of nearly every State Republican organization , and in quite a few Western States as well , that the people must be given a direct vote on the question . Expect Hoover to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter is of course highly unequivocal . He is stanchly in favor of any plank which will be satisfactory to the drys and highly pleasing to the wets . " He is adamant against any plank that runs counter to the views of anybody with a vote , unless , of course , such a plank should be adopted by the Republican convention , in which case he may be dePended upon to give notice that while he favors the plank in principle he can not subscribe to it in detail . Or ? and here is the one doubt ? he may express himself as favoring the details of the process of correcting the abuses that have grown up in prohibition enforcement but question the accuracy of the principle . In any case the President 's view will be one which both wets and drys can construe as inclining toward their divergent viewpoints . " The Democratic plank on the subject can contemplate no such comparative thesis . My party will be satisfied to ascertain the views of a I majority . of the convention and to make its platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democrats come out for a referendum , it will be for a real referendum , one that will give the people a definite opportunity to record the preponderance of national sentiment by a vote unvexed by political interference and uncomplicated by the pulling and hauling of various groups on individual Congressmen. "                     