@@703988

txt With consideration of the Norton amendments to the Wage and Hour Act scheduled to begin in the House today . a group of farm organizations . headed by the American Farm Bureau Federation . moved over the weekend to block the measure or secure substantial alterations in the amendments recommended by the labor committee . Proposed revisions to which the farm groups object would extend the act to cover a large number of agricultural workers not affected under the act as it now stands . In addition the Norton amendments provide exemptions from the hours provisions of the . act for white-collar workers at salaries of $200 a month or more and for a few specific industries . such as small telephone exchanges . The farm agencies sent a letter to all members of the House yesterday outlining their objections to the Norton bill and requesting the members to vote again'it motion to suspend the rules expected to be offered today by Representative Norton . sponsor of the amendments and chairman of the labor committee . Adoption of this motion would prevent floor amendments to the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed by the American Farm Bureau Federation , the National Grange . the National Cooperative Milk Producers Federation , the National Cooperative Council and the Agricultural Producers Labor Committee . " Since the Norton bill vi:as reported out by the committee , " the farm letter stated . " there has been a concerted effort to lull Congress into the belief that it exempts agriculture . The fact is that the bill , prepared by its backers at the behest of the wage and hour administrator , would place agriculture in a strait-jacket and leave it helpless . " - The farm groups charged that the measure , by nullifying most of the agricultural exemptions in the present law . would increase the costs of preparing farm products for market , thus reducing whatever margin of profit the farm producer might have . The labor committee also was sharply criticized for refusing to permit public hearings on the bill and in denying the farm groups an opportunity to present their case . Meanwhile , Chairman Norton and other supporters of the amendments indicated that if the rule suspension is defeated they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they receive some assurances that the floor amendments which might be adopted will not " load down the bill " and nullify its aims . At the time the bill was reported , committee members said they , had been assured by the House leadership that a rule suspension would be granted . Mrs. Norton explained that the committee wanted to correct some " obvious inequities " which had appeared in the original act but that the committee would oppose all amendments rather than permit the purposes of the law to be nullified .                     