@@702051

txt Dozens of state highway police guarded all entrances to the Illinois statehouse today with orders to exclude a band of about 350 unemployed ? members of the Illinois Workers ' alliance -- who chose the reconvening of the legislature as the time to demonstrate in behalf of their own relief program . Receipt at Gov . Horner 's office of an anonymous letter , mailed from Chicago and threatening to wipe out " the entire general assembly " with an infernal machine , if radical relief measures were not met , was given as the ostensible reason for the posting of guards . Fear a Jobless Riot . However , fear of a recurrence of the scenes at Harrisburg , Pa. , and Trenton , N. J. , where the unemployed virtually took over the capitol buildings in demonstrations lasting several days , was believed the real reason for the precautions . Actually , a semblance of martial law was being maintained , nonemployes of the state having , to produce credentials or otherwise satisfy the police of their peaceful intentions before they could enter the capitol . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had arrived this morning and had been told they were not welcome in the statehouse . A committee of ten was granted an audience with Speaker John P. Devine and later five of them addressed the house , making the old chamber ring with their fiery demands . The Roosevelt New Deal shared honors with the Horner state administration as the targets of this verbal hiding . For all : heir paternalism , these Democratic agencies of government do not appear to have satisfied the unemployed , to judge by the speakers . Warn of " Mobilization " In brusque words the assemblymen were warned that " the unemployed are mobilizing and organizing ; they no longer will be a political football for the Democratic government of Illinois . " Later the committee repeated its demand to the governor , who arrived in Springfield in the afternoon after becoming a permanent registrant in Chicago . The demands of the unemployed were the same in both instances  --  an appropriation from general revenue to meet the current emergency , increase of the 2 million dollar monthly share of sales tax returns now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal allotments of funds for the blind and for dependent children , submission of an income tax amendment to the state constitution , and provisions for the payment of the costs of relief administration from state funds . Gov . Horner heard the demands patiently , then advised the delegation to counsel the relief marchers to return to their homes . This was in response to a question from the president of the alliance , Charles Rossio of Duquoin , as to whether any State property could be made available to house the groun . Intimates a Siege . Attorney Frank McCulloch , 231 South La Salle street , Chicago , another of the committee , had paved the way for the request by intimating that the marchers proposed remaining here until the legislature took some action upon their program . " Go to your homes , " the governcr replied . " You have presented your demands to the legislature and to the governor . You can accomplish no further good by staying here . " Whether that advice would be 101-lowed remained a doubtful matter late tonight . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were still on the capitol steps . Meanwhile , upon his return from Chicago , Gov . Horner proposed a new relief program to house leaders which appeared to have won some support both from the Democratic and the Republican sides . Mr. Horner 's program was announced shortly after Majority Leader Benjamin S. Adamowski Dem. , Chicago had introduced three bills in the house providing for a. million dollar appropriation from general revenue funds to tide over until Jan. 1 . , The program also called for the lifting of - the 2 million dollar monthly share of sales tax for relief and for state payment of administrative costs . Would- Add a Million . Meeting with the legislators in - Speaker Devine 's office , : the governor proposed : that the county share of relief funds be increased from 2 to 3 ; millions , the deficiency to be met from general revenue . As collateral for this loan from the state treasury , the governor is banking on an opinion from the Illinois Supreme court that the application of the sales tax to retail utility sales will be declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , estimated at ' 5 millions for the state , could be met finally by about $2,100,000 from the township relief tax provided for in the HickmanLantz bills . Adamowski , who led the fight against the Hickman-Lantz bills as the spokesman of the Chicago house members , appeared to favor the governor 's program  --  as an amendment to , his own plan  --  save for 1:he validation of the Hickman-Lantz program . Although validation would obviate the necessity of levying a tax in Chicago , the job of raising relief money from some source still would have to be met . Announcement by the governor I hat he favored the 3 millions per month for relief plan is expected to result in the dropping of the move of Cook county Democrats to attempt ' overriding . the Horner veto of the measure which would have increased the county 's share of the sales tax for relief-from 1 to 1,1 , per cent . Mr. Adamowski announced the plan to override the veto before the governor made - public his own relief Plan . Bills Put Before Senate . Copies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Harold G. Ward UDem. , Chicago Mayor Kelly 's legislative spokesman . Ward explained that the new Horner plan had been proposed and indicated that he might ask that his bills he amended to meet the provisions of that plan next week . Meanwhile , Ward 's hills were advanced to second reading . , Both houses ' now stand adjourned until next week , save for perfunctory sessions . The house will meet in regular session Monday at g p. m. , while the senate recessed. until Tuesday at the . same hour .                     