@@700451

txt Over the radio as this dispatch is being written a government spokesman is broadcasting a combined proclamation and appeal , saying : " The revolt is crushed . The rebels are in flight . The disturbances are completely at an end . Women of Austria , we now appeal to you to urge your husbands and brothers , all your men who hold arms , to surrender them immediately . The mere possession of a rifle may bring upon them and upon you the most terrible consequences . " This is one manifestation of the undoubted government uneasiness . The general strike has been ineffectual so far . A large proportion of the workers are sullenly sticking to theirJobs lest they lose them because they despair of success . But resistance still continues in a dozen little centres in Vienna itself ? in solid concrete houses , in factories , along railway lines and in hastily constructed trenches surrounding some points of vantage . Federal Forces Tired . The police , the Heimwehr and the Austrian regular troops have been besieging these for three days . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period on almost continuous guard duty . All are tired . What is happening outside of Vienna no one knows with certainty . The government reveals nothing and the wildest rumors are current . But there is every reason to believe the general state of affairs is much like that in the capital , with isolated bodies of Socialists holding out to the end , with the police and the troops growing weary under the strain and with the danger of a general conflagration far from ended . In these circumstances there is every excuse for the government 's suppression of all unfavorable news . If the workers of Vienna and the Socialist rank and file throughout Austria had the slightest inkling of how much world sympathy is with them or how bravely their brothers are holding out , the general strike would be revived , trains and public services would stop and the government would have on its hands a real battle , the outcome of which might be seriously in doubt . Resistance Wins Admiration . Even in Vienna , with only news favorable to the government permitted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is really heroic resistance by the small bodies of Socialist workmen besieged with their women and children in their homes , which , through the forethought of their leaders , are built like fortresses . People all over the city are able to hear the guns , which have never ceased , and the stolid bourgeois , who. can not be suspected of Socialist sympathies , are beginning to express admiration for a defense so stubborn , although so hopeless . The ammunition of the defenders is beginning to run out , so the end can not be long delayed . But if it should be long delayed , anything might happen . And when the end does come there will be other problems . There are several thousand prisoners . What will be done with them ? Austria , with thousands of suspected Nazis already in concentration camps , will have at least hundreds more of Socialists in her jails  --  a new menace to stability and an expense to the government . Whether the Dollfuss regime can continue to stand under such conditions is more than doubtful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had some degree of Socialist tolerance . It has exchanged tolerance for bitter hatred and an unreasoning desire for revenge . The outcome will depend , therefore , solely upon the Catholic peasantry where they have not gone Nazi already and on a few thousand Heimwehr men kept in the government service at a few schillings daily and housed and fed at the national expense . The Heimwehr must be maintained now to keep the Socialists in check and to keep the Nazis out , and the Austrian bourgeois , who must pay for all this , will not remain long content . The real question is , What will happen then ? The Nazis are not mixing in this affair now , but they are under orders to be prepared for instant action when the call comes . And tonight a Berlin newspaper is printing its Austrian news under the headline . " Dol ! fuss Preparing Austria for Nazis . " It is quite natural that during this excitement nothing is being done to press Austria 's appeal to the League of Nations against Nazi interference from Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delaying the presentation of this appeal , which less than a week ago was being prepared with such frantic haste . But more than questions of procedure are involved . Realize Loss of Sympathy . In the Ballhausplatz it is at last beginning to be realized that the incidents of the last few days have cooled outside sympathy with Austrian difficulties . It is even reported that a plain intimation came from one foreign diplomat that any government that brought out artillery to deal with its Socialists ought not to need outside help to cope with a brown balloon filled with gas from Munich and Berlin . There may be more such Intimations . Other nations also have their troubles . None was eager even before these disturbances to annex Austria 's troubles and now the feeling is growing that her appeal , if it Is ever made , will be something to be saved up for discussion in the long winter evenings . This would certainly please Geneva , which could then agree that , after all , Providence does sometimes intervene to aid its terrestial representatives at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which capitalized the work of the famous Austrian sculptor , Hanik , was covered up today for the first time since it was unveiled . Adjoining the Parliament building , it shows side by side the heads of Viktor Adler , father of Austrian Social Democracy ; Ferdinand Hanusch and Jacob ReunmanD , the first Socialist Mayor of Vienna . It was appropriately covered today with the flag of Chancellor Doilfuss 's Fatherland Front . They were men who in the early days saved Austria from bolshevism . It is their followers and successors who are now being shot down as Bolsheviki by the superpatriots of the Heimwehr . Street sales of all Czechoslovak and German newspapers were prohibited tonight for five days . Truly , Austria begins to outstride Germany , even in advance of the Nazi advent .                     