@@700894

txt The European gold bloc is passing through bad days , which are leading many French observers to feel discouraged about its future . On the whole , Paris still feels that none of the three currencies that are under the greatest pressure at the moment ? the Belgian franc , Dutch florin and Swiss franc  --  will yield to the blandishments of the devaluationists . But meanwhile the Continental exchange markets are going through a period not only of violent fluctuations but of bewildering reversals from day to day . The most ominous sign is the bad feeling within the gold bloc itself that has been caused by the offer of Swiss hotelkeepers to take pounds from British tourists all Winter at sixteen francs . The French are particularly incensed about that because it means , for instance , that the pound is worth more in St. Moritz than in Chamonix , right across- the border , and that a British tourist will have that much more inducement to spend his Winter holiday in Switzerland instead of in Fr. nce . The French ask why the hotelkeepers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they call " moneto.ry dumping . " The Swiss Chamber of Commerce in France issued today a denial that the move meant abandonment of present parity and said neither the Swiss National Bank nor the government had anything to do with the matter . Swiss Franc Declines . Nevertheless the bad impression the move caused brought the Swiss franc down to 4.9275 , against 4.93125 yesterday . At one time it was below its gold export point for the first time in five months . Another reproach the French are making against a gold bloc member is that Belgium is making what they consider unreasonable claims for trade concessions in exchange for staying on gold . However , the market today took a calmer view of the Belgian situation and the belga remained firm under less pressure . How difficult life is for the exchange operators these days can be gauged by the behavior of the pound yesterday and today . Thanks to the demand for Belgian account yesterday , the pound rose sharply and the British control had to intervene to prevent it from going too far . Today London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offering pounds here in large quantities . That reversed the trend and the British control this afternoon had to step in and buy back some of the sterling to prevent too sharp a drop . The pound closed ? at 75.92. against 76.05 yesterday . About the only well-behaved currency on the Paris Exchange today was the dollar , which remained very strong , and at 15.1875 made gold shipments still profitable . About $9,000,000 in gold was withdrawn from the Bank of France today , which , added to yesterday 's withdrawal , makes $17,000,000 which was shipped aboard the Majestic and the Paris today . End of Bans Credited . The United States Treasury 's removal of the restrictions on capital exports partly accounted for the dollar 's strength , though it is being nought , and will continue to be sought , for commercial needs . The French expect a steady , though moderate , gold drain to America for some time to come . It must not be overlooked that gold is coming here from Belgium and Holland and that by no means all that shipped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Financial circles here do not consider these shipments as evidence of weakness of the franc . To complete the gold bloc 's tale of woe , it can be added that the lira also is weak , the zloty is under pressure and the Stock Exchanges of all gold countries had a more or less bad day today .                     