@@703597

txt The big news in Washington Is armament . Twp weeks ago the world was congratulating itself that it had been spared the danger of war . Statesmen Were optiMistically planning progressive steps from the Munich settlement to higher and higher ground of political and economic stability . Sumner Welles , Undersecretary of State , voiced the tone of hope by suggesting that a disarmament con , ference for the world lay at the end of the new road the nations of Europe choose at Munich , This week the talk Wall of arms . France is extending its fortifications . Prithe Minister Chamberlain , back from a brief holiday , turns to questions of expanding and speeding British armament . More significant still , the preoccupation of Washington with arms is just as great as that of London or Paris . On Tuesday President Roosevelt said that the new Navy budget would probably be $150,000,000 more than it is for this current year . During the middle of the week he conferred several tunes at length with Bernard M. Baruch , the man who geared American industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Industries Board . By Friday the President had absorbed enough of the information which Mr , Baruch brought back from Europe to announce that he has held up his whole budget for an overhauling of the national defense items . It will mean a big increase in the national arms budget . Possibilities run all the way from a jump of $300,000,000 to a jump of a full billion  --  double the present arms budget which is already the biggest in the country 's peace time history . It probably means a new emphasis on aviation , including plans and preliminary measures for a mass production aircraft industry which would be kept in a stand-by condition in peace time , but convertible almost overnight into an endless conveyor belt of new war planes . It may also mean drastic changes in the administrative organization of the armed forces , combining War and Navy Departments into a single department of national defense with three subordinate branches  --  army , navy , and air , Why ? Isolation from European entanglements is still the keystone of American foreign policy . Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the Danube basin , the Balkans , and the Near East  --  not immediately toward the West and overseas where direct American interests lie . Germany may find enough In Central Europe to occupy its energies and satisfy its urge to expansion for years to come . Yet two weeks after Munich armament provides the dominant news in Washington . America , already arming as it never did before , is to speed up its pace to a higher tempo . Elements of Uncertainty The following factors are involved in the explanation : 1 , Munich he s transformed many a solid constant of world relations into a variable . For a century and more it has been axiomatic that any nation which rose to dominate Europe would be knocked down by Britain . Britain therefore not only held Europe 's balance of power , but also the first line of defense for the Monroe Doctrine in South America and for the open door in China . Has that constant become a variable ? If so there is a vacuum where there was once the might of Britain . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time directly on the initiative of the United States , 2 , Restoration of German colonies would have to he at the expense of Britain and France . German influence in South America would be at the expense of the United States , If the United States were not prepared to prevent such extension of influence Britain and France could hardly be expected to do so . 3 . There is a " band-wagon " tendency among nations as among persons , Evidence of reluctance on the part of the United States to assume full responsibility for defense of South American independence might We a stampede to get on the German hand wagon before it became a steam roller , ? 4 , If there is to be a disarmament conference at some time in the future every big power wants to have plenty of " chips " with which to trade . 5 . National defense la probably good politics domestically . All these factors have been carefully weighed here , The President has heard them from many advisers . He has also heard men such as Mr. Baruch express @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South America . And he has heard many startling reports of the quality and extent of German rearmament , It is apparent that he , as Mr. Chamberlain , has decided that whatever the prospects of appeasement may be there are new uncertainties which in his mind make swift and extensive arming desirable , Add to these factors also that Japan 's move Into South China , while not altogether unexpected , infants new uncertainty into the Far East , Joseph C , Harsch                     