@@698794

txt Following his indorsement In principle of senate Democratic Leader Joseph T. Robinson 's 2 billion 300 mll lion dollar unemployment relief plan . President Hoover after a conference With Republican leaders at the White House tonight outlined his own pro pcsals . Under the Hoover plan , the Recon struction Finance corporation woili , loan not to exceed 1 billion 600 mil lion dollars for the various purpose : contemplated . Of this amount , trot : - 250 millions to 300 millions would IN loaned to states for the relief of un employment distress and the remaili ? der would be loaned to public and private agencies to aid in the fluor ' ? cing of " Income producing " construe ? tion projects . Would Sell Debentures . To procure funds for this undertak ins the Reconstruction Finance cor poration would be authorized to sell debentures in the amount of one billion 500 million . For this purpose borrowing power would be increased to 3 billion dollars . Late todalitenator Robinson called a conference of Democratic senators to formulate action on his 2 billion 300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the call . They wrangled for two hours over the proposition N%ithout reaching any conclusion and broke up with Senator Robinson an ? pouncing he would call another meet int ; tomorrow . Few of the Democrats present evinced any enthusiasm for the Robinson scheme . Most of them favored the Wagner bill providing for the completion of federal construction projects already authorized but not appropriated for . Attend White House Parley . Those attending the White House conference chiefly were Republican members of the senate banking and currency committee  --  Senators Goldsborough of Maryland , Townsend of Delaware , Walcott of Connecticut . Carey of Wyoming , Watson of Indiana , Couzens of Michigan , and Steiwer of Oregon . In addition to these Secretary of the Treasury Ogden L. Mills and Walter Newton . secretary to the President , participated in he conference . When the senators emerged from the White House Senator Walcott in re:Aponse to a question said the conference was " very harmonious , " while Mr. Couzens said the harmony was not anything to boast of . " Harmonious , if not enthusiastic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His Plan . While the senators were leaving the White House issued the President 's outline of his plan . It had been rre. pared in advance of the meeting and submitted to the senators . The statement follows : " The policy steadfastly adhered to up to the present time has been that responsibility for relief of distress belongs to private organizations , local communities , and the states . That fundamental policy is not to be changed . But since the fear has arisen that existing relief measures and resources may prove inadequate in certain localities and to insure against any possible breakdown in these 10-cantles , it is proposed that authority be granted to the Reconstruction Finance corporation to assist such states as may need it by underwriting only state bonds or by loaning directly to such states as may not be in position temporarily to sell securities in the market . The funds so obtained to be used for relief purposes and the total limited to 250 millions or 300 millions of dollars . " The second part of the program contemplates providing the machinery whereby employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of artificial character . Self-Supporting Projects . " Without entering the field of industrial or public expansion , there are a large number of economically sound and self-supporting projects of a constructive replacement character that would unquestionably be carried forward were it not for the present situation existing in the capital markets and the inadequate functioning of the credit machinery of the country . They exist both in the field of public bodies and of industry . " There is no dearth of capital and on the other hand there is a. real demand for capital for productive purposes that have been held in abeyance . The problem is to make the existing capital available and to stimulate its use in constructive capital activities . This involves , under existing conditions , resort to special machinery which is adapted to furnish the necessary element of confidence . " It is proposed to use the instrumentality of the Reconstruction Finance corporation , which has a nationwide organization , by authorizing the corporation either to underwrite or make loans for income-producing and self-sustaining enterprises which will increase employment , whether undertaken by public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In order to safeguard the program beyond all question it is proposed that there must be proper security for the loans , that , as said projects must be income producing , borrowers must have sunicient confidence to furnish part of the capital , and that the project must eontribute to early and substantial employment : " It is proposed to provide the necessary funds as they are required by the sale of securities of the Reconstruction corporation and its total borrowing powers to be increased up to 3 billion dollars . It is not proposed to issue government bonds . It is hoped that this further project of speeding up the economic machinery will not involve any such sum . But , in view of the early adjournment of congress , it is desirable to provide an ample margin . " It is necessary to sharply distinguish between the use of capital for the above purposes and its use for unproductive public works . This proposal represents a flow of funds into productive enterprises , which is not taking place today because of abnormal condition . These , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not constitute a charge against the taxpayer or the public credit . The issue of bonds for public works nonproductive of revenue is a direct charge either upon the taxpayer or upon the public credit , the interest on which and the ultimate redemption of which must be met from taxation . " An examination shows that to increase federal government construction work during the next year beyond the amounts already provided for would be to undertake works of largely artificial character far in advance of public return and would represent a wasteful use of capital and public credit . " Call Robinson to White House . Although Mr. Hoover has been discussing a project of this character with his advisers for several days , the Robinson speech in the senate yesterday proposing a 2 billion 300 million dollar bond issue for unemployment relief had the effect of forcing the administration to a showdown of approval or disapproval . After discussing the matter with Senator Watson of Indiana , Republican leader of the senate , over the White House breakfast table and later with Gen. Charles G. Dawes , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mills and Eugene Meyer Jr. , governor of the federal reserve board , the President invited Senator Robinson to the executive office . Mr. Hoover told the Democratic leader that he favors a federal unemployment relief program and that he has been at work on one . The President welcomed the cooperation evidenced by the Robinson speech . The Democratic leader welcomed the cooperation of the President . Radicals Grin Broadly . Supporters of the La Follette-Costigan 376 million dollar unemployment relief bill which was defeated in the senate early in the session largely because of White House opposition are grinning broadly over what they regard as the surrender of the President in the pinch of political exigency and of Senator Robinson to the temptation to make political capital . Administration defenders say that the President is as much opposed to a dole as ever and that his relief plan will not be open to that criticism . The present disposition of the President to approve a , 12 , uge financing of unemployment , PA'Af represents a radical change of front since he condemned further enormous expenditures on public works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to recovery . Among politicians the view is widely held that with eminent Democratic leaders coming out for a federal relief project Mr. Hoover could not stand out against it without sacrificing whatever chance he still may have of reelection . Some of them are convinced that the most powerful influence operating at the White House was the information that the Robinson plan originated with Owen D. Young of New York , a leading dark horse candidate for the Democratic nomination for President . Republicans who think that if Franklin D. Roosevelt , with his radical backing , is the Democratic nominee , Mr. Hoover will stand an excellent chance of relilection are far from confident of the President 's ability to defeat a conservative such as Newton n . Baker or Mr. Young .                     