@@702095

txt Wire/ems to Tn . NEW ' VORA TIME .. BERLIN , Aug. ** it has not already gravely affected the ? prospect for the smooth functioning of the new conference of the Locarno powers , the drift of the Spanish civil war will probably make an indefinite postponement of that meeting inevitable . Whatever the outcome of that struggle  --  and the German Government apparently hopes for an early decision one way or another  --  it is clearly felt here that the atmosphere in which the conference will eventually meet could not be more inauspicious for tackling the problem of galvanizing Western European security . Official Germany can not see any prospect of the powers getting down to serious business before mid-November , as the preliminary diplomatic exchanges , which the Reich Government insists shall precede plenary meetings , will consume several weeks at least . This was stressed in the Reich 's acceptance notification of July 31 to Britain , France and Belgium , which stipulated that the character of such a ? tonference and the nature and scope of its program should be definitely clarified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly this qualification that threatens the fate of the conference in advance  --  in view of the German condition that its exclusive business shall be the negotiation of the new anti-aggression pact among Germany , France and Belgium for the twenty-five-year period proposed by Hitler and to be guaranteed by Britain and Italy . Germany has prepared to supplement such a truce with an air pact on condition that both should be predicated on a regional limitation strictly unrelated to such other European problems as are not exclusively identified with the Rhineland . It is this limitation of the conference agenda that awaits the acquiescence of the other powers , ' although it is assumed that Italy is in complete accord with the Reich 's stipulations , as her acceptance notification to inviting powers reflected significant concurrence with the German views . References to the fate of the British questionnaire of May 7 , which constituted something in the nature of a preliminary examination into Germany 's qualifications ? moral and otherwise  --  to participate in a new Rhineland conference , and which is still lingering in a state of desuetude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amusement hereabout , and the only reply available is that Mr. Eden 's inquisitorial ddmarche was disposed of when Germany accepted the invitation , and that the questions propounded will be answered during the discussion . Wilhelmstrasse Serious If a squeamish mood is still being experienced elsewhere over the treatment accorded the questionnaire by WilhelmStrasse , it may as well be recognized that it is now destined to disappear into the limbo of diplomatic papyri . Informal conversations in official quarters in the past few days have left no doubt that the German Foreign Office is in a serious mood , and that Its mood is daily becom. ing more serious as the European political scene becomes still more entangled with new conflicts and tensions . The Admiralty 's order to German ' warships cruising outside Spanish waters to shoot and shoot hard if German merchantmen again are subjected to illegal search or interference by the Spanish Navy is but one reflection of this nervousness and it is this more recent development that is obscuring the prospects , as Germans see them , for a promising setting to a conference of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too , that the framers of German foreign policy read into the Spanish crisis a development destined to leave its imprint on the Rhineland conference through the political irruption into Western Europe of Soviet Russia , by virtue of her treaty affiliations with France and her alleged complicity in the Spanish struggle . In the German thesis , this point remains unbending , and now permits of one interpretation only  --  a determination to test the lines of the politicomilitary communication between Paris and Moscow . If the proposed Locarno conference strictly confines itself to the business of negotiating a new western pact to the complete exclusion of the French demands for a wider European settlement , a death blow , it is believed , will have been dealt to Franco-Soviet relations . If , on the other hand , the conference founders on French intransigeance , then France will appear in the German political pillory as a helpless vassal of Moscow . The Spanish crisis measurably accelerated this determination on the German side to force a showdown with France over her Soviet affiliations and their implications for a new Locarno @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence that the conference shall confine itself to the Rhineland problems undoubtedly has the complete support of Italy , and an agenda which definitely excluded consideration of Eastern European problems , or issues affecting France 's avowed allies there , would obviously leave Germany in a strong strategic position to deal with such matters in due time . British View Awaited A statement on just how far the British will assent to such a qualified program will be forthcoming and it must be awaited , even assuming that Mr. Baldwin 's observation that the Rhine was " Britain 's frontier " affords a , passing clue . As seen through German eyes , the Locarno conference , assuming that it will take place , must produce a complete clarification of FrancoSoviet relations  --  a clarification , it is insisted here , which can no longer be deferred in the interests of Western European political stability . Nazi Germany wants Bolshevist Russia definitely eliminated politically from Western Europe . Even without the Spanish crisis to encumber it , the proposed Locarno conference is confronted by the knotty Franco-Soviet problem , and unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the meeting of the five Locarno Powers , it is not unlikely that practical consideration of Hitler 's project for a twenty-five-year truce on the Rhine must await more tranquil days arid moods .                     