@@700481

txt The Regional Labor Board invalidated yesterday the vote of the employes of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company on their union affiliation and announced that the matter . would be laid before the National Labor Board today for " energetic action . " The announcement invalidating the vote was made by Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , acting chairman of the Regional Labor Board , under whose auspices the poll was undertaken to give the 1,450 employes of the company an opportunity to express themselves freely on the question as to what union they preferred to join . They were asked to decide whether they desired to remain members of the Fifth Avenue Coach Association , the so-called company union ; join the Amalgamated Association of Street and Electric Railway and Motor Coach Employes , an A. F. of L. affiliate , or associate themselves with any other union . Intimidation Is Charged . Mrs. Herrick announced that the poll was invalidated because the company , " by deliberate and brazen intimidation , " had made it impossible for the employes to express their will . She said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Wagner , chairman of the National Labor Board , showing that company " spotters " in automobiles and on foot were stationed at the polling places selected by the local board , ready to take the names of employes- : who ventured to enter , and that , in addition , employes were warned directly by minor officials of the company that participation in the election would mean their dismissal . Mrs. Herrick said that the evidence against the company would be based upon ber own observation and that of Ben Golden , executive secretary of the board , and upon affidavits submitted to the Regional Labor Board by employes of the company . The invalidation of the vote came shortly after the closing of the three polling places yesterday morning . When the polls closed it was , discovered that only 12 votes were cast , all for the Amalgamated . Seven of the twelve votes were cast at the polling place at 3,232 Broadway . At Eightieth Street , near Northern Boulevard , Queens , only one vote was cast . Four votes were cast at 50 East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were preparing a report to the National Labor Board . They said that because of the prominence given the matter and the fundamental issue involved  --  namely , that , of collective bargaining  --  they expected the National Labor Board to take a strong stand . It is probable that both Mrs. Herrick and Mr. Golden will go to Washington to discuss the situation with Senator Wagner and will appear before the National Labor Board when officials of the company are summoned to explain their conduct . " Familiar as I am with industrial strife , " Mrs. Herrick said , " had'I not personally witnessed at least several of the forms of intimidation practiced by the Fifth Avenue Coach Company yesterday I would not have believed that such a situa- tion could be found in the heart of New York City , the greatest city in the country . " Labor Council Protests . Expressions of resentment against the alleged intimidation of the company 's employes came from officials of the Central Trades and I Labor Council of Greater New York , representing more than 600 , - 000 organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Quinn , secretary of the council , characterized the alleged conduct of the company as " a bold violation of the National Recovery Act , particularly of Section 7A , which guarantees labor the right of being represented in dealings with employers through organizations of their own choosing and not through puppet organizations like the Fifth Avenue Coach Association , an organization formed , maintained and financed by the company with no other purpose in view than to deprive its employes of the right to form a union of their own and be represented by men of their own choosing . " " The case of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company , like those of the Weirton Steel Company and the Budd Manufacturing Company . serves to emphasize that the issue involved can not be settled until it is settled right , " Mr. Ryan and Mr. Quinn said in a joint statement . " Either Section 7A means something or it is useless . " Wood Denies Charges . In a statement last night Frederick T. Wood , president of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company , denied that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said that the Fifth Avenue Coach Association represented 98 per cent , of the employes . He explained that on March 20 the association was to select fifteen employe representatives to deal with the company in collective bargaining , and charged that the Regional Labor Board 's action in ordering its poll for March 1 could be interpreted only " as a studied attempt to interfere with the employes in carrying out their advertised annual election . " The board 's action , Mr. Wood said , " created a very marked resentment among the employes , who considered that it was an unjustifiable , un-American , undemocratic and wholly unwarranted interference in their affairs . " This feeling was intensified because of the fact that there is absolutely no controversy between the company and its employes , " Mr. Wood said . " This undoubtedly was the controlling factor in the results of the election on March 1 . " Continuing , Mr. Wood declared : " The Regional Labor Board , in a telegram dated Feb. 28 , stated to the company that ' an official observer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each polling place during the conduct of election . ' " Because of the fact that the statement had already been made to the Labor Board that the company was advised by its counsel that the board was without authority to hold an election of the character proposed by it , the results of which would have any legal effect whatsoever upon the company or the employes in their dealings or relations with each other , it was obvious that the company could not send official observers to the various polling places without creating the presumption that the company recognized the validity of the election . On the morning of March 1 representatives of the employes ' association and of the company were stationed in the vicinity of the polling places . The object of this was to observe whether any appreciable number of persons not employed by the company should attempt to visit the polling places with the apparent object of casting votes . " The company has in its service 1,430 men , and no one person knows every employe . Consequently , it was nece.sary that there should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the observations might be conclusive , No intimidation was authorized or practiced , and positive instructions were issued by me that no one was to be interfered with . who might attempt to vote . Those instructions were carried out to the letter . " I should like to add that the relations of the employes with the company have been most amicable for many years , " The Regional Labor Board 's poll was ordered , in accordance with the law , following receipt of a petition signed by 150 employes of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company , or 10 per cent of the personnel .                     