@@702689

txt The C. I. 0. , so early In Its growth , is experiencing the same centrifugalism which has marked all other labor movements in American history . You can go back to T. V. Powderly and his Knights of Labor for evidence of it . Later Samuel Gompers. a tsar in some people 's estimation , was never sure of his power . For instance , an employer in Florida . in sending me some interesting reminiscences , remarks : Samuel Gompers told me 40 years ago that all he could do toward settling a strike at my plant was to advise the local union , and this he would do ; but he warned me that he expected that his advice would not be acceptable . He felt badly over his impotence as president of the American Federation of Labor , and left me feeling sorry for him . The unauthorized strikes show that the tail is he-ginning to wag the dog in John L. Lewis 's C. I. 0 . Thus the C. I. 0 . is coming to be regarded by the public as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a boss , but a boss whose followers are continually getting out of line . A A A Neither autocracy nor indiscipline fits in with American democratic institutions . How can democratic control be established in American unionism ? Well , in Britain it is insured by law . Several times I have outlined the various provisions of the British Trades Disputes Act . It is interesting to see what this act does in preventing autocracy on the one han ( Vand indiscipline on the other . No union organizer , on his own decision , can declare , call , or threaten a strike . If a dispute concerns the plant only , the union organizer must report the facts to the union 's branch committee , or local , and it is this committee that passes on a strike . That is parliamentary procedure . If the grievance affects the national membership , the procedure might become even more democratic  --  as democratic as the New England town meeting . Some unions leave the strike decision to the executive committee ; others , such as the coal miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a decision . That is the democratic principle at work in labor unionism . It has insured freedom , not destroyed it  --  freedom from the arbitrariness of would-be-tsars in both industry and labor . In the United States , where the C. I. 0 . is half-autocratic and half anarchic , the time will come when the usages in other countries , based upon experiences similar to those in present-day America , will be restudied for possible transplantation in an amended Wagner Act . A A A Meantime the outbreak of labor indiscipline is becoming a pressing public problem . The outlaw strikes continde to bedevil the labor situation , and the general public , after agreeing that labor had rights which ought to be guaranteed at law , is wondering whether there ought not to have been a simultaneous enactment of labor 's duties . The first duty that should be protected is the duty to the public . In this connection the Trades Disputes Act in Great Britain affords a further lesson . That Act , passed in 1927 , was provoked by the general strike of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entire country . In Britain it is now unlawful for capital or labor to coerce the government by means of a lockout or strike , or to cause great inconvenience to the community by " wilful breach " of a contract of service with the local or any other public authorities . This applies to corporations supplying gas , water , and electricity no less than to municipalities . Hence , to give only one instance , if there had been such a law in effect in Michigan . the hundred-odd men who , merely by pulling a few switches , deprived the Saginaw Valley of 500,000 people of its essential services for 17 hours , would have become lawbreakers , as well as irresponsibles . The Trade Disputes Act , furthermore , illegalized any strike for any purpose other than the furtherance of the strikers ' immediate concern , thus banning a general strike , and most " sympathetic " strikes . If this law had been in effect in the United States , a great many of the strikes this year would have been ruled out as illegal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new-found rights under law as much as in the protection of the public that the duties of labor are stressed . The C. L 0 . can not succeed in its organization of the unorganized without public support . If the public turns against it , there is a great danger that , in an aroused invocation of law-and-orderism , the public may line up with diehard industry in trying to ' whittle down labor 's new rights . That would be short-sighted . Rights and duties are two sides of the same shield  --  a responsible labor unionism . Apparently the combination in Britain has made society the gainer . For Dr. D. Chang , in a new study on " British Methods of Industrial Peace " says : These safeguards of personal freedom , on the one hand , and of communal interests on the other , are the two broad limits within which organized employers and workmen may lawfully pursue whatever objects they choose in their collective capacity . This policy of wide public recognition of the corporate actions of employers and workmen , with a strict prohibition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These results are noticeable in the steadily growing importance of British trade unionism as an operative force in furthering the democratic control of industry through such civilizing influences as organization , self-discipline , and education among the workers .                     