@@702381

txt A strongly supported five-point program of international economic co-operation which Britain should offer the world in the cause of peace has been submitted to the Prime Minister , Mr. Stanley . Baldwin . Inc appeal is in the form of a national memorial . It urges the British Government to make an immediate declaration of the part Britain is prepared to_the play in the name ? of economic appeasement . Return to Open-Door Policy More specifically , Mr. ' Baldwin Is asked to announce Britain 's readiness to : 1 . Revise the Ottawa agreements . 2 . Seek simultaneously the removal of quotas and the lowering of tariffs . 3 . Expedite the League 's investigation into access to raw materials . 4 . Return to the policy of the " open door " for trade in all British dependencies. 5 . Advocate the general application of a strengthened League mandate system to all British dependent territories not immediately ripe for self-government . Representative Opinion me memorial was originally sponsored by such welt-known persons as Sir Philip Gibbs , Mr. George Lansbury , Prof. Gilbert Murray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chief Rabbi ( Dr. J. H. Hertz ) and many others . It was sent for signature " only to those in leading positions in various sections of the community , so that an opinion of the most representative and influential character " might be brought to the notice of the Prime Minister . The memorial is supported by nearly 400 influential persons . Signatories include 35 lord mayors , 13 bishops as well as leading non-conformist and other denominations , 35 professors and principals of universities , 40 heads of prominent public schools , the chairmen or secretaries of ' 17 national trade unions , and nearly a hundred representative business , professional men , writers , publicists and artists . " Much of the tension underlying the general expansion of armaments and the drift towards war , " the memorial declares , " has its foundation in economic and industrial conditions and especially in tile breakdown of normal trading relations between the peoples of the world . " Drive for Self-Sufficiency The slump has led to " a feverish search for economic self-sufficiency , " which in turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conflict , which , unchanged , must sooner or later result in war . Rearmament , presents a powerful , if ultimately delusive , appeal to nations beset with persistent unemployment ; in many countries economic and industrial stress at home results in the directing of public attention to assertive achievement in relations abroad . " Neither political stability nor disarmament is passible without some mitigation of the economic distress , the memorial states . Reconstruction measures , " altogether new in scope and magnitude , " to solve such economic problems " offer the best , it not the sole remaining hope of escape from the gathering threat of war . " Fortunately , the sponsors observe , leadership has once more been restored to the democracies by the recent Anglo-Franco-American exchange agreement . Likewise , it is held , the victory of President Roosevelt and of his trade policy has " underlined the encouragement afforded by United States participation " in the currency pact  --  which is described as " the Rrst important breach in the political and economic isolation which has characterized American policy since the abortive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usefulness to the world of the three-power currency agreement Is seen to depend upon the extent to which it , brings about the " freer exchange in real wealth its the shape of goods and services across the frontiers of nations . " Britain , as the greatest trading power , must be prepared to take the lead ? in the interests of world peace , world economic advance and in its own interests . The remedy for the present economic ills , the sponsors believe , is more likely to be found along lines of general economic policy than in any " administrative changes affecting the undeveloped areas of the world . " At the same time , a decision by the colonial powers to extend the international obligations of the mandates system to all their dependent possessions not yet ready for self-government would , in their opinion , provide a " guarantee of a non-discriminating and co-operative economic policy and , In replacing a purely nationalist control of such areas , would contribute toward a right , solution of the colonial problem , " Revision of Ottawa Pacts In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements , the memorial considers that such revision should have as its minimum objective the formation of a low-tariff group which all other nations would be invited to join " on a reciprocal basis . " Similarly , Britain should seek a lower tariff agreement with any group of nations outside the British Empire . Such agreement should cover not less than one third of world trade , including Empire trade ,                     