@@703826

txt A gigantic employment chive to find jobs 101 the ComMonwealth 's 120,000 unemployed youth was today projected by Gov . Leverett Salton-stall , and the Massachusetts Great and General Court , together with the Massachusetts Civic League and educators and social agencies throughout the State . This effort was given decided impetus today when Governor Salton-stall in a special message to the Legislative Committee on Rules asked for establishment of a special state commission to co-ordinate the efforts generating in a number of quarters to meet this problem which is now recognized as having extremely serious proportions . This much has already been done : At the suggestion of Governor Saltonstall the Legislature has named a committee to examine the problem of unemployed youth . The Massachusetts Civic League has gathered reports of what has been crone in other communities , and has invited certain men and women who have ideas on the subject to tell the legislative committee about them . Fund Approved In addition , largely at the instigation of School Committeeman Joseph Lee , approval has been secured for a $34,000 WPA project to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of co-ordinating the training of the students to the needs of prospective employers . The Boston effort , of course , is separate from the projected effort of the Commonwealth . By all the rules of the game , a story about the Bay State 's unemployed boys and girls should be written with the tremolo stop out , for even the slightest examination of the present situation suggests that if there is a worse scourge than war it is the denying of constructive work outlets , to the enthusiasm and zest of youngsters just out of school . Members of the Legislative committee and a group of about 100 educators and civic minded persons heard a hint of the situation last Saturday afternoon at a luncheon meeting of the Massachusetts Civic League . They heard Edward P. Preston , himself an unemployed youth , describe how insurmountable a barrier is presented at employment offices to those without experience . " Why , even a dishwasher is expected to have experience , " he said , sketching in a picture of a boy tut ' : d away from door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anybody or because he could n't qualify by previous experience for those that were open . The need , as this unemployed youth sees it , is for better training in schools on the one hand to pre-pale graduates for the transition from the school day into the work , and for more research , on the other hand , in business to create more new jobs . The lack of reliable figures on the unemployment of youth was stressed by Miss Katharine Lyford , Executive Secretary of the Civic League , who said that the figure of 120,000 was based on a sampling made by the National Youth Administration last July . It was with considerable surprise that many heard that the largest segment of unemployment does not occur among those more than 40 , but instead occurs among those between the ages of 15 and 24 . Become Cynical The effects of unemployment noted by Miss Lyford , who has become extremely interested in correcting the present situation , include a tendency on the part of youth to become cynical and , indeed , a fertile field for revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Gov . Horace . T. Cahill , who minces no words in declaring that failure to meet the problem of the unemployed youth is to continue a serious threat to democracy . Miss Lyford , in her investigations of the situation , has also noted a tendency to lose self-confidence and initiative , two qualities that , of course , need to be expressed in full measure in finding a place in the productive section of the world 's work . There is another development that has been the subject of much discussion , namely , the increase in crime among these unemployed youth . The present arrangements for carrying boys and girls over the hurdles from school to jobs is extremely hit or miss at the present time , the legislative committee has been told by Prof. Francis T. Spaulding of Harvard . Professor Spaulding was director of the study of secondary education in the extensive Regent 's survey of New York State education last year , and so had unusual opportunities to examine the product of the schools and explore the ways they either get into employment or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under present conditions , he concluded , " luck , knowing the right people and that illusive thing called ' personality ' have more to do with the average high school phpil 's success in getting a job than has his ability or educational back- ' ground . " - The result of all this , assessment of the problem has been to crystalize in not too definite form tile conviction that in the first place the schools need to bring their program of teaching into a little more realistic juxtaposition with the demands of industry .                     