@@704032

txt The slash made by the Republican-controlled Legislature in the appropriation for State aid to public schools will reduce the teaching staff in the New York City Schools by nearly 1,800 , will abolish classes containing about 123,000 children . including those or pre-scnool age and workers , adults seeking more education and foreign-born persons who wish to learn Americanization and English , according to a statement issued by the Board of Education here today . The pronouncement by the Board was a signal for practically every organization interested in the public schools and by many leading citizens for a restoration of the cut . Gov . Herbert H. Lehman said in Albany that abolition of these classes and schools would be duplicated throughout the State on the same broad scale as in New York City unless the Court of Appeals , to which the budget fight has gone , declared the budget unconstitutional . " I included the entire amount of State aid in my budget , and the Republican majority cut it out , " the Governor said . " They reduced State aid for education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educational systems of other localities in the State . " The Governor said he would call a special session of the Legislature and try to restore the entire quota of State aid for education if the Court held the lump-sum appropriation budget passed by the Legislature was unconstitutional . The restoration of the full sum contained in the . Governor 's so-called line-item budget would obviate any need for dismissing teachers and closing schools and classes , he added . On the other hand , Mr. Lehman refused to say what might be done if the reduced budget was held constitutional by the courts . Case Sent to Court The Legislature , it will be recalled , cut approximately $31,000 , - 000 from the executive budget transmitted to it by the Governor and effected wide changes in budgetary methods over Mr. Leh-man 's strong protests . The Gov-cram ' , however , signed the budget which the Legislature sent to him , holding that the question was one that should be decided by the Court of Appeals , highest State tribunal , to which the case was immediately referred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it is not expected it can be argued before June 19 . The Education Board in its statement characterized the action of the Legislature as " indefensible pedagogically and socially " and declared it struck at " some of the most precious services which the community built up over a long period of years and met the needs of the common people of our City . " Individual members of the Board saw the budget slash as " a terrible blow to the City 's schools " and as " a tragedy . " Ellsworth B. Buck , a Board member , said that if the Court of Appeals upheld the budget , he favored petitioning the Legislature to make a horizontal slash in 35,000 salaries in the City 's school system to offset the reduction in state aid . Favors Cut in Salaries Mr. Buck stressed that New York had the highest salary scale in the world and declared that while he was in favor of this , he would rather cut salaries than curtail services given to children . " It is up to the Legislature to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if there is no other way , " he added . Henry C. Turner , another Board member , characterized the situation as " the most deplorable thing in the world " and as " an especially serious blow to young men and young women who have to work in the daytime and are then deprived of educational opportunities . " The Education Board is without power to cut salaries and is compelled to adjust the City school system to its income . The Board 's budget estimate of $160,000,000 for the fiscal year 1939- ' 40 was hard cut by the New York City Board of Estimate , . vhich finally allowed $152,243,934.36 for education .                     