@@697459

txt President Hoover indicated today that the Treasury might be faced with a slight deficit at the end of the fiscal year , June 30 , a situation which fiscal authorities of the government look upon as making impossible the continuance in 1931 of the 1 per cent tax reduction now in effect on 1929 incomes . The President indicated that even if a slight deficit should develop it would in no way injure the stability of the government , which has developed a surplus for years . Mr. Hoover did not refer specifically to the 1 per cent tax reduction , commenting only in reply to questions as to whether there would be a deficit . The government , he said , might overrun its income by some comparatively small percentage . He added that the executive department had deferred giving final consideration to the estimates to be sent to Congress until the last moment because the " maximum experience with income " was desired . The White House , he explained , has not yet received figures on the amount to be asked of Congress for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be ready in a short time . Smoot Sees End of Tax Cut . The advisability of continuing the 1 per cent tax reduction /ias been carefully considered since last Summer . In August , President Hoover , after reviewing the fiscal situation with Mr. Mellon and Under-Secretary Mills , said : " I can state that there is no ground now for the prediction in the press this morning that a deficit was impending which would prevent the continuance of the tax reduction established last year . " Before the administration 's fiscal program was discussed at the White House today , Senator Smoot , chairman of the Finance Committee , declared that Congress will be forced to let lapse the temporary 1 per cent tax reduction which has been effective during the present taxpaying year . Conditions , he declared , would not permit continuing a reduction applicable to taxes on 1930 income , payable next year . The old tax schedule , he said , must be restored " so that the government may meet its obligations . " " We are going to pay our debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent is imperative , " Senator Smoot said . " With approximately $600,000,000 in appropriations outstanding , and more likely to be made , I do n't see how next year we are going to pay any more into the , war debt sinking fund than the 31,6 per cent required by law . Approximately $10,000,000,000 has been paid into that fund since it was established . " The former practice of diverting a percentage of the foreign debt payment to the payment of the war debt will have to be discontinued next year:the Senator observed , in order tp " balance the books . " Such payments will be confined to the sinking fund . as required by law . " The economic depression , " Senatbr Smoot added , " is world-wide and not restricted to the United States . In my opinion , it is the result of conditions arising out of the World War caused by overproduction all over the world . There has been overproduction of sugar , wheat , cattle , automobiles , tractors , copper and lead . Present conditions are not like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions exist all over the world . " As a remedy for the condition , Senator Smoot said , " we will have to regulate our affairs to produce what we can sell . " One thing which , he held , is largely responsible for the present condition is the partial payment sales plan . High-pressure sales methods , he said , have caused people to invest hundreds of millions of dollars in goods that they could get along without . " When we get rid of this surplus , " he declared , " we will be well on the road back to prosperity . " Senator Smoot said there was no necessity for an extra session of Congress to meet the problem , since " all we need is to give business a chance . "                     