@@701132

txt Whatever remaining doubt there may have been over the possibility of an open fight within the New York Stock Exchange with an outside candidate in the field running against Charles R. Gay , the presidential nominee of the Nominating Committee , was cleared up Tuesday afternoon when the incumbent . Richard Whitney . in a statement to the press declared he would support Mr. Gay and urged the membership to do likewise . Mr. Whitney , named by the Nominating Committee as a candidate for membership on the governing committee , said he had accepted the nomination ' wItis tlia- determination , if elected , of giving the administration every support and cooperation . Unity of action was essential for the welfare of The Exchange if its usefulness and ingependence are to be preserved , he said , and its best interests require the administration should be supported . Mr. Whitney 's statement disposes of thought of a presidential candidate to against Mr. Gay , and virtually assures latter 's confirmation at the annual election on May 13 . While no definite plans have matured , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governing committee and " governing members " may be placed in the field on an independent ticket . Aoditional candidates than those named by the Nominating Committee may be placed in the field if a petition carrying names of 40 members are presented to Exchange officials . As far as can be learned from available records , no independent candidate has ever been presented to run against the regular nominee for president , though at various times independent candidates for the governing committee have been in the field . In the event additional candidates are named to run for governorship and " governing members . " the eleven candidates receiving the highest number of votes for governing committee will be elected and those eight receiving the highest number of votes for " governing members " will be elected , these being the number of places to be filled at the next election .                     