@@698600

txt A recommendation for modification of the federal anti-trust laws has been under discussion among administration officials here . A proposal to that end may be made as the next move to improve economic conditions , although there has been no decision as to the time and scope . - If a proposal is made it will be one aimed at modification rather than repeal . The modification would be directed to overcome destructive competition , particularly in natural resources such as coal and oil . The Administration 's position on the antitrust laws has been stated repeatedly by President Hoover and by members of his cabinet directly concerned with enforcement The President suggested modification in a speech before the American Bankers Association nearly two years ago and repeated the suggestion in his last two messages to Congress . In his message of last December . he said , in advocating changes : " Particular attention should be given the industries founded upon natural resources . especially where destructive cdmpetition produces great wastes of these resources and bring ' , great hardships upon operators , employees and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bituminous coal , ? oil and lumber industries . I again commend the matter to the consideration of Congress . " Position of Attorney General In a speech last May 16 , Attdrney General Mitchell said ' " Possibly Congress might consider sympathetically some measure permitting combinations to limit production of natural resources as an emergency matter to prevent waste . limited as to time , under government supervision , and to be followed by an early return to our present system of competition without restraints . " Recently , the Attorney General has taken the position that coal sales agancies which are in process of formation are in contravention of the anti-trust laws . However , he pointed out that Congress could pass legislation to legalize them . Another idea of anti-trust modification which is favored in some Administration quarters would provide agreements through interstate compacts after the manner of the agreement to stabilize the oil industry which was sponsored by Secretary of the Interior Wilbur . Such compacts would be brought about by adoption of uniform legislation in various producing states after which the compacts would be ratified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures to protect consumers against unwarranted rise in prices . Growing Confidence In G. 0 . r . Ranks A gain in general Republican morale and a disposition on the part of Democrats to face the political realities of their situation have been outstanding in recent political trends . Whether or not the political situation has changed fundamentally , there is certainly this change in the viewpoint of the politicians and political observers . The Republican defeatist attitude which had progressed to the point where it was barely concealed in public statements has receded While no worthwile Republican opinion holds that the election of 1932 is locked up and put away , many do think that the party now has a chance which will grow in proportion to economic improvement  --  but no faster . It is somewhat hard to put a finger on the cause of this change . There Is generally better feeling throughout the country and this has been accompanied by a friendlier attitude towards the Administration . Within the patty there is more willingness to accept Administration leadership in recognition that Republicans must win or lose with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisors , with more skillful handling of governmental and political affairs . Any one or all of these may , explain the turn . Democratic confidence has not lessened but the recent over-confidence has been prctty well deflated . The soundest of Democratic leaders quite sincerely claim that the chance of winning next November is better than even But they do not scout the possiblity of defeat . They know that the best party opportunity in 20 years can be cashed in only careful steering and by a minimum of internal bickering. - Chance .. for Lame Duck Amendment Sponsors of the lame duck amendment which would change the dates for convening of Congress and Presidential inauguration to c iminate the biennial short session . believe that speedy ratification by the necessary thirty-s.x states will be obtained . In other Washington quarters it is anticipated that there may be more difficult ; about ratification than the sponsors now bel:ca e . The last proposed constitutional amendrner a that dealing with child labor , was speedily ' ejected by more than thirteen states . One of the main reasons for rejection appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this sentiment still is present , the lame duck amendment will face obstacles , even though there is no orgaraned opposition to it . Breaking Bread in the Foe 's Camp The feud between the Treasury and Senator Colleens of Michigan which lasted through much of former Secretary - Menem s incumbency apparently is nearing an end Washington society reports reveal that Senator C , ? uisctis was a recent dinner guest at the lirene of Secretary Mills .                     