@@703633

txt Prime Minister Chamberlain carried his " appeasement " policy a step farther yesterday when he won a vote of 345 to 138 in the House of Commons for ratification of the agreement reached last Easter with Italy . In urging zatification Mr. Chamberlain assured the House that the war in Spain no longer was a threat to European peace . Page 1 . Only a few hours before the vote , however , a Spanish Insurgent warship shelled and sank a British-chartered Spanish freighter at England 's doorstep  --  ten miles off the Norfolk coast . Page 12 . In Central Europe the CzechHungarian territorial dispute was settled by a German-Italian arbitral award handing 4,000 square miles of Czech territory to Hungary . Page 1 . Excerpts- from . Chamberlain 's speech are printed on Page 15 . Anglo-Italian Pact Approved By FERDINAND KUHN Jr . Special Cable to Tas NSW YORE MISS . LONDON , Nov. ** the overwhelming vote of 345 to 138 the House of Commons tonight approved speedy ratification of the Anglo-Italian treaty on Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's plea that the Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace of Europe . " The vote was taken only a few hours after the 5,649-ton Britishowned freighter Cantabria had been shelled and sunk in the North Sea by a Spanish Insurgent armed trawler within sight of the Norfolk coast . The news had not the slighteit effect upon the debate in the Commons or the size of Mr. Chamberlain 's majority . Only a handful of about ten government supporters led by former Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden and Winston Churchill abstained from voting as a sign that they disapproved of bringing the treaty into force . Mr. Eden himself insisted that the conditions of the treaty had not yet been fulfilled and declared that its ratification now was an unwarranted concession to the dictatorships by the British Government . " We are constantly giving and they are constantly taking , " complained . Mr. Eden , who resigned from the Cabinet last February because he could not approve starting negotiations with Italy . Commons Is Apathetic But the House was apathetic today and Mr. Chamberlain won one of his easiest victories . The result leaves him freato go a stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Already there is talk of another visit by Mr. Chamberlain to Chancellor Adolf Hitler or of another four-power meeting somewhere on the Mediterranean in the near future . Such predictions , however , are believed to be many weeks ahead of time . What matters at the moment is that the British Government is determined to bury the hatchet with Italy and to be friends again in the Mediterranean and the Middle East despite the Rome-Berlin axis and . all that it implies . The next move by Mr. Chamberlain will be to give the Earl of Perth , British Ambassador to Rome , new credentials addressed to the King of Italy and Emperor of Abyssinia . When this has been done Lord Perth will sign a declaration with Count Galeazzo Ciano , the Italian Foreign Minister , probably the middle of this month , affirming that the agreement of last April is in force . The completion of the agreement will bring into operation a whole series of decisions affecting AngloItalian interests from the Canary Islands to Southern Arabia and from Palestine to the frontiers of Kenya . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected . here that there will also be prompt cessation of anti-British propaganda in the Near East , the adherence of Italy to the London naval treaty and the exchange of military , information between the two powers , probably at the start of the new year . As for Spain , the British Government will at least have a formal assurance in the treaty that Italy intends to respect the integrity of Spanish territory and Spanish possessions . Mr. Chamberlain told the Commons today that this assurance had been repeated to him " most definitely " in Munich by Signor Mussolini and by Herr Hitler too . At that time , said Mr. Chamberlain , the Italian dictator had told of the impending withdrawal of 10,000 men , " or about half the Italian infantry forces , " from Spain . These men have since returned to Italy and have been reviewed by King Victor Emmanuel . " We have received from Signor Mussolini definite assurance , " Mr. Chamberlain- went on , " first of all , that the remaining Italian forces of all categories will be withdrawn when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no further Italian troops will be sent into Spain ; and thirdly  --  in case this idea should occur to anybody  --  that the Italian Government has never for a moment entertained the idea of sending conpensatory air forces to Spain in lieu of the infantry forces which have now been withdrawn . " Mr. Chamberlain interpreted this as a substantial sign of Italy 's good intentions , especially , he insisted , because the delay in completing the Non-Intervention Committee 's plan was not Italy 's fault . Jeers From Labor Benches There were jeers from the Labor benches at this , but Mr. Chamberlain said that he refused to share " the eternal tendency of suspicion " of those who thought that Spain would be a Fascist power or a Fascist satellite . To prove his point , he cited Generalissimo Francisco Franco 's declaration of neutrality at the height of the crisis in September , when the Spanish Rebel leader promised not to violate the French frontier in case of war . The events of September , said Mr. Chamberlain , had put the Spanish war into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great catastrophe in the acute Czechoslovak crisis , " said the Prime Minister , " surely nobody can make out with that recollection in their minds that they are going to knock their heads together over Spain . " Added justification for better relations with Italy , he reminded the House , was the action of Premier Mussolini in persuading Chancellor Hitler to call the Munich conference . " By that action the peace of Europe was saved , " said Mr. Chamberlain . " Does anybody suppose that my request to Signor Mussolini to intervene could have met with a response from him or , indeed , that I could even have made such a request if our relations with Italy had remained what they were a year ago ? " Finally , Mr. Chamberlain read messages from the Premiers of Australia and South Africa approving ratification of the Anglo-Italian treaty as a further move toward world peace . The Prime Minister added that he had received " no message either way " from the Prime Ministers of New Zealand and Canada . Mr. Chamberlain 's critics in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictators . Thus Arthur Greenwood , the Labor . party 's leading spokesman , declared that the withdrawal of 10 , - 000 Italians was not a gesture of good faith but " a trick to play for time and prolong the war . " Mr. Eden also protested vehemently against accepting Italian promises now when so many had been broken in the past . Every Italian airplane in Spain , Mr. Eden declared , was there in violation of Italy 's pledged word . " Surely , " said Mr. Eden , " the honest truth is that the essential condition the government laid down for bringing the agreement into force has not been satisfied . " There is real danger that if the policy of appeasement continues to be interpreted in different ways by different countries our position and interests may be gravely imperiled . " We shall be faced , I fear , by a bigger international problem than ever before , and I gravely doubt whether we*shall receive any assistance in seeking to solve it . " But Mr. Eden failed to rouse the House , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other problems . Mr. Chamberlain 's majority of 207 tonight was far bigger than his margin of 162 in the vote of confidence that followed Mr. Eden 's resignation eight months ago . Canadian Silence Explained Special to Tas NEW YORK TIMES . OTTAWA , Nov. 2 . ? Announcement today - by Prime ; , Minister Neville Chamberlain ' that Australia ? and South Africa had cabled approval of the Anglo-Italian agreement , but that no reply had been received from Canada or New Zealand , brought a statement here from Acting Prime Minister E. A. Lapointe . Mr. Lapointe said that as " the agreement does not deal with any matters in which ? Canada has any direct interest , there has not been any occasion for the expression of the views of the Canadian Government . " The Mackenzie King government thus preserves in regard to this ' development of the Chamberlain pacification policy the reticence it displayed when it looked as if Britain 's stand over Czechoslovakia might involve the Empire in war . Privately , however , Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King , who is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is believed to approve any and all agreements that Britain may make which will further the cause of peace , even if only temporarily .                     