@@702443

txt Labor developments in various parts to the United States today : A defense committee of company union officials of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation today appealed to William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , for aid in checking the onrush of the C. I. 0 . organization drive in that industry , They asked Mr. Green foi his advice on reorganizing the company union system so as to retail its appeal to the worker , and aver ) a stampede into the John L. Lewb industrial union camp . Mr. Green sent out orders to federation locals to resist the C. I. 0 ab every step , In New York , John J Mara , president of the International Boot and Shoe Workers ' Union , immediately announced that in his industry , " we will fight fire with fire , ' and will " take whatever steps are necessary to keep these outlaw unions from encroaching on our territory . " Meanwhile the C. I. 0 . organizers confidently opened their drive to take over company and American Federation of Labor unions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murray , C. I. 0 . official who negotiated the Carnegie-Illinois agreement , said : " The independent steel companies may balk a little , . . . but they will come around just as soon as we get the me9 signed up . When we do that , we are going to have a universal agreement throughout the steel industry . " Much of the cost of increased steel wages will be levied on the pocketbook of the consumer beginning April 1 . On that date , advances of $3 to $8 a ton in steel prices will be put into effect by the United States Steel Corporation , according to announcement last night . And the trade Journal Iron Age anticipates that the rest of the steel industry will follow suit . Newly won wage Increases were frankly admitted to be a " compelling factor " in the rise of prices by William A. Irvin , corporation president , but a 32 per dent rise in the price of scrap iron in the last year , together with stiff increases in the prices of other metals , contributed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Automobile Workers of America , announced that the union would present an ultimatum to Chrysler officials this afternoon , insisting on an immediate answer to its demand for sole bargaining rights for all Chrysler workers . Another 10,000 workers went on strike in scattered communities . bringing the total engaged in labor disputes to approximately 50,000 , the Associated Press reports . But settlements are hourly recorded , two of them reopening auto parts plants yesterday . At Akron , 10.000 rubber workers at the Firestone plant awaited a report from conferees.                     