@@703649

txt Yesterdays impressive showing of Republican strength on the comeback trail is regarded by political observers in various sections of the country as an indication that the G. 0 . P. will be in position to put up a real battle for the presidency in 1940 . As predicted by The Wall Street Journal , most of the surprises as the election returns rolled in yesterday were found in the camps of the New Dealers . Particularly significant . is the indicated Republican net gain of eleven gubernatorial chairs . Control of eleven new state administrattoria , including ' such key areas as Perinsyl ' Vanir4 " . andOhlo ; " should prove of Inestimable value to the . party as iacanipaigning and vote ? getting organization . Lack of effective state organization was one of the Republican 's most severe handicaps two years ago . These gubernatorial gains go far to offset the frequently quoted political adage that a party which fails to take control of Congress in the off-year election stands little chance of electing a chief executive two years later . Control Not Possible Until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that complete Republican control of the federal government is virtually impossible ' before 1942 at the earliest because of the constitutional provisions for election of the United States Senate . Indicated gains of eight to nine seats in the Senate this year would bring Republican membership in that Chamber to a minimum of 23 . In order to reach a majority in the Senate In 1940 the Republicans would have to gain 26 more places . It so happens that there are exactly 26 Democratic and minor party Senators coming up for reelection in 1940 . Hence the G. 0 . P. would have to take every one of these seats to organize the Senate . However , the group of Democratic incumbents whose terms expire in 1940 includes Senators from Florida , Mississippi , Virginia and Texas and their replacement by Republicans does not now seem at all probable . A Republican president elected in 1940 would have to depend on conservative Democratic support in the Senate for the first two years of his term at least if he expected to achieve much New Deal Popularity Slumps In general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the popularity of the New Deal at Washington and an even more emphatic public protest against certain " little New Deals " in various important states . As usual in offyear contests , local issues and local personalities were so important in many-instances that broad conclusions are unwise . In New York , for example , conservative voters who cast their ballots for Governor Lehman " on his record " were probably numerous enough to account for the alight margin by which Thomas E. Dewey went down to defeat . Governor Murphy 's defeat in Michigan was a direct blow to the New Deal and probably the nearest thing to a personal set-back for President Roosevelt since the ill-fated primary " purge " ended . Murphy was the only Democratic . candidate outside New York state mentioned by the chief executive in his pre-election radio speech . - Clean Cut Victory in Ohio The victory of Robert A. Taft over Robert Bulkley in Ohio followed what was perhaps the clearest cut New Deal and anti-New Deal campaign . Neither candidate was given much advantage over the other by impartial observers Whets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victories seem to illustrate rural distiatisfaction with the New Dears farm program , although this dissatisfaction contributed largely to G. 0 . P. gains in many other states . Neither of the two Senate sponsors of the 19138 farm bill will be . in Congress next year. - Senator Pope , of Idaho , having been defeated in the Democratic primary and Senator , of Kansas , having failed to win re-election yesterday . Analysis of returns shows that the more conservative Democrats did better . In general , than the more enthusiastic New Dealers . But what may be even more significant , the Democrats suffered their most humiliating defeats in Pennsylvania and - Ohio , where their management of state government affairs was most sharply criticized .                     