@@697424

txt Party lines are obliterated in the complicated , campaign now in progress in Pennsylvania with the wet issue overshadowing personalities and political principles . High protectionists and corporation heads are in revolt against Gifford Pinchot , dry Republican nominee for Governor . On the other hand , many dry Democrats , including Vance McCormick , former Democratic national chairman , have bolted John M. Hemphill , the Democratic nominee for Governor , who favors repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and the State enforcement act . John F. MpSparren , former Democratic candidate for Governor , joined this bolt early in the week . Today William B. Wilson , who was Secretary of Labor eight years in Woodrow Wilson 's Cabinet , announced his support of Pinchot . The liberal party , composed largely of wet Republicans , is backing Hemphill . It polled 225,000 votes in the primaries . While other questions come into the struggle , the one that is cutting 1 across party lines is the increasing demand in the State for modification of the Volstead law . Pinchot has sharply attacked the corporations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enemy to big business . They are denouncing him as a demagogue who is opposed to the things that made Pennsylvania prosperous . General W. W. Atterbury , president of the Pennsylvania Railroad and a leading opponent of the Eighteenth Amendment , deserted Pinchot early and resigned as member of the Republican National Committee . This was followed by a revolt of fortyseven members of the Republican City Committee of Philadelphia . So men who have been regarded in Pennsylvania as the backbone of the party and a prolific source of not only votes but campaign money , are arrayed against Pinchot , who is making his fight almost alone with that resourceful Senator Grundy supporting him financially and aiding with his experience . It is the Grundy and Pinchot faction against the Atterbury and Philadelphia organization wing , with Secretary Mellon and his nephew apparently neutral and not actively engaged in the conflict . " Regulars " Are Now Bolters . The chief Republican bolters are men who have always preached party regularity . Today they are fighting the party nominee for Governor . The defection they set in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic Governor and assure that it will join New York , New Jersey and other Eastern States in a demand in the next Republican national convention for a declaration against the Eighteenth Amendment . The entire contest here centres about the Governorship , with the bitterness increasing daily as Pinchot hurls charges against General Atterbury and the corporations and avoids the liquor question . The fight on Pinchot marks the disintegration of the powerful political machine established by the Carnerons and developed by Quay and Penrose . Since the death of Penrose the Republican organization of Pennsylvania has been breaking down owing to lack of leadership . In no county in the State is there party solidarity . In former times the campaign for the Republican ticket was directed from the headquarters of the State committee in Philadelphia . This year no attempt has been made by State leaders to cooperate with county leaders in getting out the party vote . Only One Republican Rally in City . Headquarters of the State committee here are deserted and the chairman , General Edward H. Martin , State Treasurer , is seldom seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders have been held of late and there has been only one political rally  --  the usual gathering for the opening of the campaign when all the candidates on the ticket appeared and made speeches . The failure of the State organization leaders to wage a vigorous campaign is due in large part to the hopeless division of Republicans over Pinchot . Desertions from the Republican ranks in many rural counties are reported but none of the leaders in those counties is openly in revolt . A heavy vote for Hemphill in the rural districts is predicted by Democratic leaders and there are rumors that in some rural districts Pinchot will be the victim of disloyalty . Atterbury , who bolted Pinchot , was a target for Grundy in the Spring primaries . At that time the railroad president supported Francis Shunk Brown against Pinchot . His bolt of the party nominee last week was on the ground that Pinchot had avowed his intention , if elected Governor , to move toward drastic regulation of public utilities . Vauclaln in Anti-Pinchot Move . Subsequently a committee of capitalists in Philadelphia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baldwin Locomotive Works , was organized to advance the candidacy of Hemphill and a similar committee has been established in Pittsburgh . The committee in Pittsburgh includes in its membership some associates of the MeDons . Pinchot has charged that General Atterbury was responsible for the defection of business men and that they are financing Hemphill 's campaign . Some Pinchot managers assert that in bolting Pinchot Atterbury was actuated by political ambition . They say that he would like to go to the Senate , and that he will be a candadate two years hence . Another bolter from the Pinchot ranks who has attracted interest is Samuel H. Church , president of the Carnegie Institute . Mr. Church is a pronounced wet and has appealed to citizens to vote for Hemphill . The revolt in the Philadelphia machine , of which William S. Vare is the recognized head , is a remarkable feature of the campaign . Never before have the local leaders violated the rule of party regularity . Now they are fighting openly for the election of a Democratic Governor . The hostility of the Vare organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful influence in city politics , resigned from the city committee after a service of more than forty years , and assailed the candidate for Governor , declaring that Pinchot 's appeal for support on the ground of party regularity was ludicrous in view of Pinchot 's record as a party bolter . Hall predicted that Philadelphia would give Hemphill 25,000 majority . Thus far Vare has not declared himself , but he is expected to come out for Hemphill . Mayor Harry A. Mackey , who for two years has been at odds with the Vare organization , is one of the few Republican leaders in Philadelphia who are supporting Pinchot . Many observers think that the election will be a severe test of the power of the Vare machine . Philadelphia has no Democratic following of consequence , and the Pinchot managers predict that the Vare leaders will he unable to deliver many of their adherents to a Democratic candidate . They also assert that Pinchot will receive substantial support from independent voters and the dry element . Pinchot , on the other hand , is handicapped by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few exceptions the men in charge of his campaign in the city have had little experience in politics . Raskoh Keeps In Touch . Chairman Rasl:ob , Jouett Shouse and other Democratic managers have been in close touch with conditions in the State through Sedgwick Kistler , national committeeman from ' Pennsylvania and who is a candidate for Senator against dames J. Davis . Kistler 's defeat is regarded as assured . He is taking an active part in the campaign for the election of Democrats to the House of Representatives , and he has reported to the national leaders that Democratic candidates will win in several districts . The Pennsylvania delegation in the House is now solidly Republican . Of the thirty-six districts the Democrats are saying they will carry at least seven . It is thought likely that the Democrats will elect their candidates in districts that are usually regarded as doubtful . These are in the coal mining and manufacturing sections where there is much unemployment . The Pinchot leaders are now seeking support from the Republican National Committee , and they say that it will be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , will publicly declare for Pinchot . He has already indicated that he is for the " whole ticket . " The Atterbury faction counter this by saying that desertions of many county leaders will be shown when the State Committee meets in Han risburg on Monday . If the county chairmen remain loyal to the ticket and Allegheny County returns a 50,000 majority for Pinchot , many politicians believe that Pinchot will win . Wilson Attacks the " Plunderbund . " In announcing today his defection from the party ticket William B. Wilson said : " Recent developments in the campaign have strengthened me in my determination not to vote for Hemphill . Aside from a number of selfish interests that are using the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment as a smoke screen behind which they are fleecing the American people , there is no plunderbund whose leaders know what they want , and how to get it , better than the leaders of the Philadelphia machine . " And what they want would seriously demote the general welfare . I shall not go along with them . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I shall vote for Pinchot "                     