@@698913

txt John Nance Garner of Texas , Speaker of the House of Representatives , of which he has been a member nearly thirty years , was nominated at 3:40 P. M. today as- the Democratic candidate for Vice President of the United States . The convention , tired but still noisy , for once during the week was in complete agreement . Only one other nomination was made  --  that of General Matthew A. Tinley of Iowa . When the roll-call of the States was concluded General Tinley moved the nomination be made unanimatitir , ? There was no excitement attending the placing in nomination , the seconding and the final action of the Convention to make the man from Uvalde , Texas , the running mate of Governor Roosevelt , who was speeding by airplane to Chicago to accept the nomination for the Presidency . It was 2 o'clock when Senator Walsh , the chairman , called the convention to order . The hall , already comfortably crowded , was gradually assuming a " standing room only " status . The big pipe organ pealed forth " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the convention was under way . Close Friend Names.Garner . Alabama yielded to Texas , and Texas in return called on a son of Alabama , Representative John W. of Monroeville , an intimate friend of Mr. Garner and Democratic whip of the House , to place the name of " the gentleman from the cactus country " before the convention . It was a task Mr. MeDuffle relished , for Mr. Garner in his eyes is the biggest man in public life . Mr. , who was the leader in the fight for hii own and the Garner relief plans , went at his task with a will . Others may have doubts , but he is certain a landslide is coming and that it *ill sweep Roosevelt and Garner into office next November . " A few days ago , " he said , " the Republicans everywhere were predicting dissension in the ranks of the Democratic party . On that prediction they based their hopes of victory . Then we named Franklin D. Roosevelt for President and in doing so chilled the heart of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsive chord on the floor . Texas whooped back in true cowboy style , and the others just yelled . Everywhere in the land , declared Mr. , Democrats are happy because the people are swarming into the Democratic camp as the place where real progressive leadership awaits them . " In any crisis , " said the Alabamian , " the American people , when they are thinking , call on the Democratic party for leadership . " Naming Mr. Garner for the second place on the ticket , h. lauded the Speaker as a man of " sturdy and rugged character , " as the " outstanding leader in Congress , " and as a " real , red-blooded he-man . " " Just the kind , " he exclaimed , . " America needs for Vice President at this time . " Predicts " Greatest Victory . " " Roosevelt and Garner , " concluded Mr. , " will lead the Democratic party to the greatest victory it has ever achieved . " The Texans jumped up , waved the Lone Star flag and gave a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its big grizzly bear , and the other delegations indicated their approval in ways less demonstrative . The demonstration was quickly over with , and then came the long roll call and its short seconding speeches and ( announcements . Tammany caused a buret of real applause when John F. Curry , Its leader , Seconded the nomination for New York . New Jersey decided not to present the name of Representative Mary T. Norton and seconded the Garner nomination . Bruce Campbell of East St. Louis , the Illinois choice for second place on the ticket , announced his withdrawal from the race and added Illinois ' big batch of votes to the Garner column . So it went all down the line , only Iowa putting forward another candidate . None of the bitterness or wire-pulling that marked the battle for the Presidential nomination figured in the decision involving the Vice Presidency . As a matter of fact , the Vice Presidential nomination received no serious consideration , so far as the individual delegates were concerned , until the break in the allied lines last night . Simultaneous with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp came the announcement that second honors were going to the Rio Grande country and that Mr. Garner was the man . The decision of the Roosevelt leaders to name Mr. Garner was received as a matter of course , so far as the delegates were concerned . The comment was that it was a good selection . This afternoon the delegations through their chairmen , one after another , threw their full strength to the man who is " Cactus Jack " to Texans . Mamar Williams of Arkansas called Mr. Garner " a safe refuge . " Another seconder described him as a " disciple of Jefferson , Jackson , Cleveland and Woodrow Wilson . " To another he was ' la two-fisted fighting man , " and in the opinion of another " an invincible battering ram . " Huey Long shouted Louisiana was for him because " it was Louisiana soldiers who freed Texas in 1836 . " Governor George Dern of Utah , withdrawing his own candidacy , warned the Democrats not to be over-optimistic . There was , he said , a hard fight ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roll-call neared the end . Mayor Curley of Boston , who led the losing fight for Governor Roosevelt in the Massachusetts delegation , who is on the floor as a delegate from Puerto Rico , spoke for the island possessions . When he concluded General Tinley made the motion to make the nomination unamimous and Senator Connally thereupon declared Speaker Garner the candidate of the Democratic party for Vice President .                     