@@698640

txt Dentists who are willing to fill teeth in return for oil paintings and physicians . who agree to accept the same fees for treating ailing artists will be able to begin collecting art within , the next few weeks . The same prospect is held out to landlords and merchants by the Society of Independent Artists , who have decided in their show this year to consider other media than hard cash In exchange for their work . Whether a given painting is worth several gold inlays or merely a few amalgam fillings will be for the artist to decide . The Society of Independent Artists merely hopes to put before him the possibility of bringing his dental repairs up to date , having his children 's tonsils removed or replenishing the kitchen cupboard . The question of . bartering art for the necessities of life came up recently at a meeting of the board of directors of the society . It was not as a matter of new business that the distress of artists was introduced for discussion , for the matter is as old as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more acute . After discussing the problem , the directors decided to instruct the secretary to make a note of all offers of goods or services in exchange for works of art and to communicate with the artist . The question of concluding the bargain will lie then between him and the prospective buyer . When asked yesterday about the matter , John Sloan , president of the Society of Independent Artists , said : " Artists are always on the bread line , but this year they are in even worse straits than usual and we hope to make sales a special feature of the show . Dental services will be one of the most welcome media of exchange for works of art . Medical care and clothing will also be acceptable . Best of all , however , will be the offer of rent for six months or a year . " The economic distress among artists is reflected more directly in the Society of Independent Artists than in other organizations because the society includes in its ranks many painters and sculptors who are young or who have not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic art organization in the country , accepting for membership any artist who pays its fees and exhibiting alphabetically the work that he sends in , without censorship by a jury of helection and without the award of prizes . The democratic aims of the show have enlisted the support of well-known artists , who exhibit each year with the Independents , although many opportunities come to - them each year to exhibit elsewhere . Hope to Avoid Deficit . Despite economic conditions , the Independents are undertaking this year a larger financial , hurdan than ever before . Each of their annual exhibitions results in a financial deficit , since the dues of members are purposely kept low so as to exclude no one , and the entrance fee for visitors is fixed at only 25 cents so as to be within the means of practically every one interested in art . For fifteen years the annual deficit has been paid by Mrs. Harry Payne Whitney , but this year the Independents hope to avoid a deficit . " We feel that Mrs. Whitney has done inure than her share in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sloan yesterday . " Now that the splendid Whitney Museum of American Art which she has given the public is necessarily her chief preoccupation , we feel that we ought to stand on our own feet if we are ever going to do so . However , we have the assurance that in case all our efforts fail another art patron will help in the emergency . " The dues of the society , which were only $6 last year , have been increased to $9 this year , but the admission fee for visitors to the show remains a quarter . Each artist will be permitted to exhibit three pictures at the coming show instead of two as in former years . A ball will be held as a means of raising money . The exhibition will open to the public on April 2.                     