@@704127

txt Appeasement Not New in Britain Post-War History Is Cited to Indicate That Lloyd George , Not Chamberlain , Was Father of Policy Appeasement as an instrument of British post-war policy was not invented by Mr. Chamberlain . He has been accepted in the popular mind as the author of the policy of appeasing aggressor nations , while in reality what he did in Munich was merely to repeat the policy inaugurated by one of his predecessors in office  --  today one of his most vigorous opponents and foe of appeasement . The post-war policy of appeasement was born nineteen years ago , on July 6. 1920 . Lloyd George , then Prime Minister of England , was its father ; Spa was its birthplace and Poland its first victim . It was born under auspicious circumstances . At the Spa conference , for the first time since the World War , the German delegates were to negotiate with the Allies on terms of equality . For the first time since the war the Germans were allowed to discuss certain terms of the Treaty of Versailles , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of regret to the statesmen assembled that this first step on the road to international normalcy had to be blocked by the Premier of Poland , Wladyslaw Grabski , who arrived in Spa to plead with the Allies for war material and funds in order to combat the Bolshevik armies which were then overrunning Poland . Frigid Reception Grahski 's was a dramatic plea . Poland , completely destroyed during the war , without a trained army , equipment or funds , outnumbered by the enemy ; was fighting for her life against the Bolshevik invasion . As one of the allied powers she came to seek support from her associates and guarantors of her independence . A very frigid reception met the Polish plea . All that Lloyd George had to say in reply to the Polish appeal was that four months ago he had warned the Polish Premier that Britain did not look with favor on the war with the Bolsheviks . The Poles , having made war contrary to advice , must now make the best of it and seek peace with the Bolsheviks on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereafter Lloyd George relented and an allied mission was sent to Warsaw . Lord d'Abernon , accompanied by a British general and two French representatives , proceeded to Poland to " advise His Majesty 's government as to the measures to be taken with the Polish and other governments on questions arising out of negotiations with regard to the conclusion of an armistice between Poland and Soviet Russia . " It is perhaps an ironic twist of fate that the only allied statesman who recorded his opposition to this gesture of support for Poland was President Masaryk of Czecho-Slovakia . " Not only did he consider the capture of Warsaw by the Bolsheviks , " Lord d'Abernon relates , " a matter of certainty but he warned us against organizing any military assistance to Poland on two grounds : it was certain to be completely ineffective in a military sense , and it was liable to destroy the authority of the western powers in the subsequent negotiations for peace . By openly siding with the Poles in their hopeless position we would do them no good ' and we should do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meantime the Polish Army fought on . Against overwhelming odds it was forced to retreat farther and farther . into the interior until on Aug. 10 the Bolshevik troops were within a few miles of Warsaw . On that very same day in the House of Commons , in the course of an address on the Polish-Russian crisis , the British Prime Minister declared that " supposing the Minsk conference ( on armistice ) fails because the Poles refuse conditions which in the circumstances , having regard to the commencement of the conflict and to the military position , the Soviets are in the judgment of every fair-minded man entitled to exact from them , then the Allies could not support Poland . " The conditions which the Soviets " were in the judgment of every fairminded man entitled to exact " included the reduction of the Polish Army to one annual contingent of 50,000 men ; the demobilization of the army within one month ; the destruction of all war industries . The final frontier of Poland was to be established within " ethnographic limits " in accordance with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over one-third of Polish territory beyond its present boundaries . The **28;160;TOOLONG railway line was to be placed fully at the disposal of Russia for commercial transit to and from the Baltic . In addition , semi-official pronouncements in Moscow indicated that as soon as the armistice on these terms was concluded Polish workers were to be armed and Councils of Workers and Peasants formed in Poland " as a guarantee of the rights of the proletariat . " Such was the price of appeasement in 1920 . The tenor and even the wording of the Russian conditions of August , 1920 , are strangely reminiscent of Chancellor Hitler 's demands in the period immediately preceding Munich . Lloyd George 's declarations before and after the final rich ne va plus were almost identical with Chamberlain 's statements of the corresponding period in 1938 . There was only one difference . It was Czecho-Slovakia in 1938 , but it was Poland in 1920 . Pilsudski 's Victory Four days after Lloyd George 's statement in the House of Commons Marshal Pilsudski launched his famous offensive against the Bolsheviki . The Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete Polish victory , the Polish-Russian armistice was signed on Oct. 12 . From this cursory view of appease , ment at work we can conclude that the important consideration is not who and , when will commence appeasement proceedings but how the country at whose expense they are conducted will react . Will it count on the aid of others and surrender as a matter of course when no help is forthcoming , or will it consider its dignity , honor and independence a matter of pride and patriotism rather than one of practical politics ? It would seem from the Polish example of 1920 that nations which value their ultimate freedom higher than their temporary advantages in politics have nothing to fear from appeasement . Because this conviction has grown in Europe since Munich the policy of appeasement has lost a great deal of its popularity . Its original inventor , Lloyd George , has been reformed . Today he passionately warns his successor in office : " Surrender is the wrong way to appeasement . It is a path that leads in the opposite direction . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Turkey would indicate that his faith in the effectiveness of the policy under present circumstances has also been badly shaken . It has been said that in the present crisis over Danzig Great Britain might again revert to appeasement policies . Now and again the question is asked , How can Great Britain he expected to fight for Danzig ? Why should British lives he lost over a provincial Baltic town ? Not Entirely New To be sure , it would he a long way for England to battle for her rights on the banks of the Vistula . It is an unusual contingency , but it has been done before . In 1854 , when the Czar of Russia decided to invest himself with the mantle of Protector of Orthodox Christians in partibus in eieeletin and was determined to protect his wards all the way down to Constantinople , Great Britain did not hesitate to plunge into a war in Crimea of which the Prince Consort is reported to have said that " the first difficulty about this war is the absence of all information as to Crimea itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself the idealistic and at the same time not unprofitable role of Protector of All Germans and extends his protecting arms to parts of the world which are essential to the empire but with which the British public is not entirely familiar  --  there is no reason why Great Britain should not  --  if necessary  --  fight for Danzig . on which , at least , there is some information available . It would he idle to suppose that appeasement should or could he outlawed as an instrument of British policy . After all , it is not a crime which involves moral turpitude . In the final analysis it is but a common failing of human nature which is not always spontaneous enough to bear sacrifices for the sake of others . If appeasement is.applied to nations which yield their rights , thereby assuring a breathing spell to the British people , then the British statesmen adopting it as their policy are merely doing their patriotic duty . To apply it to nations which are determined to fight for their rights anyway might bring disaster in its train , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to indicate that the British Government is not fully cognizant of these facts . EDWARD WEINTAL . Washington , Aug. 1 , 1939 . Not So Different Successively I was surprised , startled and shaken with laughter . Your " 1776 and All That , " by Helen Bryant , is really good . I 'm afraid I must admit she has successfully recorded " The English . " I appreciate her point concerning our deplorable lack of knowledge of the " Americans  --  little towns living quiet lives  --  the American way . " Your country is pretty big , you know ; we , after all , inhabit a minute piece of earth very dear to us . In some ways you are to blame ; Andy Hardy , plus his folk , was both diverting and informative , now they 've come into millions . Why must you persist in giving everybody in your country so much money ? As for Washington streets being muddy , I , this afternoon , got quite attached to some very good Devonshire material , brilliant brick red in color , providing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrounding hills . However , we really are interested in your people . Possibly we envy them slightly , maybe you do us too . The Americans I have encountered have been cheerful companions , particularly when one praised our Broadcasting Corporation . He , incidentally , had cultivated a really nice taste for our unrivaled beer . Please inform Helen Bryant that the English are not . so very strange ; America for us does exist ; we like your books , your films and we like you . " Living quiet lives "  --  the American way has got me somehow . I wish we could know more about them . I believe we could in just the same way as you could that we too live quiet lives , even if it is in the English way . English or American , what does it matter ? It is just the same tonic , but with a slightly different label . There is a pub around the corner ; I 've just time to slip for a drink , wishing sincerely I could take all those millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CARROLL . Exeter , England , July 23 , 1939 . Mapping European War Alps Viewed as Impracticable for a Decisive Effort TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMM ' Probably nothing is farther from the plans of the entente than the " Gamelin plan , " as reported by your , military ea ? pert in THE TIMES , to force the passel front France into Italy . Certainly noths ing can be foreseen until the line-up Q. the powers is clear . But to any on* familiar with Alpine terrain from staff maps and personal knowledge , the paws ing of the Alps , in the face of strongly , prepared modern positions that esti &; is as near to impossible as anything can be in a military sense . Some of thou paseee scarcely Weed room for more than three men abroad ? They are covered by carefully placed artillery , machine-gun nests and rifle fire , with ranges that far exceed Mr , thing known at the time when passes were negotiated in the past , and are well mined . In unaccented terrain , against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and materiel of three to one to attack with any chance of success . Against permanent works , in terrain impossible for tanks , that superiority would have to be more than five to one . Until the man power of the British Empire can be brought to bear , the entente would lack that margin . Converging Passes Moreover , the fact that the passes into Italy converge is a source of strength rather than weakness to the defense , which can thereby rush its centrally placed reserve along interior lines to any point seriously threatened . Would it not he unwise to allow French armies to he lured into Northern Italy , where they can be taken in flank as they debauch , by Southern Italian or German forces corning through the Brenner , until at least the Southern Italian armies can be diverted by operations against Sardinia , Sicily or Southern Italy ? Of course , if superiority be given to French armies by the diversion of German and Italian forces to meet serious challenge on some other front , it may he another matter , but even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort in men and materiel to force the Alpine passes or in some other general offensive initial . Entente strategy is much more likely to contain any general attacks the Axis powers might deliver either against the Alps or the Maginot Line , thus depleting Axis reserves , or let the Axis armies he the first to seek to turn flanks through neutral countries that would thereby be forced into the arms of the enemy . As to a German attack in the rear of the Maginot Line through the narrow Basle-Porrentruy " gateway , " this line is also in difficult terrain ; well covered , prepared , thoroughly enfiladed , and registered from bastion positions , it would he no picnic to silence . Undoubtedly Axis attacks will be made against Tunis from Libya , against Egypt and the Suez Canal from Libya and East Africa , against the Dardanelles from Bulgaria and the Dodecanese . Otherwise , after initial operations along the Alps and Maginot lines , they will he restricted to testing thrusts of purely local character . Forces Cut Off It is much more likely that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things have happened . First the Italian fleet will have to be bottled up or destroyed and all enemy surface units sweat from the Mediterranean . That should be a matter of weeks only . The first effect of the sea effort will he to cut off and destroy Axis troops in Libya , Ethiopia , East Africa and the Dodecanese , thereby liberating large entente forces for action in the metropolitan areas . Submarine bases would have to he mopped up outside the peninsula and Pantelleria reduced by air and naval attack . This is indispensable to the provisioning of such allies as the entente may have in the Balkans and Eastern Mediterranean . The position of Spain may condition these operations but not for long , except in so far as she may afford bases for submarines . Nothing is more likely to keep Yugoslavia , for instance , neutral , or even bring it in on the entente side , than the reduction of Pantelleria and the proof that the entente can safely convoy foodstuffs and munitions to the Eastern Mediterranean , plus obvious inducements at the expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced or decoyed out to its destruction that task may be greatly facilitated . Maximum Exertion Needed When the strength of the entente has been mobilized to its maximum and the pressure of its eastern allies brought to hear , then only will cone the development of the offensive operations with which alone any war can be brought to a successful termination . Then after the Axis powers have depleted their slender resources of raw materials and of German commissioned and noncommissioned officers , the operations against Italy may commence , but probably not through the Alps . It is far more likely that those operat ions will come at , the other end of the hoot , in Sicily , the Campagna , Abruzzi , Bari or against Sardinia . For with its command of the sea , the entente will have the advantage in mobility for both men and materiel for surprise thrusts against the Italians with only two through lines of railroads leading down into the southern part of the peninsula , one of which would be severely harassed by air forces based on Corsica and Sardinia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed or nett ? tralized , their colonial armies destroyed , their belts tightened by blockade , and their chief cities and railroads bones herded from the air , the morale and resistance of the Italians would wear and probably yield to a relatively gen. erous separate peace that would permit the entente , which has no interest in the martyrization of the Italian people itself , to make certain that the German people shall have their first full taste of war at close hand , that they will remember for at least a century to come . But the decisive effort will be at Pantelleria , not in the Alps . CHARLES A. Win .. New York , Aug. 2 , 1939.                     