@@699933

txt The Hitler Cabinet adopted decrees today providing for the confiscation of all property of individuals or organizations adjudged hostile to the State and the seizure of property and withdrawal of citizenship of all critics of the government living abroad who refuse to return to Germany . Taking another leaf from Bolshevist practice , the government also undertook to silence all German critics in foreign lands by applying the policy of seizing their relatives . This practice , first applied . against I the Jews in the form of the antiJewish boycott , was extended in more rigorous form to all other Germans when Premier Goering 's secret Prussian police arrested and threw into a concentration camp five relatives of Philipp Scheldemann , first Socialist Chancellor of the German Republic , in retaliation for an article recently published in TRH NEW YORK TIMES . According to Dr. Alfred . Hugenburg 's Nachtausgabe those arrested " yere primarily male relatives of Scheidemann , " but the secret police declined to divulge their names . A daughter of Herr Scheidemann . Frau Katz , and her husband committed suicide in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Nazi hounding of the former Chancellor . Today 's Cabinet session was presided over by Chancellor Hitler himself . Its decree pro siding for the confiscation of all property " inimical to State or people " extends the provisions of a previous decree under which the property of the Communist party was confiscated to the Socialist party and its auxiliary organizations in particular , and in general to ail other organizations and private individuals whom the Minister of the Interior may designate as " Marxists " or otherwise hostile to the State . In a commentary on the decree it is said that this will permit the confiscation of the property of all organizations whose members agitate against Germany abroad , as well as of the private fortunes of the respective individuals under the provisions of the decree . Under the expansive interpretation that the National Socialists usually give their decrees , however , it might also affect the organizational and private properties of Jews . The decree , providing that persons living abroad who " violate their duty and loyalty to the Reich " may be deprived of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Germany when requested to do so , applies to the Saar territory as well as to foreign countries , According to these two decrees any German abroad can criticize Chancellor Hitler only at the risk of the freedom of his relatives and the loss of his possessions . The second decree likewise provides that any citizenship granted between Nov. 9 , 1918 , and Jan. 30 , 1933 , may be revoked . This is aimed mainly at Jewish immigrants . Other Decrees Adopted . Further decrees establish the National Socialist party as the only legal party in Germany and firobibit the formation of new parties as high treason , provide for new election regulations if any effort should be made to invoke the popular referendum and recall , and permit the establishment of a gambling casino in Baden-Baden for public welfare purposes . The Cabinet also ratified the concordat recently concluded befween the Vatican and the Reich and gave legal status to the constitution of the German Evangelical Church recently agreed upon by the various factions . Most of the newspapers today contained vitriolic attacks on Herr Scheidemann in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A special emergency demands special means . These sub-humans who have fled to foreign countries 1 and now do everything to defame the people whom they have deceived and cheated , who even preach a bloody war against Germany , can not be caught . Nevertheless it is necessary for the sake of the German people that the poisonous agitation , against Germany cease . " The secret State police has made an example that Is to be regarded as a general warning : Thus wilt be treated all close relatives of those who are cowardly evading their personal responsibility to their people . " The normally liberal Tageblatt wrote : " It is to be hoped that this example will be a warning to all slanderers of Germany abroad . " The Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung expressed the view that other countries would understand why the government found it necessary to make an example that would serve as a warning to all " dirt-throwers and slanderers . " The Munich Neueste Nachrichteh said : " The action of Scheidemann shows that the German ; Government was right in its procedure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' as long as its leaders were at the public trough . "                     