@@704003

txt A new , and uniform , method of prorating California 's crude oil production has been evolved and will be inaugurated June 1 . The method was adopted on Wednesday at a meeting of the Central Proration Committee of California Producers by a vote of 2 to 1 , and follows five months of study . investigation and deliberation . It is the most important development in the California oil industry in years . The step is designed to correct a condition of overproduction in the state , which has existed for more than a year , and to attain a balance with demand . While the California field is far removed from the important midcontinent area of the country and does not have a direct influence it does exert a definite psychological influence on other oil areas . The formula provides for a graduated minimum allotment for each well in California , depending upon its depth , with not less than 10 barrels daily to any well capable of that production . No well , regardless of size or depth , is to be assigned an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present maximum of 300 . No Definite June Quotas Set Inasmuch as data is not yet at hand , the committee did not set a definite figure for production quotas for the state for June . It is expected , however , that application of the formula will yield a state quota of from 590,000 to 595,000 barrels daily . The May quota has been 575,900 daily maximum , plus a tolerance of 2,000 barrels for new wells . Under the plan graduated curtailment , depending upon potential output and depth , will be ? assigned all wells not coming under the 10-barrel minimum or 250-barrel maximum . The minimum allotments set upon the basis of well depth would provide for 11 barrels daily for a well 2,050 feet deep , graduating upward to 50 barrels daily for a well 6.481 feet deep ; r75 barrels for 8,558 feet : 100 barrels for 10,348 feet , and a maximum of 142 barrels for a well 12,954 feet deep . Should the potential production of a. well be greater than the minimum allotment accruing to it on the heals of its depth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allotment at a gradually , diminishing rate . ' This sliding scale applicable to the remainin , g potential is effective until 250 barrels maximum is reached . Application of Formula to Wells Under the formula , a well of 2,000 feet or less would need a potential of 1.335 barrels daily , or more , to earn the maximum allotment of 250 barrels daily while a well 10.000 feet deep would need a potential of 845 barrels daily . Application of the new formula in June- will give each field and pool in California a quota directly proportionate to potential output of its wells in relation to all other wells in the state . The central committee . however , will not have complete jurisdiction on the application of the formula within every field and pool . As has been the practice for some years , committee organizations within each field retain control over the distribution of their prorated share of the state 's quota to individual wells and properties . ' Unless instructed specifically by the field comoaittee , the oil umpire 's office has been directtd to compute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the new formula , but if the field committee should so elect , any other antra-field distribution of the quota decided upon by the field committee will be used instead . The Kettleman Hills North Dome field , under the new formula , is the only field that would be required to take a substantial reduction in allotment . It would be reduced to about 35.645 barrels daily from about 52,000 under present formula . The Kettleman North Dome Association , which operates approximately half the properties in this area under a unit plan . has asked that special consideration be given to meet its operating conditions .                     