@@700709

txt Deep concern was felt here tonight over the labor crisis in San Francisco . Government and labor officials made no secret of their fears that a major , issue was confronting them that might have far-reaching consequences . Their uneasiness was increased by the absence of President Roosevelt , who , if he were here , could give a guiding hand in efforts aimed at a solution of the controversy . Marvin H. , assistant secretary to the President , remained at his desk in the Executive offices tonight to keep in touch with the situation and send the President such information as he considered necessary . The President was informed tonight by the White House of the vote for a general strike on Monday . Officials here regretted that he must make known his desires and exert his influence over the Slender medium of the radio from his position on the cruiser Houston in the Pacific thousands of miles away . This was considered an unsatisfactory method of bringing the weight , of his influence and prestige to bear on the situation . The White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order . Under all the circumstances there was no plan here tonight for dealing with the issue . The attitude of officials was that the situation should be left for the present with the President 's longshoremen 's committee , which has been attempting to solve the waterfront labor troubles , around which the whole question in its new and broader aspects revolves . Previous Troubles Ended . It is generally recognized here that ever since labor troubles arose in the country intensively a year ago there was danger that in some case a serious crisis might arise to precipitate issues of widespread consequences . Although in recent months several situations have threatened to develop into serious proportions , they have invariably ended peacefully . There has , however , been an undercurrent of apprehension here lest eventually an amicable adjournment of a major labor dispute might not be accomplished and the administration ' might thereby be confronted with an- issue of farreaching economic , social and political consequences . Secretary Perkins was kept informed of developments constantly over telephone by the longshoremen 's committee and Edward F. , Assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for several weeks . She refrained from making any comment tonight and it was understood that she felt that a statement at this time might be misinterpreted and only confuse the situation further . Green Awaits Events . William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , also withheld comment . His last announcement was made a few days ago in a telegram to the Central Labor Council in Sari Francisco stating that it had no authority under its charter from the American Federation of Labor to order a general strike in sympathy with the longshoremen . Mr. Green has no present plan of going to San Francisco , although if ' the course of events should lead him to believe that his presence on the scene might be helpful , it could be expected that he would go there . His actions , he said tonight , would be entirely determined by events . The National Labor Relations Board met here today with executives of regional boards to determine general policies in respect to labor matters , but made clear that it was not contemplating intervening in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercising its good offices on the scene of the trouble . Back of all the possibilities for assistance by the government in solving the San Francisco dispute stands the fact that no coercive powers to terminate a strike are vested in the National Labor Relations Board , or any departments or other agencies of the government . Roosevelt 's Words Recalled . Moreover , there appears to be no disposition to use such powers should they exist , for officials do not question the right of labor to strike . President Roosevelt made this amply clear in his Executive order of June 29 creating the National Labor Relations Board , in which he said : " Nothing in this order shall prevent , impede or diminish in any way the right of employes to strike or engage in other concerted activities . " In addition the President in the same order made clear that the solution of labor troubles should be accomplished on the scene and away from Washington as much as possible . " It is my hope , " he said in the Executive order , " that so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor abuses can be effectively made at the source of the dispute without bringing the parties before national authorities located in Washington . " Whether or not these views may be changed by the crisis in San Francisco will be known only after that situation has developed further . Should the public safety require the . use of regular troops in the strike area , presumably that would be done through the Ninth Corps Area , the headquarters of which are in San Francisco . A maximum of responsibility in using troops to safeguard the public is vested in the corps areas by the War Department . Officials would not comment on this possibility tonight . Cleveland 's Action Is Cited . Regular troops ordinarily would not be used unless there should be a call for then from the Governor of California and even then only after the Federal Government was satisfied that there was no other way of protecting the people from violence or assuring them adequate food and other necessary supplies for existence . However , should the transmission of the mails be interfered with , the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this avenue of communications open . It is understood , however . that President Roosevelt would be reluctant to use troops for such a rea ? son , even though a precedent was furnished by President Cleveland in the Chicago strikes forty years ago . The immediate responsibility , in the viewpoint here , rests with the State and local officials in the affected area . Presumably , the police and National Guard can cope with the situation . If they prove insufficient , then the question will be considered in the light of the new conditions . Hope for Solution on Ground . The same reasoning is being applied here to the strike issue itself . The problem is one for solution on the ground ; it is maintained , and should be susceptible of adjust4 ment , notwithstanding its ominous aspects tonight . Should all efforts by Federal and local officials on the ground fail , then a new problem will- require the attention of the government here . In such an event anything may happen , as the President has demonstrated in the past alono. a wide front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fast rules , but will try repeatedly to conquer a situation , and if one line of attack does not succeed , he will try others as long as any hope exists for success . If circumstances demand , his associates in the capital believe he will now prove to be a quarterback at long range in mid-Pacific.                     