@@699204

txt Presldent Hoover will leave Washington early tomorrow for his second campaign speaking trip to the Middle West . His third formal speech of the campaign will be made at Cleve-. land tomorrow night . Before the thousands of government workers are at their desks in Washington , Mr. Hoover will be making his first " back platform " talk at Martinsburg , W. Va. , and will continue thence on a vigorous shortspeech Campaign until he reaches Cleveland . Two new stops were added today to the " back platform " schedule and arrangements were made to slow the train down in two others , so that the President might greet such crowds as gather at the stations . The itinerary as announced at the White House this afternoon was : Saturday , Oct. 15 . Leave Washington ( Baltimore &; Ohio ) , 7 A. M. Arrive Martinsburg , W , Va. , 8:47 1 A. M. , 2 minutes . Cumberland , Md. , 10:35 A. M. , 10 minutes . Meyersdae , Pa. , 11:47 A. M. , 1 minute . Connellsville , Pa. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pa. , 2:20 P. M. , 5 minutes . Braddock , Pa. , 2:35 P. M. , 5 minutes . Zelienople , Pa. , 3:58 P. M. , 1 minute . Newcastle , Pa. , 4:30 P. M. , 8 minutes . Youngstown , Ohio , 5 P. M. , 10 minutes . Akron , Ohio ( Union Station ) , 6 : 25 P. M. , 10 minutes . Ravenna , Ohio , pass through slowly . Kent , Ohio , pass through slowly . Cleveland 8:05 P. M. ; motor to Auditorium ; address , 8:30 P. M. Leave Cleveland 10:30 P. M. Sunday , Oct. 16 . Arrive in Washington 10:15 A. M. Works on Draft of Speech . The President will be accompanied by Mrs. Hoover , Postmaster General Brown , Michael Gallagher , Ohio manufacturer , and members of the White House staff , including Lawrence Richey and Walter Newton , secretaries ; Captain Joel T. Boone , physician , a secretarial force to turn out the President 's speeches , and Secret Service operatives . Remaining at the White House will be Mrs. Herbert Hooverqr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover spent the greater part of the days in an effort to complete his Cleveland speech . It is expected that it will take up practically every issue of the campaign and give a recitation of the efforts of his administration to cope with the problems of the day . His callers for the day were kept at a minimum and every possible distraction was removed , but it was considered hardly likely that the manuscript would be finished before he reaches the Ohio line tomorrow afternoon . One of the few visitors today brought encouraging reports to the President of his chances for reelection . He was Senator Reed of Pennsylvania , who told the President to rest assured that he would carry that State , despite what the various newspaper and magazine polls are showing . Another caller , Senator White of Maine , sought to assure Mr. Hoover that he would reverse the outcome of the recent election in that State and carry it safely for the Republican ticket . President Hoover 's hand , injured while shaking hands with 3,000 guests at a . White House reception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boone . " The President is in his normal good condition today , " Dr. Boone said . " He followed his ordinary routine , commencing with exercise early this morning , as has been his custom since his inauguration . He is in excellent health and today is again in good condition and spirits . " His hand is bruised and has several small cuts in the palm and between the fingers . The palm is black and blue , but the injury , while painful , was not serious . " Mr. Hoover jokingly referred to his inability to shake hands as members of the Cabinet gathered for their semi-weekly meeting .                     