@@700620

txt Two hundred extra detectives moved quietly through the familiar haunts of the underworld in Manhattan , the Bronx and Brooklyn last night with orders to bring in all habitues suspected of criminal activity and all those discovered with firearms . The entire force of the Detective Bureau was pressed into the canvass . Splitting into groups , the men started out about 9:30 P. M. on tours which were to take them through the poolrooms of Hell 's Kitchen , the dimly lighted bars in the tenement sections of the old Tenderloin and along the Bowery and through the resorts which line the waterfront section of Brooklyn . All Police Told to Aid . Orders went out to each police precinct station for the uniformed detachments to extend aid to the clean-up squads in pointing out the resorts and persons under suspicion . In addition , the policemen on port were asked to meet the detectives in their respective districts and provide them with whatever information they believed might be ugeful . The Police Department thus moved to inaugurate its first organized reprisal against the underworld for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wounding of others . by criminals . The drive , however , was expected to be more careful , selective and thorough than the occasional and wholesale round-ups executed by the police . It was to differ , according to Commissioner O'Ryan , in the fact that not all criminals known to have records would necessarily be molested , but only those the police believed to be engaged now in active criminal pursuits . Broadway Section Combed . The largest bloc of plainclothesmen , about fifty in all , assembled at the West Forty-seventh Street station at 9 P. M. and there awaited orders . They started on their assignments shortly before 10 o'clock , combing the Broadway and Times Square areas and the side streets which flank the bright-light area . This detail was under Captain Michael and had orders to bring in their prisoners for questioning . The Brooklyn detective force was augmented by 100 extra men , fifty from Manhattan and fifty from Queens , making an aggregate of about 400 plainclothesmen who circulated through the borough . In the first three hours of the drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and these were being questioned early today in various pre- cinct stations . Many of these , the detectives said , were members of notorious Brooklyn gangs . In Manhattan scattered arrests were reported on the East Side , in Harlem and the midtown district . Fifteen prisoners were brought to the West Forty-seventh Street station by 1 A. M. and were being questioned . Of these seven were picked up in a group at Seventh Avenue and . Fifty-first Street and the others were brought in from the Broadway area in the upper forties . Twenty other suspects were held for questioning at the West Thirtieth Street station . Six of those held at the West Forty-seventh Street station were booked early this morning charged with the robbery on April 5 last of Atlas Inatz , a jeweler of 1,501 Broadway , who was held up and robbed of $3,000 in cash and an undetermined amount of jewelry . Among those held on this charge was Martin Krompier , 32 years old , whom the police described as a lieutenant of Arthur ( Dutch Schultz ) Flegenheimer . Krompier described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 173 Riverside Drive . Similar progress was reported in the Bronx where officials estimated the suspects in custody early today at between thirty-five and forty throughout the borough . ; Five detectives under Lieutenant John arrested seven men in a restaurant at Third Avenue and Claremont Parkway and after questioning held them on charges of violating section 722 of the Penal Code , under the article dealing with " consorting or associating with known criminals . " At 10:15 P. M. Police Commissioner O'Ryan , accompanied by First Deputy Commissioner Harold Fowler and Deputy Chief Inspector Francis Kear , head of Manhattan detectives , arrived at the West Forty-seventh Street station to confer with officials of the midtown campaign . He remained until just before midnight . Upon his departure he said : " This has been going on for some time , but we are doing it more conIsistently . The police are taking collective , intelligent and energetic action to locate and detain all those who are known criminals and the length of this drive will depend on its success tonight . " In most cases in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were charged either with vagrancy or with violation of section 722 of the Penal Code .                     