@@697462

txt Charges that Martin J. Healy , a Tammany district leader , and Thomas T. Tommaney , who is on trial with him for bartering public office , were victims of a political plot thrust the two defendants into the background yesterday and made it appear that the issue before Supreme Court Justice McCook and the jury was really between Tammany Hall and Charles H. Tuttle , defeated Republican candidate for Governor . The political aspects of the case came to the fore at the very beginning of the second session of the trial , when Hiram C. Told , Special Assistant Attorney General , in opening the State 's case to the jury , promised to prove that former Magistrate George F. Ewald paid Healy $10,000 for supporting his candidacy in accordance with Tammany 's " system " of filling judicial offices . Todd Scores Tammany " System . " Under this " system , " Mr. Todd asserted , the recommendation of a district leader was " tantamount to appointment , " and he charged that Healy and Tommaney , " his henchman or lobbygow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party and line their pockets with dirty money . " He begged the jurors to keep this in mind and not to allow defense counsel to confuse the issue by making it appear that " any political party or club or the merits of either candidate for Governor in the recent election are on trial here . " Sydney A. Symes , opening for the defense , immediately challenged the good faith of Mr. Todd and asserted that the present trial was " not prosecution but persecution to save Charles H. Tuttle from the charge that he used Federal laws to build up arguments for his own campaign " against Governor Roosevelt . If necessary he would " call Mr. Tuttle to prove it , " the defense lawyer declared . " I 'm going to show you that these men are victims of a political plot , " Mr. Syme declared , " victims of an attempt by Mr. Tuttle to get himself elected Governor . I intend to show you how this former United States Attorney , who had no more to do with whether magistrates bought their jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'm going to show you how , under the guise of examining income tax reports , he set in motion the whole machinery of the Federal Government for the purpose of creating an issue on which he might run for the office he coveted . " Judge Allen and Oh-any Testify . With the formal openings of counsel disposed of , the jury of well-to-do business men began receiving their instruction in the rudiments of practical politics from witnesses whom Mr. Todd seemed to regard as masters in the art . These were Judge William Allen , who rose from the ranks of the district leaders to a place on the General Sessions bench ; George W. Olvany , leader of Tammany Hall when Ewald was appointed a magistrate , and John Mara , elderly leader of the Twentythird Assembly District and a veteran of forty years ' experience in politics . But if the special prosecutor was depending upon these loyal Tammany workers to support his promise to prove the existence of a ' system " of office filling or that a " district leader 's word was law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the witness stand . The gist of their testimony was that Tammany leaders were free to recommend all the candidates they wish but that Mayor Walker often " did as he pleased . " The words were those of Mr. 01-vany , who in his testimony thrust the responsibility for the selection of Ewald to fill the vacancy on the magistrates ' bench caused by the retirement of Charles A. Oberwager , squarely upon the shoulders of the Mayor , who , he implied , acted solely upon the advice of the Steuben Society . " What usually occurred when there was a vacancy to be filled on the magistrates ' bench ? " Mr. Todd inquired . =Well , " replied Mr. Olvany , " if the district leaders knew of the vacancy they would usually submit the names to me and I would turn over the names to the one having the appointive power . " " In the case of magistrates , to Mayor Walker ? " suggested the Special Assistant Attorney General . " To Mayor Walker , yes , " replied Mr. Olvany . Says Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do about it ? " asked Mr. Todd . " He 'd do as he pleased , " replied the witness , who for four and a half years held the position left vacant by the death of Charles F. Murphy and who was succeeded by the present leader of the Democratic party in Manhattan , John F. Curry . Mr. Olvany , however , was unable to recall more than two or three of the Mayor 's " personal appointments . " Magistrates Harry Gordon and David Hirshfield were appointed by Mayor Hylan without recommendation from Tammany Hall , Mr. 01-vany said . Magistrate Brough , - originally appointed by Mayor Mitchel , was reappointed by Mayor Walker at the request of the Republican organization , he recalled . Then Mr. Todd asked : " Were there any appointments of Democrats by Mayor Walker over your objection ? " " I do n't think so , " Mr. Olvany replied . Tells of Ewald Appointment . Getting down to the Ewald case specifically , the former leader of Tammany Hall said that some time before the expiration of former Magistrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not be reappointed . One day , Mr. Olvany said , he asked Mayor Walker about it and the Mayor confirmed the report . Upon the occasion of his discussion with Mayor Walker relative to the reappointment of former Magistrate Oberwager , Mr. Olvany asked if his . successor would be a German-Ainerican and the Mayor answered in the affirmative , the former leader testified . " Had anybody- spoken to you about Ewald at that time ? " Mr. Todd demanded . " No , " snapped the former leader of Tammany Hall leaning forward belligerently . " Are you sure of that now , " pursued Mr. Todd . " Positive , " Mr. Olvany declared , thrusting out his lower jaw . . About that time the district leaders began to urge the qualifications of " any number of candidates , " the witness said . None mentioned Ewald to him , he declared . The first time he heard the name of the ex-magistrate who now is under indictment and awaiting trial for buying his appointment was when a delegation from the Steuben Society waited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Mr. Oberwager was not going to be reappointed they would like to submit the name of George F. Ewald , " Mr. Olvany declared . " I asked if they had a resolution endorsing him and they told me they , had not but that they would get one . Three days later they came back with the resolution with the seal of the Steuben Society upon it . I looked at it and advised them to take it to Mayor Walker at City Hall . I understand that they did . ' Says Banton Endorsed Ewald . When Ewald was first proposed . Mr. Olvany said , he did n't know who he was . Inquiry disclosed that the choice of the Steuben Society was an Assistant District Attorney , and so Mr. Olvany asked former District Attorney Joab H. Banton for an opinion on the candidate 's qualifications . He was assured by Mr. Banton , he said , that Ewald was a " good honest fellow , an able prosecutor who. probably would make a good magistrate . " Mr. Olvany said he might have discussed Ewald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ever mentioning the matter to Healy . In this respect his testimony did not quite jibe with that of Mara , who preceded him on the stand , a mildmannered , elderly gentleman , who often became confused on the stand and . looked like anything but Mr. Syme 's description of Tammany Hall lieutenants as " hard-headed men of the world . " Mara . Tells of Parleys . Mr. Mara , obviously bound by loyalty to the organization he had served for twoscore years and seemingly afraid of hurting his fellow-member on Tammany Hall 's executive committee , was forced to give some testimony that was not helpful to the defense . As he left the witness stand he shook hands impartially with Mr. Todd , Thomas C. Penney , chief Assistant Attorney General , and Tommaney and Healy , who gave him friendly smiles in return . Lamont , president of the Minequa Club , the organization headquarters in his district , was Mr. Mara 's candidate for the post to which Ewald was appointed . He felt that the vacancy should be filled from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointed from there . He also felt that the position should go to one , who , like Mr. , who later served for a fortnight or so as ' a magistrate , had given years of service to his party . " When I heard that Mr. Oberwager would not be appointed , " the district leader said , " I went to see Mr. Olvany at Tammany Hall and said I 'd like to fill the vacancy from my club . He said to me , ' John , it 's going to be a Steuben Society man , ' and I said , ' Well , in that case I 'm out of it . ' " At first Mr. Mara could not recall that Olvany had mentioned Ewald at any time before the latter 's appointment , but after Mr. Todd read from the transcript of his testimony before the grand jury " to refresh his recollection , " the witness confirmed the following conversation between him and the head of his political organization : " He came to me and he said in substance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeed Oberwager , and I 'd like to have you 0 . K. him . ' I said , ' I wo n't 0 . K. anybody who lives in my district and votes down there in Healy 's district as he does . ' " Ewald Voted in Healy 's District . Mr. Todd then produced an affidavit which Mr. Mara had sent one of his secretaries to obtain from the Board of Elections showing that Ewald voted from an address In the Nineteenth Assembly District , in which Healy was leader . It was not explained why Mr. Mara went to the trouble to obtain the legal document . It developed also that Ewald , a few days before he was appointed a magistrate , took out a membership in Mr. Mara 's club although he was already a member of the Cayuga Club in Healy 's district . The witness identified a membership card ' showing that Ewald had paid $8.25 for the privilege of belonging to the Democratic club in the Twenty-third Assembly District for the balance of the year in which he was appointed , 1927 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until at Mr. Syme 's request the court directed him to answer " yes or no , " and he said , " yes . " Under Mr. Todd 's questioning the district leader said he could recall no instance of a candidate for office from his district receiving an appointment without his endorsement . In cross-examination , however , Mr. Syme reminded him of several , including that of former Magistrate Oberwager , that had been made over his head . Mr. Mara , a deputy commissioner of the Department of Plant and Structures , of which Healy was first deputy until he resigned just before he was indicted , said he had noticed that Tommaney called upon the district leader " two or three-times a week for the whole five years he had the job . " Judge Allen Is Questioned , Judge Allen was the first witness called by the State . A predecessor of Healy 's as leader of the Nineteenth Assembly District , Judge Allen had presided over the regular county grand jury , whose failure to indict , any one in the Ewald case led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a special term of Supreme Court . The judge explained that since his elevation to the bench in 1924 he had " retired from active politics , " and pointed out that what was true when he was a leader and Healy was an election captain in his district might be all changed now . Still Mr. Todd demanded that he tell what he knows of the working of Tammany Hall as he observed it . " What are the duties and privileges of a district leader as you knew them ? " the special prosecutor asked . " They are so manifold that I hesitate to recount them all , " the witness replied . " We 'll expedite things then , " said Mr. Todd , " by asking you to tell of these privileges so far as candidates for office are concerned . " " Well , " said Judge Allen , " any candidate for office would come to me when I was leader and advise me of his ambition . If I approved I would advance the claims of the candidate at Tammany Hall . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time to Charles F. Murphy . " " Then what happened ? " " Sometimes I 'd get the appointment and sometimes I would n't . " " Was any one ever appointed without your approval ? " " Not that I know of . " Judge Allen remembered that both Healy and Tommaney were active workers for Tammany and members of the Cayuga Club during his leadership . He did n't remember that Ewald participated in the political affairs of the district to any great extent . Mr. Syme took up the crossexamination . Did n't Always Get Job . " Were all the candidate you recommended for office appointed ? " he asked . " I was not always so fortunate , Counselor , " the judge replied smiling . Judge Allen then admitted that sometimes , although rarely , candidates from his district received appointments without first obtaining his approval . Mr. Todd , resuming his examination , suggested that if a candidate 's qualifications were " good , " the endorsement of his district leader was sufficient to insure his appointment . " All my candidates were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were not always appointed . " Mr. Syme then sought to make Judge Allen a character witness for Healy and Tommaney in the midst of the State 's case , but Justice McCook sustained Mr. Todd 's objection and advised the defense attorney to recall the judge later as his own witness . A similar attempt during the examination of Mr. Olvany met a like fate . The only other witness of the day was Joseph Anderson , 238 West Twenty-first Street , a clerk of the executive eommitee of the Democratic County Committee , of which Healy , but virtue of his leadership . was a member . Mr. Anderson merely identified the records of meetings of the committee showing that Healy was a duly authorized member with full powers and privileges from 1925 until the present time . Parley and Hand to Testify . This morning Mr. Todd expects to continue painting the background of politics in which judicial candidates are selected . Among the witnesses to be called are Sheriff Thomas M. Farley , in whose office Tommaney was employed before he was indicted ; Charles Hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If time remains before adjournment , the special prosecutor will begin the presentation of documentary evidence relating to the cash transaction that accompanied Ewald 's appointment . While the trial progressed yesterday the extraordinary grand jury which indicted the two defendants continued its deliberations . It heard three witnesses , one in connection with the Ewald case and two who testified to circumstances surrounding the nomination and election of Judge Amedeo A. Bertini ' of General Sessions . The former was Mrs. Louise Schirp , wife of Dr. Francis M. Schirp , one of the signers of the Steuben Society letter to Mayor Walker recommending the appointment of Ewald . The other two were Frederick Schweibert , superintendent of the apartment house at 37 Washington Square West , of which Judge Bertini is part owner , and James Cavagnaro , an official of the Bank of America . The grand jury adjourned until tomorrow .                     