@@704294

txt Judge James Garrett Wallace and a jury composed of successful American-born business men got their first contact with " fuehrerprinzip , " or absolute right of leadership . in General Sessions Court I yesterday as two of Fritz Kuhn 's subordinate officers in the German American Bund took the witness stand against him . The two were James WheelerHill , former elevator operator who became the Bund 's national secretary , and Gustave J. Elmer , its national director and a former bartender , who testified that the only local he organized was that in his home town , Hoboken . The questions Judge Wallace directed at Elmer toward the close of the day indicated a strenuous effort on his part to understand the concept of service they brought to their jobs . A One-Man Organization Under the examination of Assistant District Attorney Herman McCarthy , the picture they drew of the Bund was that of a one-man organization under the dominance of Kuhn , who not only appointed them but performed all their duties except the trivial ones . He kept the books and wrote the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money that came into the organization for any purpose whatever , except , as Elmer excitedly and vehemently proclaimed , that of " women . " Judge Wallace classified this as " dissipation , " and Elmer agreed . Mr. McCarthy had told the jury in his opening that he was prepared to show the expenditure of Bund money by Kuhn for the transportation of furniture belonging to Mrs. Florence Camp from New York to California , and to Ohio , for no reason other than an " intimate and personal one , " and as a day of testimony from Wheeler-Hill and Elmer followed it appeared that the defense of " fuehrerprinzip , " or complete authority , would strike a snag on this point . Reluctant to Speak As Mr. McCarthy examined them , both men were uncomfortable witnesses and frequently had to be confronted with statements they had made in previous examinations , some of them before ; a grand jury , before they would give him definite answers to points he sought to prove . Their testimony provided a picture of a " yes-system " in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bund , sought to do was subject to the one affirmative answer . Thus each testified that Kuhn had the right to spend the $5,641 he is charged with having stolen from the Bund funds in any fashion and for any purpose that he pleased . This was all In line with the contention of Peter L. F. Sabbatino , defense counsel , that . what Kuhn did was approved by the organization and therefore could not be larceny . When Mr. McCarthy confronted Elmer with his grand jury testimony , after asking him , " Do you l'realize that you 're under oath here ? " for which he was mildly rebuked by Judge Wallace , who observed that " everybody is under oath here , " the bund organizer became voluble and excited for the first time and said : " I said to spend it for a woman is not right , to pend it for a woman should not be done . " The statement came before a question could be framed by Mr. McCarthy . Previous testimony had shown that a special appeal had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fund , " growing out of prosecutions in Riverhead , L. I. , in the Summer of 1938 , in which every bund member was assessed $1 . Also , previous to Elmer 's outburst , Judge Wallace had asked him several questions , to which the bund organizer asserted the right of Kuhn to spend the bund money for any purpose . Judge Resumes Questions After the outburst Judge Wallace again took up the questioning . Q ? It was your position that the defendant had the right to spend money for any purpose except dissipation ? A ? For anything except to go out and spend it on a woman , yes . Q ? It was your opinion that the bund had a right to solicit funds for a legal defense fund and to turn that money over to Kuhn for his private purposes ? A ? Yes . Q ? You thought you had a legal right to do that ? A ? Yes , sir . Q ? And a moral right ? A ? Yes , sir . Q ? And you did so turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? AI did . It was on this note that the day ended with an adjournment until Monday at 10:15 o'clock when Elmer may be recalled . During the course of Mr. McCarthy 's opening Mr. Sabbatino twice called for a mistrial on the ground of inflammatory statements . Both times Judge Wallace denied it . " The District Attorney 's office , " Mr. McCarthy said in relation to his statement of what he proposed to prove concerning Mrs. Camp , " does not like to go into the private life of any man , but it is necessary in this case to show the ruses and hoaxes by which Kuhn successfully embezzled the funds of this organization . " In behalf of Kuhn , Mr. Sabbatino set up the argument that it would be shown that the bund leader was a victim of political persecution and that the District Attorney 's office had violated the constitutional guarantees against search and seizure in breaking into Kuhn 's office and taking his books of record . Mr. Sabbatino told the jurors we " will show that no crime was committed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deputy clerk in the Federal Court of the Southern District of New York , who produced a copy of a complaint sworn to by Kuhn , to which was affixed a copy of the constitution and by-laws of the bund , filed In a civil action insti-4 , tuted by the bund leader during the Summer . It was Kuhn 's affirmance of the constitution and bylaws , printed in a little brown booklet , that interested Mr. McCarthy . Constitution on Record During the early testimony of Wheeler-Hill , Mr. McCarthy succeeded in getting most of the bund 's constitution as printed and subscribed to both by Wheeler-Hill and Elmer in the record . He regarded this as particularly significant because it was his contention that the bund 's basic document provided no such wide authority for Kuhn 's dispersal of funds as the two officers of the organization orally affirmed as Kuhn 's right . In line with this preliminary admission , his questioning of both bund officials turned considerably on a convention of the organization held in Astoria , Queens , last July 2 , 3 and 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bund membership . It was his contention that the constitution gave the convention no such authority , and the entire line was directed at establishing the grounds for the legal contention that the absolution given Kuhn by his organization after his indictment on charges of larceny had no force . Both the bund officers were confronted with letters having to do with the solicitation of the " legal defense fund , " which was brought on after the Suffolk County authorities in the Summer of 1938 had indicted members of the GermanAmerican Settlement League for failure to comply with State laws requiring that membership lists be filed with the authorities . Four checks were identified by Wheeler-Hill but not put in evidence . Like all the financial records of the Bund , Wheeler-Hill testified , the checks were in the handwriting of Kuhn . He testified that the only records kept were the check-stub books and the sheets showing collection of dues , both by Kuhn . He testified , as did Elmer , that stecords and work which under the constitution and by-laws he was supposed to have in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of Mrs. Camp , . the name of Mrs. Virginia Cogswell , a nine-times-married woman formerly of Atlanta , also was introduced in the trial , but there was no testimony concerning her . The use of her name by Mr. McCarthy brought a violent protest from Mr. Sabbatino . " Why should he be permitted to paint my client as a gay boy when I do n't think he can prove it ? " the defense attorney demanded . " Your client is not on trial for being a gay boy or a sad boy , " Judge Wallace replied in turning down the objection and a third demand for a mistrial . Assistant District Attorney Herman J. McCarthy .                     