@@700355

txt Mayor-elect F. H. LaGuardia announced last night that he had asked Mayor O'Brien either to reappoint John H. Delaney chairman of the Board of Transportation or not to appoint a successor so that the incoming administration might have the benefit of Mr. Delaney 's experience in transit matters . Mr. LaGuardia , after a series of talks with Mr. Delaney , made his request to the Mayor in a telegram sent on Saturday but which the Mayor did not receive until yesterday . Asked about the request at City Hall , Mayor O'Brien replied that he had " no comment . " Mr. LaGuardia also announced his belief that Pearl Bernstein , for the last seven years City Hall representative of the New York City League of Women Voters , would be elected secretary of the Board of Estimate . He added that he expected to announce his remaining selections for heads of departments by Saturday but added that his failure to do so by that time would not mean that there would be any ' more " holdovers " than those already announced . Wo n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fire Department three-platoon bill , passed by the Municipal Assembly and set for a hearing before him on Jan. 2 , would die on Dec. 31 with the end of the O'Brien administration . He added that he did not intend to start his administration by " ducking , " and indicated that , if it were necessary , he would veto the bill . Mr. LaGuardia said that he would be sworn in as Mayor immediately after midnight on New Year 's and that the oath would be administered by Supreme Court Justice Philip T. McCook , who was first elected to the bench in 1919 , when Mr. LaGuardia was elected President of the Board of Aldermen . W. Arthur Cunningham will be sworn in as Controller in the office of the Finance Department in the Municipal Building at noon on New Year 's Day and Justice John MacCrate of Brooklyn will administer the oath . Justice Francis Martin of the Appellate Division will swear in Bernard S. Deutsch as President of the Board of Aldermen at 10:30 o'clock New Year 's morning . Wants Transit Experts . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who retired last week along with former Commissioner Daniel L. Ryan , was caused by his desire to have a man with expert knowledge at the head of the Board of Transportation until the transit policy of the incoming administration had been settled . The board is operating the new subway and the Mayor-elect wishes to have its direction in the hands of a thoroughly qualified man . Mr. LaGuardia said that if Mayor O'Brien did not make an appointment , he would call Mr. Delaney back into active service and it was learned that Mr. Delaney is willing to serve until the expiration of the term for which he was appointed , Ion June 30 next . Asked if he intended to appoint Mr. Delaney for a full term after next June , Mr. LaGuardia replied that he would consider that when the time came , and added : " I do n't believe that Mr. Delaney cares for a full term . " This remark was interpreted as reflecting what Mr. Delaney had said in his talks with Mr. LaGuardia . Mr. Delaney would not discuss Mr. LaGuardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the desire of the incoming Mayor to have him a part of his administration indicated approval of his conduct of the office . O'Brien Action Doubtful . Whether Mayor O'Brien will grant Mr. LaGuardia 's request was said to be doubtful . It was reported . in Democratic circles that one of the vacant places on the board had been promised to the Brooklyn Democratic organization , headed by John H. McCooey , whose choice is understood to be James J. Heffernan , a district leader , and that the other place , probably the chairmanship , had been promised to the Tammany organization in the Bronx which has put forward Charles V. Halley Jr. , Commissioner of Plant and Structures . During the afternoon Mr. LaGuardia called a conference of the Fusion members of the Board of Estimate , which was held in his office at 1,450 Broadway . Those attending were Controller-elect Cunningham , Professor Joseph D. , who will be Deputy Controller ; Aldermanic President-elect Deutsch , Raymond V. Ingersoll , Borough President-elect of Brooklyn ; George U. Harvey , Borough President of Queens , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters and procedure were discussed . Mr. LaGuardia said that meetings of the new board would be called for Jan. 2 and 3 . Mr. Deutsch said that a meeting of the incoming Board of Aldermen had been called for New Year 's Day , as required by the charter , and that Mr. LaGuardia and Mr. Cunningham , the only two members of the Board of Estimate who are not members of the Board of Aldermen , had been invited to attend . A program for the meeting , Mr. Deutsch said , would be announced later . Early Trip to Albany . Mr. LaGuardia said he intended to go to Albany at the earliest opportunity to urge the to pass the legislation the incoming administration wishes . He first will seek authority to open the budget for the purpose of balancing it . Early action on this is particularly necessary , he explained , because the $23,000,000 loan provisionally granted by the Public Works Administration for subways is dependent upon his promise of a balanced budget , and can not be paid until the , balancing is accomplished . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made available soon after Feb. 1 . Much of the subway construction remaining is in Brooklyn . " Mr. Ingersoll and I are anxious to avoid anything that would hold up this loan after Jan. 1 , " Mr. LaGuardia said . " The work , being underground , can be done in any kind of weather , and we wish to be able to put the men who will be employed to work at the earliest possible moment . " In letting it be known that he expected to announce the more important remaining appointments by Saturday , Mr. LaGuardia said that he was having difficulty in finding the men for the posts . " I want to make it clear that failure to appoint any new head of a department between now and Jan. 1 will be no indication that the head of that department will be a holdover or that I am satisfied with the conduct of that department , " Mr. LaGuardia said . " Every holdover head of a department has been announced . I may be unable to fill all the posts by Jan. 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be no indication that the incumbent will hold over . This is particularly true of departments the heads of which are still unfilled . " Mr. LaGuardia was asked if it were not true that the head of the Department of Purchase had been " settled . " " Nothing is settled until I make an announcement , " he replied . " Only one man will make appointments and that is the Mayor . Only when I announce an appointment is it settled . " Miss Bernstein at Parley . Miss Bernstein , who is scheduled to be secretary of the Board of Estimate , also was present at the meeting of the incoming board . The secretary must be elected by a majority of the board , and Mr. LaGuardia expressed his belief that she would be selected , a belief that became a certainty when the others present acquiesced . Miss Bernstein , who is married to Professor Louis William Max of the Department of Psychology of New York University , is 29 years old . She was graduated from Barnard College in 1925 and received a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. LaGUardia made public a letter to Dock Commissioner John , whose reappointment he announced recently , directing the commissioner to make " a complete and thorough investigation " of the so-called pierloading racket and make a report Legislature as soon after Jan. 1 as possible .                     