@@700811

txt They Are Expected to Indicate Whether Government Will Serve Out Its Term . MACKENZIE KING AROUSED Liberal Chieftain Says- Only His Party Can Solve the Problems of Dominion . By JOHN* Mac COR.ALA.C . Spec111 Corresmntlence . THE NEW YORK TIMES . OTTAWA , Sept. ** in , tercst this week has been largely focused on the miniature general election campaign in progress in five Ontario constituencies . Premier Bennett is in Geneva , but his predecessor and rival , W. L. Mackenzie King , has been leading the Liberal onslaught with all his old vigor . When Mr. King delivers a speech in Parliament , he can seldom resist the temptation to view his subject , whatever it may be , against a historical and constitutional background beginning about the time of Magna Charts . On the hustings he confines him ' self to the present day , but his al. - guments , for what they lose in breadth , gain keener edge . The Bennett Conservative government , he asserted this week , had lost the right to rule ; had lost the confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only a government fresh from the people could successfully solve the great social questions now facing the country , the Liberal leader declared . But Mr. Bennett had deliberately remained blind and deaf to the general demand for an election . Having restored titles in Canada , Mr. Mackenzie King Kin went on , the Prime Minister intended to hang on to power until next year , when government members would attend the King 's silver jubilee in London and there possibly receive titles and decorations for themselves . The Opposition chieftain also deIclared that the government had chosen the occasion of its " dying hours " to clothe itself with semi , dictatorial powers and , in declaring : that even if defeated in the whole five by-elections in progress it would stay in office for its entire term , was assuming the manner of a Hitler . Liberals Are Gaining . So much for the Liberal leader . The facts are that since the Liberal landslides in the provincial elections in Ontario and Saskatchewan last ' June there have been two provincial by-elections , both of which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of the nine Canadian Provinces only two , New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island , now have Conservative administrations . In the present by-elections the government hopes to retain East Toronto and Frontenac and is re , signed to losing one Conservative seat , North York . ' If it should be disappointed and lose all it would still be possible but highly uncomfortable for the government to persist with its announced intention to remain in office for another year . The hope of the Conservatives is that Trade Minister Stevens . in his latter-day role of David defying the Goliaths of the Canadian banking and industrial world , will be accepted by the electors as a sign that the Bennett government has the people 's interests at heart . Mr. Mackenzie King seems to apprehend this also , but as a fear rather than a hope . He has devoted a good deal of attention to the matter , rebuking the " impropriety " of the Trade Minister 's action in publishing his recent sensational attack on Sir Joseph Flavelle , Harry Gundy and the Canadian tobacco manufacturers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If it were not , then it meant that Mr. Stevens . believing his leader tired of office , was making a hid for the Premier 's place , Mr. Mackenzie King asserted . Not only the Liberal followers . hut some of Premier Bennett 's forces are wondering if Mr. Mackenzie King is right . The present Prime Minister has held office during a trying time . It has been said that he contributed $1,000.000 of his own money to the Conservative campaign fund . Believe Bennett May Retire . His labors have been herculean , as has lately been demonstrated by his break-down at Geneva . They have not , however , earned him the complete loyalty of his own followers or the universal gratitude ' f Canadians . There are many who believe that unless the situation changes greatly before the next elections he will re ' tire from politics and realize an am : bition he has sometimes dallied with in fancy  --  that of buying a house in England and living there . Mr. Stevens may be one of those who hold this view . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western trip , along the radical course he has charted for him , self . At an election meeting in To : ronto a few days ago he appealed to the citizens of Canada to help solve economic difficulties . since the business heads " would not listen " to him . " Some of my friends of the socalled , big interests will scarcely look at me , " he continued . " They hold up their hands in holy horror . I am an Ishmaelite . Well , it does n't worry me very much . " Mr. Stevens has announced that his inquiry into Canadian business practices will be resumed early next month . When Mr. Mackenzie King insinuated that the government , in authorizing the inquiry , carefully omitted to investigate certain industries , such as textiles , it was promptly stated by Mr. Stevens 's department that the textile concerns would be added to the list .                     