@@698284

txt An international selling agreement among the major silver producers of the world is definitely in prospect as a result of recommendations made by a committee of experts of the International Chamber of Commerce . Informal conferences to that end have already begun and representatives of the most important silver interests in the United States and in Europe will be invited shortly to . ' neet in New York or London to study the committee 's suggested stabilization program . The experts ' report expressed the opinion that an international silver conference was not to be expected in the near future , but the committee 's recommendations have aroused such enthusiasm that steps are being taken to arrange a meeting to give effect to the practicable features of the plan . The present program contemplatos a conference of private silver interests only , but an effort will be made to obtain the cooperation of governments , particularly the United States , Great Britain , China and . India . Declaring that the return of the use of silver to its pre-war extent " seems to be essential " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to restore trade with the Orient , Solomon R. Guggenheim nevertheless warned in a statement yesterday that speculation in the metal might be harmful , since wide fluctuations in its value would interfere with trade . He also cautioned against a " premature " international conference on the problem . Aim to Prevent " Unloading . " Influential financial interests in Wall Street are advocating the adoption of at least part of the international chamber 's program . The conversations now taking place aim at ' bringing about an understanding that will prevent the " unloading " of silver on a market which , for the first ' time in months , is showing signs of stability . Reports that a selling agreement was being arranged were partly responsible for a fresh advance yesterday in silver bullion which carried the price here to a new high of 3714 cents an ounce , a gain of 1% cents . There was , at the same time , a rush of selling on the National Metal Exchange which depressed prices in the futures market 175 to 225 points , canceling a large part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exchange yesterday was the heaviest since the futures market was opened on June 15 . The day 's turnover was 8,175,000 ounces , compared with 7,500,000 ounces on the previous day , which had also established a record for volume . Yesterday 's decline in silver futures was largely the result of profittaking which the recent sharp advances had invited . The selling came from domestic speculators , brokers said . The mystery surrounding the source of the heavy foreign buying which has advanced prices spectacillarly within the last five weeks was partly cleared up when it became known that Sir Henri Deterding , managing director of the Royal Dutch Shell Company and one of the world 's leading industrialists , had accumulated a large amount of the ' metal . Sir Henri 's purchases have been heaviest:in London and other foreign markets , but he has also bought in the New York market , it is understood . For some months Sir Henri has been advocating a form of bimetalism as a solution of one of the underlying economic problems of the world . According to reports in Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual holders of silver , and he feels , it is said , that the metal has been undervalued to a greater extent than any of the other key commodities . A theory advanced in Wall Street to explain the recent spectacular rise in silver was that China was buying in an effort to lure fresh supplies of silver into the maket . In support of this theory bankers pointed out that China , if she were to face a war with Japan , would need to accumulate silver to make later purchases of war supplies and to maintain her armies . trhe chances of an international 41.1 selling agi cement , to prevent any further dislocation of the silver markets , are more favorable than at any time since the silver problem became pressing , according to banking in terests . The plan to be worked out will follow closely the recommendations of the experts . These recommendations call for the formation of a selling consortium , in which all of the important silver interests would be represented , with the North American producers taking the initiative . The producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view of export sales , " in order not to violate the anti-trust laws . Export agreements are permitted under the WebbPomerene act . The main purpose of the agreement will be to apportion the foreign silver nmarkets in such a way that the busiess will be equitably distributed , without any intense competition in sales . Since China and India take almost three-fourths of the world 's output of silver , any selling agree ' ment will be concerned mainly with the division of those markets .                     