@@699583

txt Direct Federal expenditures for unemployment relief , aggregating $2,000 , - 000,000 above all money authorized for loans by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , are projected in the Democratic relief program now being put into final form . The program Is being developed by Secretary Perkins and Senators Wagner , Costigan and La Follette . It represents a combination of ideas advanced by President Roosevelt , Senator Wagner and jointly by Senators Costigan and La Follette . With this legislation virtually decided upon the principal efforts now being made by authors of the four relief measures , are toward safeguarding normal labor from competition by the cheap labor which will be recruited in the distribution of work relief . The tentative direct relief program is divided into three phases , as follows : $500,000,000 for the feeding and housing of unemployed , to be expended by the Federal Government through States and recognized relief agencies , under a plan sponsored for the past year by Senators Costigan and La Follette. $500,000,000 for the regimenting of 200,000 to 300,000 unemployed , to be maintained and paid nominal wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservation cork which will not compete with " free labor , " under a plan outlined by President Roosevelt prior to his inauguration. and described in a dispatch to THE NEW Yonu Timm this morning . $1,000,000,000 for " useful and necessary " public works , not necessarily for expenditure immediately , but over a period of a few years , as advocated by Senator Wagner . For Wider R. F. C. Service . Beyond these direct appropriations , it is proposed by the authors of the relief program that the work of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation be not only continued , but liberalized at least and possibly enlarged . The corporation , in the past year , lent to States about $200,000,000 fot relief work through actual charities or in the form of work relief . This money came from a fund of $300 , - 000,000 authorized for that purpose , which was augmented by an additional authorization of $300,000,000 contained in an act passed in recent months by Congress . Thus the corporation has remaining about $400,000,000 available for this type of relief loans . Many Senators have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only slightly different from gifts to States , as the sole security behind them , aside from the States ' promises to repay , is liens by the Federal Government on future road-aid appropriations to States , or in other words , attachments on prospective gifts to States by the Federal Government , around which there is no contractual obligation . According to Senator Wagner , sponsors of the relief program hope to get Congressional action on at least the feeding and housing part before Congress recesses for a three-week holiday , but prospects for this action are admittedly diml in the face of plans by leaders to take no action beyond passage , probably tomorrow , of the beer bill . Thus consideration of the relief program would have to go over until the second special session about a month hence . There has been some study of the possibility of introducing the entire relief program in a single bill , but it is believed generally that it will be laid before Congress in two , or possibly three , measures . Legislative experts say that the food and housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure , as both involve direct appropriations , but it is held that , because of the mass of administrative detail to be specified for each activity , they probably will be separated . The public works program involves a different type of legislation , for no money would be appropriated immediately . Public works involve two legislative steps , of which the first would consist only of authorizations for a certain amount of building , with probable inclusion of specifications as to what public works were to be constructed first . Appropriations for public works are made at stated intervals , usually annually , in accordance with the progress of these works and the consequent need for funds . Large works usually take more than one year for completion , so appropriations are made only as the work progresses .                     