@@699447

txt Lieut - Gen Alfred E. Foote , Corn : missioner of Public Safety , today issued a statement in which he said that he had appointed " a board of investigation to examine into certain information contained in the report of Mr. Francis X. Hurley , State Auditor . to Goir Joseph B. Ely in relation to Allegations made by Joseph M. Donoilan , of Fall River , Mass , concerning Capt . Charles T. Beaupre , executive officer of the division of state police " The officers appointed by General Foote are : Mr. Thomas E. Bligh , chief of detectives ; Mr. George 0 . Mansfield , acting chief fire inspector , and Mr. Michael J. Barrett , detective lieutenant . The commissioner states that " upon the completion of their investigation , the board will report the result of its inquiry to the commissioner . " It was stated that the board will organize and start upon this investigation immediately . At the State House , it was regarded as doubtful if this board would conduct the hearing publicly . The responsibility for issuing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the light of charges of misconduct in office lodged against Captain Beaupre , Governor Ely declared disciplinary action must be taken by the department head as the one responsible for the police captain 's appointment . With the letter to General Foote , the Governor also sent a 21-page ' coon of an investigation by Mr Francis X Huiley , State Auditor , who said it - sei musty implicated " Captain Beaupie Governor Ely 's message to Commissioner Foote said in part : " Under date of Dec. 5 , 1932 , I recefied a letter from one Joseph M. Donovan making certain allegations in reference to the conduct of your department . This letter was so specific in its allegations as to leave a clear impression of knowledge of certain of the facts represented , and required investigation . The State Auditor was requested to make examination into the allegations contained in the letter and report to me . Under date of Jan 12 , 1933 ; I received a communication from the State Audtior embodying a report of the facts as he found them , which I herewith transmit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter . " The greater part of the auditor 's report cites evidence of a documentary nature and is now in possession of the State . The balance of the evidence charges the police captain v , ith mishandling funds .                     