@@702034

txt As Spanish rebel troops beat again at the cordon surrounding north-coast San Sebastian , the United States Summer Embassy and all Americans remaining here were removed from that city today by order of Ambassador Claude G. Bowers . The embassy staff and the other refugees were taken aboard the Coast Guard cutter Cayuga after a thrilling rescue of two Americans by one member of the embassy staff and a display of heroism by others , Hallett Johnson , counselor of embassy , informed the State Department late today . The department announced that the embassy staff would be moved to Fuenterrabia , close to the French border to the north , where Ambassador Bowers has his Summer residence . Other refugees , it was said , would be taken to St. Jean de Luz , France . It was announced that the Cayuga , after the transfer , would stand off Fuenterrabia in case of further trouble . Bowers at Fuenterrabia Ambassador Bowers , who made a trip over the French border to St. Jean de Luz today , sent word that every consideration was being shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the release in Irun yesterday of two Americans who had been arrested . He added that he had been unable to confer with Madrid by telephone as yet , but was trying to get through . Official reports reiterated that the United States Embassy in Madrid was commanded by guns in near-by buildings . The United States Embassy in Paris , according to The Associated Press , announced that Mr. Bowers had returned by automobile to Fuenterrabia and would remain there . Meanwhile official reports indicated that danger was increasing for many of the Americans still in Spain . Secretary of State Cordell Hull , at his desk in the State Department , was laying plans for the hazardous removal of the 148 Americans in the permanent embassy in Madrid as soon as any way to the seacoast Is opened and , if necessary , before . The Secretary was informed by J. E. Slater , vice president of the American Export Line , that the steamship Exodus sailed from Palma , Majorca , at 11 A. M. today , presumably with some other refugees aboard . Last night there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Slater reported further that loyalist bombing planes were dropping an average of twenty bombs a day on Palma . The Quincy at Gibraltar The cruiser Quincy arrived at Gibraltar at 1 P. M. , Spanish time , and was prepared to leave tonight for another destination , probably Malaga or Barcelona , where the United States Consul reported that all communications were in danger of being cut off . The Quincy was scheduled to go to Malaga , but in view of the apparent danger of the situation in Barcelona , the commander of the Oklahoma was instructed to divert the Quincy to Barcelona if he deemed advisable . That a major battle was raging for control of San Sebastian , now held by loyalists , was told in the following dispatch from Mr. Johnson : " Battle on edge of city continues , and rebels said to be advancing , in which case terrible bloodshed will ensue . " Princeton Man the Hero The hero of the removal of Americans from San Sebastian , according to official dispatches , was Biddle Garrison , a Princeton graduate of 1932 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is private secretary to Ambassador Bowers . Mr. Garrison took what was declared to be " a dangerous trip " to Zaruz and brought back Mary E. Larkin and her son to San Sebastian . Also cited for gallantry in refusing to leave her post until ordered to do so was 26-year-old Dorothy D. Dunham of Cincinnati , an embassy clerk . In Vigo , Consul William W. Corcoran , who was insulted on the street by armed Fascists , demanded a public apology . This was broadcast by radio , and Mr. Corcoran said that this forcing of support had given him greater confidence in the safety of Americans remaining there . Mr. Corcoran reported that the Fascists regarded the representatives of all republicans as in a class with Communists and extremists , and , as he pungently put it in his dispatch , as " enemies . " It was presumed here that the rebel army led by General Emilio Mola , held back from entry into Madrid , had turned to consolidating its position in the north and therefore was endeavoring to capture San Sebastian . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been shot on a street of San Sebastian and that most of the diplomatic corps had left for France or Irun on the frontier . The United States Consul at Malaga reported that nineteen more American refugees had arrived at Gibraltar from Malaga last night . The consul at Bilbao reported that the city was " quiet but nervous " today . Ford Official Missing George Jenkins , head of the Ford assembly plant at Barcelona , is still missing . It was in an attempt to rescue him that a Barcelona Consulate employe and a British chauffeur perished . Unofficial reports today from the French border said Mr. Jenkins was dead . A cable from Consul General John P. Hurley at Marseilles said that the Prefecture of Montpellier , France , had reported the arrival at Cette from Barcelona yesterday of eleven destitute American athletes who had been attending the Workers ' Olympics . The Prefecture directed them to Marseilles . The State Department here had received a telegram on July 23 from Henry Smith of Leiper &; Co. , New York , chairman of the Committee on Fair Play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans who had gone to Barcelona for the games , which had been canceled . Mr. Smith gave the names of the party as follows : Charles D. Burley , Bessemer , Pa. ; William B. Chamberlain , 20 Vesey Street , New York ; Alfred Chakin , 43 East Twenty-seventh Street , New York ; Bernie Danchik , 826 Park Avenue , Brooklyn ; Myron Joseph Dickes , 1,510 Jesup Avenue , New York ; Harry Engel , 219 Ditmars Avenue , Brooklyn ; Francis Adams Henson , 364 West Twentysixth Street , New York ; Irving Jenkins . 398 Grand Street , New York ; Edward Krauss , 230 West Seventy-ninth Street , New York ; Frank Leslie Payton , 2,800 Bronx Park East , New York ; Julien Raoul , 16 West Eighty-seventh Street , New York , and Dorothy Tucker , 314 West 145th Street , New York . That he is attempting to arrange for evacuation of Americans in Madrid by train to Valencia was reported tonight to the State Department by Eric C. Wendelin , in charge of the embassy in the Spanish capital . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a train and would permit the Americans to leave only if they had assurance of an escort of troops from the Spanish Government and that the railway line was safe .                     