@@700061

txt Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin became Cuba 's new President when he took the oath of office , administered by Chief Justice Edelman of the Supreme Court at noon today in the Presidential Palace . He had been elected President by the revolutionary council shortly after midnight . The Presidential oath was as follows : I swear and promise on my honor before the people of Cuba , in whose hands the sovereignty of the nation rests , to carry out the entire revolutionary program , already well known , with the greatest respect for all interests here and with a fervent desire for the progress and welfare of Cuba and the most cordial relations with all peoples who live in conformity with the standards of international juridical society . I swear before God and before the public conscientiously to fulfill this oath . Crowd Sees Ceremony . The ceremony took place on the second floor balcony of the palace , above the reception salon , which was crowded by Cubans who had assembled to see their new government go into power . At end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace while the crowd cheered . At 1 P. M. the guns of Cabanas Fortress , across the bay from Havana , boomed a Presidential salute . Senor Grau San Martin , who was garbed in tropical white , bowed and smiled in response to the ovation . He spoke briefly from the balcony , and then stepped back into a reception salon to receive the congratulations of friends . No diplomatic officials of foreign nations were present . The only political leader at the ceremony , was Dr. Miguel Mariano Gomez , former Mayor of Havana , who announced his adherence to the revolutionary government last night . President Grau San Martin ? speaking over the radio late tonight , extended his best wishes to the Cuban people and stated that the new administration realizes the responsibilities it has assumed , but is confident of success . " My most fervent wish is that our beloved country , now free of all foreign influence , may enter . on the road of progress and happiness , " the president said . The palace was surrounded by a huge crowd from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so packed with soldiers and police that it was difficult to open a lane for the automobiles of government officials to pass into the lower patio of the building . Every precaution was taken to maintain order in the vicinity of the palace . Extra guards of soldiers and police were stationed at all approaches . Machine guns set up inside the patio commanded all entrances and the guards were increased inside the building . Officers Arm for Battle . While the new President took office several hundred officers who had been removed from commands by revolting soldiers continued to defy the administration from their . headquarters in the National HoteZ and are considered the most pressing problem of the new government . They are strongly armed with machine guns and other weapons . The sixth floor of the hotel , where a large number of officers are quartered , is strongly fortified . Machine guns , constantly manned , cover all the stairways . Orders have been issued to rush all elevf tors to the top of the shafts if soldiers appear . - Captain Torres Menier , Chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this afternoon , said : " We are standing pat and will do nothing until the return of the legal government . We will continue to hold the fort here . We are well armed and intend to stay here a year if necessary . " Observers believe that even if these officers are permitted to retire from the army they will continue to conspire against the government and will attempt a revolution soon . Anarchy in Army Feared . The army situation is viewed by the public with extreme alarm . It is feared the breaking down of discipline in the ranks will lead to anarchy . All realize the power of the army to set up or remove governments at will . Meanwhile , commerce is nearly at a standstill . Little attention is being paid to business . No attempt is being made to pay taxes and complete disorganization in all government departments give public employes meager hope of receiving salaries long overdue . The difficulty of forming a Cabinet became apparent tonight when an official spokesman of the new regime said Eduardo Chibas , who was Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept . an appointment to the same under Senor Gray San Martin . Also , contrary to an announcement yesterday , Jose Barquin never was officially made Secretary of the Treasury . It had been hoped that the appointment of all Cabinet officials could be announced tonight , but the unexpected refusal of Senor Chibas brought about some delay . Senor Chibas , in refusing the post , said it would not be politic for him to accept it from the new government because of having held it under Senor de Cespedes . Presence of Warships Assailed . Sergio Carbo , journalist and former member of the governmental executive commission , who , it is practically assured , will be appointed secretary to the Presidency , issued tonight the following statement to this correspondent . " At daybreak on Sept. 5 the republic became of age , and , with cries of joy , escaped from the American Embassy . With what right does the embassy wish to imprison it again ? " Is n't this naval display of warships which recently entered our ports cleared for action and passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barbarous ? " The American people can not approve such a procedure , so lacking in god taste , so impolite and so unworthy of the dignity of a democratic and strong nation . We believe that such an error does not form part of the ' good n ; ighbor policy ' expressed by President Roosevelt . " Now , if the ironclads will permit it , we will go to work . It is necessary to organize our disturbed administrative organization . It is necessary to create a modern constitution in accordance with our needs . It is also necessary , after an intelligent study of economies in the , budget for the armed forces and equitable laws upon commercial matters , to reorganize our public treasury and our purchasing power ? in short , to make a ' new deal . ' " But , I repeat , we hope we will be left in peace and treated in good faith ; that the American warships will visit us when they wish , but as friends and saluting our flag , and that diplomacy be maintained within just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we know how to solve as we have already demonstrated . " A huge mass meeting was held this afternoon in Central Park , sponsored by the Left Wing student body , calling themselves the AntiImperalistic League . Various members , including girl students , decried the " imperialism " of the United States Government and denounced the presence of United States warships in the harbor . Shouts of " Down with Yankee imperialism ! " " Down with Welles ! " and other deprecatory remarks against the United States Government were heard on all sides . A communistic committee arrived at the park at 4:30 , carrying red flags , and the assembly quickly became communistic in tone . Speakers pledged themselves to fight not only " Yankee imperialism " but the present government , to foment strikes in Havana and the interior , and work toward placing the red flag atop Cuba 's $18,000,000 capitol . The government had granted permission for holding the meeting , but had warned the students they would be held responsible for order there . Noticeable among the immense throng were many red banners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Oil Company supply free gasoline to the government . "                     