@@702861

txt Lewis Yelland Andrews , District Commissioner of Galilee , whose life had been threatened frequently during the last two years because of the strictness of his rule , and his bodyguard , Peter R. , a British police constable , were shot and killed at Nazareth as they were leaving the Anglican Church today . The assassins , described by the police as Arabs , fired at close range as Mr. Andrews shouted to his Assistant District Commissioner , who was immediately behind : " Run for it , Pirie-Gordon ; they 've got us . " Mr. Andrews , who was shot in the chest , stomach and head , was killed instantly and his bodyguard died a half hour later . Two of the assassins were dressed in European clothes , and tarbooshes , the other in peasant clothes . The police immediately closed all roads and dogs were taken to the scene to track down the assailants . Mr. Andrews , who was warned several days ago that an attempt would be made on his life , leaves a widow and two children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few days , planned to go to New Zealand to marry . A military funeral for both will take place tomorrow . Immediately on learning of the outrage , Edward Keith-Roach , District Commissioner of Haifa , hastened to Nazareth and ordered curfew imposed . Although it is believed that the assassins escaped , some arrests have been made . Armed police reinforced by soldiers are patrolling the frontier with Syria and the northern banks of the Jordan . Mr. Andrews , who was an Australian and served in Palestine during the World War , left the church first because he was representing Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchoile , the High Commissioner . Two bullets just missed C. M. . Pirie-Gorden , who followed . A statement issued by the Arab High Committee expressed " horror and condemnation- of this painful incident , " and urged Arabs in Galilee to refrain from violence . Two Arab notables , Said Awad Khoury , reputed to be one of the wealthiest landlords in Northern Palestine , and Sheikh Mohammed Ibrahim , a /and dealer , also were assassinated during the last two days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the High Commissioner and also one of the most important officials of the Palestine Government . He formerly was as- sistant governor of Jerusalem then during the sojourn of the Royal Commission in Palestine . Last Winter he was attached to that body as the Palestine Government 's representative . - After the commission left and the Northern district was subdivided Mr. Andrews received the more unruly section , including Nazareth . He played an important role in helping in the establishment of new Jewish communal settlements in Galilee , many of which - were set up overnight . Latest of Violent Acts The assassination of Commissioner Andrews is the latest of a long series of violent acts through which certain Arab elements have endeavored to express their indignation at what they consider Britain 's repudiation of promises for Arab independence made during the World War . In order to gain Arab support in 1915 the British Government promised independence to Arab provinces of the Turkish Empire . Although the pledge was fulfilled in Iraq and other areas , Palestine has been administered by the British under the mandate system . Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . Arab dissatisfaction in Palestine has been accentuated by the influx ' of Jews since the war under the British policy of making Palestine a Jewish national home . This policy was enunciated by the British in the Balfour declaration of 1917 . Outbreaks of violence occurred in 1920 , 1921 , 1929 , 1933 and 1936-37 , and a succession of British commissions have sought to resolve the three-cornered friction between British rule and Jewish and Arab aspirations . In an attempt to cut the Gordian knot the British in July of this year issued another commission report in which it was proposed to divide Palestine into an Arab and a Jewish State . Nazareth , scene of the assassination of Mr. Andrews , lies within the proposed Jewish State , but is one of the areas which would , under the plan , be retained under British mandate . Although not mentioned in the Old Testament , Nazareth has great importance to the Christian world as the scene of Christ 's youth and the home of his parents . The Arabs living in Galilee are strongly opposed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a minority in an independent Jewish state . An Arab congress at Bloud an early this month reaffirmed Arab demands that Palestine be considered " an inseparable part of the Arab countries . " It voted refusal to acquiesce in the establishment of an independent Jewish State . As deputy in Northern Palestine of Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope , British High Commissioner , Commissioner Andrews represented the new British policy to which Arab Nationalist elements are strongly opposed .                     