@@700447

txt Mayor LaGuardia 's Economy Bill went down to defeat for the second time in the Assembly today . After almost three hours of debate , which at times was heated , it failed of passage by a vote of 85 to 57 . Only seven Democrats voted for the bill , while all of the Republicans present voted affirmatively . Seven were absent . The Assembly 's action followed reading in the Senate and Assembly of a special message , transmitted by Governor Lehman . The message strongly urged that there be no further delay in favorable action on a measure which Mayor LaGuardia has declared is the only thing that can obviate payless pay days for the 140,000 employes of the City of New York . Before the bill was placed on the order of final passage , the Assembly , without a dissenting vote , adopted five amendments to the measure which Governor Lehman had induced Mayor LaGuardia to accept . One of these amendments , and perhaps the most important , was designed to reaffirm the State 's control of education and to vest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Estimate the function of instituting economies through reductions in the amount spent for personal service , with a proviso , however , that the Education Board must conform to the decisions of the Board of Estimate affecting other classes of employes in the service of the city . Other amendments were designed to protect pension and retirement rights , the civil service status of city employes , and to limit payless furloughs to a period that would end with the current calendar year . Governor Lehman this evening characterized the action of the Democrats who opposed the bill in the Assembly as " highly reactionary . " The Governor a few days ago called all the members of hiS party in the Assembly to the executive chamber and urged prompt passage of the bill . His manner this evening clearly indicated that he was fully determined to continue his efforts in behalf of the measure in the face of almost general Democratic opposition in both branches of the Legislature . " The defeat of the bill by Democratic votes is both unfortunate and , in my opinion , highly reactionary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He was in deep earnest in his characterization of the failure of the Democratic Assemblymen to support the bill . He feels that the amendments recommended by him and incorporated in the measure absolutely safeguarded the interest of the teachers and the civil service employes who have been fighting the bill aggressively through their lobbies at the Capitol . The Governor would not disclose his future line of action , but there was no mistaking his determination to persist ? in the fight . Incidentally It was learned this evening that Mayor LaGuardia in all probability will take the warpath and invade the districts of leading members of the Legislature who have been standing out against favorable action on his bill . Despite the failure of the bill toI day , there still remains a pretty strong belief at the Capitol that ultimately it will emerge with vie ' tory in substantially its present form . IEven in the midst of this second defeat in the Assembly , supporters were in a position to point to distinct progress made in the direction of enactment of the measure . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it received 81 votes , - while 61 were recorded against it . The vote today represented a net gain of forty votes in favor of the bill . Seven Republicans who , if present , would have supported the bill , were absent when the vote was taken today , so that if every Republican seat had been filled , there would have been a total of 92 affirmative votes , only eight short of the two-thirds vote of 100 required for its passage in the lower house . Three up-State Democrats voted for the bill on the first test of strength . They all supported it at the session today . In addition four other Democrats responded to the Governor 's recommendation and voted in the affirmative . Three of these represent New York City districts . Alignment on Bill . Those who supported the bill when first up on third reading were Assemblymen Banfield of Chemung , Dunn of Schoharie and Quinn of Oneida . Today Assemblyman Corbett , Monroe County , Democrat , and Assemblymen - Cohen and Goldstein of Kings and Zimmerman of Queens joined the earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Dickey of Erie , who voted against the bill two weeks ago voted today in the affirmative , the Republicans re- , corded on the final roll call thus presenting a solid front in the Assembly in favor of the bill . The absentees were Assemblymen of Kings , Democrat , and the Republicans , Bernhardt of Erie , Condon and Garn Jost of Westchester , Meiss of Oneida . Messer of Steuben , O'Mara of Monroe and Suitor of Niagara . It was suggested that while five had excuses , two of the Republican absentees had " run out " on Assemblyman Moffat of New York , sponsor for the bill . The paucity of up-State Democratic support caused surprise in some important quarters at the Capitol because it was felt that Postmaster General Farley 's endorsement of the bill should have brought all the up-State Democratic organizations in line with the Governor , if his statements had been accepted by the Democratic leaders at their face value . Governor Lehman in his special message , the third he has sent to the Legislature urging passage cf the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had accepted and expressed his opinion that these were real safeguards which should " resolve the fears or objections " to the bill held by civil service employes and teachers . " There should be no further delay in its ( the bill 's ) adoption , " the Governor said . " With the amendments recommended by me the bill should be passed immediately . Not only is the adoption of the bill essential for the welfare of the City of New York but it tow contains proper safeguards fon the protection of its civil service em ' ployes . I strongly urge the immediate adoption of the bill . " Prior to the action on the bill in the Assembly the Democratic Assemblymen were called into conference by Erwin Steingut , leader of the Democratic minority in the lower house . The conference was interrupted briefly for the joint session of the Senate and Assembly at noon to fill a vacancy on the Board of Regents . Held as usual behind closed doors , the conference lasted for almost three hours . Debate Lasts Three Hours . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assembly , where the debate lasted until almost 6 o'clock . It was called up by Assemblyman Moffat , New York City Republican , and was taken from the table , where it had remained under a motion for reconsideration of the vote by which it failed of passage two weeks ago . Mr. Moffat offered the series of amendments outlined in the Governor 's message , which were adopted . Mr. Moffat , opening the debate , declared that if the bill was not passed and the economies its pas , sage would render possible were not adopted , there was a prospect of unemployment relief being discontinued by next August and " payless paydays " by October . Assemblyman Byrnes , Democrat from New York County , said he was much inclined to rest on the figures presented at the hearing before the Senate Cities Committee by Frank J. Prial , former Acting Controller , who attempted to show that instead of a budget deficit there was a surplus . more " There is ore politics in this bill than in any that has been introduced in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cites 's Figures . Assemblyman ' Ross of New York , who was elected on a Fusion and Republican ticket , recalled that former Controller George , who was Controller while the 1984 budget was in the making by the former city administration , had admitted a deficit of $28,000,000 and " asked Democratic members " to vote for the bill . He said that if all the untapped sources of income suggested by Mr. Prial actually were available , he had no doubt that the late Tammany administration would have seized upon them as an opportunity to balance their budget on paper , if no more . Minority Leader Steingut , in bringing the debate to a close said that he had urged Mayor LaGuardia to confer with the Democratic leaders with a view to reaching an agreement on a bill but had not heard from the Mayor . Like some of the other speakers , Mr. Steingut thought it advisable to defend his course in not following the leadership of Governor Lehman . " I do not disagree with the Governor , " Mr. Steingut said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do . I am in perfect agreement with him about these amendments . " The amendments were then adopted and the roll-call on the bill itself followed . Many of the Democratic members took advantage of their opportunity to explain their failure to vote as the Governor had urged them . One of these , Assemblyman Theodore of New York , referred to the conference between Governor Lehman and Democratic members of the Assembly ea the LaGuardia bill . " It may be thought , " he said , " that the Governor cracked the whip over our heads . But at no time have I expected to witness such a display of fine statesmanship . It made me feel real good when the Governor said he thought something should be done and told us to vote each one according to his own conscience . I have followed the leadership of Governor Lehman and will continue to do so . " Mr. Theodore voted against the bill . He declared that no question of city finance was involved but on the other hand an important principle of government and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our form of government . " We do not care if the City of New York goes bankrupt or if the United States does , " he exclaimed in bringing his explanation to a close . After the roll ball had been completed he asked that this latest remark be expunged from the record because he felt that it might be misunderstood . The bill again was placed so that it could be brought back for recommendation . CITY OFFICIALS IN DARK . Seek Way to Revive Economy Bill ? May Offer It in Senate . Mayor LaGuardia was informed by telephone of the defeat of his Economy Bill in the Assembly after leaving his office in . City Hall yesterday . Details regarding the fate of the amendments to which the Mayor agreed were lacking at the time , but the Mayor 's attention was caught by a statement made during the debate by Assemblyman Millard ! Mood= of Manhattan* Mr .. Theodore , who comes from the Second Assembly District headed by Albert Marinelli , was quoted as saying : would be against this bill even if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government went bankrupt . " " That 's typical of the opposition to the bill , the Mayor said . " It shows the intelligence and patriotism of the opposition . " In the absence of further details of the Assembly 's action the Mayor would make no further statement . City officials informed him from Albany that he could count on five of the seven Republican members of the Assembly who were absent yesterday . The Mayor 's advisers here were In the dark on how the Economy Bill could be revived . Further amendments , they felt , would destroy its usefulness . Having already been defeated in its present form and apparently without being recommitted , the Mayor 's advisers were at a loss to determine how another vote could be taken in the Assembly on the measure .                     