@@704324

txt Adhering closely to American business ' ire-. dition , but reversing legendary procedure . mousetrap makers are beating a well worn path to an office on the lower end of Manhattan where they hope to obtain foreign orders . It is in this office  --  now featured chiefly by its fresh paint and bare rooms  --  that machinery for Great Britain 's war purchases in the United States is being installed and oiled to insure smooth running performance for duration of the European conflict . The British Purchasing Commission in the United States is not yet listed on the directory of 25 Broadway , nor Is there any name on its door on the 11th floor . But a small hand-made sign near the elevator enables the legion of salesmen to find the . object of their pilgrimage . Experts Have Not Arrived Yet Representatives of the mouse trap makers find they are a little early to transact actual business , and must be content to register their names and products . They are met with courtesy and consideration but with the frank statement that the commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts so far have been concentrated on netting up an efficient organization capable of coping with any eventuality arising from the exigencies of war . Arthur B. Purvis , director general of the commission , said he hoped to have part of the organization ready for business next week . Two or three weeks , however . will be required to achieve a smooth running machine . No estimate of the extent of British purchases in this country is possible at this time , he pointed out . That will depend largely upon duration of the war . Not Sign of Short War It is apparent from decision to build up this extensive organization , however , that the British are no longer content to rely upon several independent commissions for buying American products . Setting up a large staff to coordinate all purchasing activities indicates they are not banking too much on a short war , but rather are preparing to obtain supplies from the United States as long as may be needed . One reason there have not been more orders placed here already is that the British kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should take final action on the Neutrality Act- Now that the embargo has been lifted They are moving in to set up a full organization . Some American manufacturers contacted the British Supply Board in England and Canada before the embargo was lifted and already have received contracts or have negotiations pending . All of this work will now be done in the United States . Supervision ' by Ottawa Office The Commission in the United States has been formed as the United States arm of the Central British Supply Board for Canada and the United States . The latter is headed by Colonel Greenly and Sir James Rae with headquarters in Ottawa . The commission will have charge of all buying done in this country for British Government supplies coming within the scope of the Central Supply Board , of which Mr. Purvis is a member . The scope of that board Is now being worked out . " It is obvious that many already existent methods of buying in the United States will have to be coordinated to ensure efficiency in purchasing and to avoid overlapping , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is desirable and the methods for bringing it about are being carefully studied . " The commission expects to work in closest coordination with the corresponding French buying commission . " It will not be the policy of the commission to work through intermediaries . Contracts will be direct with the actual makers of the goods in all possible cases . " Mr. Purvis declaredJohnson Appointed Director Fred Johnson . vice president and director of Bell Telephone Co. of Canada . has been appointed director of administration for the commission in the United States Head of the purchasing divisions will be announced later . Set-up of the central board in Canada and the commission here follows closely that of the Imperial Munitions Board which acted for Britain in arranging purchases in this country immediately prior to our entrance into the World War . In the early part of that war the firm of J. P Morgan &; Co acted as British purchasing agents in the United States . Head of Canadian ' Industries . Ltd . Mr. Purvis ; is particularly well fitted to head the commission . He is president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufactures cellulose products . chemicals , explosives . ammunition and fertilizers . This company is also closely associated with two of its important stockholders . Imperial Chemical Industries , Ltd . of Great Britain . and E. I. du Pont de Nemours &; Co He also is a director of General Motors Corp . and Bell Telephone Co of Canada and has extensive associations with industry in both this country and Canada . This is the second time that the 49-year-old executive has handled war purchases for Great Britain . Born in Scotland . he first came to the United States at the outbreak of the World War in 1914 in connection with war bu : . ? inn Since that time Mr. Purvis has lived on this side of the Atlantic . at first in the United States and for the past 15 years in Canada .                     