@@697522

txt Homeward bound commuting traffic , as well as through trains to the North and West  --  over two lines ? were thrown into confusion late yesterday afternoon when a New York , New Haven and Hartford local was derailed just north of the Mott Haven station . Coming in from Stamford , it contained about 135 passengers who were shaken a bit but not otherwise injured . As the trucks of the five cars slipped off the rails , however , they tore up the tracks , the third rail and part of the roadbed of two of the four main lines . So it was that when the rush hour traffic started , the trains had to move by slowly on half the normal number of routes . And then , the two remaining tracks were so clogged that empty trains could not be brought down to the Grand Central from the yards in the Bronx : Besides the usual commuting rush , the through passengers also suffered . Tlie accident happened at 4:31 , and from then on most of the express trains started out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock this morning railroad officials announced that train schedules had returned to approximately normal . Crew Calms Passengers . The derailed train , the 3:21 from Stamford , was in charge of Frank Smith of 2,735 Sedgwick Avenue , the Bronx , as engineer , and H. E. Hendrickson of Norwalk , as the conductor . As it came opposite 140th Street and Park Avenue , the rear truck of the first car jumped off the track . Smith jammed on his brakes , but before the train stopped all cars following were derailed also . After the train had jolted over the ties to a halt , the crew went through it , calming the passengers . They found that none had been injured beyond a shaking up . As the Mott Haven station ( at 138th Street ) was near at hand , the crew led them along the ties to the platform , where they could proceed downtown . The accident happened just about where the New York Central tracks ( also used by the New Haven ) come down from the elevated structure by which they enter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 100 feet of the track on which it rode , and some of the northbound route adjoining it . About the time the first of the wrecking crews arrived on the scene , confusion began in the Grand Central Terminal . The subways poured forth their commuters and others came in from the wet streets . They went to their usual gates , arid , mainfound no trains to take them on their way . There were a few , however , made up and lying in the terminal . These were filled and taken away slowly . They moved at a walking pace by the Mott Haven station . But with only two good tracks in constant use , the roads were unable to bring down more cars for later trains . Some of the southbound local trains were stopped at Melrose and Fordham and the passengers told to get onto the subways there . The through trains came in , late and slowly . And eventually , after much confusion at the terminal , the empty cars began to appear . Thousands Await Trains . At one time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons were in the upper level of the terminal , while 8,000 commuters waited below . Many of the latter joined in hiring taxicabs to take them to their homes in Westchester and lower Connecticut . The railroad also put buses at the disposal of those wishing to go to Port Chester and other local points . Upstairs many of the would-be passengers of the through trains asked to cash in their tickets and stay another day in New York . One man in the Station Master 's office indignantly announced that he would go West by airplane , as he had to be there tonight . Some of the waiting throng carried skis and snowshoes , for use in Canada or the Adirondacks . At the gate marked for the Adirond ? ck Express a dozen or so persona seized the opportunity to play backgammon . They spread their fur coats on the floor , opened the boards and forgot , temporarily , Lake Placid . They ultimately started out , several hours late . Of the through trains , the Southwest Limited , scheduled to go at 4:30 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheduled for 5:30 , left at 8:40 , with the Western Express , which was due to depart at 6:10 , just behind it . The Detroiter left at 8:35 instead of 6:10 , and the Cleveland Limited at 8:35 instead of 6:30 . The Merchants ' Limited left for Boston at a time not announced , and the Gilt-Edge Express departed two hours and fifty-five minutes late . The Montreal Limited , which should have left at 9:45 P. M. , was held until 11:30 P. M. Other trains delayed were the Iroquois , a sleeping car express for St. Louis , due to leave at 11:50 P. M. , and the Genessee , at 11:55 P. M. for Detroit , and five expresses for Boston , timed to leave between 11:30 P. M. and 12:45 A. M. The cause of the derailment was not explained . A report will be made to the Transit Commission today by Inspector W. H. Freeman , who visited the scene .                     