@@697884

txt The utmost reserve continues to be maintained by both the Italian Government and the Vatican on the diplomatic conversations for the settlement of their differences , and it is impossible to learn what progress , If any , has been made in the negotiations In progress . While the Pope has been making speeches every day defending the policy of the Catholic Action organization , and protesting against violation of the Lateran accords by the Fascist Government , the latter has maintained throughout unexpected silence on the dispute . Yesteiday for the first time since the conflict with the Vatican arose was the Catholic Action named in an official communiqu ? , issued by the Government 's press bureau . This was in connection with a meeting of the Fascist Party directorate , held yesterday afternoon in the Palacco Venezia , under the chairmanship of Benito Mussolini . This meeting , which lasted two hours , is considered to have been of unusual importance , in view of the present serious crisis in the relations between church and state . Tho Fascist Government is mole than ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Vatican authorities , was actually interfering in politics , and that someof its leaders were conducting propsantala hostile to Fascism . The Fascist Party directorate , after fully examining the situation , decided to extend to Catholic Action that intransigent attitude which was adopted by the Fascist Party regarding political organizations considered adverse to the Fascist regime . The directorate 's communique says : " Examining the recent polemics aroused by the fully proven attitude of open or concealed opposition of certain sectors of Catholic Action , the Directorate , while reaffirming its profound and unchanged respect for the Catholic religion , for its supreme head , its ministers and its temples , declares in the most explicit manner its firm decision not to allow the relics of anti-Fascism hitherto spared to find refuge and protection under any banner whatsoever , old or new . " The Directorate orders the leaders of 9000 Fascist organizations in Italy to base their action upon these guiding rules , bearing in mind that those who . fell for tho Fascist revolution demand that it should be defended inflexibly against oil , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Vatican , where it was expected that no further action would be taken pending the diplomatic negotiations in progi ess to define the position , rights and duties of Catholic Action in Italy .                     