@@701766

txt The Italo-Ethiopian War . GENEVA  --  The League Committee of Eighteen halted action on the oil sanction for forty-eight hours to permit the Committee of Thirteen to make an effort for peace . If Italy refuses acceptable terms , it was indicated , the sanction will be imposed , with Britain taking the initiative . ROME  --  It was indicated Mussolini would insist on direct peace negotiations with Haile Selassie ; and C that any terms must be more liberal than those of the HoareLaval plan . TI=LE FRONT  --  An Italian expedition of 5,000 men was reported driving toward Gondar , near Lake Thna , in the British sphere of influence . Marshal Badoglio reported the victory in Tembien had been complete . OTTAWA  --  The Italian Consul General , Luigi Petrucci , was rebuked by Premier Mackenzie King for criticisms of the League and Canada . He was warned a repetition of such conduct would bring representations to Rome . League Decides to Seek Peace . Sy CLARENCE R. STB.EIT . Wireless to ' Sum NOW Yontc ' rnsrma .. GENEVA , March ** Benito @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tomorrow or within about forty-eight hours between a combined oil and tanker embargo and peace terms acceptable to the League of Nations and to Ethiopia . This is the practical result of surprise moves made by the British and French at the opening meeting of the Sanctions Committee of Eighteen this afternoon preceded by long talks between Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , and Pierre-Etienne Flandin , French Foreign Minister . It starts a tense week for Europe that may see other surprises . Mr. Eden , taking the lead with unexpected vigor and clearness , told the Committee of Eighteen that the British Government " is in favor of the imposition of an oil embargo by the members of the League and is prepared to join in early application of such a sanction if the other principal supplying and transporting States who are members of the League are prepared to do likewise . " Hope for American Help . This means Britain is ready to apply the oil sanction regardless of whether United States oil and tanker companies , upon whose cooperation the League experts ' report made this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to prolong the war by profiting from it . It implies British belief that American public opinion will make that appeal effective . Mr. Eden took this stand after agreeing to a proposal made by Mr. Flandin that before deciding on the oil sanction the Committee of Thirteen  --  the group assigned to mediation  --  be asked to consider tomorrow making a fresh appeal to Italy and Ethiopia to end the war on terms " within the League covenant 's f ramework . " Dr. Lopez Olivan of Spain , president of the Committee of Thirteen , announced he would convoke it at 11 o'clock tomorrow morning after Tytus Komarnicki of Poland had supported this proposal and pointedly stressed that the Committee of Eighteen could also convoke the League Council or Assembly if need be . There is reason to believe Poland is thinking the European situation has reached a dangerous stage and wants a second peace move before the oil sanction is decided if the appeal of the Committee of Thirteen tomorrow is made in vain . According to one good source , President , Roosevelt 's neutrality statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the appearances if not the substance of independent action are being maintained here as strictly as in Washington . Mr. Eden explained , it is said , in his momentous talk with Mr. Flandin that the British Cabinet had decided in favor of applying the oil sanction without reference to the United States as a matter of high policy . London , he reportedly said , felt that Washington believed the League powers had by vacillating in December cut the ground from under President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Hull , who were then bringing strong pressure to keep down American oil exports . The British believed , the story continues , that it would be fatal for the League to give the United States this impression again just after President Roosevelt had independently reaffirmed all his own and Mr. Hull 's previous statements of policy regarding this war . If Washington thought it wise to stress that it was acting independ-1 ently of the League , the British felt Geneva should help out by acting as independently of Washington ' and make no mention of it in deciding the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression that his peace appeal proposal was meant mainly for domestic politics though there entered into it the dangers of the present European situation with Italy flirting with Germany and threatening to leave the League and the Locarno pact . Paris also took seriously the hint of Virginio Gayda , Italian editor , that Italian pride having been satisfied with full revenge for the 1896 defeat , Rome could talk peace . Mr. Flandin felt that with.opinion divided in France and with elections coming on he and his government could not appear before the electorate as favoring only strong action against Italy . They bad to make first some conciliatory gesture . Baldwin 's Approval Reported . Mr. Eden is understood to have balked at first and declared he could not take the responsibility for accepting such a peace move without consulting London . Accordingly the luncheon he was having with Mr. Flandin and Joseph PaulBoncour as guests of Joseph A. Avenol , League secretary general , was interrupted while he telephoned to Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin . After hurried consultations in London , Mr. Baldwin is understood to have approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today on the oil sanction but all the best opinion agrees that France , Poland and all other sanctionists will follow Britain if peace is rejected . There also is agreement that there is little likelihood of Mussolini accepting any terms the League can approve , though some Russians are cautiously inclined to consider his reactions unpredictable . Some French League supporters suspect a move like that of Pierre Laval and Sir Samuel Hoare which was generally condemned . Mr. Eden emphasized to the Committee of Eighteen that the peace appeal should cause no " undue . de- ' lay . " This was explained later to the press to mean that if nothing came from the appeal by the Committee of Thirteen within fortyeight hours the Committee of I Eighteen would act on the oil sanction . The terms of the appeal by the Committee of Thirteen if , as is expected , is made , are still a matter of guesswork , but it is supposed that to save Italy 's face it will not fix specifically forty-eight hours or any other time limit savoring of an ultimatum and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rejection . Issue Clear for Italy . No one seems to doubt , however , that the purpose of today 's moves was made diplomatically clear to Mussolini and that this is what he should read between the lines of the the appeal . Part of the belief that he will reject it is based on the assumption that he can not accept an offer accompanied by such a threat . It is , of course , the old Roman offer of the sword or the olive branch that is coming back to Rome . Even without this element a good imany ' delegates doubt Mussolini could accept any terms acceptable to the League , especially now when his communiqu  --  s are proclaiming triumphal victories . Several delegates said tonight that they considered the procedure they adopted in the Committee of Eighteen today amounted implicitly to voting the oil sanction . There is reason to believe some permanent French Foreign Office officials interpret it thus and are perturbed because Mr. Flandin failed to make any reservations , for these officials are continuing the Laval opposition to any increase in sanctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precedent for Germany . The French give many signs of being badly split . The Committee of Eighteen , who met as usual in private , began by considering the experts ' report on the existing sanctions and the questionnaire on Italian trade that had been sent with it to members . Mr. Flandin gave technical reasons for demurring to the experts ' proposal that the required percentage of nonItalian origin in imports be raised from 25 to 50 per cent and suggested another criterion . Mr. Flandin balanced this with a proposal to tighten sanctions by ending the exemption on Italian goods partly paid for before Oct. 19 and by requiring certificates of origin on all imports from Switzerland , Austria , Hungary and Albania , which are not applying the import sanction , to prove their exports did not originate in Italy . Augusto de Vasconcellos , chairman of the committee , ruled that it would consider such suggestions at a subsequent meeting . Flandin Asks Peace Plea . This brought it to the second point on the agenda , the oil experts ' report , and immediately Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was discussed . He pointed out that more than a month had passed since the Committee of Thirteen had resolved not to let slip any opportunity for settling the war by peaceful agreement . The hearts , of sanctions supporters sank as they listened to this familiar formula . Mr. Eden then cheered them and astonished most of his colleagues with this state-ment : " I am prepared to agree in so far as His Majesty 's government is concerned that this matter should be considered tomorrow by the Committee of Thirteen , more especially since the whole purpose of the League 's endeavors throughout this dispute have been to bring the war to an end . I might add that this procedure need not cause any undue delay since I understand the Committee of Eighteen still has work to do in connection with improving the operation of existing sanctions . " At the same time I think it only fair to the committee that I should make plain to it what is the view of His Majesty 's government in the United Kingdom on the experts ' report on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept any decision to which this committee may come , but I must make clear that , having considered the findings of the experts ' report , His Majesty 's government is in favor of the imposition of an oil embargo by the members of the League and is prepared to join in early application of such sanction if the other principal supplying and transporting States who are members of the League are prepared to do likewise . " British Move Puzzling . Until today 's luncheon the British delegation apparently expected to take no position on oil today but to confine the meeting to the question of existing sanctions , while private talks on the shipping and oil questions continued . What precipitated things has to be guessed . If it was not advice from the Washington Embassy , it was possibly the Italian victories , though the British and most others discount these . Their chief effect is to harden sentiment in favor of the oil embargo . British quarters believe the session will last till Monday unless tomorrow 's Rome reaction convinces the Committee of Thirteen a peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oil sanction will be voted and the meeting adjourned by Friday . There is talk of applying the oil embargo March 18 . The British declare their numerous private talks today concerned only the nolo-Ethiopian war , but , in view of the reprisals Italy threatens in case of further sanctions , that topic is a big one . Mr. Eden appears to have shelved temporarily the idea of a general shipping sanction in favor of plunging on oil . He seems to be betting the Amer ! - cans will do more than they promise and that Mussolini will do less than he threatens . The question that remains is how Mussolini will now gamble on the United States , and on that gamble much depends .                     