@@700939

txt Federal-State unemployment insurance , administered by the States and providing for a Federal subsidy to States adopting plans which comply with certain national standards , is the form of insurance approved by the President 's Advisory Council , it was learned today . If Secretary Perkins and the Cabinet committee associated with the Committee on Economic Security approve the Advisory Council 's action , they will sound the death knell of the Wagner-Lewis bill as the device for encouraging States to adopt unemployment insurance laws . And if such approval is granted , endorsement by President Roosevelt is expected . Then to bill-drafting experts will be assigned the task of working up the proposal into proper form for presentation to the next Congress . The advisory council 's approval of what is designed to be a nationally supervised system of unemployment insurance came after long debates within its ranks , and after the business members of the group were , convinced that this method would be a great improvement over the Wagner-Lewis bill . Business Group Approves . In some quarters surprise was expressed that the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the national subsidy scheme . It was learned that the final vote in the council was nine to seven , with all members of the business group joining with William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor ; Paul Kellogg , editor of The Survey Graphic ; Helen Hall of the Henry Street Settlement , New York , and the chairman , Frank Graham of the University of North Carolina , in approving it . The others who favored the proposal were Walter Teagle of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey ; Gerard Swope of the General Electric Company ; Morris E. Leeds of Leeds &; Northrup , Philadelphia ; Sam Lewisohn of the Miami Copper Company , New York , and Marion B. Folsem of the Eastman Kodak Company , Rochester . Besides these nine actually voting there was Mgr . John A. Ryan , who had to leave before the vote was taken but left instructions that he be recorded in the affirmative . Raymond Moley attended the meeting but took no part in the discussion . According to advocates of the Federal-State subsidy plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would enable the government to formulate standards below which the States might not fall in their job insurance laws , under penalty of forfeiting the Federal subsidies . Other Flan Embodies Tax . The Wagner-Lewis bill is a device for a Federal tax on all employers ' payrolls . The government would make no payments to the States adopting unemployment insurance laws , but employers in those States enacting such legislation would be credited with their payments into that fund . For instance , if the Federal payroll tax were 3 per cent and a State insurance scheme called for a 3 per cent contribution by employers , the latter would be freed from the necessity of making any payment whatever on the Federal excise tax . This plan was evolved to avoid the problem of direct Federal payments out of an excise tax , to which some constitutional lawyers have objected . Under the Wagner-Lewis device , the government would have no con- trol outer the plans for insurance favored in the States . No matter what the plan , the government would have no alternative but to credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program . If a State adopted a plan disapproved by the government as unsound the latter would be powerless to compel introduction of standards for measurable improvement . The government would be limited merely to using its good offices with employers in the States - whose plans were unsatisfactory , but it could not exercise effective pressure on the States themselves . The subsidy contemplated by those who favor the Federal plan may be a small one , but the details as to how the money is to be raised and how allocated and in what amounts have not yet been worked out . Emphasizing that the States must play a leading part in the building up of social security , Secretary Perkins declared tonight that any Federal unemployment insurance legislation would leave them free to adopt the kind of laws they wanted . Talking over a network of the National Broadcasting Company , Miss Perkins urged the Legislatures which will meet within the next few months to take action on the programs before them . " It is essential , indeed , if we are to have effective action on social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on their own legislative programs , " she said . " If they do not get busy , if legislation is not adopted in the coming sessions of the State Legislatures , nothing can be done , as you know , for months to come . There is need for decisive , constructive and immediate action on the part of the States . The administration can lead the way  --  the rest is in your hands . " At the present time we have 4,500,000 families and 700,000 single people in addition depending on relief for their very existence . At least 80 per cent of the families seeking this relief have been compelled to do so solely because the breadwinner could not find work . The other 20 per cent show the picture of sickness handicaps , old age , widowhood , &c.; " There is a strong and growing enthusiasm for systematic provision for the indigent aged  --  and rightly so  --  but I believe there is real danger that old people and their relatives are being led to expect the impossible by visionary schemes for providing old people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " A small , steady allowance built up by regular contributions during early and middle life is a definite possibility for us . " Those of you who want to help the cause of the aged can do so most effectively at the present time by turning your thoughts and efforts to strengthening and improving of your State laws . " Any Federal cooperation which may be given would of necessity be contingent on acceptable action in the States themselves . " In building up security against these major hazards , the administration can lead the way . However , the measure of real accomplishment will depend largely on the States themselves , "                     