@@701720

txt Light was thrown on the administration 's aims for financing the stop-gap farm relief program toda.y with the disclosure that Federal farm and fiscal experts , under Treasury supervision , were working on new schedules of excises covering a broadened list of agricultural commodities . To commodities subjected to processing taxes prior to the Supreme Court 's decision In the AAA case , including wheat , cotton , tobacco , rice and hogs , there have been added tentatively beef , corn , rye , oats and hops , it was reported . Consideration also was being given to the advisability of placing " compensating " levies on products competitive with those to be directly taxed . It was understood to be the administration 's intention to provide the broadest possible commodity base for the levies so that at least $500,000,000 a year might be raised for financing the farm program without levying such high excises as were involved in the invalidated processing taxes . While plans for financing the program went forward accompanied by efforts to disassociate any new levies from the Soil Conservation Bill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of AAA reverberated on several fronts . Crop Curbs Formally Ended . President Roosevelt signed the measure repealing the Cotton , Tobacco and Potato Compulsory Control Laws and formally ended the most far-reaching experiment in enforced restriction of agriculture ever undertaken in the United States . The Senate adopted and sent to the White House the Deficiency Appropriation Bill providing $296,185 , . 000 for liquidation of the government 's " moral obligation " to farmers who complied with 1935-acreagecontrol contracts and gave partial performance under 1936 early plantings . The measure also authorized payments to cotton farmers of about $50,000,000 under the guarantee of 12 cents a pound for the staple , the money to come from customs duties . Sunate and House conferees agreed on a $50,000,000 seed-and-feed-loan bill by splitting the difference between $60,000,000 voted by the Senate and $40,000,000 voted by the house . Individual loan limits were raised from $300 to $500 . The loans will be made through the Farm Credit Administration . Substitute Put Up to Wagner . The AAA meanwhile moved to placate demands made by Senator Wagner of New York for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It ofiereo for the Senator 's approval a substitute amendment for one he had said he would introduce . The New Yorker 's proposal had quickly gathered support among Senators from large consuming centers . The Senator 's amendment would Undertake to prevent inordinate food price increases by preventing the Secretary of Agriculture from doing anything that would reduce the volume of farm products per capita below the average for 1920-29 . The AAA objected that the amendment as drawn would make the pending bill appear to be a production-control measure rather than one devoted exclusively to soil conservation and land fertility . A further objection was that the amendment took no account of lost export Markets and the resulting reduced demand . It was feared that if exports , population increases and changed demand for farm products were not taken into account , Secretary Wallace would be required to conduct the program so as to maintain farm acreages and production at an unnecessarily high level , with resulting adverse effects on prices and income . The substitute amendment would take all these considerations into account ' and would leave it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below which production could not be curtailed by the soil-conservation program . Text of Substitute Amendment . The AAA substitute , which Senator Wagner has not yet approved , would amend that section of the pending measure setting forth the purposes and objectives of the program to read as follows : " The purposes of this section shall be carried out in such manner as is consistent with the maintenance of continuous and stable supplies of foods and fibers respectively for domestic human consumption not less in the aggregate than the average domestic human consumption of each during a period determined by the Secretary to be representative , with due regard for exports , increase in population , trends and shifts in consumption , and increase in demand for agriculture commodities resulting from increase in per capita production of non-agriculture commodities above such production in such representative period . " Supporters of the farm program in Congress and in the executive departments are anxious that every practicable protection be given to consumers against high food costs . They are desirous of avoiding if possible consumer criticism of the program such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs . Particularly desired is that consumers be accurately informed as to the cause of any food price increases in order that shortages such as were occasioned by drought during the last two years might not be attributed to the program . 150,000 Bales of Cotton Freed . Enactment of the Cotton Control 1Law repealer will make immediately available for market an estimated 150,000 bales of the staple which have been prevented from moving ha interstate commerce because of non-payment of the 50 per cent ad valorem ginning tax for cotton produced in excess of Bankhead proIduction quotas . The Federal Government has held a tax lien against all such cotton , but the claim was wiped out by a provision inserted in the repeal measure by Chairman Jones of the House Committee on Agriculture . Availability of the newly freed cotton is expected by Federal experts to ease considerably the prevailing abnormal relation of spot and futures contracts . With the passage of the Deficiency Bill , the AAA was preparing immediate disbursement of an estimated $50,000,000 to cotton producers under the 1935 loan-and-grant arrangement . This amount was placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government under contracts of 1935 and early 1936 . Producers had entered the 1836 " sign-up " with the understanding that these payments would be made . The government agreed to lend the cotton producers 10 cents a pound on their adjusted production and to give then , in addition , the difference between 12 cents a pound and the average price for the staple on the ten cotton markets . Senate action on the pending farm measure was prevented today by a recess taken out of respect for the late Charles Curtis , former Vice President . The measure was due to come up again tomorrow for Senate consideration . In the House indications were that the bill could not be taken up until next week because of the press of national defense legislation . The War Department Appropriation Bill was expected to take up the rest of the week and make consideration of the farm measure impossible , regardless of Senate action .                     