@@699492

txt Full authra Hy to slash all government costs at will , including even the in-trenched ienlm of veterans ' belief , was being prepared for President-Elect Roosevelt today by Democratic House leaders . Under the direction of Speaker John N. Garner they were Malting an authorization which would go far beyond the economy powers al-wady voted the incoming President by the Senate , to the extent oi making 111111 a virtual dictator over all activities of the Federal Government except taxation . Its broad tern ? ; would permit Mr Roosevelt to reduce arbitrarily filo amount of veterans ' benefits or even eliminate entire classifications , to abolish an entire department of the Government if he chose , to turn back into the Treasury any specific appropriation of Congress he mighheonsidee unwarranted , and to cut salaries . Revision of Government The only check left to Congress would be by a joint resolution specifically nullifying any one of the economy orders . Such a resolution would in itself be subject to a presidential veto and could in the end be passed only by a two-thirds majority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Roosevelt will have under its terms two years from the time of his election during which he may revise the form of government , teduce its personnel and slash its cost to suit himself , provided only that he keeps one-thud of either House or Senate in sympathy with him . The proposal is being di afted in the form of an amendment to the milder Senate economy and remganization proposal now attached RS 3 rider to the Post Office-neasury applopriation bill . House Democrats will offer their proposal ns an amendment to the Senate amendment when the conference report on the measure is presented . In the meantime its eventual passage appeared likely in view of assurance from President Hoover that he will sign a bill conferring broad reorganization powers on his successor , despite the fact that Congress refused to grant less sweeping powers to him . Bill Sent to Conference An apposition group failed in an attempt to keep the Treasury-Post Office bill from going to conference today . Under a special rule , forcing a roll call vote , the Democrats outmaneuvered the opposition and sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . The Republicans showed themselves willing to do as Mr. Hoover has done , to give Mr. Roosevelt every chance to produce economies . Decision to place such a powerful weapon in the hands of the incoming President and simultaneously relinquish all but the most remote check over his freedom to use it at will was reached reluctantly and with a frank admission that Congress is now helpless to effect economies in the face of organized special Interests . What those interests arc was not specified by Mr. Garner and other leaders , but there was little doubt they were thinking primarily of the powerful veterans ' lobby when they adinitted that only the President could now accomplish the task of bringing federal expenditures down to a level with receipts .                     