@@703839

txt Governor Lehman anounced today the appointment of Robert M. Benjamin of New York City as a Moreland Act Commissioner to investigate the field of administrative law in New York State and report back his findings on the subject to the Governor before the 1940 session of the Legislature . As counsel to Mr. Benjamin , in his investigation , the Governor aninounced the selection of Francis H. Horan , also of New York City . The Governor 's action was in line with the plan he announced in his annual message to the Legislature on Jan. 4 , when he said that he would order a study of the subject made by a commissioner under the Executive Law . It follows a long battle in the Constitutional Convention , when , in order to limit a few governmental agencies which were accused of " bureaucracy , " a combination of conservative Republicans and Democrats put over the " Whalen amendment , " which , according to the Governor and other State officials , would have hamstrung the administrative agencies of the State . Despite protests by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sears , a leading Republican in the convention , the judiciary article was adopted with the Whalen amendment incorporated in it . The people rejected the judiciary article when the Constitution was submitted to them in sections last Fall . Once secretary to Holmes Mr. Benjamin , according to a brief ' biography made public at the Governor 's office , was graduated from Harvard in 1917 - and from Harvard Law School in 1922 , after which he was secretary to Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes for one year . He was associated with Root , Clark , Buckner &; Howland from 1923 to 1929 and is now a member of the firm of Parker &; Duryee . He is a member of the American Law Institute , New York Law Society , Association of the Bar of the City of New York , New York County Lawyers Association , New York State Bar Association , and the American Bar Association . Mr. Horan , a Dartmouth and Harvard Law School graduate , was a special assistant to the United States Attorney General from 1932-to 1934 , and again in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was chief of the civil division in the Federal Attorney 's office in the Southern District of New York . He is a member of the American Bar Association , the Bar Association of the City of New York and the New York Law Society . Attorney General Frank Murphy announced just a few days ago the appointment of a commission under his jurisdiction to study the question of administrative law from the Federal viewpoint . The Governor , in his statement announcing the appointment of Mr. Benjamin and Mr. Horan , quoted the declaration he had made in his annual message on the subject , ' as follows : " In launching executive social and labor programs , we have resorted more and more to quasi-judicial determination by administrative agencies . At the last election the people rejected a proposal for the judicial review of the facts as well as of the law of virtually- all decisions of administrative officers and agencies . Opposed a Rigid Procedure " I opposed that proposal because ' it was formulated without a thorough examination of the methqds of operation of the different administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution a rigid procedure which would handicap and , in part , destroy the beneficial effects of the welfare and labor reforms which we fought so hard to initiate . " Some believe that the law does now provide proper and reasonable safeguards against arbitrary determinations by administrative bodies . It is quite possible that in the exercise of quasi-judicial functions some abuses may exist or may hereafter develop , but the problem should be studied as it applies to each particular agency . What may be sound with respect ' to oneadministrative tribunal may be disastrous for another . I stand opposed to the transfer of purely administrative functions to the courts . We can not , in modern government , attempt to destroy administrative technique . " Modification of procedure , if needed , should be undertaken only after careful- , study of each administrative . process ? on an individual basis . " In his statement today , he also said : " In accordance with this , I will appoint Mr. Robert M. Benjamin ' oar New York City as a commispioner under- the executive law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me at as early date as possible : When I have received the commissioner 's report , I will make it available to the Legislature together with my recommendations . "                     