@@701837

txt New York City is losing hundreds of millions of dollars ' worth of retail business annually to other communities because of the 2 per cent sales tax levied for unemployment relief , Lee J. Eastman , president of the Packard Motor Car Company of New York , told 00 members of the American Arbitration Association and their guests at a luncheon yesterday at the Hotel Astor . Mr. Eastman appealed to the city administration to consider whether it was wise to continue the sales tax or to provide a substitute source of relief revenue which would not drive business to other communities that have no sales tax . He made it plain he was not criticizing the administration 's efforts to raise funds for the relief of the unemployed . Former Governor John G. Winant of New Hampshire , chairman of the Social Security Board , commended arbitration as an avenue to peace in industry and merchandising and outlined the social security program at the luncheon which was held by the association in collaboration with the National Retail Dry Goods Association and the Retail Dry Goods Association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four leading retailers who have made large contributions to the advancement of arbitration : Percy S. Straus president of R. H. Macy &; Co. ; John S. Burke , president of B. Altman &; Co. ; Oswald W. Knauth , president of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation , and Lincoln Filene , chairman of the board of William Filene 's Sons Company , Boston . After he had been presented by Felix M. Warburg as chairman of the meeting , Neil Petree , president of James McCreery &; Co. , asked each of the four guests to take a bow . Speaking for the retailers of the community , Mr. Straus expressed faith in arbitration as a method of maintaining peace between retailer and buyer . Millions in Trade Diverted Discussing the sales tax , Mr. Eastman said : " No one would deny that we have an unemployment problem , although we differ quite materially as to its real extent and as to the most practical means to handle it . All concede that larger sums of money are necessary and most of us feel that this money must come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or may not , be the best means to raise this unemployment fund , but we of the retail trade are much concerned over the existing sales tax effective only in Greater New York . " We have now had more than a year 's experience with this tax , and in the automobile industry alone , which I represent , it has resulted in diverting millions of dollars of business which legitimately belongs to New York City retailers to outlying sections of New York , New Jersey and Connecticut . " From the Controller 's office we learn that in a very inccoplete check-up over a short period of time there has been already collected under the Personal Property Local Law No. 25 upward of a. quarter of a million dollars on motor cars purchased outside of the city by residents of New York . " Carried into sales volume , this represents purchases of over $12 , - 500,000 . From this may easily be deduced the fact that the volume diverted from New York in automobiles alone may exceed $25,000,000 per year . " Extended to all lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchased by shoppers from out of town who , because of our local tax , no longer buy in New York , the total volume of lost business may , and probably does , run into hundreds of millions . " This is a serious matter and one which justifies the city fathers in giving serious consideration as to the advisability of the continuance of this tax . " Much more could be said on this subject if time would permit . II mention it here simply as an example of the many different and retarding influences with which re-.1 tail establishments in New York have to contend . " Arbitration Idea Praised In presenting the guests of honor , Mr. Petrie said : " Arbitration promotes good-will and as retail merchants we know that good-will is one of the most important assets of business . We are , therefore , pleased to join with the American Arbitration Association in this meeting and to help in the establishment and preservation of good-will . The caliber and standing of the men we are honoring I clearly indicates the worthiness of the arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of honor , Mr. Straus said : " It is my understanding that I am speaking not as an individual but as a representative of the retailers in New York and that I am speaking for all of us when I thank the American Arbitration Association and the two collaborating organizations . " As they have expressed faith in us , I want to express our faith in arbitration and in the maintenance of peace in industry . No one more than the retailer has to deal with wide , representative cross-sections of the American public and needs good-will and mutual confidence in business transactions . " We feel that the arbitration of controversies is a key to friendly relations and we are here today to ' confirm that belief . " Winant Outlines Security Aims After declaring that settlement of disputes by neutral persons dated back to all states of society , Mr. Winant said : " We are gathered here to do honor to four men who , in their private lives , have always been friendly conciliators . They were quick to recognize the corporate obligations of arbitration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national social needs in this period of emergency and depression , and one gavt. to the only world association that is organized to meet the shocks of international differences the mechanization that permitted a man to speak one language and to be heard in many . " These men have all recognized the need of invention and new procedures in meeting the social and political problems of this modern industrial world , and all of them and those others here representing the front lines ' of consumer needs have generously supported the efforts to stabilize purchasing power and insure social security . " The energy and power developed by men to produce the material things of life must be tempered by consideration and understanding of the human relationships involved and met by social adaptations to preserve the objective of the American ideal which we formulated a century and a half ago and translated into a written guarantee of life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . " Whether this can be accomplished in an agricultural democracy or through freedom and an open frontier , or whether it necessitates restraints in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and possession dependent upon purchases , the wisdom and good faith to continue the guarantee remain a national obligation . " We find on the most careful examination that the cycles of unemployment eliminate men regardless of character or industry or technical skill . Technological improvements also create temporary unemployment . While cash payment purchases are increasing , credit facilities are narrowing for those on limited incomes . The ability to buy for most people is dependent upon a job . " The speeding up of industry shortens the work span of man 's earning period while at the same time increasing numbers live to advancing years , with old-age dependency constantly increasing . Expectancy of life should carry with it a share of security in old age if it is to be a blessing to mankind , " One phase of constructive thinking to meet the , hazards of old age and Unemployment and stabilized consumption was written into the Social Security Act . Although similar acts have been on the statute books of most of the other countries of the Western World for , many years , we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and with limited knowledge and a more difficult problem of administration than was faced in many other countries . " If we are to be successful in carrying out the intent of this law , it will be because we are tolerant ' . There is no finality in the act or in our plans for its administration . " One of the major obligations imposed on the Social Security Board is the ' duty of n. studyin and making recommendations as to the most effective methods of providing economic security . ' That is the exact language of the law . In this field ' of searching for better methods and improved techniques we hope we may be useful to you . Already you have been useful to us . " We came into the depression unprepared . Private resources were not enough to meet the crisis , and therefore government , with its greater sources of credit , was called upon to meet the needs of millions in distress . We have tried to face the unemployment problem as a united people , but we have not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some surer road to economic stability and security , to protect the homes of America . " In order to get a more accurate picture of the social security program , we should recognize that sections of our social security approach are tied into wages and built up from an actuarial base . It is also well to remember that insurance implies some form of contractual protection , while mutual aid is usually dependent upon donations through private gifts or periodical grants . " The Social Security Act , as I understand it , is an effort to handle sectors of unemployment and dependency on a constructive basis under the protection of the civil service , Sand with that degree of order and administrative competence which can be developed only in a permanent organization . " It further recognizes the repercussions of a demoralized unemployment emergency and the weight of its influence in the political economy of the nation will be to stabilize both employment and purchasing power . We are never going to do a perfect job in this difficult field of social security , but we can always do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the National Broadcasting Company over WEAF . The seating list at the speakers ' table follows : Colonel Julius Ochs Adler , Municipal Court Justice Pelham St. George Bissell , Willis H. Booth , George A. - Brownell , Mr. Burke , Louis K. Comstock , Colonel William J. Donovan , Mr. Eastman , Mr. Filene , Moses H. Grossman , Fred I. Kent , S. Klein , Mr. Knauth , Major Benjamin H. Namur , George W. Naumburg , W. W. Nichols , Mr. Petree , Arthur M. Reis , Saul E. Rogers , Martin Rosenbaum , Walter N. Rothschild , Dr. George J. Ryan , E. C. Sams , Michael Schaap , Arthur Strasser , Nathan Straus , Percy S. Straus , Channing E. Sweitzer , E. P. Thomas , Mr. Warburg , A. D. Whiteside , Mr. Winant and Fred J. Zeitz.                     