@@697416

txt The current rate of earnings of Associated Gas &; Electric Co. is producing a balance available for the Class A stock after all charges , including depreciation , which represents an ample margin over the preferential annual dividend of $2 in cash on this stock . Class A stockholders have a choice of payment in Class A stock at the rate of 1/40 share quarterly instead of cash . Associated Gas gr Electric now has approximately 6,000,000 shares of Class A stock outstanding . This amount has been reached through an expansion policy which has more than , doubled the earnings , and through refinancing operations . Earnings available for the Class A stock for the 12 months ended August 31 were nearly $16,000,000 ? equal after depreciation , to better than $2.80 a share on the average number of shares outstanding during the year . Moderately Increasing Trend If the present trend of moderately increasing gross and considerably decreasing expenses shown by the advance during September continues , the per share earnings for the calendar year will equal and perhaps moderately exceed $3 a share notwithstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating properties . At the same time Associated has exchanged a great many million dollars of its own securities for stock of underlying companies , thus consolidating its financial structure to more completely utilize earnings for all its securities , including the Class A stock , without draining the earning power of individual properties which must care for charges on their own preferred and participating stocks or minority holdings of common stocks not acquired by the parent company . During the past 12 months the Associated management has had under way an aggresive campaign to stimulate the use of its services by domestic and commercial consumers , and satisfactory progress has been made . Sales of electric and gas appliances generally are running about 50% more than last year . Increases in revenue from them are practically permanent . Trimming Expenses During the Associated Refrigeration Jubilee Campaign , the Associated System marketed approximately 14.000 refrigerators . and dealers in the same territory sold about 5,000 more . Last year the Associated System completed a period of unusual expansion , and the management has been devoting its efforts to the solution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , operating expenses are undergoing considerable trimming in conjunction with a program to obtain maximum operating efficiency . Savings are being realized continually from these efforts , and at the same time the proportion of gross earnings reserved for renewals and replacements ( depreciation ) is being increased gradually . Electric output of the system has held up well so far this year , and while there have been several decreases in recent months the average is above 1929 . Approximately the same results prevail in the gas division .                     