@@702502

txt FIve fields in which the Federal Government Is now equipped to take action to achieve and maintain more stable prosperity were today outlined by Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the Federal Reserve Bdard , Co-ordlnated use of all these instruments without delay is urged by Mr. Eccles , writing for Fortune Magazine , In order to prevent the present boom from reaching the heights of dangerous inflation . As In his statement last Week , Mr. Eccles. urges increased taxation to balance the budget , and he stresses the need for substantial debt retirement over and above a balanced Midget , Ho does not epeetticany discuss ' the possibility Of governmental economies , although when he refers to the present rapid expansion of business the implication would be that relief needs must lessen . Here are Mr. Eccles ' five methods of ironing out peaks and valleys in the economic map : Monetary Polley ; Ellinination of excess bank reserves by the end of 1037 ; , control and limitation by Federal Reserve authorities of re- Eccles Offers Inflation Bar the volume of work is criticized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Federal Government and other public bodies to defer their own work when shortages exist . Movement of Prices : Monetary and fiscal policies can only set an upward limit to price rises , not prevent fluctuations within broad limits , but they can operate in the direction of restraint ; excessive price rises on particular products can sometimes be met through effective antitrust legislation or by reducing tariffs under flexible tariff powers . Most Outspoken on Labor All of the mechanisms outlined by the Federgl Reserve chairman me now within the power of the Federal Government , with the exception of possible new . mtitrust legislation , mentioned under his final point , and a potential renewal of executive authority over the dollar . None of the points run into direct conflict with the Supreme Court or the Constitution , thus disposing of the contention that for power to tackle the boom-emergency the President needs alterations in the court . Indirectly , of course , it may be argued that permanent solution of many aspects of labor , price , and other policies , broader constitutional authority is required . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments . After pointing out that greater purchasing power to labor can only come economically from earnings In business when prices are not thereby increased . and criticizing stoppages of production , he added : " Reduction of hours for the purpose of affording a reasonable amount of leisure has always been advantageous both socially and economically . Reduction of hours for Po/Poses of shoring the existing volume of work , however , raises many intricate problems of relative costs , of increased shortqges in individual lines , of losses in total output and , therefore , in national income . There is a danger that it may mean sharing poverty rather than shaming wealth . " The supply of work is not a fixed quantity any more than time people 's demand for goods and services . Human is ants are inexhaustible , and We cc ' tainly have enough wants , even of a teasonable and moderate kind , to keep all our workers fully employed for as many hours as our present state of economic and social de-% eiopment , deems to be a full day 's wok @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sufficient demand to employ all available workers ' Mete are excellent prospects that the increased disbursements of industm v , pat ticularly in the durable-goods Industries , will supply this purchasing power . " Danger In Too Much Geld The inflow of foreign gold may result in difficulties , says Mr. Eccles , and ( ten the purchase and sterilization of the gold results In Undesirable Treasury borrowing . Moreover , such inflows " are a potential threat to the stability of our security markets , since foreigners , like Americans , buy on the upswing and sell on the downswing . " They intensify a speculative rise of prices and accentuate a rapid fall , It is also bo considered that the existence of large foreign holdings in our markets constitutes a threat to our neutrality.status and to domestic Liability in the event of a war abroad , One of the most difficult problems of financing a war , that of securing purchasing power abroad , would be solved by the foreign governments ' concerned sequestering the property of their nationals in our markets , as they have done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and spending It would disturb both our community and security markets and would give rise to groups opposing a policy of strict neutrality . " In view of the prospects for a continued recovery hero and the continuing political uncertainties abroad , future inflows of foreign capital may very well be in substantial volume . Since such inflows complicate the problem of achieving and maintaining ? prosperous stability , constitute a source of embarrassinent to many countries from which the capital is flowing , and , in the present circumstances , have nothing to do with foreign trade or the international division of labor , there appears to be a clear case for adopting measures to deter , the growth of foreign capital holdings in our markets . "                     