@@704305

txt In the last few days , it was officially announced here today , the Germans have engaged in lively skirmishes with the French in the sector southwest of Pirmasens , and the French attacks are said to have been repulsed . The Germans allege that since the French retired from in front of the Westwall German scouts have pushed forward until now they are directly on the Franco-German border . As a result of this success ? ful advance of German scouts the French are said to have lost several elevated positions that were valuable for reconnaissance and have endeavored to retake them by em ? ploying stronger forces . One such elevation a French battalion is reported to have occupied after heavy fighting . German infantry , supported by " heavy " weapons is said to have counter-attacked and dislodged the enemy from this observation post in spite of the fact that the French resisted " stubbornly " and for the first time employed low-flying planes , which spurted fire on the advancing German infantry . A large number of prisoners it said to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows the speed with which the German counter-attack was carriec through . This elevation southwest of Pirmasens is still in German hands , it is stated , although the French " apparently for reasons of morale " have repeatedly attemptec to retake it . Otherwise all is said to continue quiet along the Western Front . Occasional engagements of scouting patrols and weak artillery fire in specific sectors are the only action taking place there , it is stated . German Plans Studied By G. H. ARCHAMBAULT Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . PARIS , Nov. ** information regarding the German campaign in Poland is now becoming available . Preliminary study of it in competent quarters here leads to a hypothesis that may explain the hesitation , or indecision , ascribed to the German High Command , as well as the seeming menace to the Netherlands and Belgium . The conclusion reached in these quarters is that the German plan of campaign against the Allies , as distinct from the plan of operations , is still in process of elaboration . The most outstanding point brought out by the Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care in all its aspects , political , diplomatic , strategic and tactical . This must have necessitated many months of work . Because of this detailed preparation the plan was applied with rigorous precision . In view of the weaknesses inherent in the Polish method of mobilization the Germans succeeded at each stage of their operations . Operations Not Yet Laid Out Since the German General Staff was able to devise and apply a plan that worked to perfection in the East , it would be absurd to suppose that it could not devise one for the West . Consequently the belief is growing here that apart from the concept of . a Blitzkrieg lightning war in the form of a sudden attack on France , little or nothing had actually been laid on paper in regard to the Western Front . Chancellor Hitler , it is surmised , believed until the last minute that France and Britain would not go to war and even as late as mid-September assumed that , thanks to neutral aid , he could still have peace , while conserving his gains . If this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new plan of campaign toward the end of September . If such a plan would take months to elaborate in time of peace , the task manifestly would be much complicated if it were undertaken during the progress of hostilities . Circumstances would compel a reversal of the normal method ; instead of concentrating the armies according to a preconceived design , the concentration would come first in order to parry any enemy thrust . This would explain why some hundred divisions are now grouped in the area extending from the Swiss border to the North Sea . Units Must Be Dispersed This area is necessarily vast because the units must be dispersed in view of the air menace . Similarly , mechanized division and cavalry are quartered in zones most distant from the front because they are the most mobile part of the army . In other words , if this reasoning be correct , the German armies are disposed in the western section of the Reich because , militarily speaking , they could not very well be placed elsewhere . And this would explain the threat . to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also pointed out here that the sudden change in the Allied plans from offensive to defensive , marked by the strategic withdrawal in mid-October , Was calculated further to complicate the task Df the German General Staff . On this hypothesis a Winter campaign is improbable , at least on the German part , and there is a likeli. hood that the daily communiques will remain along the lines of those issued today by French head ? quarters . They follow : " No. 143 . Morning . There was a quiet night . " " No. 144 . Evening . There was much activity on the part of patrols particularly east of the Saar River . " Various rumors have been circulating concerning the command of the larger French units . It was authoritatively declared today that no changes had been made in the heads of either armies or groups of armies .                     