@@697812

txt Concerted efforts to solve the problems that lace the business world locus attention upon the increasing Importance of economic study . In a series of 18 articles on " What Makes Your Income Come In ? " THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR combines a discussion of elementary phases of modern economics with reporting of current national and international commercial conventions . The following , the fourteenth , deals with the sessions of the International Chamber of Commerce . By RICHARD L. STROUT SCAT , CORRESPONDENT SPECIAL now MONITOR BUREAU European speakers brought America 's debt policy and tariff directly to the center of the stage at the second day 's session of ( ho International Chamber of commerce meeting here . Alberto Pirelli , noted Italian industrialist , bluntly asked if America 's level of protection is still essential to American industry , and declared that " public opinion in America undervalues repercussions of the problem of interallied debts . " Si ' Alan Anderson , director of the Bank of England , second speaker of the day , declared that the " settlement of war debts seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " though adding that cancellation of debts would not of itself cure the depression . J. 8 . Edstrdm , Sweden , mangaging director , Alimanna Svenska Electriska Aktlebolaget , declared the present crisis due to overinveStment of sayIngs in productive machinery producing a glut of goods and mentioned ns one cause " the progressive concentration of capital in the technically highly developed industries , in hila- rity in the United States . " At the same time Silas H. Strawn , chairman of the American Committee of the Conference , In an Intel view , reaffirmed the viewpoint , made plain last week at the White House , that the United States will not look with any favor on a movement to reduce war debts and that the American delegation is not sympathetic to any resolution on the matter . Disagreeing with a study prepaied for the chamber by Dr. Bernhardt Dernburg , former finance minister of Germany , that war debts are at the root of the depression , Mr. strown said that the question Is not one on which the present conference can act , since it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Floor Melvin A. Traylor , president of the First National Bank , Chicago , and a member of the organization committee of the Bank for International Settlements , the only American among the four speakers of the morning session , did not discuss tariffs or debts directly . Ho awed with Mr. Edst rtim that overproduction has led to the existing depression , and he issued a vigorous plea for better financial and governmental leadership In the United States , for reform in the stock market , and retrenchment in public . and particularly state and local , expenses . Mr. Pirelli opened the plenary session with a detailed lesume of a series of studies made by the committee of the chamber comet nine the relationship between Europe and the United States , America has become creditor instead of a debtor country and is still exporting not only a surplus of goods but capital ; how can other nations pay their debts , he asked , In effect , if the creditor countries do not buy goods ? War debts accentuated the problem . " Europa and America , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angles , and it Is extremely difficult to liar ' tnonizo their points of view . Let us here consider only the economic aspects of the question . War debts undoubtedly exercise a very notable influence on the economic situation of Europe and more especially of certain European countries . Who Is Directly Concerned " On this account , if on no other , the problem is one of concern to the United States , for if our studies have shown the importance of the European market to American economy , then the question If and when the whole matter should be reconsidered , either In the light of the revaluation of gold , or of the present world crisis , or other - wise , is one of concern not only for the debtor , but also for the creditor , that is , for the American farmer , the . American wage earner , the American business man . and the American Investor . " As I have already said , I do not intend to express an opinion on the matter here , and I am well aware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would only add one consideration , not as a European but as a business man who has many interests outside Europe Under present eircumStance , psychological factors mat haws preponderating influence In determinina the comic of events " Now - you 'd he hall to eat that ' public ? Inlon in ' America andervalues repercussions of the proMem of InWrailled debts while perhaps European public opinion tends to make them responsible for consequences of , : ill  --  sorts .. However , this may 4e , itAscgOin that , in - Europe , interallied .. elebta , have a depressing effect ' beyond the amounts involved , entailing economic as well as psychological reactions . " Questions Ivisdom of Tariff Speaking of tariffs , Mr. Pirelli said that Europe is now more important to America as an export market than as a source of supplies . " Large as is her home market , " he said . " America exports 10 per cent 01 her domestic production . Moreover , the percentage of finished manufactures , exclusive of manufactured foodstuffs , exported from the United States has steadily Increased since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratio between exports and production is now high ; motorcycles 54 per cent , typewriters 40 per cent , sewing machines 25 per cent , printing presses 24 per cent , agricultural machinery 23 per cent , locomotives 22 per cent . " Under these conditions , " he asked , " Is the present level of protection still so essential to American industry ? Would not the present outflow of manufactures be Increased It a corresponding inflow of imports were to raise foreign purchasing power ? " Sir Alan Anderson , the next speaker , laid the depression to overproduction of goods and " restraint of sales " through desire of nations to sell but not to buy . Without referring particularly to the United States , ho said that nations with factories and men underemployed " have incurred international debts , and they insist that If they are to ay interest or principal , we must buy their goods ; and if we want them to buy our goods , we must buy enough of theirs to barter for our goods and to balance the service of our loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factories and men unemployed , a rude test of faith In the simple laws of trade . Which Way to Turn " Would it , perhaps , be better to cancel international debts of political origin ? Great Britain as the largest war creditor canceled a great surplus of debts owing to her and the debtor nations would vote for an extension of this policy , but the creditor finds it hard to accept as impartial the advice of the debtor to forgive bins what he Owes . " To cancel these international debts would not of itself cure the world 's complaint , although the settlement of war debts seriously aggravates the world 's troubles in these hard times . Of the large settlement in 1929 , $484,000,000 from the world to the United States , no less than 42 per cent was income from war debts . " Must we continue the practices which limit sales ? Must we play beggar-my-neighbor and crush my customer till we prove our folly by bringing international commerce to a standstill , or if these policies disgust us will we not once again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress . Good credit and free buying will soon restore us , but till we are once more prepared to buy from each other the more we struggle to produce and refuse to buy , the less we shall sell . "                     