@@698455

txt The House of Assembly of the New Jersey Legislature , controlled by the Democrats for the first time in seventeen years , called from committee tonight a Republican measure to repeal the State 's prohibition enforcement act and passed it by a vote of 42 to 15 . Coming on the eve of the inauguration of A. Harry Moore , a Democrat , of Jersey City , as Governor , the action surprised politicians gathered here . The Democratic majority in the lower house had called for a truce on prohibition legislation until Mr. Moore had an opportunity to suggest its direction , and shortly before the Republican repealer was advanced to third reading under a suspension of the rules the Democratic repealer , almost a duplicate , had been introduced . Failed by 2 Votes Previously . Only two weeks ago tonight , Assemblyman Anthony J. Siracusa , Republican , of Atlantic County , by a surprise move brought the repealer to the floor of the 1931 Assembly , of which he was the majority leader . At that time it failed by two votes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote having been 29-22 . That , however , was the first time that the State prohibition act , known as the Hobart law , had been brought to a vote in either house of the Assembly since it was enacted in 1922 . It resulted in making prohibition legislation dominant at the opening of the 1932 Legislature last week , . when five prohibition measures were introduced . States which have asked by legislative request or referendum or which have otherwise shown their opposition to present prohibition enforcement include Massachusetts , New York , Rhode Island , Connecticut , Wyoming , Illinois , New Jersey , Maryland , Ohio , Wisconsin , Louisiana , Montana and Washington . Last year , Henry H. Curran , in a statement issued as head of the Association Against the Prohibition Amend-1 ment , said that twenty-four States were ready to vote for repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , and he pre-1 dicted that the twelve more necessary to bring repeal about would " fall in line " within two years . Democratic leaders explained their action in leaving their own repealer ' with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same purpose as evidence that they were " good sports " and as a means of celebrating the Democratic victory on the eve of the inaugural . After the Assembly had passed the measure , however , leaders of the fifteen dry Republicans , who alone voted against it , charged that it was part of the same strategy by which the Democrats amended the House rules last week so that the Republican alternative measure could not be brought to the floor . The action confronted the Republican party majority in the Senate , they said , with a Republican bill rather than the Democratic one , which they could have tabled with impunity . Dry leaders had been confident that a majority of eleven could not be obtained-Tor a repealer in the upper house , but with the measure a party one , and with the forthcoming primaries dominating legislation , their confidence waned tonight as the hill was sent along . The Senate had adjourned tonight before the Assembly measure reached it . Senate . Bill in Committee . Aft er a vote had been achieved Iwo weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Senator Emerson L. Richards of Atlantic . 1g32 majority leadFr , called the Republican joint conference committee into session to consider further action . The committee approved reintroduction of the 1931 measure , but after a caucus of the Senate majority it was decided to support an alternative measure . This , adopted last week by the Senate . was a resolution calling upon Congress to convene a constitutional convention to consider repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment or modification of the Volstead act . Referred to the Assembly . where it also was introduced by Mr. Siracusa , it was referred to the judiciary committee where the present disposition is to let it die . As he was leaving the Senate late tonight Senator Richards , speaking in his capacity as majority leader , said the Senate probably would act on the House repealer when the House acted on his Congressional memorial . The Democratic repealer in the keeping of the judiciary committee was one of seventeen bills introduced by the Assembly majority leader , Elmer Brown of Middlesex . as the party 's curtain-raiser for Governorelect Moore 's inaugural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Policy Commission . which is sponsoring the much-opposed Bunnvale water project . Others would carry out a part of the Democratic program for reorganization of the State Government . New Jersey was the last State to ratify the Eighteenth Amendment . Nevertheless , although dry leaders always have ranked it as one of the wettest States , the first outstanding State-wide Republican candidate to campaign for repeal of the amendment was the late Dwight W. Morrow . When an attempt was made last week to commit the Republican Senate to a referendum on repeal , it was opposed by Senate leaders on the ground that Mr. Morrow 's election to ' the United States Senate by the record plurality of 200,000 was referendum enough . Throughout the Gubernatorial campaign prohibition was discussed . Mr. Moore , the Democratic candidate , came out for repeal and modification . while David Baird Jr. , his Republican opponent , held for the Morrow stand . When his more moderate position seemed to be losing wet sentiment , Mr. Baird called a conference of New Jersey 's Congressional delegation on a beer-legalization move . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although it was said their " passive support " had been obtained .                     