@@701363

txt A certain nervousness and apprehension are distinctly noticeable in Berlin tonight , but in recording the fact there is difficulty in ascribing it to any resons that do not seem foolish . One Ireason would be that tomorrow is Saturday , a day memorable in the Nazi chronology for serious happenings . June 30 last year was a Saturday . Rumors , utterly unverifiable , are plentiful . One of them is that a new but milder party purge involving certain Berlin leaders wielding purely local power is impending . They are alleged  --  and this again is only rumor  --  to have been carrying on under the veil of anti-Semitism a profitable system of extortion and blackmail of Jewish concerns , and , in a last desperate effort to escape punishment , to have instigated the excesses a week ago withl the idea of stirring up sentiment ever latent here in certain elements . Say Goering Will Curb Attacks . The repercussions in the outside world , still according to this report , produced an effect contrary to that expected by the instigators of the disorder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goering , Prussian Premier , has been entrusted with the job of curbing further excesses and dealing out justice for past ones . General Goering is known to be opposed to the particular brand of hooliganism that had full sway a week ago . It is difficult , however , to conceive that any clean-up would be restricted to party members . Last year 's took in , besides the recalcitrant storm troops , General Kurt von Schleicher , former Chancellor , and his wife ; many prominent Catholics and other opponents of National Socialism , and it was General Goering himself who on that occasion frankly admitted that he had " extended my mandate to make the retribution general . " In any widespread clean-up now the Stahlhelm veterans ' organization especially would be apt to share . Today in East Prussia its strongest division was formally prohibited by the State police . The pretext advanced was that its members were not sufficiently Naziminded to warrant its continuance . Purveyors of Reports Warned . And it must further be repeated that this possibly impending purge rests upon nothing more substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police president of Leipzig publicly warned " purveyors of idiotic reports of impending arrests of leading Nazi personalities " of their liability to be put in concentration camps , " where they will be able to convince themselves as to who has been taken into custody . " Moreover , it is difficult to reconcile such rumors with the appointment by the highest authority of Count Wolf von Helldorf as Berlin 's Chief of Police except on the reasoning that he would be preferable to Julius Streicher , who was known to have been a candidate for the post . However , there is no doubt about the seriousness of the foreign repercussion to the riots and the effect it has had . The Foreign Office is known to have been flooded with messages from German diplomatic missions abroad pointing to the disastrous effect on German prestige of the news reports from Berlin , and these have been supplemented in other quarters . In the Reich Ministry of Economics there sits a highly resourceful and level-headed official whose mental and bodily energies have been severely taxed for the last year or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is such ebullitions of the Nazi extremists as last week 's which make Dr. Hjalmar Schacht 's problem doubly hard . They are reliably reported to be getting on his nerves CO such an extent that he has demanded definite action . If the voice of Joachim von Ribbentrop , Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler 's Ambassador at large , has not been heard in public protest , it does not follow that he also has not uttered a warning . The attacks on Jewish cafes on the Kurfuerstendamm occurred just at the time when at his home in Dahlem he was entertaining the delegation of British ex-service men then visiting here and the happy company thus gathered was toasting future AngloGerman friendship . It may be recalled also that even the church crusade was softpedaled , presumably out of consideration for British susceptibilities , during Mr. von Ribbentrop 's naval discussions in London . It was remewed later when he had , so to speak , brought home the bacon , but that is another story . Further diplomatic cooperation with Britain is certainly the ardent hope of the present German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the United States , negotiations for some sort of barter involving the exchange of American cotton for German finished products are said to have been showing some prospects of success after long continuance when the recent incidents occurred . The negotiations were then postponed . But it is the forthcoming Olympics that provide the Achilles heel in the present situation . A world reprisal against German racial intolerance would be serious and the fact is so well recognized here that official connivance in anti-Semitic violence would be incomprehensible . An Achilles deliberately baring his vulnerable spot to the Trojan I javelin is quite unthinkable . That serious thought is being given to this aspect was quite apparent today . The official German news agency carries a dispatch from Chicago in which it cites Avery Brundage , president of the American Olympic Committee , as " discussing aspersions aimed at Germany by Jewish interests and their sympathizers . " Mr. Brundage , said he knew of no reason why the United States should not participate in the Olympic Games here . Reports circulated in the United States to the effect that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus far selected , thus conveying the intimation that there probably would not be any , are beside the point , for the very simple reason that there is no German team . It will not be selected until a year hence . The present situation is that the only nominations made are a few tentative ones for the Winter sports contests , in which Jews do not figure and in which they did not expect to be represented . However , large groups of German athletes , some 500 altogether , have I been receiving special training from coaches sent out by the Reich League for Field Sports , an organization comprising all the " Aryan " sport clubs in Germany . It might be argued that the Jews I are thereby being discriminated against , since they do not receive this training in their own sports clubs , which are not members of the Reich league . Against this it should be pointed out that one of the three training camps into which " Aryan " athletes were gathered did devote its last three weeks to training such Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany admit that they have very few members of possible Olympic calibre . The Jewish candidates brought to mind by a mental survey are only two  --  a Westphalian hammer thrower named Hirchsfeld and Helen Mayer of Karlsruhe , fencing champion at the last Olympics in Los Angeles . Thus far the German committee has strictly fulfilled its pledge to the International Olympic Committee . Jewish athletic aspirants in a number proportioned to the ratio between the non-Aryan and " Aryan " inhabitants of Germany have received three weeks ' training in one of the three camps established for Olympic candidates . If this developed any athletic wonder , the fact has escaped notice .                     