@@697310

txt President von Hindenburg decreed the dissolution of the Reichstag today following the defeat of Chancellor Bruening 's government in its attempt to promulgate its financial and tax laws through the dictatorial authority of Article 45 of the Federal Constitution . Elections will be held on Sept. 14 and the Constitution requires that the new Parliament convene within thirty days of that date . Meanwhile Chancellor Bruening 's Cabinet will carry on by decreeing measures of immediate urgency with the sanction of President von Hindenburg under authority of the emergency clauses of the German Constitution . Business Left Unfinished . The Reichstag which passed into parliamentary oblivion today will find few mourners among the 40 , - 000,000 qualified German voters . It disappeared in a setting of partisan confusion , irresolution and political dernagogy , which had became its fa. - miliar attributes , leaving unfinished a sheaf of urgent measures such as the Federal budget for 1930-1931 , measures to meet the Federal deficit of $120,000,000 and bills dealing with social welfare and unemployment insurance . In less than five minutes after Dr. Bruening pronounced dissolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty Communist Deputies , who remained long enough to sing the " Internationale , " the Reds ' anthem . Most of the other Deputies sought out the Reichstag grillroom , where a last meal could be obtained at special rates . With the expiration of their mandates , the 491 Deputies also lost their railway passes entitling them to unlimited first-class Summer transportation on the German railways . Ten minutes before today 's vote on the Socialists ' motion demanding revocation of the dictatorial promulgation of the government 's finance bills Dr. Bruening expected his Cabinet would survive , but fifteen votes cast against him by Dr. Hugenberg 's following brought his overthrow . The vote was 236 to 221 and was the result of the " rule or ruin " policy of the Nationalists ' leader , who made common cause with the Socialists and Communists today despite the fervent pleas of some of his immediate following to keep the present bourgeoise coalition in office as new elections would inevitably return the Socialists to the government next Autumn . Nationalist Ranks Split . The intransigeance of Dr. Hugenberg brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about twenty other insurgents announcing their definite secession from Dr. Hugenberg 's party and their intention to organize a new parliamentary group . Dr. Hugenberg 's procedure also was regarded as an affront to President von Hindenburg , who decreed the enactment of the government 's financial and tax measures over the heads of the Reichstag , and is in strange contradiction to the Nationalists ' persistent clamor for " more power to the President . " To the veteran Field Marshal the defeat of Dr. Bruening 's Cabinet , in the selection of which he had an active part , constitutes a personal defeat and is an inauspicious prelude to his visit to the evacuated Rhineland areas , for which he entrained tonight . Under other national economic conditions than those now existing the dissolution of the German Parliament would have suggested less critical aspects , but no concealment was made tonight in political , industrial and banking quarters of the feeling of apprehension over the drift of the nation 's economy as a result of the State crisis precipitated by the disappearance of the Reich 's chief legislative body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation 's financial and budgetary arrangements , the correction of which will continue to be seriously complicated through the depression in industry and the growing volume of unemployment . For a period of sixty days the Bruening Cabinet will have an opportunity to display sound statesmanship and wisdom in carrying on the business of the government with such expedients as Presidential counsel and the emergency provisions of the Federal Constitution as its sole authorities . Free Hand for Decrees . In revoking the dictatorial franchise given to the Cabinet two days ago by President von Hindenburg , the Reichstag today forced the government to approach the President for a renewed authorization under the Constitution and it now will have a free hand to promulgate even more stringent measures than those rejected by the Reichstag parties . While the new Parliament which will meet in three months will have power to annul any measures taken by the government in the interim , this probability is disregarded now . A German Government functioning without the intervention of Parliament suggests an experiment in German politics which probably was not envisaged by the framers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cabinet will be to decree an emergency budget for the next six months because the 1930-31 budget was among the departing Reichstag 's unfinished business . There also remains the problem of meeting the growing deficit , which is now estimated at $125,000,000 , and is increasing as a result of the falling off of the tax receipts and the steady rise in the drain of unemploym ? tit insur ante . Other measures awaiting the Reichstag 's approval include the German - Polish trade agreement , which is destined to provoke a turbulent debate . This will be referred to the new Parliament when it meets in the middle of October . In its broader aspects the State crisis precipitated through the dissolution of the Reichstag today may frankly be accounted for in an effort to exclude the Socialists from active participation in the government . While the experiment has been tried before , it always has been short lived . The series of failures which marked the career of the Bruening Cabinet since it took office on Aprii 1 must be set down as primarily due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of consideration . Dr. Bruening 's so-called bourgeoise coalition entered office as a minority Cabinet and alternately had to turn to the Right and Left for parliamentary support . As support came chiefly from the insurgent group is Dr. Hugenberg 's Nationalist party , the government gradually acquired the reputation of being anti-socialistic . It paid dearly today for He flirtation with the monarchist elements and leaves the Socialist party . which held 154 seats in the last Reichstag , in a highly fortified posi ? tion for the coming election cam paign , not only because the present government 's record in office for the past fifteen weeks has been marked by an exhibition of stagnant passivity and a complete absence of achievement , but the existing economic situation also is such as to enhance the prospects of the radical parties in the forthcoming voting . Political experts believe that the Socialists and National Socialists ( Fascists ) have the best prospects for gains , while the Nationalists , through the permanent rupture in their ranks , will make a reappearance in several new groups . The Nationalists entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Dr. Hugenberg has left him with about thirty-four followers . Colin ' : Kuno Westarp will head the group of secessionists , while the party 's agrarian wing will also seek a new connection . The Reichstag which was dissolved today was elected in May , 1928 , and was the fourth under the republic . Gerard Expects Vital Change . The action of the German Government in enacting its tax measures by decree and dissolving the Reichstag under the extraordinary powers granted to the President by Article 48 of the Constitution may lead to a change in the German Government from a parliamentary form to an executive or Presidential form similar to that in the United States , in the opinion of James W. Gerard , former American Ambassador to Germany . Mr. Gerard , who returned on Thursday from a trip to Europe , said he had long felt that the parliamentary form of government was unsuited to German politics and had believed that a change would be made to free the President from Parliament . Mr. Gerard said he believed the financial situation in Germany was much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not think Germany would ever make full payments under the Young plan . " I do n't like the look of the situation , " he said , " for the German people will now have to pay under the decree the taxes to support the Young plan which they have objected to paying . "                     