@@701624

txt On the very first day it has gone to work the five power naval conference has come to grips with the supreme issue before it  --  the Japanese demand for parity in sea strength with Great Britain and the United States . That sooner or later the conference must face this issue was inevitable , but it had not been expected quite so soon . There are many minor matters which might advantageously have been dealt with first , thus easing the conference into a favorable atmosphere in which to tackle the harder problems . However , the Japanese have in effect forced this major issue into the foreground , and since it lies at the root of the whole naval problem its early interjection may have a decisive effect upon the length of the deliberations . There is no deadlock yet nor immediately in sight . In fact the conference today prepared for a long seige by deciding to remain in session until Dec. 21 and then adjourning for the holidays until Jan. 2 . Committee of Whole Meets . The crucial parity matter came up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press last night , which the delegation echoed in substance today . The conference assembled this morning at its working quarters in Clarence House in the guise of a committee of the whole . In obedience to yesterday 's request from the chair for a comparatively small group , the delegations had limited their representation to seven members for each  --  thirty-five in all , the British Empire figuring as a unit . Viscount Monsen , presiding , asked for statements of the relative positions , leading off himself for the British . His statement , however , carried the British attitude little further than the combined declarations by Prime Minister Baldwin and the Dominions ' spokesmen yesterday . The British favor both quantitative and qualitative limitation , if possible by extension of the treaty system . They would like to reduce the size of capital ships and lower the caliber of the guns these carry , and eliminate submarines altogether or , failing that , cut their size and cruising radius , thus reverting to the original uses for which they were designed  --  coast and harbor defense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but revealed nothing new . He did not take up at all what is understood to be the ' British alternative to failure of this plan , that is , an exchange of building programs over a period of years , coupled with a " gentleman 's agreement " they shall not be exceeded and that no nation shall spring surprises upon another . Norman H. Davis followed with a brief statement of American aims . This was largely repetitive of what he had said at the conference opening . The United States came here ready to consider any reasonable proposal and prepared to cooperate in any move toward limitation or reduction . Basically America wants naval reduction . Failing to get that , her delegation might-accept limitation upon practical lines , but is dead set against general increases , no matter in what form they may be disguised . It was quite obvious from Mr. Davis 's attitude that the American delegation was not seeking to lead the conference at this early stage but was waiting for others to develop their proposals . Admiral Osamu Nagano followed Mr. Davis with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common upper limit " in naval building . Immediately he was overwhelmed with an avalanche of questions , the British taking the initiative . The Japanese have been using the upper-limit phrase freely without ever defining it . It has become with them a sort of shibboleth like the German " gleichberechtigung , " but nobody knows exactly what they mean by it . Questions Swamp Japanese . Today everybody wanted to know : does the " common upper limit " mean a limit upon the highest or lowest navies , or naval categories , or both ? Is it to be constant or over a period of years ? Does it enten parity for everybody who can attain it ? Is it , for instance , to be applied to the Germans  --  when the time comes , as it must , to bring them in  --  and to the Russians or even the Chinese ? The French and Italians especially wished to know whether it was the intention to make it cover their navies . There was a universal demand for precision which Admiral Nagano , under the avalanche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offhand . He promised a more detailed exposition later , so it was decided that he should make it tomorrow afternoon , and the general committee adjourned until then . Tomorrow Japan will have the floor as long as she wants to occupy it , and when the Japanese have finished it is hoped that the prospect before the conference will be a great deal clearer than it Is at present . In the meantime it has been decided to concentrate on this major problem and for the present to forego the earlier intention to split the conference into a series of committees , each taking up some aspect of the minor and cognate questions which will have to be considered . Davis Visits Nagano . The United States delegation paid its courtesy call upon the Japanese this afternoon , and it turned out to be more than an ordinary visit of courtesy . For half an hour Mr. Davis and Admiral Nagano conversed upon the morning 's developments and tried to clear up their respective viewpoints . How much success they had was not revealed , but the conversation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences in which Mr. Davis has taken part he has shown himself particularly adaptable and skillful in these offstage exchanges . Even his opponents find the American Ambassador at Large easy to talk with , and the res'ult is he gets closer to the heart of many problems than do the more formal negotiators , even -. then they have had longer diplomatic experience .                     