@@701817

txt The Old Guard of the Republican party triumphed in the primary election yesterday , spiked the Presidential boom of Senator William E. Borah , so far as New York State is concerned , and will have a unanimously unpledged and uncommitted delegation at the Republican National Convention next June . The victory of the conservative wing of the Republican party was overwhelming . Not only were the Borah candidates defeated in nine Congressional districts in which they made contests , but the organization candidates for delegates defeated independent candidates , not pledged to Borah , in three other districts . Socialist Fight in Doubt The other feature of the election was the State-wide fight for control of the Socialist party organization between the Old Guard faction headed by Louis Waldman , candidate for Governor in 1934 , and the Left Wing faction , headed by Norman Thomas , nominee for President in 1932 . The result of this contest , which extended to every Assembly district in New York City and nearly every Assembly district up-State , could not be definitely determined this morning , although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wing victory . Each side claimed victory , on which will depend legal control of the party in this State , regardless of the attitude of the Socialist National Executive Committee , which has recognized the left wing faction . The renomination of President Roosevelt was not involved in any of the few contests for delegates to the Democratic National Convention . Former Governor Alfred E. Smith , who is opposed to the President 's policies and has indicated that he will " take a walk " from the convention if it approves these policies , was elected a delegate to the national convention from the Eleventh Congressional District without opposition . Flynn Victor in Bronx In the contests for members of the State and county committees , Secretary of State Edward J. Flynn , Bronx Democratic leader , successfully repelled attacks on the organization candidates in every Bronx Assembly district in which there was a contest . The best battle against the strongly intrenched Flynn organization was made by former Park Commissioner Thomas J. Dolen , who sought to regain the leadership of the Fourth Assembly District from Harry W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Committee . Mr. Dolen was beaten for the State Committee by more than 500 and also lost the contest for control of the county committee of the district . A break in the family of the late Arthur H. Murphy , Bronx Democratic leader for many years , was disclosed by the contest in the Seventh Bronx Assembly District . Mrs. Susan , a sister of Mr. Murphy and present co-leader , defeated Mrs. Mary E. Murphy , widow of Mr. Murphy , for the State committee , and Charles F. Griffin defeated Arthur H. Murphy Jr. , Mrs. Murphy 's son , for the State committee and district leader . In Brooklyn , Frank V. Kelly , county Democratic leader , won a victory by the defeat of former Assemblyman Jerome G. Ambro , leader of the Nineteenth Assembly District , by Under-Sheriff Joseph P. Marcelle . The vote in twenty out ' of twenty-four election districts was Marcelle 3,715 , Ambro 2,3171 and Irving Lane , a third candidate , 994 . Edward F. Cadley , former Deputy Commissioner of Sanitation and leader of the Seventeenth Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Carney . Bearing on Party Nominee In repelling the attack upon the party organization by the supporters of Senator Borah , the party organization , headed by National Committeeman Charles D. Hiller and State Chairman Melvin C. Eaton , won a victory which should have an important bearing on the national convention , both as regards the candidate for President and the platform . This victory included triumphs over W. Kingsland Macy , former State Chairman , Representative Hamilton Fish Jr . and William Ziegler Jr. , leaders of the Borah forces . Mr. Macy , who ran for alternate instead of delegate in the First Congressional District , was defeated decisively in his attempt to elect C. Walter Randall of Nassau County and County Clerk Jenkin R. Hookert of Queens , Borah-pledged candidates , over J. Russel Sprague , Nassau County leader , and George Grau of Queens , the organization designees . Nearly complete returns indicated the election of Messrs . Sprague and Gray by pluralities of more than 20,000 , the greater part of which was contributed by the heavy vote in Nassau County for the organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lost for his candidates for delegates three towns in his home county of Suffolk , where he is the party leader . These were the towns of Shelter Island , Southold and Riverhead . Nearly complete returns showed that the Borah-Macy candidates lost Nassau County by more than 22,000 and won Suffolk County by little more than 3,000 . The Suffolk vote was : Randall 6,462 , Hockert 6,491 , Sprague 3,486 , Grau 3,314 . The Nassau vote was : Sprague 24,992 , Grau 24,635 , Randall 2,727 , Hockert 2,526 . Fish and Ziegler Defeated Representative Fish and Mr. Ziegler , who were candidates in the Fifteenth Congressional District , Manhattan , were not beaten so badly , but their defeat by James R. Sheffield , former Ambassador to Mexico , and Mrs. James Russell Parsons , the organization candidates , was nevertheless decisive . With twenty-two election districts missing out of seventy-two , the vote was Fish 391 , Ziegler 368 , Sheffield 913 , Parsons 919 . The Manhattan Republican organization also had no difficulty in electing Mrs. Preston Davie , founder of the National Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for delegate in the Sixteenth Congressional District . Robert Moses , the other organization designee for delegate in this district , was unopposed . The organization won another substantial victory in the Eleventh Congressional District , where Frederic R. Coudert Jr . and Joseph Levenson , organization candidates , were elected delegates over Robert S. Woodward and former Assemblyman Sidney Jacobi , Staten Island resident , who were running unpledged on the issue of home rule for Richmond . Messrs . Coudert and Levenson not only carried the Manhattan end of the district by large majorities , but obtained small majorities in Richmond . Up-State , the organization forces defeated the Borah candidates in all five Congressional districts , in which there were contests for delegates . The closest contest was in the Thirty-seventh Congressional District , made up of counties in the Southern Tier , where the support of four daily newspapers of the chain controlled by Frank E. Gannett , a Borah supporter , brought considerable support for the candidacy of the Idaho Senator . In this district the vote of 29 out of 261 election districts gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates , 1,908 and 1,949 votes respectively to 521 and 522 votes respectively for Thomas E. Slater and Harry R. Sanford , Borah candidates . Reorganization Due in Erie A reorganization of the Democratic party in Erie County apparently was assured when returns showed the candidates backed by United States Attorney George L. Grobe and Edward C. Dethloff far ahead of the candidates of County Chairman Frank 0 . Carr and Daniel J. Sweeny . In the Fortieth , Congressional District , Charles F. Seine , candidate for national conivention delegate of the Grobe faction , was leading James J. Cuff , Carr-Sweeny candidate , by 4,820 to 1,997 in 90 out of 161 election districts . The Democrats of Erie County have been embroiled ever since the Republican victory last November , and Mr. Grobe asked Mr. Carr to resign as county chairman . Leaders of the anti-Carr faction have declared that the Democrats would lose Erie County at the November election unless there was a change in leadership . Farley Wins Once , Loses Once Supporters of Postmaster General James A. Farley , Democratic State and National Chairman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost one contest . In Orange County , County Chairman Jacob L. Hicks , a Farley supporter , was victorious in most of the forty contests for county committee members . According to The Associated Press , former Mayor John F. Otis of Oswego claimed election as member of the State committee by more than 2,000 plurality over Richard A. Cavellier of Oswego , who claimed the support of Mr. Farley . In Richmond County , Sheriff John Timlin , present Republican county chairman , claimed the elec-1 tion of 149 members of the county committee to 140 for George Getz , his opponent , who was backed by Borough President Joseph A. Palma . The Timlin candidates for Republican State committee , Fred W. Lahr and Anna . Reilly , in the First Assembly District , and J. A. Simonson and Frieda Vaughan , in the , Second Assembly District , were successful . The vote , with 98 out of 108 election districts reported , was : First District  --  Lahr 805 , Reilly 701 , E. C. Badeau 528 , Dorothy Clover 635 . Second District ? Simonson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Martha Siemer 448 . Crews Is Successful Candidates for State committee and district leaderships backed by John R. Crews , Brooklyn Republican leader , were successful in eight of the nine Assembly districts in which there were contests . The result in the remaining district , the Seventeenth , was still in doubt early this morning . Major Walter E. Corwin and his co-leader , Mrs. Maud A. Neale , had a slight lead over William S. Webb and Julia M. Jenkin . Abner C. Surpless and Irene Schwartz , a third pair of candidates , were far behind . James C. Sheridan , Queens Democratic leader , lost one of his three State committee contests in that county . In the Fourth Assembly District , Patrick Woods and Catherine , incumbents , were defeated by James A. Rowe and Emily Gautier . In the contests in the Second and Third districts , the organization candidates were suc- I cessful . In the Republican contests in Queens , the candidates backed by the organization headed by County Chairman Warren B. Ashmead were successful . In the Sixth Assembly District , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking a political " comeback , " was defeated by Frederic Knauss , present leader , by a plurality estimated at about 800 . In New York City there was a comparatively light vote because of the complete lack of Tammany contests , and a heavy vole for a primary election in the other boroughs . The polling places were guarded efficiently by 10,000 policemen , assigned to election day duty by Commissioner Valentine . There were no cases of disorder of any account reported and very few arrests on charges of illegal voting .                     