@@700180

txt PAAVO Nuaxu has Nurmi 's grown cold to his Artistic young wife , she Temperament . charges , because she has borne him a son who is not qualified to follow in his father 's footsteps . Miran was disappointed at the size of . the baby 's feet . They were much too small for a marathon runner . The special diet which he drew up for the baby 's benefit failed to produce results . The feet remained small . This disappointment , added to Nueres general taciturnity , has made - family life impossible . The specifications in Mrs. NURMI 'S complaint reveal a clear case of artistic temperament on the part of the greatest of all modern Mercuries . NURMI lives for his running as completely and exclusively as musicians , painters and Hollywood stars live for their art . The Greeks , who knew something about art as well as abolit athletes , would have understood the great Finnish runner . Dr. WILLIAM J. MAYO Too , thinks one big fault in Much American education , Forgotten , among many , consists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things of the past . " Yet often it would seem that what this country needs most is a good stiff dose of knowledge of its own past and of the past of all humanity . We should be experiencing greater poise in difficult times if people were aware that our perils and our remedies are not quite so new as they think . The chief thing that is unprecedented in the present situation is the frequent use of the word " unprecedented . " As for education , it is precisely in this country since the war that the widest departure has been made from teaching things of the past to teaching things of red-hot immediacy and actuality . Yet all our college courses in dairying and horseshoeing have apparently left us less temperamentally prepared to face the hard facts of economic depression than the people of England and France , where the old college courses flourish . The Department of AgriReckless culture has begun a camDuck paign to put an end to the Hunters . wastage of waterfowl in the open season . It is a common practice to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't thought worth while to bother with wounded birds . W. C. HENDERSON of the biological survey says in a bulletin : " Most of this inhumane and wasteful crippling can be prevented if gunners will refrain from shooting at birds at long range and from using shotguns of a gauge tot ) small to be effective . " Flock shooting , " the indiscriminate firing into birds in the air or on the water , is a prolific cause of crippling and is properly regarded with disgust by experienced sportsmen . " The kill has been estimated at 15,000 , - 000 birds each season , half of which number are crippled and probably become the victims of predatory animals . A result is that the stock of breeding birds is seriously reduced . The supply of birds migrating north in the Spring is too small to permit of unnecessary wastage . Amateurs will be glad to Garden hear that 200 varieties of Wild wild flowers seldom seen Flowers . in bloom in the Spring are being planted in the New York Botanical Garden . Every lover of wild flowers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can bring home with the roots . There are several kinds of goldenrod that flourish when transplanted . It is a flower of such gayety and grace that it always adds to the attractiveness of a suburban garden . It is faithful to new surroundings , displaying its yellow blossoms as August draws near . The plants collected by Assistant Curator ALEXANDER for the Botanical Garden came from the States of Pennsylvania , West Virginia , Virginia and North Carolina in a trek of 6,000 miles . By climbing the Appalachians Mr. ALEXANDER and STANLEY PEARSON found a wealth of desirable plants at different altitudes . One of them was a yellow 4 e ning primrose two inches across , ch , it is said , has never been cultiva ed . It is rumored that the Nobel Peace Prize may go to HITLER for the way in which he has brought together all the nations outside of Germany . Senator NORRIS is lining up with the insurgent farmers against the administration . After having one of the biggest dams in the country named after him , this comes near to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. ROOSEVELT fails to answer to the definition of a dictator . Well , for one thing , Mr. ROOSEVELT is still under the necessity of reading the newspapers , instead of merely writing them as real dictators do .                     