@@700232

txt " Cutthroat competition " has run rife in other parts of New England since the federal milk code dealt a fatal blow at price cutting within the Boston area . This startling disclosure by farm interests from western Massachusetts today is not an attack on the code . It is a strong plea for some sort of federal set-up to meet the challenge of snipers , or price cutters , who prey on the uncontrolled markets outside of Boston . Farmers whose milk is sold in territory outside of the city will emphasize this need today at a meeting with Mr. Frederic S. Snyder , director of the New England milk shed . They are prepared to tell him that in western Massachusetts , for instance , farmers are getting only 3% cents for their milk while those supplying the Boston area are granted 6,4 , cents under the code . Last Battleground Secondary milk markets , they told a representative of The Christian Science Monitor today , offer the last battleground for price cutting in New England . With cutthroat competition driven out of the Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets are spurred Into action , " knowing as they do that their time is short . " A code similar in its major provisions to that drafted for the Boston market will be offered for the approval of local milk administrators . This code , it Is said , is already in the hands of authorities at Washington and will be in effect soon unless the opposition of so-called " snipers " is stronger than anticipated . In describing the dilemma of secondary markets , Mr. Charles M. Norris , chairman of the dairy committee of the Massachusetts Farm Bureau , hit on a peculiar condition relating to Massachusetts farmers . Although nearest to the Boston market , the State 's farmers furnisn this market with only 3 per cent of Its cream receipts and 10 per cent of Its fluid milk consumption . This is explained in part by greater production costs near to the Boston market which offset what might be gained in lower transportation costs . So the Massachusetts farmer reaps his profits chiefly from the many rich secondary markets within the State 's borders . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England state , Is said to be overrun with cutthroat competitors . Anothcr Bay State paradox is that Boston consumers use more milk and cream coming from New York than from the State 's own dairies which produce about 250,000 gallons of fluid milk annually , most of which is sold outside of Boston . Mr. Norris recommended organization of each secondary market by the producers selling in these markets . In these markets , the organizations now controlling any volume of milk should be the nucleus , he said , of the sales groups . A further development he described would be the " federation of all these marketing agencies into a regional sales association , the amount of milk under control by any unit being the determining factor for its representation in the association . " The Farm Bureau authority considered federal control necessary in New England 's milk business . Present conditions , he declared , result from flagrant disregard of fundamental marketing principles But he contended that federal supervision ould miss its mark if it attempts to dictate too much rather than throw its resources into helping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Milk Drops Despite Board 's Efforts ALBANY , N. Y. , Nov. 15 ( FP ) ? In spite of the desperate price-fixing efforts of New York State 's milk control board , farmers ' milk prices were slipping backward today . Chairman Charles H. Baldwin of the milk board , awaited the answer to a telegram sent to Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace late yesterday urging an immediate curb on milk production . Mr. Baldwin expressed concern also over reports that Pennsylvania and Vermont farmers were making larger inroads into New York milk business . Statisticians brought Mr. Baldwin figures showing that a fresh flood of surplus milk production had pushed the October price to New York farmers down to 3.6 cents a quart , from the peak of 3.8 cents in September .                     