@@704216

txt American Legionnai z es cheered an impressive array of speakers who beseeched the United States to build as peace structure upon invulnerable defense forces at the opening session today of the is enty-filst annual convention . An estimated attendance of 11 , - 000 Legion members and women of the Auxiliary filled the Coliseum . %%Nth was lavishly draped with the National Colors . A long line of distinguished guests was introduced to the gathering , among the visitors being Henry Ford . who made a dramatic entry flanked by the personnel of Ford Motor Car Post of Detroit . Appearing at the convention as a special guest of National Commander Stephen F. Chadwick . Mr. Ford stepped to the microphone and said simply if think it is my greatest honor to be here with you toddy . " He was saluted with volleys of applause and shouting . Other prominent personalities mingling with high Legion officers on the stage and responding to the veterans ' accolades were Mary Pickford . Gen. Frank T. Hines . head of the United States Veterans Administration ; .1 . Monroe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head of the Social Security Administration and himself an outstanding Legionnaire , and Josephus Daniels . ' United States Ambassador to Mexico . Mr. Daniels advised the Legion to " close your ears to dangerous propaganda . " He reported the conference of representatives of North and South American nations ? t Panama epitomized " continental solidarity in the Western Hemisphere . " It was announced the convention turnout this year was one ol the largest since formation of the Legion . Unequivocal neutrality and a stanch preparedness were this themes of the day 's addiess . Avoiding 1916 Mistakes The views of Secretary of War Harry H. Woodring , scheduled as ? one of three speakers interpreting the Legion 's three-fold service to Community , State and Nation , were presented by his representative . Brig . Gen. Frank M. Andrews " There are those in this and other nations who proclaim that neutrality is not possible , " Secretary Woodring said in his prepared address . " There are those who persist that in these times a demo- , cratic form of government  --  neuteal or unneutrai  --  must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideology in government . With these I do not agree . " " We can be thankful in the knowledge that our people hate war , " Secretary Woodring continued , " but we should take more comfort and satisfaction in the realization that if , war should be forced upon us , an aggressor will not find is in the same state of Unpreparedness in which we found ourselves in 1916 . " The Legion , he said , was reaffirming its solemn resolve of 21 years ago ? " it shall not happen again . " Gov . Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts , discussing in his prepared address the legionnaire 's service to the State , declared that although the United States " can not live alone , no matter how self-sufficient it may be materially or in spirit , .. we will not be shaken in seeking a goal of peace . " Peace and Tolerance Joseph K. Carson , Jr. , Mayo/. of Portland , Oregon , told the assembly the Legion and its auxiliary had a " soleinn duty to see to it that we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with neighbor , that we have united communities . " " We should inculcate the necessity of each community making its moral and physical contribution to a plan of national preparedness and defense that will brook no challenge from any greedy world power . The community is the foundation of national solidarity . " ' National Commander Stephen F. Chadwick expressed belief in 114s prepared report that " our country can be kept from involvement in other peoples ' strife . " The , Commander voiced oppositionlo'general pensions for World War veterans . " We are opposed to a Federal control of education , " Commander Chadwick told the convention , " and we want to assure ourselves that there are adequate safeguards against such control before we commit ourselves to a full program of Federal atd . " Resolutions dealing with the vital subjects probably will not reach the convention floor before Sept. 27 . Aid for Juveniles In the annual Committee reports , Judge Richard Hartshorne of Newark , N. J. , Chairman of the National Law and Order Committee , asked that all citizens join the Legion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delinquency , which he termed the root of all crime . Nearly $1,000,000 was expended by the American Legion Auxiliary this past year on child welfare , Mrs. James Morris , National President , reported at the opening of the organization 's nineteenth annual convention . The Auxiliary , which has 480,000 members , expended approximately $1,000,000 in aiding 126,000 disabled veterans , Mrs. Morris said . A total of $3,338,857.50 in Government benefits was recovered for World War veterans in 1939 through services Of the Legion , National Rehabilitation Director Watson B. Miller made known . The 36-voice male chorus of Post 41 of Syracuse , N. Y. , won the American Legion 's choral contest Sept. 24 . Robert Gallun of Milwaukee , Wis. , a member of Alonzo Cudworth Squadron 23 , took top honors in the Sons of the American Legion bugling contest . John E. Flynn of Worcester , Mass. , won the American Legion snare drumming contest .                     