@@703573

txt For an hour tonight , facing directly an audience of 15,000 in the Sportspalast , Chancellor Hitler addressed the German people listening in by order at loudspeakers over all the land and his speech was far from being the expected defiance of British and French public opinion steadily risring against his Czechoslovak ultimatum . I Uncompromising in the matter of his demands for the evacuation of Sudeten German areas , he stressed equally his having agreed to a plebiscite in the disputed territorieg after German forces came into possession of them . It was notable that Herr Hitler had really , harsh words only for President Eduard Benes and the present Czechoslovak State , which he characterized as " conceived as a lie and conducted as a swindle for twenty years . " The Czech people escaped vituperation and Herr Hitler addressed soothing phrases to the Poles , Ukrainians , Slovaks , French , British and even Hungarians , all of whom he reminded of his manifested desire to seek no quarrel with them . It was almost as though , knowing himself about to take an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance to create a friendlier atmosphere . Last Territorial Demand Twice he asserted that if the Sudeten territories were ceded this would be the last territorial demand Germany would make in Europe . There was no special emphasis on the last two words , but there might have been . Not once did Herr Hitler demand the alienation of the Czechoslovak State entirely . While utterly uncompromising in his insistence that the Sudeten areas should be surrendered by Saturday he stressed the sweet reasonableness of this demand rather than the desire to acquire them forcibly . The Czech Government , he argued , had already consented to surrender the territories ; he only wanted it to keep its word . The British and French had agreed to it and they should stand by ' their agreement . The fact that his memorandum handed to Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain had extended beyond the original limits of the areas to be surrendered and that the conditions for evacuation were harsh and humiliating beyond any ' expectation , Herr Hitler ignored . He glossed over the demand for German military occupation of the disputed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had granted Mr. Chamberlain 's request to have an international commission manage the plebiscite . Way Left Open for Hitler The speech , in fact , while fervent and impassioned in the Hitler manner , left the impression on account of its very reticences that it was a faoade behind which anything can ' happen without in the least controvierting its contents . Herr Hitler can negotiate through France and Britain for a peaceful surrender or he can wait the prescribed period and then march in dealing as harshly as he chooses with the Czech resistance . Either way he will be consistent and he can claim and will probably receive the initial applause of his people . It is common knowledge that Sir Horace ' Wilson of the British Foreign Office arrived by air from London bringing a message from Mr. Chamberlain that had the endorsement of the French ministers who had gone to London as well as the French Cabinet , and that Sir Horace was closeted with Herr Hitler for more than . a half hour before his speech . The message , it is understood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiation in anything Herr Hitler might say tonight , and the appeal may have had some effect since the speech was still being constructed a few minutes before Herr Hitler 's motor cavalcade left the Chancellery for the Sportspalast . Sir Horace is remaining for the night at the British Embassy and he will fly back to London early tomorrow . It is understood that he carries a written reply to the Chamberlain note . Its contents , however , are unknown . Speech Enthusiastically Received The speech was received in the Sportspalast with enthusiasm that grew more fervent as it proceeded . Toward the close the mass hysteria produced was almost indescribable . Again and again Herr Hitler had to wait a minute or more before the chanted " Heils " and " Sieg Heils " died away . When he named President Benes  --  and he frequently did ? as the villian in the piece the packed galleries shrieked " Hang Benes " and when Herr Hitler repeated the warning that Germany would see to it that the Sudetens obtained justice the whole audience shouted , " We will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solemnly emphasized sentence : " There should not be any doubt left in the rest of the world that this time no longer a Fuehrer or one man is speaking but the whole German people . " This was greeted with deafening cheers . If mass enthusiasm were always a decisive criterion , this would indicate that the statement is correct . The enthusiasm and hysteria were not confined to the direct audience in the Sportspalast . Loud-speakers in the streets and radios in tile restaurants and public , buildings each had its audience shepherded by Storm Troopers , and these audiences also cheered the stirring passages as if they were actually facing their leader . It was notable that women were the loudest in applause , especially when a threat against Czechoslovakia was heard . Every device of Nazi organization was employed to carry out Herr Hitler 's wish that this speech should be the occasion of the " historic manifestation of the German people . " Streets leading to the Sportspalast were lined with Storm Troopers and packed by expectant crowds that stood for hours merely to see Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late Berlin resounded with the music of blaring bands and the tramp of marching feet . For the first time since the Czechoslovak issue began to warm up , the populace showed signs of reacting to it . After the speech translations were broadcast to foreign listeners in six languages .. Hitler Sees His Aides Almost up to-the moment of starting for the meeting Herr Hitler was busy in the Chancellery finishing and revising his address . Inquiries as to its contents and all speculation over it were discouraged . From early in ? the morning until noon Herr Hitler had been in conference with Foreign Office department heads and with chiefs of the army , navy and air force . The small parking place in front of the Chancellery had not harbored such an imposing battery of shining automobiles since the days of the Austrian annexation . Motoring to the Sportspalast a storm of cheers followed Herr Hitler the whole- way . He found the immense building packed to the limit . It has been the scene of some of his greatest triumphs . The Angriff , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monument to those revolutionary dynamics which under the will of the party dominate Germany . From that spot we have many times heard the order forward , but never the signal of retreat . " The audience crowded in the palace tonight was not the usual solid mass of brown uniforms , though brown and black uniforms were plentiful . There were many women present , especially elderly women , and there were even children as young as eight and ten years in the audience . Two sections had been reserved for Sudeten refugees and these attracted much attention . Lines of the Hitler bodyguard kept open the wide center aisle . On the walls were huge streamers proclaiming " Ein Volk , Ein Reich , Ein Fuehrer . " Behind the rostrum a special banner cited from the Nuremberg speech , " Germans in Czechoslovakia are neither weap-. onless nor are they deserted . " The crowd readily recognized and cheered the arriving officials and party functionaries , especially Field Marshal Hermann Goering . Between times a brown-shirted band played party songs evidently expecting those present to join in . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the loudspeakers but the response was not encouraging . But there was a certain amount of good cheer . After Marshal Goering 's arrival one Sudeten German section began to shout to him that they needed help . In reply he rose and saluted them . This happened several times . Finally a voice from the section called , " turn the bombs loose " and there was a general laugh . Herr Hitler , entering with Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels , was received with cheers almost drowning out the " Badenweiler March " which played him in . He sat down next to Marshal Goering and the solemn ceremony of parading party standards followed . Then Dr. Goebbels , directly addressing him , assured the Chancellor that " in this historic hour every German is behind you . " And Herr Hitler began to speak . Foreign Policy Reviewed rbr a half hour he reviewed German foreign policy during the five years of his administration , insisting again and again on its pacific aspects . He had shaped German foreign policy to serve the German people , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She had grown strong of her own volition and from her own resources . To the outside world that tried to keep her down , he said , she was animated by no hatred to other nations . It was a " small clique of international profiteers and plotters " that was- responsible for the scattering of hatred among nations . Germany 's first claim had been her right to equality , he said , her second claim to equality of armaments . Nevertheless , he had proposed the abolition ? of bombing planes , heavy tanks and artillery , the restriction of air forces and the reduction of ? armies to 300,000 . All these had been rejected , he added . After waiting in vain for two years to obtain these concessions he had proceeded to arm Germany and he could say now freely and frankly that Germany now commanded armament such as the world had never seen . A half minute of frantic cheering greeted this announcement and Herr Hitler proceeded : ' " If the world does not want to get on without weapons then we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these five years to arm the German people loud cheers . " He went on to repeat the arguments ' of his Nuremberg speech as to his peace efforts  --  the treaty with Poland , voluntary relinquishment of naval parity with Britain and his assurance to France that after the Saar 's return that Alsace-Lorraine no longer interests him . Seeks No War With Britain " I never want to wage war with Great Britain . We want no war with France . We desire nothing of her and have no demands upon her . " Of the treaty with Poland he said that although signed for ten years it would be a " lasting and enduring one ; 33,000,000 people are entitled to , an outlet to the sea . " After these achievements , Herr Hitler continued , he had proceeded to improve German-Italian relations and he was now happy to say that he was working side by side with a statesman actuated by the same desires  --  Mussolini loud and prolonged cheers . Austria had " given proof of her loyalty to the Reich " in the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has to be solved and will be solved . " It is the last territorial demand I have to make in Europe . In 1918 3,500,000 Germans were torn away from their compatriots by a company of mad statesmen . " The Czech State originated in a huge lie and the name of the liar is Benes . " Herr Hitler 's voice rose to a harsh scream as he pronounced the name of the Czech President . The heils from the audience reached a frantic pitch . Dr. Benes 's ultimate aim , said Herr Hitler , was to exterminate the Germans in Czechoslovakia . He could not do that , but he inaugurated a system of terror that kept them out and discouraged them . In the meantime he permitted Soviet Russia to use the State as a diving board into Central Europe . Recalls Nuremberg Demand Herr Hitler said that he had hoped against hope that the Czech State would realize that its policy of terror could ' not go on forever . But that State , he said , was always banking on Soviet Russia if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given e ? - pression for the first time to his demand for self-determination for 3,500,000 Germans . Then Britain interfered . He had told Mr. Chamberlain that there was only one solution to this problem  --  these national minorities no longer wanted to stay in the Czech State . He had left no doubt in Mr. Chamberlain 's mind that German patience had reached its limit . He told . him that the time was coming when an end would be made to this situation . Britain and France realized this , he declared , and obtained from the Czech Government a. pledge that it would cede the German areas . The Czechs went back on this later but " now the game is up , " he said . President Benes , said Herr Hitler , was now pitting his 7,000,000 Czechs against 75,000,000 Germans , for the German nation was stirred . He , Hitler , had made a proposal to the British Government . It was the same that President Benes had accepted and " the settlement is going to be now . " Cheers From Sudetens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their seats , chanted , " We thank our Fuehrer . " Herr Hitler stated ' that he had accepted the Saar statute as the basis for a plebiscite . He was prepared , he declared , to have it take place under international control and accepted an international commission to draw new frontiers . He was prepared even to have the British go to supervise the plebiscite . But he demanded that President Benes live up to what he had accepted and agreed . He demanded that President Benes , after twenty years ; be compelled to speak the truth . He thanked Mr. Chamberlain for ' all his efforts and assured him that he , Hitler , only wanted peace . " Herr Benes now holds in his hand ' peace or war , " the Chancellor said . " Either he will now accept this offer and at last give the Germans their freedom , or we will take this freedom for ourselves . Frantic cheers . Two men are now facing each other  --  Herr Benes and I. It is a fight to- the finish . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a frenzied demonstration of almost two minutes . Then came an anticlimax . Dr. ' Goebbels delivered a short speech in which he said I that never again would there be for Germany another November , 1918. -                     