@@703291

txt The campaign of violence launched by the C. I. 0 . in a desperate effort to collect dues was abandoned tonight in the face of an ultimatum by General Motors corporation that it would keep its big Fisher body plant closed until the union stopped its high handed tactics . The surrender came after rioting at the Fisher plant No. 1 had closed the factory and halted the assembly line at the Buick Motor company . It was the second day the C. I. 0 . had stopped operations in the two divisions , where about 5,000 men and women are employed . Martin Orders Backdown . The order to back down was given by Homer Martin , international president of the United Automobile workers , one of the chief components of the C. I. 0. , after the local union had announced that picketing would be continued tomorrow . " The union in Flint has decided it will not give General Motors any further excuse for closing its plants and throwing thousands of men out of work , " Martin said . " There will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or whenever it reopens . " George Patterson , resident manager of the plant , said plans to keep the factory closed tomorrow would not be changed , but that operations will be resumed Thursday " if there are no picket lines . " Pickets Manhandle Police . Members of a belligerent group a about 1,200 pickets manhandled police and engaged in violence at the Fisher plant earlier in the day . More than a score of fist fights occurred and several persons , including a girl . were injured . The mob of U. A. W. pickets formed I solid lines across the four entrances at the Fisher plant . All workers who did not possess a receipt for union dues were turned back . This , of course , included all nonunion men . Pickets fought with men seeking to get in to their jobs . A girl , who tried to go to work was attacked by other women workers . They beat and kicked her , pulled her hair , and tore her clothes . Threatens to Carry Gun . A man who tried to break through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face lacerated . Although both victims refused to give their names for fear of further attacks , the man said he would " carry a shotgun when I try to go to work again . " Pickets roughly pulled Police Lieutenant Louis Rickey and a patrolman from the running board of a worker 's automobile the officers had attempted to escort through the plant gates . A mob of C. L 0 . men immediately surrounded the car and shoved the policemen around . " Do n't try to do any climbing around here , " the officers were warned . Only ten policemen and detectives were on duty at the scene of the disturbance and they were able to command little respect from the pickets . Reinforcements at Hand . Chief of Police James P. Cole , who had promised police protection to workers , said he had sent the small force to the plant with the expectation reinforcements would be called for if they were needed . Burt Harris , vice president of the Fisher local of the U. A. W. , virtually challenged the police by declaring " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . " In a statement issued in Detroit , William S. Knudsen , president of General Motors , condemned the " latest method of the U. A. W. of coercing employes , denying them entrance to the plant and the . right to work . " He asserted men may work in the company 's plants whether of not they belong to the union . " The corporation will take the only way of meeting this latest breach of faith by the union , namely , to let the plant remain closed until the practice is stopped and picket lines withdrawn , " Knudsen said .                     