@@698980

txt The Supreme Court at Leipzig rejected today the application of the ousted Prussian Cabinet for an injunction permitting the deposed Prussian Ministers to return to their posts and curtailing the powers of the Reich commissioner for Prussia until the court decided whether the Reich 's action against Prussia was constitutional . The court 's decision leaves the Chancellor , Capt . Franz von Papen , free to act as he pleases in his new capacity as Reich commissioner for Prussia for at least another two or three weeks until the court meets again . It also prevents any of the Chancellor 's measures taken in Prussia last week , including suspension of many high officials from office , from being undone . One of the first consequences of the court 's decision is expected to be removal of martial law tomorrow which was proclaimed a few days ago for Berlin and its environs for the purpose of enabling the Chancellor to use military forces in ousting the Prussian Cabinet . In view of the court 's decision there no longer exists any need to use the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here . Meanwhile Captain von Papen has assured the Prime Ministers of other federal states , whom he just met in a conference at Stuttgart , that the fate of the Prussian Prime Minister is not awaiting them . Dr. Held , Bavarian Prime Minister , however , voiced his apprehension at a public meeting at Weiden in Bavaria . Dr. Held objected to the Reich 's action against Prussia and described Chancellor von Papen 's readmittance of uniformed demonstrations as a cause for unrest in Germany . He expressed hope that the Chancellor would be able to live up to his promises made at Stuttgart as Herr Adolf Hitler and Dr. Alfred Hugenberg , the Fascist and Nationalist leaders , are exercising great pressure on the Government . Nevertheless he hopes , he said , that the Stuttgart conference has pinned Chancellor von Papen down to an anti-Fascist policy and that he would respect the Constitution .                     