@@697605

txt The equivalent of two years ' new gold supply for the world has been absorbed during the last year by the United States and Prance , two of the three major creditor countries , according to Reginald , chairman of the Midland Bank . Ltd . Defining a creditor country as " one which is entitled to receive year by year a larger sum than it is required to remit abroad , " he observed that its balance of current international pay'MURIA can only be struck in one of two ways , either through new external loans or acceptance of gold , Apart from the general decline of earning assets in the banks and a consequent disinclination to loan as much as in normal times , the lending oilier of creditor countries , he emphasized , is definitely impaired by their reduced purchases of finished goods and resulting exports decline , Manufacturers were hit by the world trade depression , he said , no less than the producers of primary commodities , the inter-relation of primary and finished products being constant . The expansion of money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal effect of the flow of gold according to the theory of the gold standard , has not been forthcoming , at least in the Milted States . In /Prance the note issue had risen subatantially , but the new money had been drained away into bank reserves or private hoards . Monetary tightness had reacted in its turn on prices both In creditor and debtor countries , in France and the United States , replete with gold , as much as In Great Britain which has received no accession to its gold stock . summing up , Mr. laid stress on the urgent need for cooperation of the central banks to an-rest the " precipitous fan in the price level " and maintain stable values through an up-to-date appreciation of the gold situation , Need for Use of Money There is considerable controversy in the city about another passage in Mr. speech , in which he joined his voice to that of economists like J. Maynard Keynes and J. A , Hobson , who deprecate the frequent exhortations by the older Conservatives and Liberals to economy and thrift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " that one of the factors which govern the price level is under the control of the central bank , namely , the total quantity of money outstanding in the form of bank deposits and currency . " The rate at Which money circulates , however , and the use to which it is put , could not be directly controlled . Vera the question of conndence came in . " Business becomes better when people feel better about it , " Mr. said . Many persons , misled by a false interpretation of the quantity theory of money , forget that the Important factor is the amount of money actually used in buying goods and service . Tho nonusc of money might be due to a general lack of confidence , but It might also be the consequence of excessive saving . Thus thrift , whatever blessings it may confer on the individual , Is charged as in certain circumstances defriniental to the interests of genOral economic welfare .                     