@@703752

txt The move for reform of the Australian Constitution in the direction of giving the Commonwealth Government wider powers at the expense of the state governments has received such marked approval from public opinion that a referendum on the issue seems certain to be held this year . ? While the question has been repeatedly aired in the past . the extra efficiency and economy demanded by the nation 's defense needs since Munich have pushed it strongly to the fore . With .. population of under ' 1. - 000,000 , Australia has seven sovereign Parliaments , with 616 members . ' 14 of ? N h0111 are Ministers There are seven Governors , seven overseas representatives , seven separate taxing authorities , seven railway departments . seven police forces . This has been the condition of affairs since Federation . 38 years aco That duplication and overlapping cause unnecessary delay and excesshe cost needs no emphasis . " They , ring ridicule on the Parliamentary system , " said former Labor Prune Minister James H Scullin. . ' , ens Way to Evasion John . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is scarcely a single Issue of importance demanding action today which could not be side-stepped by any Government . claiming that it has not the authority to deal with the situation .... The present division of authority is dangerous to our national security . " Mr. Scullin 's plea for a special se , sion of Parliament to discuss constitutional reform has received strong backing . Nevertheless experience has shown that it is difficult to induce the electors to agree to any transfer of authority from the States to the Commonwealth . Six Prime Ministers have tried in vain The story of Commonwealth referendums is a story of frustration and disappointment to the Government of the day . Labor Vote on Referendum Australr 's last referendum was held on a proposal to hand over to the Commonwealth powers to control civil aviation . The Labor Party ( ) noosed it in several States and succeeded in securing a narrow majority against it . Federal Attorney General Robert Menzies contends that in the past insufficient time has been allowed for educational campaigns preceding referendums . When , for example , the Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commonaealth Government power over commerce and industry , the proposal was defeated by a Liberal vote and the Ministry resigned . After the formation of the National Party  --  composed mainly of Liberals and a few seceders from the Labor Party , William Morris Hughes put the same question to the electors in 1919 It was defeated again this time by the very Labor vote that had gone in its favor before . Yet , . he Federal Constitution has been amended in the past . It is noteworthy ' hat an amendment of outstanding importance was secured in a time of crisis . Fills Long-Felt Need The adoption of the Loan Council system of control of national finance had been a manifest necessity for years . But it required a severe economic depression to ' have it embodied in the Commonwealth ' Constitution in 1923 . With budgetary equilibrium achimed. the Loan Council has been made a traget by State politicians . They resent bitterly what they describe as having to go " cap in hand " to Canberra , and of being " forced to place themselves on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Loan Council is there , apparently to stay . The cordial reception ghen to Mr. Scullin 's speech in Federal circles a as significant but not surprising A canvass of opinion throughout the Commonwealth showed the tide to he running strongly against opponents of unification who however are already marshalling their forces But in Australia 's present mood . proposals to strengthen the Federal Government to make it truly national will receive full consideration A clear-cut agreement of minimum demands for what are necessary to acquire the desired efficiency and economy in Government are likely to be followed by a campaign of education .                     