@@701718

txt Unanimously holding that " a free press stands as one of the great interpreters between the government and the people , " the Supreme Court , in an opinion read by Justice Sutherland today , abolished the law driven through the Louisiana Legislature by Huey P. Long to tax the gross advertising revenue of the larger newspapers in that State . The court was denouncing the law as a " deliberate and calculated device " to withhold information to which the public was entitled at about the time the Louisiana dictator 's widow was being sworn in to succeed him in the Senate . Before a court room crowded in expectation of a decision in the TVA case , which was not forthcoming , Justice Sutherland commented that in 150 years of the American Republic no State except Louisiana had ever tried to impose such a tax . In its undivided opinion , the court found that the law was passed with the " plain purpose of penalizing the publishers and curtailing the circulation of a selected group of newspapers . " Constitution 's Intent Cited .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press through taxation , the court declared that American colonists never proposed to follow those examples and that constitutional amendments clearly demonstrated an intent to lay down barriers preventing either the national government or the States from using such weapons . " The newspapers , magazines and other journals of the country , it is safe to say , have shed and continue to shed , more light on the public and business affairs of the nation than any other instrument of publicity ; and since informed public opinion is the most potent of all restraints upon misgovernment , the suppression or abridgment of the publicity afforded by a free press can not be regarded otherwise than with grave concern , " the nine justices asserted . Publishers Fought Law . The law represented one of SenatorLong 's attempts to punish political enemies . Under it a 3 per cent tax was laid on the gross advertising revenues of newspapers with more than 20,000 weekly circulation in Louisiana , It was forced through the Legislature while he dominated the legislative session , yelling directions here and there to his henchmen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lying newspapers . " Only thirteen newspapers were affected and they were published in large centers such as New Orleans and Shreveport . Nine publishers who produced the newspapers obtained an injunction against the law and Alice Lee Grosjean , Supervisor of Accounts of Louisiana . appealed from the Eastern District Court of the State to the Supreme Court . Four weeks ago Elisha Hanson , counsel for the American Newspaper Publishers Association , and Esmond Phelps , attorney for the New Orleans Times-Picayune , de-1 nounced the tax before the Supreme Court as a punitive measure against the large Louisiana newspapers and as absolute interference with the freedom of the press . Charles J. Rivet , special assistant to Gaston Poterie , State Attorney General , ' contended that the State was positively within its rights in taxing the business of selling advertising . At the outset , Justice Sutherland waved away the State 's arguments that the case was not within the court 's jurisdiction and did not make a case for equitable relief . Quotes Due Process Clause . " The validity of the act , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two particulars : ( 1 ) that it abridges the freedom of the press in contravention of the due process clause contained in Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment ; ( 2 ) that it denies appellees the equal protection of the laws in contravention of the same amendment . " The first point presents a question of the utmost gravity and importance ; for , if well made , it goes to the heart of the natural right of the members of an organized society , united for their common good , to impart and acquire infor-f mation about their common interests . The First Amendment to the Federal Constitution provides that ' Congress shall make no law ? ? ? abridging the freedom of speech , or of the press While this provision is not a restraint upon the powers of the States , the States are precluded from abridging the freedom of speech or of the press by force of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment . " Justice Sutherland recalled that the Supreme Court had previously held freedom of speech and freedom of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely safeguarded by the Constitution . He asserted that , if carried to its last degree , the law in question could destroy both advertising and circulation of newspapers . " It operates as a restraint in a double sense , " he said . Tracing the history of efforts to tax the press , he said there had been a persistent attempt in Great Britain for more than a century to abridge free expression . As early as 1644 , he added , John Milton attacked Parliament for a censorship of the press . In 1712 , he continued , Parliament taxed newspapers and advertisements . He described the opposition of leading Englishmen to such " oppression " and commented : " It is idle to suppose that so many of the best men of England would for a century of time have waged , as they did , stubborn and often precarious warfare against these taxes if a mere matter of taxation had been involved . The aim of the struggle was not to relieve taxpayers from a burden , but to establish and preserve the right of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or misdoings of their government . " Recalls Stamp Taxes . Justice Sutherland recalled the imposition of stamp taxes on newspapers in Massachusetts and their subsequent repeal due to opposition . In reading the close of the opinion he said : " The tax here involved is bad , not because it takes money from the pockets of the appellees . If that were all , a wholly different question would be presented . It is bad because , in the light of its history and of its present setting , it is seen to be a deliberate and calculated device in the guise of a tax to limit the circulation of information to ' which the public is entitled in virtue of the constitutional guarantees . " A free press stands as one of the great interpreters between the government and the people . To allow It to be fettered is to fetter ourselves . " In view of the persistent search for new subjects of taxation , it is not without significance that , with the single exception of the Louisiana statute , so far as we can discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence has undertaken to impose a tax like that now in question . "                     