@@699466

txt WASHINGTON. ? The State Department was opposed yesterday to sending any reply to the British debt memorandum , holding informally that Britain was playing a " game " to avoid giving the impression that she was forming an Anglo-American front . The belief in Congress , however , was that the memorandum was a rejection of the White House proposal . LONDON . ? Sir Harry Goshen , banker , urged a general debt revision on the lines of the Lausanne agreement , holding the United States was pledged to join in such an adjustment . He held the pound could be linked to gold only after precautions had been taken against another panic . PARIS. ? Governor Moret of the Bank of France pleaded for reestablishment of the gold standard throughout the world and progressive abolition of trade barriers . Reply to Britain Considered . By ARTxutt rEROCIi . Special to THE NEW YORK TIMES . WASI-DaNGTON , Jan. 26 . ? " No note tonight , " said Secretary Stimson as he hurried away from the State Department late . today after having spent an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President-elect Roosevelt , in drafting a reply to the British memorandum received yesterday with reference to the debt and economic discussions scheduled for early in March in Washington . Whether the reply will be sent depends upon a decision reached by the President and the Presidentelect , who communicated with each other today and with both of whom Secretary Stimson was in touch . There is a report , which could not be confirmed , that the " two Presidents " accepted today 's message and ordered its dispatch at once . Professor Moley came to Washington at the request of Mr. Roosevelt after the British response to Secretary Stimson 's memorandum of last Friday had been relayed to Warm Springs by telephone yesterday . Professor Moley declined to discuss his activities at the department today . He will remain here all week , and it is accepted as certain that , either as a member of the next administration or as a special representative of it he will act directly for Mr. Roosevelt in preparing the American debt case and working out the preliminaries with the British chief representative after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British memorandum was delivered to the State Department yesterday , officials there professed to regard it as a forward step aid declined to assent to the construction that it vfas a rejection of the Roosevelt-Hoover proposal that war debts and related economic questions be discussed here for concurrent action with a view to effecting the trade of a debt concession for something in the sphere of currency stabilization , reciprocal tariff arrangements or the like . But when the London dispatches were read this morning and the British note was re-analyzed , other administration officials began to waver in their optimism . And so far as Capitol Hill is concerned , the opinion is general that the British have rejected the RooseveltHoover proposal . I The view of the best-informed members of Congress is that , unless Mr. Roosevelt comes to his inauguration with a magic white rabbit under his top hat , or unless there is a moratorium arrangement before June , there will be a series of defaults from foreign war debtors on June 15 . It is held certain that even Mr. Roosevelt can not induce the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r-n authoritative promise of a concession comes with it . The opinion of Senator Pittman , ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee and possibly its future chairman , well expresses the Congressional view . Says British Offer Nothing .. " As I read the British memorandum , " he said today , " I am forced to the conclusion that our offer has been rejected . The British insist that the only discussion in March from which they rill permit action or promised action to flow is that on their war debt . They are willing to talk over allied economic subjects but they wo n't even tentatively offer anything in exchange with respect to any of these at that time . They will reserve all agreements for the World Economic Conference , and they want us to agree to suspend , reduce or cancel their war debt in advance . Congress will do nothing of the sort . It appears that the White House proposal was premature . " I am , of courser giving 1gy , own view . It is n't ' Inspired , " authorized ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how any one can reach another conclusion . " But the prevailing State Department view seemed to be that the British memorandum was only a step in a " game , " and not necessarily final or critical . On behalf of the department , and very informally and unauthoritatively , it was said that the British were merely seeking to reassure the French that they would not be a party to setting up at Washington an Anglo-American economic bloc against the rest of the world , forsaking their reparations allies and their other European neighbors . Had the British even seemed to agree , according to this view , that they would arrange a trade in March with the United States before the other debtors had had a chance to be heard , the effectiveness and importance of the succeeding conversations would have been destroyed . Favor ' Poker Face ' Attitude . Persons so interpreting the British note read with pleasure an Associated Press dispatch from Warm Springs which represented Mr. Roosevelt as considering that he was in a " game " and determined , therefore , to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would do just that . They opposed sending any answer to the latest British memorandum , They quoted this extract from one of the Presidentelect 's communications to President Hoover : " I am clear that a permanent economic program for the world should not be submerged in conversations relating to disarmament or debts . I recognize , of course , a relationship , but not an identity . " It is generally believed in Washington now that even tentative accords with the various debtors , accompanied , by , their , proyisionel concessions on tariffs and currency , can not be ready for submission by Mr. Roosevelt to Congress by June 15 . That is why wholesale defaults , a new extension or some miraculous move by the new administration are considered the only three possible developments by that time . Professor Moley was not the only economic adviser of Mr. Roosevelt in town today . Professor R. G. Tugwell of Columbia University arrived also and called at the State Department and elsewhere . He did not participate in the drafting conference with Mr. Stimson . He found upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chain had published a long interview with him , giving an outline of an economic policy for the nation to be carried out by the Roosevelt Administration . This was strikingly displayed , leaving the impression that the editors believed the utterance had high authority . Professor Tugwell issued a statement tonight , however , denying that the interview represented the views of President-elect Roosevelt . The statement read : " I have read with interest an interview with me in today 's newspapers in regard to certain features of the depression and suggested remedies . I have no objection to the representation of my views , but I do object to the impression *conveyed that these views in any way concern Governor Roosevelt . Most of them , as a matter of fact , were contained in an address which I made at Teachers College , Columbia University , last March before I ever met Governor Roosevelt . They present a certain school of thought not confined to myself as to measures which might be taken for recovery . Governor Roosevelt has listened to these , as to many other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributing the views to him or for assuming that they represent his own diagnosis of his own prescriptions . "                     