@@699673

txt The Los Angeles Times this morning prints a dispatch from Kyle D. Palmer , its Washington correspondent , which in part reads : " Possibly presaging one of the most sensational trials in the history of American politics , it was learned today on unquestionable authority that Senator Huey P. Long of Louisiana may be prosecuted for asserted evasion of tax payments on a substantial income derived from undisclosed sources . " Long 's personal financial transactions have been the subject of secret investigation by government operatives for several months . Scrutiny of his income was begun during the Hoover administration and has been continued since President Roosevelt was inaugurated . Data Dug Up by Revenue Agents . " Undercover agents of the Bureau of Internal Revenue have completed an exhaustive search for evidence and these data are now believed to be in possession of Elmer L. Irey , chief of the intelligence Unit of the Internal Revenue Division . " Naturally , Chief Irey is not prepared at this time either to affirm or deny anything concerning this situation . With pleasant firmness he made his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will understand , ' said the intelligence unit head , ' that I am not in a position to discuss this matter at all . ' " It is understood from other sources that the major portion of the asserted evidence in the hands of Mr. Irey was compiled and presented to former Secretary of the Treasury Mills , who , being unable to bring the case to completion , turned it over to his successor , Secretary Woodin . The amounts involved in the government inquiry , said to represent a considerable total , have not been disclosed . " A wall of official silence surrounds the entire matter and it is understood that Democratic leaders hoped to postpone disclosure of the possibility of Long 's prosecution until the special session of the Seventy-third Congress adjourns in May or June . Democratic Rift Disturbing . " One explanation for delaying action has been that no steps could be taken until a successor to David Burnet , Commissioner of Internal Revenue , has been named . This appointment is expected within the next thirty days . " However , chief among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Louisiana Kingfish ' at this time , it seems , has been apprehension as to possibility of a conflict between Long partisans and antagonists in the Senate , with consequent peril to the administration 's emergency legislative program . The Long group is believed about ready to ' strike ' against President Roosevelt 's domination of Congress " Long 's belligerent attack on the President a few days ago is regarded as preliminary to a general policy of opposition , harassment and obstruction from a bloc of his sympathizers . " Senator Lon* said to have known for some time of the investigation of his private affairs by Federal agents , is suspected of opening his attack as a shrewd manoeuvre calculated to throw suspicion on the administration 's motives if prosecution for his asserted income tax irregularities , is ordered . "                     