@@699423

txt After two years in which , contrary to the usual trend . Montgomery Ward 's December sales had fallen below those in October . sales in the final month of 1932 exceeded sales in October , the previous high point for the year , by the comfortable margin of $1,250 , - 000 . This showing , vehich ran in excess of expectations , was due to the following factors among others : Improved merchandising and operating methods put into effect under the hew organization setup . which meant that goods were on hand as needed and staffs were adequate to take care of customers during the holiday rush . Improved methods had already been reflected in sales results , but their beneficial effects found a culmination in December , the management believes . Christmas 1,3er Aids Adoption of policy of holding the gift section in the fall and winter general cataloguz to a minimum , and sending out a special Christmas " flyer " of 100 pages in October . Against the added sales realized from this step there were , of course . some additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which came in the final week before Christmas . The fact that Saturday fell just before , Christmas in 1932 and just after Christmas in 1931 . These factors largely offset lower pro es and reduction in number of stores , and enabled December sales to show the smallest decrease from the previous year since consecutive decreases began in the middle of 1930 . Sales last month brought sales for the calendar year slightly over the $180,000,000 mark . Home Sale Discontinuance a Factor Sales for the year would have been somewhat larger had Ward not discontinued the sale of " Wardway Homes " on May 1 last . These homes were sold to customers on a monthly payment basis sufficient to take care of principal , interest and carrying charges . To enable them to meet construction costs Ward made loans to customers which in some instances during the past few years ranged rip to 75 , , of the value of house and lot with a repayment period of 15 years . In previous years these loans were for shorter terms . While a few of these loans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at present owns and holds all paper of this natine Under prevailing conditions a certain proportion of customers have defaulted on their loans . In such cases every effort has been made through resale or renting to hold losses to a minimum . While above expectations , sales for December and the full calendar year will not enable the company to avoid a net loss for the 12 months ended January 31 , 1933 . Although the three fall months undoubtedly ran wall in the black , they could hardly have clone so sufficiently to offset the nine months ' net loss of close Sc $4,300,000 , and the inclusion of another January ( a low sales month ) in the fiscal reporting period .                     