@@703407

txt The sudden death of Royal " S. Copeland , senior United States Senator from New York , has changed the local political situation and made the election in this State next November of even greater importance than it wad before , leaders of both major parties declared yesterday . It was the general opinion that Governor Lehman , known to be averse to running for re-election , would probably be a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Senator to fill out the unexpired part of the Copeland term , and that the chance of drafting Senator Robert F. Wagner for - the Democratic nomination for Governor had been lessened . - Leading Republicans , who would prefer a Democratic candidate for Governor other than Mr : Lehman or Senator Wagner , saw hope of carrying the State , at least for their candidate for GoNferndr , In the changed situation , and in hurried coat erenceth took steps to meet it . Democrats Not . Alarmed ' The Democratic viewpoint was quite different . Postmaster General James A. Farley , Democratic State and national chairman , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but associates expressed the opinion that , with an additional nomination for an important office to be made , the Democratic State Convention would be able to name a stronger ticket . They also held that the death of the senior Senator did , not end the chance of drafting Senator Wagner for the nomination for Governor if conditions at the time indicated a possibility of losing the State with a weaker candidate . Senator Copeland 's death has caused the first New York interim vacancy In the Senate since Senators began to be elected by popular vote in 1914 . Consequently on Nov. 8 the voters of New York State for the first time will elect two Senators in addition to choosing the first Governor for a four-year term . No information was obtainable as to whether ' Governor Lehman would make an appointment to fill the Senatorial vacancy . The prevailing opinion was that he might not , - as such an appointment would be merely honorary , with no duties unless the President should call a special session of Congress before the November election . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to draft Senator Wagner as a Gubernatorial candidate if Governor Lehman declines to run for re-election , but there was a distinct opinion that he might find it I more difficult . The death of Senator Copeland was believed to open a way for the possible nomination for Governor of Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr. , whose friends have been conducting an active canvass for him up-State . There also was said to be a possibility of Controller Morris S. Tremaine 's being named for Governor , if Mr. Wagner and Mr. Lehman should be the Senatorial nominees . Representative James M. Mead of Buffalo , a consistent Roosevelt sup- ? porter , has been built up as a candidate and his nomination for Senator was regarded as a decided possibility . There even is a suggestion that Mr. Bennett might receive the short-term Senatorial nomination if Senator Wagner should be drafted for Governor . The only doubt about Governor Lehman 's nomination for Senator , if he should desire it , was said to be the difficulty of obtaining the approval of President Roosevelt , with whom the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Supreme Court . Mr. Farley , however , was reported to favor the nomination of Mr. The Postmaster Geileral was reported to be willing , if necessary , to inform the President that the presence of Governor Lehman on the Democratic ticket was highly desirable and that the President could not afford to take any risk of defeat in his home State this year . Leaders of the Democratic State organization were said to fear no Republican candidate for Governor except District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey , and they do not believe he will change his determination not to run for Governor this year . At the same time , the Democratic leaders expect that up-State Republicans will make another attempt to draft Mr. Dewey . If they should succeed , Mr. Farley and other leaders of the State organization are understood to be prepared to insist that either Governor Lehman or Senator Wagner must head the Democratic State ticket . In the absence of any avowed candidate for Governor , the Republicans have made no progress in selecting a State ticket . On the assumption that Senator Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are prepared to wage an active campaign against Senator Wagner on the New Deal issue and a less active campaign against Mr. Leh-. - man . Many Republicans , it was said , woUldrbe pleased to have Governor Lehman elected to the Senate as a check on excessive governmental spending and the more radical New Deal policies .                     