@@701696

txt The Soldier Bonus Bill tonight was only a few hours away from the statute books , according to all indications , and before the Senate stops work for the day tomorrow the measure is expected to be sent to the State Department , there to be filed away in the archives . Not even the most outspoken critic of the $2,491,000,000 " babybond " measure woulti predict its defeat tomorrow when the Senate votes on the question of overriding the President 's veto . But instead of a vote of 74 to 16 , by which the bill passed the Senate on last Monday , it was estimated tonight that " about twenty " Senators would vote to sustain the President . That number would be far short of the ballots necessary to sustain the veto , so even the White House was said to have abandoned hope . From authoritative sources tonight it was learned that Treasury officials have started machinery for the printing of the more than 45,000,000 individual $50 baby bonds that will be required to redeem the outstanding adjusted service certificates . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks . A Busy Week Ahead . With the Bonus Bill out of the way for all time , Congress faces one of the busiest weeks since it convened less than one month ago . The most important bill to follow the bonus will be proposed " stopgap " legislation to take the place of the invalidated AAA act , and this probably will be followed by the permanent Neutrality Bill . Another controversial matter that will come up during the week is the request of the Munitions Investigating Committee for additional funds to complete its investigation . Since Senator Nye and Senator Clark put into the record of the committee charges that President Wilson and Secretary Lansing had " fg.lsified " about secret European treaties prior to our entrance into the World War , considerable criticism has developed . Both Senator Glass and Senator Byrnes publicly stated they did not favor additional appropriations to continue the so-called muckraking . Nye Will Ask for Funds . Senators Nye and Clark will go tomorrow before the Auditing and Control Committee , of which Senator Byrnes is chairman , to ask for about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although many of its supporters have expressed the belief it will eventually be held unconstitutional , Senate and House Agriculture Committees plan to report favorably the AAA relief amendments before the middle of the week . Secretary Wallace and Chester C. Davis , AAA administrator , will appear before the Senate committee tomorrow , after which committee approval is expected . The House last week authorized an appropriation of $296,185,000 to pay for AAA contracts entered into prior to Jan. 6 , 1936 , but the entire farm relief structure hinges upon the proposed amendments to the Soil Conservation Act . Two factors have held up final committee action on the permanent Neutrality Bill , both in the Senate and in the House . These involve the freedom-of-the-seas clause and the " discretionary " or " mandatory " powers that should be left to the President . The bill promises a more determined intraparty fight than any other measure pending in Congress . More Messages Oppose Bonus . Messages continued to reach the Senate Office Building today imploring Senators to vote to sustain the President 's veto of the Bonus Bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the forty Senators who last year voted to sustain the bonus veto by Henry H. Curran , director of the National Economy League , which follows : " You did a splendidly patriotic job last Spring in voting to sustain the President 's veto of the Bonus Bill at that time . Now the National Economy League asks you to stand fast and do it again . There ' is no good reason for any change from your previous fine position . Specifically the National Economy League urges you tt . sustain the President 's veto of the present Bonus Bill , which is a dangerously expensive and frankly discriminatory gift to a few million veterans out of the pockets of all the American people . The rest of the people need money just as much as any veteran needs money . Who is running this ? country  --  the American people or the American Legion ? " While the various committees complete action , the House will take up tomorrow the Interior Department Appropriation Bill . It will be the third of the regular supply bills , the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Senate has thus far acted only on the Bonus Bill , of all major legislation sent over by the House . Heated debate is expected in both houses as the result of former Governor Alfred E. Smith 's assault last night on the administration . House members will have opportunity to reply during debate on the Interior Bill , while in the Senate any member is privileged to take issue with Mr. Smith 's statements .                     