@@699691

txt A new deal for the American Indian was pledged by Mr. John Collier today when his nomination to be Indian Commissioner was formally reported to the Senate by the Committee on Indian Affairs . Mr. Collier . who has been the Indian Bureau 's severest critic for the past 10 years , expressed complete confidence in his ability to revolutiimize the treatment of the Indians . His confidence was based on the expectation of having the solid support of his chief , Mr. Harold Ickes , Secretary of the Interior , with whom he had been frequently associated in past years . The reason the Indians " got nowhere " under previous regimes , Mr. Collier said , was not necessarily the fault of the Indian Commissioners . In fact he has praised the retiring commissioner . Mr. Charles J. Rhoads , for his efforts to remodel the whole system of Indian Administration . But the fault , he said , lies in the fact that the commissioners ' policies were " Strangled by unsympathetic Interior heads . " Mr. Collier termed the past treatment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Government , " he declared , " has persecuted them . devoting all their efforts to civilize them by getting their land away from them . What we have got to do now is get the Indian back on his own land . " Under the cold-blooded allotment laws , " he continued , " the Indians have been robbed of their lands . Indian holdings have been cut down from 133,000,000 acres to 47,000,000 since 1887 and most of it has come from the Sioux holdings . Thus the Sioux has been beaten into a state of dependency and incompetency . " Mr. Collier also expressed himself strongly in favor of demobilizing the Indian boarding schools and sending the Indian children to ordinary public schools ; and of abandoning the further reclamation of Indian lands through flood control . Mr. Collier came into Indian work in 1920 when he left a position with the California Board of Education to study community organization of the Pueblos . He spent a year with these Indians . In 1922 he gave up all other work in an effort to bring about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indians . He served without salary as research specialist for the General Federation of Women 's Clubs for a period , and in 1923 , was selected as executive secretary of the Indian Defense Association .                     