@@702425

txt Strikes that halted government work on a huge airplane construction program in California and submarine building in Connecticut presented a ticklish problem to the administra ? tion in the face of its tacit agreement with similar labor trouble in the auto . motive industry . These and numerous other sitdown strikes across the breadth of the nation swelled to ap . proximately 25,000 the army of pep sons idle in labor disputes in nearly half a hundred business concerns . Details on page 7 . ( Picture on back page . ) Detroit , Mich. , Feb. 24 . ? Special . ? Chrysler corporation executives consented tonight to confer on collective bargaining for the company 's 77,000 employes with the United Automobile Workers of America , wheel horse of the ever aspiring John L. Lewis in his drive to unionize the mass automotive Industry . This tentative victory for labor came as a climax to a day in which tuill*Mita ; ; , Gberal dilotEtis4bitfegi , s1 made their greatest progress in efforts to negotiate the tangle of demends /eft in the wake of the recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chrysler conferences will begin next Wednesday was reached late today in a telephone conversation between Richard T. Franlcensteen , U. A. W. A. organizational director , and Herman L. Weckler , vice president and general manager of De Soto Motor corporation , a Chrysler division . The opening gun in the union 's campaign against the second major automobile producer in Lewis ' ambitious path was a telegram sent Walter R Chrysler , president of  --  the Chrysler corporation , asking ' for a bargaining conference and obtrusive. ly pointing out that the union already represents a majority of his employes . Chrysler Response Differs . Weckler was one of two Chrysler executives named by Chrysler at New York to speak for the corporation . The president had no other comment to make on the situation . The union 's request followed the same procedure used in the preliminary skirmishing with General Mo . tors . Unlike Chrysler 's tactics , however , General Motors declined a similar request and the Mtge 44 day automotive strike followed . Homer Martin , union president , who has described relations with Chrysler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will request recognition as sole bargaining agency . for Chrysler employes but will not demand a " closed shop . " The union announced at the outset of its campaign against the automobile industry that its objective was the signing of bargaining agreements with every producer in the field , from the big three  --  General Motors , Chrysler and Ford  --  down to the smaller independent companies . Accord on Three Points . Although details of the progress made by union and General Motors negotiators were withheld , it was disclosed that they reached tentative agreements on seniority , methods of pay and speed of productionimpor-tant points in the subjects at issue . In a week of previous conferences the negotiators settled only the method in which future grievances would be handled . Only three points were said new to remain for . discussion . They are specific cases of alleged discrimination against union workers , the union demand for a 30 hour week instead of the present 40 hour schedule , and the question of minimum wages . All agreements reached in the conferences are subject ) to revision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the recent paralyzing General Motors strikes is announced . Representatives of Lewis ' Committee for Industrial Organization said they were swamped with calls for organizers to aid workers in small automotive and other industrial plants .                     