@@704175

txt A great wave of optimism swept over Italy today when the news of Chancellor Hitler 's supposed peace proposal arrived . The confidence is based on the belief that Poland , Britain and France will yield and that a " new order " will be founded in Europe , sweeping away the last vestiges of the Versailles Treaty and giving Italy and . Germany the " living space " they have been demanding . There are , however , some sober voices calling attention to the fact that these hopes may not be fulfilled and that the situation still remains highly critical . Intense preparations for war and diplomatic efforts for peace are still going neck and neck . Premier Mussolini today again conferred with his chiefs of staffs ; the frontiers were reported to have been closed to departing Italians although not to Italian Jews or foreigners ; the prices of gasoline and coffee were raised to discourage private consumption and all previous measures such as the commandeering - of vehicles and boats , partial mobilization and the strengthening of frontier forces continue . Italy Had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is known now that Premier Mussolini played an important part in the Hitler peace proposals . The Osservatore Romano , Vatican City newspaper , prints an editorial by Count della Torre that was written as if peace was assured and that the thing to worry about now was the re-establishing of bases of international relations so that crises would not occur again . However , nobody has anything definite to go on ; there are hopes , beliefs and suppositions , but as far as concrete knowledge is concerned one fails to find a scrap of it . Curiously , Chancellor Hitler 's socalled peace plan is laid at America 's door by the newspaper Lavoro Fascista , which certainly is surprising news in this part of the ' world . " The Hitler proposal is understood to refer to the report of the American representative at the peace conference ** which proposed handing over Danzig and the Corridor to Germany , " says the Lavoro Fascista . " Therefore the source from which the Fuehrer derives his inspiration should not be suspect to the democracies which swear that they want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and justice . " Above all it should not be viewed with suspicion by Roosevelt , who continues to pour out his peace messages . " Italians Want to Get Something However , the Italians have raised the unanimous cry that . Italy as well as Germany must get what she wants in the " new order that is coming , " now that everybody expects another Munich and surrender to the Axis . " Will the London and Paris governments recognize the justice of the German claim and even more the good bases of a solution offered by the Axis powers ? " asks Virginia Gayda in the Giornale d'Italia . " Will they recognize that in these problems are summarized the surest conditions for real peace in Europe in a system of larger understanding and franker recognition of the rights and equality of Germany and Italy as regards positions , means and liberty , rights that correspond to international duty and justice to-day ? " " Blackshirt , " Achille Starace 's spokesman , in the Resto del Carlini ) is much less delicate in his terminology . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conscious of their responsibilities at such a delicate time , " says Italy 's most outspoken commentator , " we do not hesitate to say that no stratagem will prevent the settlement of accounts . Italy will undertake no initiative unless she is previously assured that her national aspirations , formulated by Il Duce on March 26 , will be recognized . Do not let it be thought that it is possible to pacify us with minor offers . Our people disdain messes of pottage and if they ask only for Tunisia , Jibuti and Suez they have the certainty that their sword will insure to them even greater vindications . " All this is typical of the wave of confidence that is sweeping over Italy today , but it is accompanied by a realization that victory has not yet been won . The writers knew that before the evening was over their hopes might have been blasted , but the Italians , like the Germans , are so used to success that they can not conceive it all ending In a general catastrophe . Vatican Also is Optimistic Even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Ignaz Moscicki 's reply to President Roosevelt accepting direct negotiations with Germany . The reception of the Pope 's broadcast for peace continues to be favorable , even in reports from Germany , saying that it too has contributed to the general atmosphere of relief . The diplomatic activity is just as intense at the Papal Secretariat of State as in any European chancellery . The Ambassadors of Italy , Poland and Spain and the Secretary of the British Legation visited Mgr . Domenico Tardini , Assistant Secretary of State . Luigi Cardinal Maglione , Papal Secretary of State , has not returned from his vacation . At Castel Gandolfo Pope Pius received Francois Charles-Roux , French Ambassador to the Vatican . This feeling of optimism was strengthened for the Italians when they learned that Premier Mussolini had been in close touch with Herr Hitler yesterday . The dictators did not speak directly but , says the communiqu ? , Hans-Georg Viktor von Mackensen , the German Ambassador , at 3 P. M. brought a long telephoned message from Herr Hitler which Signor Mussolini answered immediately by telephoning to Bernardo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Herr Hitler at 6 P. M. At 9:30 P. M. another communication came by the same means from Herr Hitler to Il Duce and this time there was apparently no need to answer . Another message from Herr Hitler was delivered to Signor Mussolini tonight by Ambassador von Mackensen . The Premier receiver him with Count Ciano , the Foreign Minister , present , and according to the communiqu ? , he immediately replied to Herr Hitler . There was no inkling of what the message was about nor of any new development before the French and British replies are received that could have induced Herr Hitler to take this step . The Italians always believed that Signor Mussolini would intervene for peace and after that they felt sure he had . Signor Gayda even says that his suggestions were embodied in the presumed peace plan which Sir Nevile Henderson took to London . This confidence was not shaken by the communiqu ? issued this morning saying : " At 10 o'clock Il Duce received Ciano , Antonio Benni Minister of Communications , General Alberto Pariani Under-Secretary for War , Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Air , and General Favagrossa anti-aircraft chief with whom he discussed questions concerning military preparations . " Some pessimists jumped to the conclusion that the conversations with Herr Hitler must have been alarming but in general the meeting was taken as chiefly precautionary.                     