@@702683

txt The Steel Workers Organizing Committee filed charges late today with the National Labor Relations Board against the Republic Steel Corporation , asking an investigation of alleged acts of discrimination , coercion and intimidation which , it said , frustrated the operation of collective bargaining in the corporation 's plants . The petition , filed by Lee Pressman , general counsel for the S. W. 0 . C. , charged Republic . Corporation agents with shooting at pickets from within plants at Warren and Niles , Ohio . It asserted that the company maintained extensive arsenals , including machine guns and bombs , and that it had imported armed thugs and gunmen into the cities where it has mills to interfere with the right of peaceful picketing . The " back-to-work " movements among the workmen at the Republic plants , the petition contended , were sponsored and paid for by the corporation . These and numerous other charges called for investigation as a preliminary to an election in the Republic plants , said Mr .. Pressman , to decide whether the S. W. 0 . C. represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner Labor Relations Act . In submitting the petition , Mr. Pressman wrote that the S. W. 0 . C. was " extremely desirous " of such an election , conducted under the auspices of the National Labor Relations Board , but that " the policy of discrimination , coercion and intimidation which has been followed and maintained by the Republic Steel Corporation since the organizing campaign of this committee , and continued during the present strike , makes it impossible to have such an election conducted at the present time in a fair , impartial manner . " Secretary Perkins of the Labor Department wired to Governor Davey of Ohio an official notification that the Federal board of mediation had been created following his request for Federal intervention in the steel strike . She asked the Governor to maintai status quo with regards to mill operations in Ciao d mediation . The message to , Governor D was as follows : " Your telegram to the Presi urging Federal intervention steel situation referred to L Department . Have appointed eral steel mediation board Ch P. Taft , Lloyd Garrison and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State government help and ask your full cooper with this board . " Very important that peac maintained at all points d 11 rges . The board , if it finds cient grounds to do so , after investigation , is empowered to a complaint against the Reic Steel Corporation and set ice for public hearings . The specific charges of the S. W. 0 . C. were grouped under four categories of unfair labor actices outlined by the Wagner or Act , which the petition said e being employed by the Relic Steel Corporation . They were to the effect that the geyporation had discharged a score or more of workers because of their bership or activities in the W. 0 . C. ; that the corporation hit121. closed down its tin mill at ton , Ohio , for no reason , unting to a lockout of workers ; the corporation had interfered , restrained and coerced its ployes in the exercise of rights gliRranteed in the Wagner Labor tilt , and that the corporation bad isiecninated and interfered with the &Emotion; and administration . of certain labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of board . Maintenance of order and of civil rights is of course a primary function of State governments , and it is anticipated and expected that you and other Governors will act with wisdom and fairness to this end . " Request you to maintain the ' status quo ' with regard to - operations during mediation . Believe under suggested conditions board can act with speed . Pleased be assured of cooperation from us . " Inquiry by Labor Board Labor Board officials said they would send representatives into Ohio immediately to inquire into the truth of the S. W. 0 . C.                     