@@704116

txt A sound upturn in economic activity accompanied by new job opportunities was , foreseen by Alfred P. Sloan , Jr. , Chairman of General Motors Corporation , in a statement prepared for the forthcoming quarterly report to stockholders . The automo- bile magnate cited hundreds of ni-u ' products and processes now in process of development or already developed to substantiate his belief . " With only casual public notice , " said Mr. Sloan , " there has been emerging from industrial laboratories and scientific workshops everywhere during the depression years , a flow of new products and new concepts which bid fair to build for us in reality , a new world of tomorrow . " Proof In New Things Proof of the amazing number and variety of new things , some already being produced on a commercial basis , others so well ad-1 vanced in the laboratory as to indicate the probability of their , practical application in a short time , was discovered by Mr. Sloan in a recent survey among more than 100 industrial organizations large and small , made in connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Fair . In the automobile world alone , such things as hypoid gears , steel tops , coil spring suspension , rubber insulation , improved headlights , better brakes , new fabrics , higher speed engines , and a host of other improvements herald better cars every year . " We have had forced on our attention too much the descending spiral of events that led to depression lows , " Mr. Sloan declared . " It seems advisable to recall here that there are equally effective and powerful forces which , once set in motion and given freedom to act , will build an ascending spiral leading to new levels of prosperity and progress . " Mr. Sloan , pondering the often-raised question  --  What motivating forces are in the offing to act , as did the great industrial developments of past decades , as new accelerating agents for the general economy ?  - -  offered in reply the statement that " one emphatic answer lies in the laboratories of industry , in the constant striving for more and better products at lower cost . No substitute has yet been found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrumentality for the production of better values for customers and I the promotion of new job oppor-1 tunities . " The horizons of enterprise . were never broader than they are ' today . New knowledge and new ' skills have opened up fields of possibilities little dreamed of even a decade ago . There exist the elements that will importantly contribute to the restoration of our national economy , the renewal of the upward trend in our standards of living and that security which only opportunity can supply . These social and economic goals lie well within our reach . " Trend Up As proof of his assertions , the General Motors Chairman cited numerous examples from a long list of recent industrial developments as indicative of the means by which the accumulated deficiency of goods might be overcome and movement begun again toward a resumption of the upward trend . He explained that as new products are made and new methods discovered to bring new and old products within the reach of more people , job opportunities are developed and better standards of living prevail . " In no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the depression years than in that of chemistry , " he said . " The science of synthetics , through which new substances are brought Into being from coal , milk , cotton , wood , from water . and the elements of the air , seems to broaden with each forward step . Plastics , a growing family of chemically-created materials , are finding hundreds of new uses in industry and the home , promoting'job opportunities all along the line from the raw material to the sale of the finished product . Synthetic fibers make possible textile filaments and fabrics with entirely new characteristics , more durable and with wider utility than any now in general use . Here are new industries in the making , with what benefits in the way of expanded employment and consumer gains can only be surmised. "                     