@@700529

txt Wednesday 's addresses on the Recovery program before the Academy of Political Science were of wide scope ; doubtless that was inevitable from the nature of the subject . The views set forth ranged all the way from Mr. OWEN YOUNG 'S warning against the Government 's taking such a hand in industry as would make it a " contestant with its own people , " and Mr. OGDEN 11.4-nT q 's epigrammatic declaration that " we shall never solve the " paradox of want in the midst of o ' plentyby doing away with plenty , " to Mr. LEgTINGWELL 'S endorsement of the Administration 's " revaluation " policy and Professor WARREN 'S exposition of his own theories regarding gold and prices . Speakers who criticized the public actions and policies of the twelvemonth past were at a certain disadvantage , because they were talking . not of tentative proposals , but of policies that had been put into actual effect . It is , for instance , far easier to defend or apologize for actions such as dollar devaluation or repudiation of a gold-payment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . Ex-Secretary - Nrcrisi , therefore , who was regarded as an " opposition speaker , " confined himself mostly to urging a balanced public budget and a properly reformed private banking system . Mr. YOUNG by implication scored the Securities Act and perhaps the Stock Exchange Bill , urging that we shall not find the way out of our present difficulties through " paralyzing security " markets or inhibiting new capital " issues . " Mr. LEFFINGWELL had a word to say of the recent light-hearted talk concerning the " downfall of the capita/Ls-tic system " ; suggesting that those who may have imagined such a thing do not know what it would mean , " how " completely impossible it would be to " support the earth 's population with " out that elaborate mechanism . " All the speakers agreed in principle that the gold standard must be and would be preserved . Professor WARREN 'S argument for adherence to the quantitative-money theory in the most rigid conceivable application of it was not new . He has set forth his formulas before , and they were even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economists a century ago . The cornerstone of his theories is the assumption that prices , except in a very " and temporary " way , can move neither up nor down except in response to changes in the supply of gold or in the Monetary demand for it . The fact that the war , with its dislocation of industry and its prodigious demand for materials , regardless of cost , was primarily responsible for the rise in prices after 1914 is necessarily admitted by the professor . But the abnormal rise is ascribed by him entirely to the abandonment of gold payments throughout Europe and to the consequent assumed relaxation in the demand for gold . In the practical business man 's opinion that the belligerent States " went off gold " in wartime primarily in order to preserve their existing gold holdings against private hoarding and possible public emergencies ; that the post-war " scramble for gold " had its origin largely in the heavy external shipments caused by the period 's disordered finance and trade , and by the rush to call home all available gold balances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Professor WARREN takes no interest whatever . His remark that " we have had twen " ty years of monetary chaos , and prob " ably will have ten to twenty more " before the war and post-war currency disorders are entirely overcome , could not be described as cheerful . It reminds one of the offhand retrospective assertion of TRORoLD ROGERS , to the effect that the economic consequences of the Napoleonic conflict were felt by Europe at least up to.the time of the Crimean War . But European history nevertheless tells of " booms " as well as reactions during the thirty-nine intervening years .                     