@@697059

txt The fall of the Tardieu Government has precipitated a national political crisis of great embarrassment to those who above all else are most anxious to see a new regime quickly take up the serious foreign and domestic problems with which the defeated Cabinet was at grips . After a day of numerous consultations in which he sougnt the advice of many of the nation 's most influential political leaders , President Doumergue tonight was as far from a solution of the sudden Ministerial impasse as he was early in the morning . Among the first to be called to the Elysee Palace was former Premier Poincare . He motored to the Presidential residence and , with his brisk youthful manner of old , he hurried up the steps and was soon engaged in a long talk with the President . Although he refused all comment , it is known he informed the President that his physicians strongly advised him to remain out of politics for some time to come . Only a grave national crisis in which the vital interests of the republic were at stake would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The former Premier 's decision caused widespread disappointment , especially among the mass of conservative Frenchmen , who saw in the distinguished statesman one man who could lift the country out of its unenviable Parliamentary position . That he could have had the Premiership for the asking could almost go without saying , and with it he would have been assured of a greater Chamber majority than any living politician can today rally . Opinion Turns to Tardieu . With M. Poincare out of the running , conservative opinion turned to the defeated M. Tardieu , who , after all , was shorn of his power by a freak vote and an abnormal situation . Had five absent Ministers been present and had the Premier himself been able to rise from his sick bed and simply make his appearance before the Chamber , the adverse vote would in all probability have been turned to a favorable one . It is suggested , therefore , that when the Radical-Socialists fail to evolve a new government  --  and a good many observers think they will fail  --  M. Tardieu will then be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is even advanced as a probability that the Radical-Socialists themselves . eager for power after a long period of being on the outside looking in , would be willing to serve with M. Tardieu , provided they were accorded the Ministry of Interior and one or two other choice posts . Those who are behind the movement for another Tardieu Government have found well-established precedent for the energetic leader . It is recalled that when in the course of a financial debate in 1924 and during the absence of M. Poincare , the Finance Minister , M. de Lasteyrie , provoked defeat on a question of confidence , M. Poincare buried his resentment and at once re-formed his Ministry , replacing de Lasteyrie with a man more acceptable to the Chamber . M. Tardieu , it is asserted , could not in the present crisis do better than to follow the example set by his illustrious predecessor and resume power in the likely event of the President of the republic again calling him to action . Such a course , it is argued . would insure continuity of the foreign policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new Finance Minister and a more generous policy regarding tax reductions a new Tardieu ? regime would be able to pursue its interrupted program to a logical conclusion . ? Meanwhile M. Tardieu himself re : mains silent . He is quickly recovering from the attack of grip which was indirectly the cause of his downfall and spent the clay in close con ' forence with his intimate advisers . No one tonight seems to know wheth. er he is willing to try again , but every one grants him a Ministry in whatever other kind of government may be formed . The name of Camille Chautemps , leader of the powerful Radical-Socialists in the Chamber of IDeputic.s. was again actively in the forefront of strong possibilities , and in the course of the day he had two long chats with the President . In corn ; mon with nearly all political leaders , he is strongly of the opinion that the present crisis will not he long ; n duration and that the end of the week quite likely will see a new government again at work . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , obvious . NVith most del:e7oe foreign negotiations suspended in ' grden end a series of perplexing in ternal qu-stions needing urgent at tention at home , even the most ardent players of the poi cal game admit that the best interests of the country demand a speedy termination of the crisis . Without prognosticating in the midst of tonight 's confusion , the only combination which appears to be engaging the minds of politicians is a government of " Republican concentration , " with an outstanding Radieal-Socialist  --  M. Chautemps or possibly ' Maurice Sarraut  --  as Premier and M. Briand as Foreign Minister and chief delegate in London and M. Tardieu as Finance Minister or Minister of Marine , provided he consent-3 to serve . Late tonight the name of M. Friend was mentionelegt a possible way out of the crisis . ? " The Republican-Socialists , his partisans , began to busy themselves in his behalf after the Socialists had signified their willing ! ness to combine with the Radical-So , eialists with a view to the formation of an all-Left government . Three Radical-Socialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were indicated as other available figures if the next Premier is to come from the Left . Commenting on this agitation for en entirely Left government , Le Matin remarks : " Needless to say . such a solution would have no other result but to bring about another fall of a Cabinet in a short time . " Such a government would count on the support of the Radical-Socialists , the Centre groups and possibly a certain number of the Right , to ! gether with a portion of the so-called independents . The difficulties of forming a stable government are easily understood when it is considered that 280 Deputies are classed as of the Right , 260 as of the Left and sixty or seventy independents , or floaters as the ? French term them . The problem of finding a working majority with this alignment is more than evident . Much depends upon how determined the Radical-Socialists are to take power . A meeting tomorrow will decide this question and a decision to press for a Radical-Socialist ' government may force the President to give them an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the parliamentary crisis in ? October when they refused M. Tardieu 's offer of cooperation , the leaders seem more conciliatory . Many Sympathize With Tardier ! . The average man in France is strongly inclined to sympathize with M. Tardieu over the manner in which his opponents caused his downfall . His prestige as a political leader of undoubted ability remains paired and a majority of the French people give him full credit for having ably defended the best intereste ; of France both at The Hague and at London . That he was the victim of his own intensive energy can not be doubted . By insisting upon being present throughout the delicate negotiatiorf at The Hague and later at London he was forced to neglect home politics  --  a mistake which an older and more experienced Premier probably would not have made . Like a large section of the public , he appeared to labor under the impression that there was a sort of party truce for the period of the London conference , hut when he returned to Paris last ; Friday he found to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that those who hungered for power were actively plotting his defeat . In the government 's finance policy the Opposition had ample material for battle . By hastening amortization of the national debt at the expense of the taxpayer and in refusing to apply a greater portion of the budget excess to tax reductions , the government risked a certain amount of popularity it had gained through its conduct abroad . M. Cheron , Finance Minister , defended his policy , which was that of M. Tardier ' , by saying that it was merely a reflection of M. Poincare 's , but he failed to consider that M. Poincar ? himself admitted his tax program was only temporary and should be modified at the first opportunity . Despite this , however , competent political organs are convinced that the finance bill was a pretext for those who had decided upon the fall of M. Tardier ' and that internal politics and a desire for power on the part of the Opposition groups was ; et the bottom of last night 's adverse vote . Three Possibilities in View . PARIS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had not called M. Briand to form a new Cabinet , although M. Briand was certain to form a part of the new government . Political circles believe that the ; President had not called M. Poincar ? with a view of asking him to headl a government but merely was seeking his advice . Three alternatives faced the President tonight : 1 . A Left Government headed by Camille Chautemps , with M. Briand a : ; ' minister of Foreign Affairs . 2 . A Briand hybrid government , with the majority recruited from the moderates of the Left , Right and Centre . 3 . A Tardieu-Poincare Cabinet leaning toward the Right , withal moderate . Former Premier Tardieu was reported improved tonight , although coughing severely . The effect of the Cabinet crisis on the London conference has given an international aspect to France 's domestic political difficulties . It is in this light that most of the newspapers comment on it . In an outspoken editorial , Le Temps this afternoon warned that " formidable pressure " was now being exercised on France in London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the English press is conducting a campaign calculated to give a false impression of the French position , which it says is " a not over-scrupulous manoeuvre of intimidation " intended to permit " some nations " to keep their naval supremacy . The newspaper even goes so far as to hint that the London conference may have to he adjourned if the French Cabinet crisis lasts very long . However . it expresses the hope that this will be unnecessary . The defeat of the Tardieu Government Ind echoes today at a meeting of one of the Chamber groups of the Left , which unanimously voted to throw its support to a government which would defend at London a naval program indispensable to the security and independence of France . The Socialist Deputies adopted a resolution ? that " Tardieu 's reactionl'y government " had been struck a ' mortal blow in its entirety by the Chamber 's adverse vote , thus insinuating that M. Tardieu himself had been discredited . The resolution added that the Socialists were willing to form a Cabinet and even were ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a program of reform and peace .                     