@@704119

txt The American Medical Association , three other medical organizations and twenty-one physicians won a preliminary victory today when-Justice James M. Proctor of the District of Columbia Federal Court dismissed an anti-trust indictment against them on the ground that medical practice is not a trade within the meaning of the act . The action was brought by the Department of Justice , on behalf of Group Health Association , Washington , a medical cooperative , under the restraint of trade provision of the Sherman act . The indictment , returned in December after nearly three months of deliberation by a specially impaneled grand jury , accused the American Medical Association , ' the Medical Society of the District of Columbia , the Washington Academy of Surgery and the Harris County Medical Society of Houston , Texas , and twenty-one doctors , including officials and members of these societies , who were named as co-defendants , of conspiring to restrain the activities of the cooperative association of government employes , in arranging for medical care for their members and dependents ; alleged restraints extended to and included " doctors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the operation of their businesses . ' ? ? In a decision . that Justice Department attorneys said would be appealed , Justice Proctor held that the thesis of government counsel that " trade " embraces all who habitually supply " money 's worth for money payment , " and their contention that the statute should be so broadly construed " represents an extreme position which does violence to the common understanding of the word ' trade , ' rejects authoritative decisions of our courts and ignores cardinal rules of statutory construction . " Indictment Is Criticized In addition , Justice Proctor criticized as indifferent and uncertain and lacking in material facts the indictment brought against the defendants , in which . on the other hand , ' ' inference , opinion and conjecture were freely indulged . " " This is especially so in the indictment , much of which seems unnecessary to the statement of the charge , " Justice Proctor said . " It is questionable whether some of it would be deemed relevant and competent in proof of the offense . " Ordinarily , improper matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vitiate the indictment . It will be treated as surplusage and disregarded . But I doubt if such treatment would suffice to relieve these defendants of the prejudice likely to arise by an indictment which smacks so much of a highly colored argumentative discourse . " In view of these criticisms of the indictment , officials of the Department of Justice are uncertain whether to proceed with an appeal direct to the Supreme Court on the main issue or to call a new grand jury to consider another indictment in a different technical form . In a statement issued tonight the department announced that it would seek to reverse on both counts the decision handed down by Justice Proctor , but that " the fact that it partly rests upon this second ground complicates the appeal . " " This decision , " the Justice Department states , " declares the indictment invalid on two grounds : First , that , because of a restricted definition of the word ' trade ' in the Sherman act , physicians are entitled to conspire with and boycott hospitals in order to exclude other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Second , because the indictment does not inform the defendants of the crime with which they are charged . Medical Profession Is Warned " The department makes this statement not for the purpose of criticizing the opinion but for the reason that it is important to inform physicians generally that until the Supreme Court has acted the government 's prosecution policy toward boycotts in the medical profession is unchanged . " None of the reasoning of the opinion persuades the department that doctors are free to engage in practices which would be illegal if they belonged to some other calling . " The Supreme Court decision in the Atlantic Cleaners and Dyers case was cited by the government 's attorneys and also by Justice Proctor , in support of their conclusions , the latter taking issue with the interpretation relied on by the former and declaring that the decision in that case not only does not uphold but explicitly denies the government 's contention : Justice Story 's ruling on this point , cited in full by Justice Proctor in his twelve-page decision , was that the word " trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense as equivalent to occupation , employment or business , whether manual or mercantile " ; and that " whenever any occupation , employment or business is carried on for the purpose of profit , or gain , or livelihood , not in the liberal arts or in the learned professions , it is constantly called a trade . " Civil Action Is Cited The case of Pratt v. Medical Association , 1KB244 , " upon which the prosecution places much reliance , " Justice Proctor added , " is interesting in the similarity of facts there proven and here alleged , yet the legal aspects differ greatly . That suit was a civil action in tort by the plaintiff doctors to receive damages for malicious injury to their means of livelihood . The claim was ground upon common law principles which hold every man liable in damages for wrongful injury to another 's means of livelihood . " Combination was not the gist of the action ; that circumstance only increased the damage . So here , if the livelihood of group practitioners has been injured by the wrongful acts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil court . But the charge in the present case is criminal , and to stand must find its sanction solely in the statute . " Manifestly , according to Justice Proctor , neither the Group Health Association , its members nor the Washington hospitals are engaged in " trade " within the meaning of the statute , and he held that " to stretch an old statute to fit to new uses for which it was never intended would be nothing short of judicial legislation . " Times Wide World , 1931 UPHOLDS MEDICAL MEN Justice James M. Proctor activities , firmly reliant in the belief that every action taken by the association has been in accordance with its constitutional organization in the interests of the public welfare for advancing standards and quality of medical service for the American people ; and that at no time has it violated the established law of the Federal , State or municipal governments of this country . Moreover , by the very nature of its organization , it has preserved constantly the democratic principles on which the government of the United States is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Terry M. Townsend , president of the Medical Society of the State of New York and a leader in the fight on the side of the American Medical Association , declared yesterday that the decision of the court was exactly what had been expected . " We never believed that the case would go to a jury , " Dr. Townsend said . " The suit was simply a gesture on the part of the Attorney General to get a consent decree , to which we would never have consented . " A different view was taken by Dr. Kingsley Roberts , head of the Bureau of Cooperative Medicine and one of the leaders in the fight for group medical care . Informed of the decision , Dr. Roberts said : " The decision , if upheld , returns the issues raised by this case to the court of public opinion . We trust that the decision will not be interpreted in such a way that immunity becomes license . We look for no recurrence of the Group Health incident because the A. M. A. now agrees that some form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely the result of disagreement over method . The way to determine the issue is for organized medicine to make available to the public concrete plans for carrying out their proposal for health insurance . These experiments will then stand with group health plans already in existence , and the public can choose the one which best meets its needs . " The newly formed National Organization of Group Health Plans stands squarely back of the Group Health Association in Washington . This new organization and the Bureau of Cooperative Medicine still stand ready to cooperate with the A. M. A. to protect the public in the conduct of the A. M. A. experiment and group health plans . " flenies Opposing Group Method Special 10 THE NEW YORK TIMES . CHICAGO , July ** of the American Medical Association , including Dr. Olin West , secretary , and Dr. Morris Fishbein , editor of The A. M. A. Journal , issued this statement concerning the action of the Federal court in Washington : " The principles and policies of the American Medical Association do not forbid nor have they ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of medical service , when the need can be established ; neither is there any fundamen I principle or policy which in any manner opposes aid to the indigent when indigence can be established . " The American Medical Association has always welcomed investigation by any authorized agency of the nature of its organization or of the conduct of its work or of its                     