@@700256

txt Lawson Purdy has had a long experience with taxes , and few there are who better knqw the subject . Recently he ventured to propound a question to which there is no reasonable answer , yet the answer to which we all know . As he put it in an interesting way , this writer believes the reader will be interested in his presentation , which may be summarized as follows : In framing income tax laws , the states and the federal government have offered to their citizens certain definite rewards for making certain kinds of investments , and have imposed certain definite penalties upon them for making certain other kinds . Whit he wants to know is why citizens who claim those rewards and avoid those penalties should be held guilty of reprehensible conduct . For example , take the case of tax-free state and municipal bonds . Congress exempted income from those obligations from the incidence of income tax . Mr. Purdy says : " If Congress had seen fit to tax the income of state and municipal bonds in a proper way and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Supreme Court would have said that Congress and the legislatures meant what they said . Instead of that . Congress saw fit to exempt the income of municipal and state bonds , thus paying a large bonus to persons with S100,000 a year or more for owning such bonds . Public officials then complain when persons buy such bonds " Capital Gains Economically Not Income Again . in the matter of " capital gains and losses . " Mr. Purdy says : " Congress saw fit to tax capital gains and call it income . Economically it is not income , and one would think that the courts would have seen that and so said . Unfortunately , they did not : so capital gains have been taxable and capital losses have been offsettable against capital gains . It follows that Congress desired persons to sell any property they could for less than it cost them because Congress gave them a bonus for so doing . Now public officials complain when persons dothat , which Congress said should be rewarded by large sums . Why ? " Well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience of this writer recorded here by him a year or so ago , which he will , however , venture to repeat . An acquaintance in discussing with him the action of a corporation in so arranging its affairs as to minimize its taxation , pronounced this action to be " immoral . " This writer protested  - -  gently - -  and wg.s thereupon informed m very heated fashion by his acquaintance that he had been " brought up in a different school of morals than I have , " which remark , ungrammatical , unexpected and momentarily disconcerting as it was , was nevertheless undoubtedly true ! The answer to Mr. Purdy 's question " Why ? " ? seems to be that if our politicians arc right the " school of morals " which this writer 's acquaintance attended must have had for pupils the majority of " the people " to whom the politicians must appeal for their support . Light on Practical Side Soon The coming SCSSi0I1 of Congress should throw some light on the practical side of the question , for the Ways and Means Committee of the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of raising more money by taxation , and it is certain that we shall have some new proposals to that end  --  and particularly to the end of " stopping the leaks in the law , " by which taxes can be " evaded " by the " wealthy . " Particularly interesting should be the way in which " capital gains and losses " are to be treated for the purpose of taxation of income . the law stood originally , gross " capital gains " were income and gross " capital losses " wale a deduction from income ? which was reasonable if we admit that capital gains are " income " at all Then we changed that law so as to provide that net capital gains are " income ' but net capital losses are in certain circumstances not a deduction from income ? which was not reasonable . Shall we push this departure further in the direction of treating capital gross gains as income , disregarding altogether capital losses ' Why not ? if reason or logic has nothing to do with , the matter ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will find graduates from the " school of morals " of this writer 's acquaintance to defend it , and that " ln principle , " because it is " in the public interest . " Curious that the aforesaid " school of morals " seems to be a more or less indigenous product with us ! So far as this writer is aware , it has not , in this particular matter , established itself elsewhere to any marked extent . Following Mr. Purdy 's example this writer will conclude with a " Why ? " .                     