@@698892

txt While no irreparable damage as yet has been done principal early vegetable crops , the weather has been sufficiently unfavorable to threaten a serious shortage of canning material this season . Canners have not been specifying for containers in usual volume this year because of generally depressed conditions , which have affected the movement of canned goods to the retail trade and has restricted the amount of credit available for marketing purposes . For this reason leading can companies such as American Can Co. and Continental Can Co .. Inc. , are watching the progress of the crops with unusual interest . It is realized that events of the next few weeks will have an Important bearing upon the can companies ' business volume and earnings , and may also determine dividend policies of the two companies . Government reports have not emphasized the unfavorable weather in the Northeast , because too often a reversal has taken place in June , which normally is a favorable month . Numerous private reports , however , indicate that vegetable crops in states which supply canning tonnage have not received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Acreage Cut With evidence accumulating that the fruit pack will be unusually small , the principal interest of the moment is in the progress of the pea crop . Reports from states which supply most of the canning tonnage have indicated that the growth has been retarded by a lack of sufficient rainfall . Acreage of peas planted this . season was cut substantially , so that unfavorable weather would bring about a small harvest . Even if weather is normal for the rest of this month , it is likely the harvest of peas will be smaller than anticipated earlier to the season . With hot or dry weather the pack would be Jr reparably damaged And plantings of corn and other crops which have been retarded would be further set back . In short , the pea crop needs better than average weather to make up for its early deficiencies . Can Earnings Would Be Hit Unfavorable growing weather for the crops undoubtedly would affect adversely earnings of the can companies for the current year . Since 1930 , when a large carryover of stocks and the general business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canning industry has been trying to limit its production and restore price levels to a point where orderly marketing and normal conditions would develop . Therefore crop shortages would work hardship in some instances , but certainly would clean out supplies and provide a comparatively large market for nest year 's crops . There has been a noticeable falling off in canned goods consumption during the later stages of the business depression , possibly because the decline in food prices has emphasized the cost of package articles as compared with bulk or loose merchandise . The greater part of the decline . however . probably can be attributed to generally curtailed purchasing power .                     