@@698488

txt Newton D. Baker issued a statement yesterday , just before he sailed for a brief vacation in Mexico City , in which he declared that the League of Nations was not a political issue , that it should not be opposed or advocated in the political platform of ' either major party , and that if he had the power he would not take the United States into the League unless an enlightened majority of the people favored the step . Membership in the League , based on partisan sentiment , would be a " feeble thing , " he declared . The immediate reaction here to the statement was that Mr. Baker was attempting to remove the chief obstacle to his eligibility for the Democratic Presidential nomination , regardless of whether he was willing to make an active drive in opposition to Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt , who at present is regarded as far in the lead . The reaction was similar In Washington . Simeon D. Fess. chairman of the Republican National Committee , said : " It looks as though his hat was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Baker was seeking to remove the obstacle of irrevocable commitment to the League , opinion was divided as to whether he would consent to wage an active campaign for the nomination . Mr. Baker has been looked upon as the " logical candidate " of the Smith-Raskob-Shouse group in the Democratic party , if former Governor Smith does not attempt to get the nomination again himself . Keeps Own Opinion on League . In declaring that the League of Nations did not belong in the platform of either party , Mr. Baker reserved to himself " as a private citizen " the right of maintaining his own opinion as to whether this country should enter the League . " Any opinion , " he declared , " that I entertain on the subject of America 's relationship to the League of Nations must be such as any private citizen is entitled to entertain . I have stated publicly several times within the past two or three years that the question of America 's joining the League is at present not a matter in the field of practical political discussion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not take the United States into the League if I had the power to do so until there is an informed and convinced majority sentiment in favor of that action by the United States . I am not in favor of a plank in the Democratic national platform urging our joining the League . I think it would be a great mistake to make a partisan issue of the matter . " I think that we will go into the League some day , and I think we ought to , but I do n't think we should take that action until the people of the United States have had a chance to see the League in action , and to study its action enough to be fully satisfied as to the wisdom of such a course . Opposes a Partisan Entry . " I do not think that the Democratic party should advocate our entrance into the League just because Woodrow Wilson favored it . On the other hand , I do not think that the Republican party ought to be for or against the League for any like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League based on a sharp division of partisan sentiment in this country would be a feeble thing , and would not give the United States the opportunity to exercise whatever power for good our membership there might be hoped to produce . " In the meantime I feel that it is wise for the United States to cooperate with the League with the utmost sympathy in its efforts to preserve peace , and for the American people to study the League and so overcome some of our unwarranted prejudices against it . " All of the foregoing was contained in a prepared statement made public after Mr. Baker had sailed by The New York World-Telegram , which has been booming him for the Democratic Presidential nomination , and released shortly afterward to other newspapers and news services . Says He Is Not a Candidate . No intimation of any utterance of the sort was given by Mr. Baker when newspaper men interviewed him shortly before he departed at noon with Mrs. Baker the Ward liner Siboney . " Are you a candidate for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer such a question unless it came from a higher authority , " Mr. Baker said . He paused , and added : " No , I think I 'll answer the question directly . The answer is no. " - If a man receives the nomination , should he accept ! " " I recognize no compulsion or coercion about that , " Mr. Baker replied . In response to a question as to whether the Democratic party had a chance to win this year , Mr. Baker declared that in off years the Democratic party had always been invincible and that at present " a very great call " awaited it . " Will prohibition be the big issue ? " he was asked . " Obviously not , " was the reply . In his individual report a year ago as a member of the Wickersham Commission Mr. Baker openly advocated repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and remission of the whole question of policy and enforcement to the States . He suggested that if , for practical reasons , immediate repeal was thought unattainable , a test of sentiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested in the commission 's report . Were it adopted , he pointed out , this would accomplish " the double result of removing an arbitrary and inflexible police regulation from the Constitution , where , it seems to me , it should never have been put , and of giving Congress the power to adapt Federal legislation on the subject , from time to time , to the realities of the situation as they may develop . " He explained that he had signed the commission 's report " because it is a fair finding of the facts disclosed to us by such evidence as was available , and because it is clear , so long as the Constitution and law remain as they are , the recommendations of the report should be carried out to aid . the executive charged with the duty of enforcement , , He NEWTON D. BAKER . expressed the opinion that the problem " is insoluble so long as it is permitted to require a nation-wide Federal enforcement of a police regulation of variance with the settled habits and beliefs of so large a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here yesterday on Mr. Baker 's statement , coming as it did only three days after the formal declaration by Governor Roosevelt of his own candidacy . The tendency has been to regard him as the most promising candidate of the " anti-Roosevelt ' Democrats . Hitherto , it was said , Mr. Baker has labored under a handicap of being the principal advocate of American entrance into the League of Nations , at a time when sentiment throughout the country is supposed to be calling for settlement of the country 's internal problems . Should Mr. Baker permit a campaign to be waged in his behalf , it was believed yesterday , there is an excellent chance that the Smith strength in the party will be thrown to him . New Jersey and Illinois , with a total of ninety delegates to the convention and other delegates from New England , would be the natural nucleus of any anti-Roosevelt move by the Smith faction . It is admitted that rounding up sufficient delegates for such a move to block a Roosevelt nomination on the early ballots is difficult , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed the Baker movement may help to dissipate some of the Roosevelt strength . That the Roosevelt camp has been attempting to obtain the endorsement of Mr. Smith , instead of letting it go to some one else , has been known for some time . The attitude of some of Governor Roosevelt 's friends has been to regard former Governor Smith not as a serious candidate for the nomination , but rather as a leader who feels that he should be consulted in the picking of the nominee , because of his post as titular leader of the party . As far as can be learned , the efforts of the Roosevelt camp to obtain that endorsement have not met with success ; in fact , there was a rebuff to the move yesterday . It came in the form of a denial , issued on behalf of the former Governor , that he planned any visit to Albany this month or next . Intimations have come from there , in the past two days , that Governor Roosevelt expected a social call from his predecessor at the State Capitol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no breach between the two . The middle of February was the time hinted at for the call . Coincidentally , there was another effort by the Roosevelt faction yesterday to find out what , if anything , the former Governor planned to do between now and the time for the picking of delegates . Robert H. Jackson , National Committeeman from New Hampshire and secretary of the Democratic National Committee , elected to the latter post by the Roosevelt votes at the recent national committee meeting in Washington , called on former Governor Smith at the Empire State Building . Mr. Jackson pledged his State to Roosevelt some time ago , and the Roosevelt camp counted on its eight delegates , until it was indicated that a considerable drive for former Governor Smith was being started there . It was announced that a full slate of Smith delegates would be filed there , in opposition to the slate pledged to Roosevelt . The New Hampshire primary is on March 8 . Observers have expressed the belief that a victory for the Smith slate would be a severe blow to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opinion that the matter would iron itself out . The Jackson visit was interpreted as a move by the Roosevelt managers to find out exactly what the Smith plans In New Hampshire are . A victory there for the Smith group would have its effect in Massachusetts , Rhode Island and Connecticut , where there Is a disposition on the part of a large element in the Democratic party to follow the Smith banner if it is unfurled , or to throw its strength to any candidate he selects , if he decides not to make the race himself .                     