@@700802

txt Business interests and the city 's clergy joined yesterday in a strong protest against the lottery scheme to raise relief funds as degrading and shocking to the moral sense of the community . The Greater New York Federation of Churches voted a " vigorous condemnation of the lottery plan , " Charles Trexler , president of the federation , announced . Percy C. Magnus , president of the New York Board of Trade , in a letter to the members of the Board of Estimate , said that " the moral sense of the community is shocked by such a proposal " and that " a lottery is beneath the dignity of our city . " Legal Action Threatened . The Society for the Prevention of Crime , through its president , the Rev. George Drew Egbert , threat . ened to take legal action . " This cuts to the root of the whole gambling situation and results in a lowering of the moral tone of the city , " said Dr. Egbert . Pointing out that the plan had been hurried through the Municipal Assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give opponents to it a hearing . Protesting the tax on business of one-tenth of 1 per cent , the Fifth Avenue Association in a statement declared that " business obviously has been made the scapegoat of the city " land that the " course of least resistance is being followed by the city in the matter of taxation . " Tax On Subway Fare Urged . Urging that a tax on subway fares be imposed to raise relief funds , Mr. Magnus , in his letter , protested against the lottery as follows : " We do not believe that any emergency exists which warrants the substitution of gambling , which is unlawful , for taxation , which is a normal function of government . The moral sense of the community is shocked by such a proposal . Have we sunk so low that the financial future of the metropolis is to be determined by the ' roll of dice ' or the ' flip of cards ' ? Will the city set this example of disrespect for law by its evasion ? " Or are our elected officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case the New York- Board of Trade observes that the city needs ' leaders , ' not ' good fellows . ' " A lottery is beneath the dignity of our city ; it is an affront to its citizens and its business institu- tions ; it would be a sad reflection upon its public officials . " Mr. Magnus also protested against business tax and the tax of 15 per cent on the Federal income tax as burdensome and unfair . Declaring that a lottery violates the spirit if not the letter of the State Constitution , Dr. Egbert said his society would consult attorneys to decide what legal action to take . He said that before the tax plan was adopted the society had telegraphed a protest to the Mayor that " any attempt to relieve the situation by so-called lottery plans will inevitably sap the morals of our citizens and weaken the financial credit and standing of our city before the world . " The Rev. Allen Clay Lambert of St. Thomas Lutheran Church of the Bronx and a member of the Bronx clergy club which protested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , against his lottery plan at the time it was formulated , made another protest yesterday . " I think the Mayor should take a definite stand against the lottery proposal , " he said . " When Mr. Lyons proposed it last Winter every member of a special committee of the Bronx Clergy Club opposed it . The Mayor should remember that a ' protestant uprising ' was partially responsible for his election . Other politicians may discover the power of an aroused public conscience , especially when they flagrantly fling in the face of a group of representative men what they know to , be morally wrong . " Recalls Episcopal Stand . The Rev. John Howard Melish of the Church of the Holy Trinity in Brooklyn made public a letter sent to the Board of Aldermen which said , in part : " The last convention of the Episcopal diocese of Long Island condemned the lottery as anti-social , leading some men to stake even their children 's breads kind of robbery by mutual agreement . Far better is it to put a tax on all ecclesiastical property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " William J. Pedrick , president of the Fifth Avenue Association , stated that " within six months the city has taxed business twice , although one of the pre-election statements of the present administration said Neat , glefinitelyA Wkoit Nork ' 4 ppir mary need is economy  --  not new taxes . ' " He said that business men and women were now looking with " their last vestige of hope " to real economies being made in the 1935 budget so that new taxes will not be necessary . The second hope of business for help from the administration lies in early unification of transit lines , he said . Stewart Browne , president of the United Real Estate Owners Association , declared that one-half of the relief cases were " fraudulent " and demanded that the police and other city agencies be used to check them constantly . Protests against the local income tax were made in Westchester by Stanley W. Church , a leafier in the rate fight against the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad , and by Mayor Robert P. Smith of White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said Mr. Church . " I do not feel that the people of Westchester County should be taxed twice for relief . They are finding it hard enough to pay for relief in their own county . " Mayor Smith , an attorney , said there would be a constitutional question involved if the city attempted to tax the salaries of Westchester residents employed in New York . Acting Postmaster Albert A. Goldman declined to comment on the attitude of the Postoffice Department on the legality of newspapers ? giving publicity to the scheme . " There is nothing officially before us at this moment , " he said . " I shall present the matter to the department in Washington for a ruling . "                     