@@702633

txt Business and industry , which participated vigorously in bringing about the downfall of NRA , today saw most advantages labor enjoyed under that law revived , strengthened and broadened in the new administration wage and hour bill while the counterbalancing advantages to the employer continue here to be the subject of abstract controversy . The original NRA attempted to balance advantages for employer with those for employee  --  and give some thought to the consumer in addition The new measure differs from NRA primarily in that this conception of a balance of interest is abandoned . Analyzed , it proves to be solely a labor measure designed to improve and protect standards of wages , hours and conditions of employment for labor . Coupled with the National Labor Relations Act  --  the so-called Wagner Act recently affirmed by the Supreme Court  --  the new measure completes the drafting of labor 's " stake " in the New Deal . The Wagner Act requires recognition by the employer of labor 's right of collective bargaining . The new bill will , if enacted , require that the employer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain wages , no more than certain hours of work , and other general conditions of employment . Consumer Ignored The consumer is completely ignored in the proposed bill . The employer stands to gain only in so far as elimination of wages and hour standards as competitive factors is an advantage to some producers . It would prove an advantage to the employer who pays relatively high wages and in other respects observes good labor standards It would obviously work to the disadvantage of any employer who now dependS for his profits on relatively low wages and long hours . Whether it would materially reduce the differentials which now prevail between , for example , New England and the South Atlantic industrial would depend on the composition of the board and its general attitude to wage and hour differentials . The bill is drawn loosely enough so that differentials would continue to exist . In the long run , however , the tendency of the act would be to raise standards in the low standard areas more nearly on a par with the high wage and short hour areas such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the proposed measure and abandoned NRA is the extent of the effect . NRA touched every employer in the country . The new bill ' contemplates touching only employers whose goods or services actually move in or affect interstate commerce . There is of course a wide margin for interpretation here , but drafters of the bill make it clear that they do not expect it to affect the fruit vendor on the street corner or the neighborhood dry cleaner . It is intended for manufacturers and mass employers of labor . However , it was considered necessary to write in for the protection of the interstate enterpriser a provision which may carry its scope much farther . This provision permits fix- frig of wage and hour standards for production of goods moving solely in commerce within a single state if they compete with similar goods moving in interstate commerce . This feature provides an opening which presumably could give access for federal labor control to many minor and local employers . Briefly , the bill proposes to utilize Congress ' power to regulate interstate commerce to ban from such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five-man government board to be known as the labor standards board would be set up to establish such standard labor conditions . Flexible Standards No specific standards would be created automatically . If enacted in present form the board would gradually , after , hearings and investigations , prorhulgate wage and hour standards for industries or occupations on regional terms . No time limit is placed on completion of this process . Having promulgated standards for a particular industrial group the board would be required to entertain poposals for modifications . An employe : request for downward modification would theoretically receive the same attention as a labor request for upward modificatibn . Considerable flexibility is contemplated and the board would enjoy wide discretion . Further , standards would be subject to modification at all times to avoid the inflexibility which was one of NRA 's most criticized features . Labor obtains not only the prospect of a floor under wages and a roof over hours  --  both to be maintained with the full power of the Federal Government  --  but also the use of this prospective control over wages and hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can bar from interstate commerce the product of any factory , mine or mill which indulges in an " oppressive labor practice , " and by definition this includes employment of strike breakers , espionage , refusal to bargain collectively , - ir refusal to deal with any bona fide labor organization . Test of Court Thus the wage and hour measure would be used incidentally as a reinforcement in the labor-New Deal attack on company unions , labor espionage , strike-breaking and all other practices which until now have constituted obstacles in the path of labor organization throughout the united States . The improbability that the Supreme Court as at present constituted would uphold such a sweeping proposal is being widely discussed here today as Congress and outside circles begin to digest the bill . This leads to the assumption that the Administration is not only enlisting labor support in its attack on the court by such a proposal , but also intends to test the court to the utmost . Any court which would uphold this bill would be all that Mr. Roosevelt or his liberal supporters could desire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt would have labor behind him wholeheartedly in his campaign for a change . The original intent of the drafters of the measure , according to reliable information , was to provide an extreme test of the court 's disposal to accept or reject social liberalism . The drafters expected to be able to prove by some future decision that the Supreme Court required ar ? overhauling . Since then the President has launched his court revision bill . The primary strategic purpose would , therefore . appear to be to enlist labor support in the court controversy . it is widely conceded here that more changes in the court than a single resignation would be necessary to obtain a favorable decision on the wage and hour bill .                     