@@699716

txt The United States Government declared formally and publicly for the first time today that some security measures were necessary for disarmament . It put one of them  --  international supervision of armaments ? on the same plane with abolition of aggressive weapons , classing the two as the chief means toward disarmament and it expressed willingness to consider the reinforcing of supervision still further as the French desire . Another security measure ? consultation when peace is threatened ? it accepted in principle , agreeing to state definitely its views on this principle later . How far the United States will go in these directions depends on how far the others go toward disarmament , it was stated , the explanation being added : " We are prepared to make very great efforts to assist in the maintenance of peace when a determination to preserve peace is evidenced by the achievement of real measures for mutual and progressive disarmament . " This statement thus crystallizing the basic shift in American policy that has been gradually taking place in the past few years was made by Norman H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500-word paper to an attentive meeting of the disarmament conference this afternoon . The immediate tactical effort was to end , as Mr. Davis desired , further discussion now of the consultative chapter in the British draft treaty with the probability that the bureau will decide tomorrow to steer the conference next into a discussion either of one of the disarmament chapters or , as Mr. Davis argued today , of Article XCIV dealing with the duration of the treaty . Whether . Mr. Davis 's strategical purpose of getting the French and others to agree to greater disarmament will succeed , remains , of course , to be seen , but it is noteworthy that Rene Massigli of France especially welcomed what he ' called the " statement of the very greatest positive value . " Says It Is Our Policy to Confer . Two items in the Davis statement were outstanding . After having described the British security chapter as designed to coordinate the efforts of members of the League of Nations and non-members to promote and establish peace through consultation and methodical cooperation when peace might be threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I may say now , both the policy and the practice of the United States to confer where questions affecting peace are concerned . " Later , after having stressed the need for measures of disarmament that ' would diminish the ability of any State to make a successful surprise attack on another , Mr. Davis declared : " There is a realization that this can be brought about especially by two means : Abandonment of weapons which facilitate aggression and establishment of effective and continuous supervision of armaments . To that end it may well be found advisable to reinforce those measures of supervision and control al1 ready envisaged . We are in agreement that the efforts of States that are members of the League and non-member States should be coordinated not only in determining measures of disarmament but in their effective supervision . " The importance of this statement may be appreciated by the fact that not only was any recognition of the need for supervision conspicuously absent from the Hoover plan , but not once in all the many discussions of disarmament has the word " supervision " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since April 13 , 1927 . Then Hugh S. Gibson told the Preparatory Commission flatly , " My government is opposed to any measures of international supervision , " condemning their whole principle as " unsound and unworkable . " The United States has now abandoned the 1927 view that " the most effective sort of treaty is one which leaves enforcement to good faith " and has accepted the view of the French , who , with the strong backing of the small neutral States and every Word War veterans ' organization except the American and Italian , have insisted that disarmament and strict supervision mist go side by aide . Safeguard Clause Important . The importance of this is increased by the fact that these apIproved supervisory measures inelude provisions such as the safeguard clause originating with the United States in 1930 and forming Article LXXXVIII of the present draft , which virtually amounts to a consultative pact at least as strong as the British one on which Mr. Davis postponed a definite statement . The United States delegation now shows a strong preference for consultation through Article LXXXVIII @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong impression , but did not rock Geneva as it would have done before Manchukuo came to the Far East and Hitler in Berlin . Favors Ten-Year Treaty . Mr. Davis , in privately explaining the suggestion that the conference next discuss the duration of the treaty , said he preferred ten years to the five the British stipulate . He holds it is the key to the other chapters and believes the French will go much further to meet the German disarmament demands if the treaty runs for a longer period . Before the commission indecisively dropped the discussion of consultation pending the Washington talks and a future statement promised by Mr. Davis , the British accepted a Chinese amendment to their scheme , the significance of which was grasped by few  --  certainly not by Japan 's silent observer . The British plan required for the validity of the consultation body 's conclusions unanimity ? . among the United States , Russia , Britain , France , Germany , Italy and Japan and a majority among the others . The Chinese amended this to provide unanimity among the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council and a majority among the others . Japan , having withdrawn from the Council , is thus deprived of a veto right .                     