@@700806

txt There has been a movement in the metal trades for the past month or more aimed at the amalgamation of all metal workers into an industrial union , which , although not identical , has some similarity to the type of union proposed by General Hugh S. Johnson in his New York speech last week . The plan , drawn up and adopted by the International Association of Machinists ' District Lodge No. 54 and " laterby the Cleveland Metal Trades Council of the A. F. of L. , has been sent to the lodges of the various national and international unions that are composed of metal workers . Around 18,000 copies of the resolution have been mailed out , but so few have been returned that it is impossible-to judge the reception . Of particular significance is that the automobile federal unions would be brought into the organization as well as the old time unions . By so doing it is hoped that jurisdictional disputes and a great deal of the confusion among the various crafts would be eliminated . " In Small Cities . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial form of organization offers the best means of organizing the wage workers employed in the metal trades industry . Industrial unions can be formed where there are not a sufficient number of any particular craft union members to hold control ? of conditions or to hold a charter under any existing international union . Ili small cities or districts industrial locals could be established and maintained . - . . " One set of international officers could express the sentiments of the membership as likewise could the membership be better able to give a clearer expression of their views : in case of a lock-out or strike , action would be had easier , one ballot being necessary to determine . One agreement could be drawn up and presented by one committee , representing all members affected . . . . Where there are sufficient members , locals of boilermakers , blacksmiths , machinists , etc. ? could , if they desired , meet separately . - . . ' Jurisdictional Disputes Inevitable Now The general tendency of each union in reaching out to claim jurisdiction of work is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and encroach upon the given jurisdiction , under the charter of the A. F. of L. There can be no change under the present plan of the metal trades , but , on the contrary , the jurisdiction fights of the past and present are but the forerunner of what we may expect in the future ; as the work in the metal industry develops , the fight will wage mere bitterly , using up the energies and resources of the toilers , while the smaller unions that are not able to continue the unequal fight will be absorbed . . . . " While many labor leaders believe the plan as proposed represents a little too much of a jump from the present condition to gain enough support to carry it through , they still believe that it will be seriously considered and come up for action at the federation convention in San Francisco next month . There are many officers of the various internationals that will oppose any move toward complete amalgamation of their organizations . Those opposed to amalgamation. however , may agree to plan embodying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work in close harmony and agreement without losing their separate identity . From Tan WALL STIMET JOT/I/NAL Washmatets Bureau WASHINGTON  --  A new program , pointing the way toward establishment of industrial unions within the framework of the American Federation of Labor , now seems certain to be placed before labor officials at their forthcoming convention in San Francisco . The proposed plan , bolstered by two concrete examples now in operation . provides for the combining of craft unions within individual companies for collective bargaining purposes . Thus , by means of a modification of the ' vertical " organization advocated by NRA Administrator Johnson in his recent New York speech . s complete transition might in time be effected . The metal trades department of the A. F. of L. has already set up two " councils " operating under the proposed plan . One , made up of workers in the business machine and office furniture industry , represents unions in this field in dealing with management . Thz second resulted from an agreement a month ago withAnaconda Copper Co. whereby the building trade and metal workers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frey , an advocate of the new program and secretary of the metal department of the Federation , cites these arrangements as logical developments from the craft union method . It is understood he will discuss this type of bargaining at the meeting of his department preceding that of the Federation as a whole . Pressure from various other factions within the A. F of L. which in the past has been exerted on the side of vertical unions , is likely to be revived at the West Coast meeting . A sharp differentiation between vertical and industrial unions is drawn by Mr. Frey . He defines the vertical set-up as entailing a. single union of all workers in a given company , while an industrial union is a single grouping of all workers in an entire Industry . The United Mine Workers is an outstanding example of the industrial union .                     