@@700060

txt The official American viewpoint here is that the United States will recognize the new Grau San Martin government if it shows capacity to govern , maintain order , receives distinct popular lar support and complies with all its obligations . In view of the Platt Amendment , it is pointed out , Washington must observe this four-point program before reaching a decision on recognition . The Platt Amendment gives the United States , by virtue of a " permanent treaty " with Cuba , both the right and the duty to supervise the maintenance of a solvent government in Cuba , " adequate for the protection of life , property and individual liberty . " How soon the Grau San Martin government 's compliance with these points can be determined is a natural inquiry . It should be obvious that such important problems can not be solved in a. few days . Early Showing on Support Likely . Probably it ' will be clear within a week whether the new government has sufficient popular support to warrant its recognition . American official circles understand the ABC revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among ABC members to guide their decision . The view is held in impartial circles that the student government will find it extremely difficult , if not impossible , Ito meet the conditions it must meet to obtain recognition . It is believed unlikely to receive the support of conservative groups , except that of former Max or Miguel Mariano Gomez of Havana , whose influence is limited to the city of Havana . It is pointed out that lack of recognition paralyzes business between Cuba and the United States , which in turn deprives the government of customs duties and revenue from taxes on business transactions . The absence of funds would cripple the government and render it unable to carry on its governing functions or to meet its financial obligations at home or abroad . Without detracting from the sincerity or idealism of the students , it is deemed their experiment lacks the necessary practical foundation for success . The three other questions are more involved . It is believed in well-informed American circles that the maintenance of order depends almost entirely on whether the army can be reorganized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership of the sergeants whose mutiny enabled the Students Directorate , the governing body of the student movement , to force out Carlos Manuel d3 Cespedes as provisional President . Mutiny in the ranks is regarded in official American circles as a more serious problem for the new government than for the former officers of the Machado army , ousted by the enlisted men a week ago and now quartered in the National Hotel with heavy supplies of arms and ammunition , while the revolutionary government 's troops guard all exits to prevent the officers ' frequently threatened sortie . Negotiations are going on between the government and the officers through intermediaries for the return to their commands of those officers who are not accused of atrocities during the Machado regime . The problem of law and order is also complicated by large quantities of arms and ammunition in the hands of boys and youths , both for and against the government . On the one hand , armed squads of students , ABC radicals and other radical revolutionary societies , and , on the other hand , the right wing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troublemakers . American official opinion is that the disarming of civilians is the only solution of this problem , but that raises another question : Who will do the disarming ? Department Functioning a Test . The capacity of the new regime to govern will be determined by its ability to make its executive and administrative departments run efficiently , to collect taxes , and so on . Compliance with obligations naturally assumes the payment of interest and amortization charges on the foreign debt . Although the United States Embassy hoped for the restoration of Carlos Manuel de Cespedes as Provisional President , so that recognition could be resumed where it left off and immediate economic aid be extended , it is not unfriendly toward the new President and Cabinet . The Provisional President and all the members of his Cabinet are regarded as entirely responsive to the student movement and not representative of other groups . It is believed in well-informed circles that the Students Directorate will dictate the course of the new government . At the same time there is held to be no reason why the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be , provided it succeeds in establishing and sustaining a stable regime in accordance with the foul points mentioned . Student leaders are said to have assured the regular political leader : they have no intention of trying to establish a permanent youth dictatorship , but will merely seek to keep politics from ruining their rad ical social , economic and politica reforms in the coining Constituent Assembly . They are reported to have agreed to complete freedorr for the political parties suppresses by former President Machado to reorganize and to participate it honest , free elections of delegate : to the Constituent Assembly , am then , after a new constitution Is adopted , to participate in free , honest general elections suitable to whatever form of government emerges from the Constituent Assembly . Despite statements made by representatives of the new government in seeking the support of political leaders here that Dr. Manuel Marquez Sterling , who was President de Cespedes 's Ambassador-designated at Washington , had informed them that the Roosevelt administration would recognize a student government if it succeeded in achieving and maintaining stability , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been made . Since the United - tates now does not recognize the existence of the new governrqent , it is obvious there could be no official communication .                     