@@700878

txt Ingot production in the steel Industry In the past week has been somewhat in excess of the rate which was scheduled , according to early reports to the American Iron Steel Institute . For some weeks the actual output has been higher than the indicated rate , and this tendency is expected to continue , as there are signs of continued gradual improvement in demand Although steel makers are not experiencing any rush from buyers , there has been a quite steady demand from manufacturing consumers in the past few weeks . Some of these users need the steel for their own activities , while others are replenishing their depleted stocks and are taking larger tonnages than they are actually producing in their own lines . One cause for replenishment is the disappearance of the belief that there might be a break among the steel workers on prices before the end of the year . Because of the low rate of buying some consumers held back orders in the hope that delay would bring them prices more favorable than those on file under the code . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high costs for material and labor , which would prohibit making reductions unless the steel companies were willing to take a larger per ton loss than they experienced in the third quarter . Automotive Tonnage Quite Impressive The industry is looking to the automotive trade to become a more important buyer in the next few weeks . Although motor car production schedules for the current month are lower , it is evident that some of the automobile companies are inclined to take more steel . There have been no large orders , but the buying has been more general than in some time , and the total tonnage taken has been quite impressive . With indications that the new models will attract the consumer , steel authorities are anticipating that before many months have passed , the motor industry will again assume its leading position in the steel induvtry . There are signs of miscellaneous buying keeping up to a good average rate . Tin plate production has held tip better than expected . It is estimated that the present output is somewhere between 35 ' ' ; - and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some of the independent producers have cut tailed their actIvItteo moderately . but this has been offset by the production of the American Sheet &; Tin Plate Co , a L ' . S. Steel subsidiary Thio company has been doing better than its competitors and is running around 43 ' " . Structural Denuind Like ' . to Decline There should ne a let down in structural steel demand shortly . The approach of the winter and the fact that contracts have been placed for many of the important projects which have been planned will curtail new buying for the present . What business will develop will be largely on government-financed proposals and will take smaller tonnages than in the past few months . Improvement in stri.cturals should come with the spring season . Discus , ions have been heard of the ponnibility I of the railroad . becoming more active , but such talk is not in line with the anticipations of the steel interests . There is but little rail business in sight at the moment , and no one has had any intimation that the carriers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressive scale in the near future . Some local Interests are of the opinion that the scrap market is a bit top-heavy because steel makers are not buying . Others insist that there is a. firm undertone , at least for the tune being , with no signs of material being pressed for sale in the near future . A comparatively good export demand in the New England districts is an outstanding feature .                     