@@702509

txt Attorney General Cummings was called upon today by Representative Raymond J. Cannon , Wisconsin Proigressive , to start anti-trust proceedings against owners of organized baseball clubs on the ground they were operating a monopoly in restraint of trade . Mr. Cannon said the owners , through an agreement among them selves , would hire no player if he was unable to reach an agreement with the club with which he has been playing . " In other words , " said Mr. Cannon 's letter to the Attorney General , " if a player 's contract expires and the baseball magnate or club owner submits a new contract to him , the terms of which may not only be wholly unsatisfactory to him , but wholly unfair , the player must either sign the contract and submit to its terms , or he is forever barred from playing organized baseball and he can not market his serv1 ices with any other baseball club , and every other baseball club in organized baseball is , by this agreement , prevented from engaging or attempting to engage the services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible for the magnates owning the ball clubs to dictate and impose , upon the players such terms as they I desire . " Says Players Are " Coerced " Mr. Cannon said it seemed to him there could not be a " clearer case of a complete and absolute monopoly in restraint of trade . " This condition , Mr. Cannon continued , has existed for years . The players , he wrote , have been " coerced and intimidated " to such an extent that they know that if they raise their'voices in defense of their rights they are " referred to by magnates as ' trouble makers ' and are disciplined by being sent to the lower class leagues . " To the alleged unfair restraint by " magnates , " Mr. Cannon attributed the White Sox scandal in 1919 . " In order to hoodwink and mislead the baseball public , the baseball magnates each year permit the publication in the press of the salaries of two or three outstanding players on each team , but refuse to ing the best a well-known of his baseball life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation know what salaries they are paying all of the other players , " day ball player who renders services in behalf of the magnates durnate of the American League told the sporting writers it was none of Mr. Cannon wrote . " That is , the hard-working everythe public 's business what salary the players on his club were reIceiving . " Of course , a parallel situation in any other industry by means of a closed monopoly of employers that would arbitrarily bar employes from their work unless the employes agreed to work for one particular employer upon arbitrary terms dictated by such employer would not be tolerated by either law or public opinion , and would without question constitute a violation of the acts of Congress cited herein . " I am convinced a situation exists which is not only in violation of law but which would meet with the immediate disapproval of the great mass of the American people who L are lovers of baseball if they knew the facts . " I am calling upon you as Attorney General of the United States to exercise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matters which I have herewith called to your attention , and to institute such proceedings in the courts of the United States to terminate the conditions aforesaid and the monopolistic practices herein described as you are empowered to do under the foregoing statutes of the United States . " Section 4 of Title 15 of the United States Code makes it the duty of the several District Attorneys of the United States under your direction to institute proceedings in equity to prevent and restrain the violation of this law . " This is a matter national in scope , and I ask that you direct the institution of the proceedings contemplated by this section in the various districts in the United States in which the baseball clubs , who are members of the various leagues , have their legal resiidences. "                     