@@702132

txt Dr. . Hugh S. Magill , president of the American Federation of Investors , Inc. , yesterday made the following statement regarding President Roosevelt 's threat against utilities : " In his address to the World Power conference last Friday in Washington , the President frankly admitted that the power program of Me present administration is punitive in Purpose and character , and aimed primarily at the electric operating companies . Up to the present time it has been clpimpd that the policy of the administration was nut to injure ) perating companies , and that investors in the stocks and bonds of these companies would not be deprived of their right to a reasonable return on their investments . " The President has now served notice that hereafter under his administration rates may be regulated not by the public service commissions the various states , on the basis of justice of both investors and consumers , but by bureaucrats in Washington under the threat of destructive governmental competition . " The millions of investors in the 3ecuritie. : of American industries nave never asked any special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their investments . The justice of such claims has never been questioned by the American public . The commissions of the several states which determine rates have assured investors that the reasonableness of their demands are recognized and will be respected . " However , if the position now taken by the President can be legally , , ustained , the whole system of regulation by state . public service commis ? sions will be wiped out , and . rates will be arbitrarily determined by taxeating federal bureaucracy , under the threat of destructive . governmental competition aimed directly at tax-paying private industry , without regard for the rights of investors . " We feel it our duty to warn investors in public utility securities , especially , those who have put their savings in the stocks and- bonds 01 electric operating companies , of this ominous threat by the President . "                     