@@700341

txt Germany will be the only country of Christian denomination which will not listen to the radio broadcast of the Bethlehem church bells on Christmas eve unless a last minute change is made in the program . As matters stand tonight Rudolf Hess , deputy leader of the Nazi party , is scheduled to broadcast over the government 's controlled radio system at 9 o'clock Sunday night . This is exactly the same time as . the Bethlehem program . It is the hour when most Germans , after exchanging presents with relatives and friends , gather around the lighted Christmas tree eager to listen to Christmas carols over the radio . While Hess speaks in Chancellor Ilitler 's name most radio stations of the Christian world will broadcast the Bethlehem program . Foreign Stations Drowned Out . Attempts to hear the bells over foreign stations will be frustrated because the new powerful stations installed in Germany will drown out almost completely broadcasting systems in neighboring countries . The Berlin station was opened this week , and listeners who formerly rejoiced at tuning in many stations now are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though Bethlehem is relegated to the background , Protestant church dignitaries are struggling to patch up a truce in their ranks before Christ . mas day . The Rev. Dr. Kinder was appointed as leader of the Nazi German Christians today to replace Bishop Joachim Hossenfelder , with whom the Pastors ' Emergency league refused to cooperate . Hossenfelder resigned as bishop of PrandenbUrg . The Nazi church group also promised to " stress a close faithful union between Evangelical Germany and Naziism ' In the future , but , will exclude all political oppressive measures . " The pastors league of 6,000 members in fighting for the precedence of religion over politics in the church declare they are willing to cooperate with the German Christians provided the outstanding individuals of this group assume the leadership personally . It is still uncertain whether the pastors will cooperate with the Rev. Dr. Kinder . Youth Under Nazi Control . Reichsbishop Ludwig Mueller to ? night issued a proclamation to Protestant parents Imploring them to accept the incorporation of all Protestant youth organizations in the Nazis ' Hitler youth movement . He advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " avoid frictions . " Bishop Mueller and Baron Baidur van Schirach , leader of the Hitler youth organization , arranged the merger after the baron had discharged 100 leaders of his own group and of other factions . " It is the will of the leader Hitler that the unity of our nation be strengthened through the uniform education of youth , " Bishop Mueller said fn his proclamation . " The agreement I have reached with the Hitler youth leader enables your children to accomplish their mission , which to be Place the gospel above their allegiance to their youth organization . " The parents are skeptical and are awaiting word from leaders of the Pastors ' league before discarding the leaders with whom they intrusted their children . Yule Appeal for Refugees . LONDON , Dec. 22 . ? ( IP ) ? A joint Christmas appeal to all Christian people has been issued by church leaders here to help the refugees from Germany . The appeal is signed by the archbishops of Canterbury , York , and Wales and the heads of the Baptist union , Congregational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Presbyterian Church of Wales . The number of refugees  --  Jewish , political , and Christians of Jewish descent ? is estimated at 60,000.                     