@@697490

txt In the recent death of WALDEMAR MORDECAI HAFFKINE. the world lost one who won high distinction in combating two of the most terrible of all diseases . His most notable achievements were employing preventive inoculations against cholera and the plague .. We hear little about these diseases in the United States now , but there have been times when they aroused fears bordering upon panic . Many will recall the cholera scare of 1893 ; the appearance of plague in California is so recent as scarcely to need mention . No well-informed person can suppose that either cholera or plague could spread extensively in this country today , but in India and other parts of the Orient they are , a continuing menace . There are c " ertain similarities and also differences in cholera and the plague . Each has shown itself capable of pandemic prevalence , but is now restricted to endemic centres from which it breaks out from time to time . Both are due to bacteria definitely recognizable , of which the modes of infection have been thoroughly worked out . The two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken against one are ineffectual against the other . Plague has been known since remote times and was for many years widely prevalent in Europe . It is estimated that 25,000,000 people , or about one-fourth of the population of that Continent , died of it in the fourteenth century . In the epidemic of 1665 over 70,000 died in London , and thousands fled the city and took to the fields to live . The houses were dark , unventilated and overcrowded ; the narrow streets were dumping places for refuse and offal . Rats and other vermin abounded . As is known today , it was the fleas upon the rats which inoculated the people , but this was not then suspected . Cholera , whose endemic home for centuries has been India , made its first appearance in Europe in 1831 . In 1853-54 it destroyed 150,000 lives in France . In a later pandemic it killed more than 800 , - 000 in Russia . It has entered the United States through the seaports and over the Canadian border , and during fifty years was an occasional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence which incriminated the famous Broad Street pump in London , thereby leading to an understanding of the fact that the disease may be transmitted by water which has received the drainage of cesspools . In 1892 came the great sanitary lesson of the cities of Hamburg and Altona . Both took their water from the Elbe , which was polluted by their own sewers . The evolution of the modern city , with its higher standards of living , the introduction of sewerage , pure water supplies and competent health administration have now banished . the fear of plague and cholera from the Western world ; but in the teeming populations of India and other parts of the Far East this sanitary control of the environment is not generally possible . For them , protection against plague and cholera must be personal . This was the situation which HAFFKINE had to face . He introduced his methods of individual protection against plague and cholera on a huge scale . Hundreds of thousands of natives and Europeans were armed against epidemics . HAFFKINE would have been the last to declare his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had the satisfaction of knowing that they had saved the lives of thousands .                     