@@698706

txt Spurred on by terrific pressure for government economy from all parts of the United States , the Democratic leadership of the House gave its assurance today that an economy measure designed to save at least 5300,000,000 would be submitted to the House , probably on Tuesday . Speaker John N. Garner ( 121 I of Texas said economy either in the form of a single comprehensive bill , as favored by the President , or in separate bills , preferred by the House Economy Committee chairman , Representative John ID. ) of Alabama , would be added to the legislative appropriation bill The latter measure is being held up pending detailed completion of the President 's economy recommendations . Col. J C. Roop , director of the budget , is pushing his staff under pressure in a determined effort to complete the work and present it to the economy committee as soon as possible Bill Nears Completion Representative Bertrand H. Snell of New York , Republican leader in the House and spokesman for President Hoover , said he understood the omnibus economy bill would be ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fiorello H. LaGuardia ( RI of New York and Representatice Thomas H Cullen I ID. ) of New York , Mr. said that adequate time would be given the House to consider the matter before it would be introduced . His committee itself would require one or two days to study the plan and he agreed with Mr. Garner it would probably be considered next Tuesday . The committee is allowing itself a. ? , least two days in which to coordinate what Colonel Roop submits with its own plans for economy including the saving of nearly $100,000,000 on ' the salaries of federal employees Meanwhile the committee showed the temper of its determination to i produce economy by summoning Mr. J. C. Wright , director of the federal I bureau for vocational education , before it today to answer charges of propagandizing against economy . Lobbying Charged Mr. Wright is alleged to have in- ' spired lobby activities among members of Congress against federal pay slashing and other government consolidation phases of the economy program . Elimination of the vocational education bureau is one of the proposals receiving serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not indicate the nature of their information regarding the alleged propagandizing but declared they were determined to investigate the matter and if the charges were proven to institute proceedings against Mr. Wright and seek his dismissal . Members of Congress are commenting widely on the support they are receiving daily from all sections of the country on the proposed economy measures . This support comes both from business sources opposing the new tax legislation and from thousands of individuals who feel a halt must be called to every form of government extravagance . A new administration economy proposal was revealed in the proposal of Brig. - Gen . Frank T. Hines , director of the Veterans Bureau , to reduce hospital and compensation costs in the bureau by $80,000,000.                     