@@701263

txt John A. Dillard , president of the I defunct State Title and Mortgage Company , who has been on trial for two months on an indictment charging that he published a false statement in February , 1933 , of the company 's financial status was found guilty early today of the third and fourth counts in the indictment , both charging a misdemeanor . A jury in General Sessions Court , which returned its verdict at 1:35 A. M. after eight hours ' deliberation , acquitted the defendant of the felony count in the indictment . Judge John J. Freschi set June 21 for sentencing Mr. Dilliard and continued his bail of $5,000 . He faces a maximum sentence of three years in the penitentiary . He gave his age as 43 and said he lived at 25 Central Park West . First of 28 to Be Called . Mr. Dilliard was one of twentyeight former officers and directors of four defunct title mortgage companies indicted by the New York County grand jury , which last July began an investigation on evidence submitted by Victor House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first of the accused officials called for trial . The evidence on which eleven indictments eventually were handed up against the twenty-eight former officials was uncovered before George W. Alger , as State Moreland Act Commissioner , under appointment by Governor Lehman , to conduct a general investigation of alleged irregularities among title mortgage companies in the sale of mortgage certificates . It was said at the time the total of such certificates outstanding against all the State title mortgage companies was in the neighborhood of $3,000 , - 000,000 . Mr. Dilliard was one of twelve former officers of his company , which was taken over for liquidation by the State Insurance Depart . ment in the Summer of 1933 , about six months after he was alleged to have published the false statement , indicted last Oct. 5 . He also was named in the felony indictment , on which he was tried before fourteen jurors , the other eleven officers of the company being charged merely with a misdemeanor . This indictment accused Mr. Dilliard and the others of violating the State Insurance Law , under which title @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between October , 1932 , and August , 1933 , of two-thirds of the paid-in capital to meet outstanding obligations from the sale of the company 's stock and mortgage certi ficates . Others named in this indictment with Dilliard were Darwin R. James , president of the East River Savings Bank . chairman of the State Title and Mortgage Company 's directors from January , 1928 , to March , 1933 , and , for a time , chairman of its executive committee ; Edmond J. Donegan , vice president and treasurer ; Max N. Koven , lawyer and vice president ; Leo J. Ehrhart , Robert W. Higbie , Hamilton A. Higbie , Audley A. Clarke . Louis A. Gold , Ambrose G. Todd , William 0 . Smith and William H. Lyons . At the start of the Dilliard trial before Judge Freschi , the defendant 's lawyer , I. Gainsburg , made an unsuccessful motion to have the indictment against his client dismissed on the ground that the prosecutor , Assistant District Attorney House , had not been " regularly " appointed by District Attorney William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoting several days to a review of all the laws of the State on the subject , but had he ruled in Mr. Gainsburg 's favor , all eleven indictments against the twenty-eight former title company officials would have had to be quashed on the same ground . At the Dilliard trial , in which much of the time of the court and jurors was taken up by the lawyers on both sides on motions connected with technical testimony by State witnesses , the State 's case was developed to hinge principally about $400,000 Mr. Dilliard was alleged to have borrowed in the last part of December , 1932 , from the Brooklyn Trust Company . In a financial statement furnished the State Insurance Department by the company as of that date , the $400,000 was listed as among the Cash assets , There was evidence that the money was repaid to the trust company within a week after the defendant had obtained the loan through George V. , president of the trust company , and former Police Commissioner . Charged " Window Dressing . " The special prosecutor contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was " win-dow-dressing , " and should not have been listed as among the assets . State witnesses testified that it was Mr. Dilliard 's contention the money actually was needed to meet obligations which were about to fall due . At the close of the State 's case last Tuesday , Mr. Gainsburg announced that neither his client nor any other witnesses would be called for the defense , except some character witnesses , including three Supreme Court justices , who told of Mr. Dilliard 's previous good repu-1 tation . The many motions on intricate questions of law which arose through the trial have kept Judge Freschi polling- over the law in his chamber up to midnight nearly every day after the start of the trial . As his final act , before he began his four-hour charge yesterday . he quashed one of the counts in the indictment , which accused Mr. Dilliard of having personally supervised the distribution of the alleged false financial statement .                     