@@703827

txt Reduction of basic passenger fares by railroads in the eastern territory will be discussed at a meeting of carrier executives early next month . Effects on passenger traffic of the experimental reductions made during the Christmas holidays have been tabulated . it is understood . and may form the chief basis for the final decision on a permanent cut . Whether New England roads will follow other eastern carriers . if the latter decide on a. lower basic rate , is not known . An railroad circles it is considered a definite possibility that if the eastern carriers decide on the reduction those in New England may maintain the present rates and give , as an alternative , special excursion fares for holiday and week-end travel . Increase Made Last July The eastern roads put into effect on July 25 , 1938. an increase in coach fares from two cents a mile to the present rate of two and one-half cents . Passenger travel declined appreciably not long after the upward revision was made and this was followed by several conferences on whether a lower rate should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was readied to experiment with a lower fare during th , e holidays . In studying the results of this experiment , a. detailed investigation into all influencing factors has been made , including seasonal trends and weather conditions . Baltimore &; Ohio was one of the first eastern roads to move for a reduction of the present tariff . This line supported the petition of the eastern carriers to the Interstate Commerce Commission for the increase of last July . However . in doing so it stated it was lending its aid only at the request of the other roads . The B. &; 0 . pointed out that it believed lower fares produced larger net revenues . New Haven Opposes Cuts On the other hand , the New York . New Haven &; Hartford which , with the exception of the Long Island Railroad . derives the largest proportion of gross revenues from passenger business . ' always has opposed any cut in fares . Sharply reduced passenger fares have been in effect in other parts of the country for several years and , of course , the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is well below the old basic fare of 3.6 cents . A majority of southern . southeastern and western carriers have rates as low as on ? . and one-half cents for round trips . The southeastern roads are expected to exert considerable influence in the conference of eastern officials due to be held next month . That section recently broke away from the eastern territory and cut tariffs to the one and one-half cent rate for round trips and is known to dcsire a uniformly lower rate to and from southern points as an incentive to larger travel by train . Impro%e Competitive Position The southeastern roads are expected to bring forth the argument that railroads serving Florida this year are carrying a larger share of the total traffic into that state than heretofore , the low fares having drawn business from highway carriers . It is expected the final decision in the east will rest with Pennsylvania Railroad and the New York Central Railroad , since they carry the greatest number of passengers . In addition to reductions in coach fares , there is the possibility that the standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The eastern roads previously held that a. rise in coach fares was necessary because the old spread of a full cent a mile between coach and Pullman fares , plus new type of coach equipment , was attracting too many passengers away from the higher revenue producing Pullman traffic . If it is decided to cut coach fares to around two or two and a quarter cents a mile , the Pullman rate might be dropped proportionately to maintain the present half cent spread .                     