@@702745

txt Information which has come to light since Secretary of State Cordell Hull made hri eight-point statement of foreign policy last week reveals that document as a guide post marking a highly significant choice by the Roosevelt Administration . The choice is for a more aggressive and positive foreign policy involving closer alignment with the " democracies , " more vigorous disapproval of the so-called " aggressor " nations , and further naval expansion to give weight to this new attitude . This road has been chosen instead of the alternative oT emphasis at all times on American neutrality . Secretary Hull 's statement itself reveals very little of this background . Deprived of its surroundings and background , it would stand as a guarded expression of general principles to which almost anyone would easily subscribe . But when viewed within the framework of what is now known to be its content , it takes on this special importance . Conflict of Views Behind the statement is a long and hard-fought conflict of views . On one side has been an influential group composed of many professional experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside , which has advocated a clear position of neutrality both as regards the Spanish civil war and Europe . and also toward China and the Far East . , This first , neutral . group has held that the United States is not going to go to war against Japan should it invade China again , nor against Germany for participating in Spain ? nor against anyone else .. Therefore , they argue . any expressidns of disapproval of the actions of those countries are unrealistic and can serve no good purpose . Further , this group contends that by taking a relatively neutral position between the two major factions in Europe the United States may be able to act as a mediator between them , whereas any obvious leanings towards one side would compromise its value as a mediator . Policy of Democracies The second group has taken the position that right is on Die side of the democracies , that the aggressive and dissatisfied nations must be halted if another great war is to be prevented , and that the United Starts should lend a hand towards halting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extensively as evidence to the world of the strength of democracy . This second group Is not a belligerent group . But it feels that values of great importance to civilization are at stake and that the only way to protect these values is for the democracies  --  particularly Britain and the United States  --  to stand together well armed for any possible danger . They believe that this course is the surest guarantee of peace on the ground that the aggressor group would never dare precipitate a war if it was clear that Britain . France and the United States were standing together . Ever since Italy invaded Ethiopia these two conflicting points of view have been at work on the Administration and each has had its effect . Officially , neutrality has been the watchword . The neutral influence has generally predominated at the State Department . But there have been several significant deviations  --  almost all of which involved the White Mime . The most striking deviation was President Roosevelt 's vigorous praise of democracy and blunt criticism of dictatorship in his speech at Buenos Aires last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been made here during the past six months by prominent British states ' men , has given rise in several European capitals to an assumption that the United States Is working more and more into co-operation with Britain . Views of Neutral Group The neutrality group has been extremely anxious to counteract this impression and scored an important success in the visit of Prime Minister van Zeeland last month . They rendered him every possible courtesy and sought to create the impression that the attitude of the United States . more closely parallels that of the neutral Oslo group than that of Britain . This is the background of a decision taken some weeks ago to issue publicly a new statement of American foreign policy . Members of both groups were consulted . What came out last Friday under Secretary Hull 's name is the result which is significant more for what it did not say than what it did It is learned in competent and informed circles that the piisition and principles of the neutral group were ignored in the statement . That is to say , Mr. Hull @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Instead he made a statement expressing American approval of certain principles of international conduct . The criticism of the neutrals is not so much over the Hull principles , but over the fact that he said nothing whatever about neutrality . The word neutrality does not once appear in the statement . What is not known is where the responsibility lies for this decision . The conciliatory points of the statement are undoubtedly Mr. Hull 's own . The endorsement of tariff barrier reductions is his own personal program . Many more of the phrases have a ring familiar to those who know Mr. Hull . But the suspicion is shared by several observers that the important elements , the declaration that American interests and rights are affected by hostilities anywhere in the world and the strongly implied critioism of the aggressor nations . were ordered by the White House . It is considered certain , at least . that Mr. Hull would not have said " we are prepared . . . to increase our armed forces " unless he had been either authorized or ordered to do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first official hint that further American rearmament is contemplated . That certain influential individuals including Norman H. Davis , Ambassador-at-Large , have been urging a new naval expansion program including at least three more battleships beyond the two now under contract was reported as far back as May 19 . But until now there has never been any indication that this view would prevail . The statement of willingness to rearm as well as disarm provides just such an indication and it is today believed in many quarters that this statement will soon be followed by more tangible action . Japan 's refusal to agree to a 14-inch limit on guns for battleships is believed to have influenced the President in the direction of the naval expansion program and Japan 's current attitude toward China to further impress him with the necessity for a vigorous rearmament program which to parallel Britain 's rearmament at least in regard to navies . There is no evidence yet for assuming that the commitment to vigorous co-operation with the democracies , as opposed to the strict neutrality doctrine , is final or complete . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bit of each . its course marking a path back and forth between the two . The Bull statement puts it for the moment definitely back on the pro-democracies plus rearmament road where President Roosevelt apparently prefers it to be How long it will stay on this road is an-certain Strong influences fas or the course of strict neuti ality . Perhaps a compromise between the two an be evolved . But the tendency now is to go along the road marked ? rearmed democracies  --  trespassers Le-ware. "                     