@@697002

txt With the arrival this evening of the bulk of the French contingent , headed by Foreign Minister Briand , all delegations to the five-power naval conference are now in London . Premier Tardieu of France will arrive in the morning from The Hague . tomorrow will be filled with private conversations among the chiefs of the delegations . Monday will be marked by the . reception of all the delegates by King George at Buckingham Pal/the  --  and the meeting of the five heads of the delegations to discuss the agenda , and on Tuesday morning at 11 o'clock the King will open the conference formally in the Royal Gallery of the House of Lbrds . On the following day the business sessions will begin in St. James 's Palace , which his Majesty has lent for the occasion : Thus . will start one of the most important international conferences ever held . When it will adjourn is anybody 's guess . Against Ban on Battleships . In the private conversations preceding the formal opening , the Americans are making it quite plain in all sincerity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the abolition of capital ships will not succeed because the United States can not consent . While the United States is willing to discuss postponement of the replacement program , as provided in the Washington naval treaty , and while the Americans will discuss a moderate reduction i the size of future battleships . both the American diplomats and the American admirals take the position that the capital ship is the backbone of the United States fleet and that the backbone must not be broken . One may surmise that , as a result of these private talks , the proposal for the abolition of capital ships may be kept off the agenda of the conference just as , because of French and Japanese opposition , the proposal to abolish submarines may not see the limelight of full official consideration . It is quite evident that it will be to the political advantage of the Americans not to have to defend in a bitter open debate their case in favor of battleships , which just now seems so unpopular among the other delegations . It stands to reason that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended motion for tile abolition of capital ships if it is agreed that no one will propose the abolition of submarines . The new ' British devotion to the cause of doing away with capital ships might under the circumstances be reduced somewhat by an all-round understanding that neither the Americans nor any one else would complicate the proceedings by discussing the potential War value of British merchant vessels either as cruisers or as airplane carriers . Private Talks Valuable . Thus the private talks may serve the good purpose of removing from the official field the discussion of subjects on which there is practically no likelihood of agreement so that the work of the diplomats may be centred on those subjects offering a good chance for accord . Nevertheless , it is apparent the American delegation is to have an interesting time . It is evident the two difficult issues of the conference are going to be battleships ' and the Mediterranean for , in any event , the postponement of capital ship replacements is lo be considered , and since the British position in the last analysis must depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the demands of Italy and France . America certainly will figure as the leading defender of large fighting ships and thiaItmerica.n dolezation. must carefully refrain from any par ? ticipation in the Mediterranean political arrangements which , nevertheless , will have importance through their effect on the French position and by indirection on the Italian position . The French and Italian positions , taken together , affect the British position . However , if it becomes wise or necessary , the American delegation will be able to put up a good case for battleships , both diplomatically and technically . In that event the Americans would say they did not accept the idea that the battleship is entirely an offensive weapon and not essentially a defensive arm for the reason that an offense . - sometimes is the best defense , and in the case of America being involved in war it would not , be the American policy to wait to be attacked within the threemile limit . America Rates Large Fleet . Furthermore , if one calculates that the American position in the world calls for the possession of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not clear that the abolition . of the class of ships to which America attaches the greatest importance , which America can afford , and of which America now possesses a relatively large amount , would be a fair solution unless such a course were followed by extensive construction of some substitute form of war craft . The American technical advisers would not fail to point out that , in considering the greatest possible measure of effective parity between the British and American fleets , the abolition of capital ships might be to America 's disadvantage as compared with England , because it might largely increase the war value of British merchant ships , in which Britain possesses a vast superiority over the United States . In another war merchant ships would not only be used as armed cruisers but in all likelihood as airplane carriers , which might be most dangerous attacking weapons . So far as the American technical men are concerned , attention will be paid all along the line to the importance of British merchant ships which , while not a subject on the conference agenda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The basic importance of this factor may be gained by saying that if every warship in the world was sunk Great Britain would possess a vast navy superiority in the time of war through her ability to put six-inch guns on her commerce bearers . It is clear that , aside from political considerations , the British merchant ships constitute a technical problem for the American delegation . It is already clear that there will be much use for the many technical men accompanying the delegations . Despite the essential political guidance of the conference , many technical issues will arise regarding battleships and the various values of different sized cruisers , submarines and destroyers . The surmise that Secretary of . State Stimson and Premier planned yesterday the agenda of the first meetings of the conference was incorrect . Up to tonight there has been no agreement on the first subjects to be taken up . However , the heads of the five delegations will meet Monday to discuss this problem , and the Tirst two or three days of the business sessions will be devoted to laying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 