@@697737

txt One Way Out . To the Editor of The New York Times : Phelps Phelps 's defense of the Mayor in THE Tam this morning mentions the latter 's inability to remove " drunken brawlers , check kiters , court room fixers , borrowers from gangsters " and the like from the magistrate 's bench . Mr. Phelps is no doubt accurate in this argument , but he overlooks a way out . It has long been argued that it should become mandatory under the law that no magistrate appointment be made that has not the approval of the Bar and County Lawyers ' Associations . This would certainly act as a preventive of the condition mentioned by Mr. Phelps . Mr. Phelps did much good work as an independent Republican while in the Legislature ; he could do equally good work now in supporting the proposal for lower court appointments to be first passed on by the representative organizations of the bar in New York City . JAMES E. FINCH . New York , March 30 , 1931 . Mr. Hays 's Stand Approved . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is right . I for one fall to see any interesting points of view , educational or otherwise , from these so-called " hard-boiled gang films , " which certainly have a bad impression upon the younger generation . The canceling of all these films would be no loss to the average educated American . There are hundreds of pictures in circulation which are really interesting without trying to " thrill " the public with such nonsense . DAUGHERTY . New York , March 31 , 1931 . BRIDGE SITE DISAPPROVED . Objection Is Made to Suggested Span Between Astoria and 86th St. Tc the Editor of The New York Times : In the interest of preserving parks and attractive residential developments in this city , I wish to express strong opposition to the recommendation made by Leoa M. Schoonmaker of the Queens Planning Commission , as reported in THE TIMES , that a new bridge " to relieve commercial motor truck traffic " be built between Astoria and Eighty-sixth Street , Manhattan . It would appear that Mr. Schoonmaker 's studies had been devoted entirely to the Queens end of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a site which would result in destroying the handsome residential district around Carl Schurz Park . The demands of modern traffic require any bridge of such importance to terminate in a plaza . In this case the clearance required by the War Department would cause the approach ramp to start as far westward as Second Avenue . In the middle of the block between First and York Avenues it would have reached the height of a six-story building , and , assuming that a cantilever span was used , similar to the Queensboro Bridge , at the pierhead line the structure would have a height of several hundred feet . One has only to visit the vicinity of Sixtieth Street and York Avenue to visualize the effect which such an " improvement " would have upon Carl Schurz Park and the surrounding blocks if the proposed bridge were located at Eighty-sixth Street . It is unfortunate enough that this water-side garden spot should be cut in two by Eighty-sixth Street at its present grade ; but a bridge superstructure would destroy the park completely , to say nothing of the adjoining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standpoint also this would be a bad location for a bridge , because it is directly opposite Hallet 's Cove , which doubles the width of the east channel on the Astoria side of Welfare Island . An examination of the zoning map of Manhattan shows that the newly created East River residential district extends from Eighty-ninth Street to Seventy-seventh Street and to a line 100 feet west of York Avenue . As the restriction of this area was accomplished only after years of effort by the First Avenue Association , it is reasonable to expect that they will voice a strenuous objection to any proposal to locate a towering bridge approach within those limits . There is , however , a location at the southern boundary of this district where a bridge would do a minimum of damage to property values on Manhattan and where , incidentally , it would cross the narrowest portion of the east channel . I refer to the block between Seventy-fifth and Seventy-sixth Streets . On the Queens side the bridge approach at this iodation would be between Thirtyfourth and Thirty-fifth Avenues , where an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ROBERT NILES JR . New York , March 30 , 1931 . Cuban Courts-Martial . To the Editor of The New York Times : In a Havana dispatch published in THE TIMES March 20 , the inference is drawn that recent Cuban legislation with respect to habeas corpus effects a new limitation of courtsmartial as applied to civilians . Examination of the text of the bill in question shows that quite the contrary is the case . Jurisdiction over several classes of offenses , including charges of sedition and rebellion , of violation of the explosives law , and of injury to sugar properties , is now conferred for the first time upon courts-martial . The civil courts may require the presentation of civilians so charged , but they may not order their release from prison . It seems possible that the Cuban Supreme Court will ultimately hold this law unconstitutional , because it is retroactive , and because extraordinary tribunals are expressly forbidden in the Constitution . Should it not do so , the chain of military despotism will be complete and acdused civilians will have no hope of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College , March 26 , 1931 . Misapplied Efficiency . To the Editor of The New York Times : This , morning I noticed four little boys , each about 7 years old , walking past a grocery store in front of which a crate of oranges was exposed . The leader of the quartet said , " Now , watch me , fellas ; I can take one without being seen by anybody . Watch ! " I never saw anything more deftly taken . A swift curve of the hand and he had the Orange ! I followed to see what would happen . They continued to walk on , fighting to share the proceeds and discussing the ease of accomplishment . What was my duty ? To have the leader arrested ? I talked it over with a policeman , only to be told that the judges are too lenient in such cases and the charge would be useless . Here is a fertile field for crime prevention . Here is a hotbed which our crime commission does not touch . JOAN DENENHOLZ . Brooklyn , N. Y. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organization . To the Editor of The New York Times : A movement on foot to organize the taxi drivers reported in THE Taos seems to me to have all the earmarks of a racket . If the 10,000 drivers are now barely earning a living driving cabs they themselves own , how is an organization going to cut down their working days and increase wages without increasing cab fares ? I consider the movement dangerous . A few days ago the Federation of Labor officials repudiated the scheme . JNO . J. . New York , March 31 , 1931 . DOLAN 'S AND MOUQUIN 'S . No Park Row Reminiscences Complete Without Mention of Them . To the Editor of The New York Times : The reminiscences of old Park Row by " Overlay , " appearing in recent issue of THE Tales , must have stirred many pleasant mentories in the army of old-timers then engaged in news . paper work . But " Overlay . ' failed to recall several resorts that stand out as tophole landmarks of that long-vanished day . For example , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franklin statue in Park Row . Who of all those ancients can forget Dolan 's , famous for its democratic atmosphere and " beef-and " ? Dolan 's was in fact a very hatch , q , of democracy . With your beef-atA or ham-and you got all the daily goer sip of the Row from the waiters- . Mike , Tom , Tint and the others of that jolly brotherhood ; and it was a brotherhood , for the whole staff . from Dolan down to the dishwasher , was just a big family . Mike and Tim and Tom appeared to be impervious to the wear and tear of time , for they were still young then , though they had served the Bolen menu to no less than two generations of re . porters and editors . Surely the aura vivors among them must yearn for , the merry comradeship of those fare off days . When finally Dolan 's carving arm grew weary he gave a. partnership in the beanery to his nephew , Johnny Meehan , and the weather-beaten old sign came down to be replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old boy presently passed out of the picture , leaving a comfortable fortune to Nephew Johnny . But the passing of Dolan wrought no apparent change in the place , Johnny stood by with his long carv. ing knife , and the slabs of steaming corned beef and ham and the famous beans lost none of their charm for , the newspaper craft . Meehan , it turned out , harbored a strain of sporting blood , and to appease his yearning he quietly began acquiring a small stable of thoroughbreds . The pioneer was a bangtail picked up in a selling race . Dolando was its name and , under the new ownership the horse developed into something of a sprinter . He nosed out better animals in not a few races , and great was the rejoicing in Park Row . Dolando 's winning days were surely flush days for Mike and Tim and Torn and the 300-pound chef , for Johnny never failed to tip them off when Dolando " looked good " to him at Sheepshead or Brighton Beach . The crew would pool their ultimate dollar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' cash . " Overlay " also left Mouquin 's out of the picture , though it must be a place that still lingers in many fond memories . If you elected to take your chances in the grill down in the basement , you were ceremoniously met by a huge and genial grizzly bear of a man  --  one Bill Yongel , famous in the old days of Harry Hill as one of his stable of bare-fist sluggers . Bill would lead you to a big open-faced refrigerator , let you pick out what you wanted for your dinner and then grill it before your eyes . If you chanced to find him in the right mood when the grill was short of customers , he would spin yarns of the Harry Hill days that were ring classics . In the restaurant above the grill you would find the jolly host in Louis Mouquin . He fell into a way of reserving a large round table at the Fulton Street end for his patrons from the newspapers . For years it was sacred to the craft and was released to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could eat the best French dinner to be ob ? tattled on this side of the Atlantic ' and the best wines as well . It would be a fickle memory indeed that could forget such landmarks es Dolan 's and MouqUin 's . Would that we could go back to them ! BOLT JOHNSON/ ' Coral Gables , Fla. , March 24 , 19814 PRISON SYSTEM AT FAULT . Something Would Appear to Bo Radically Wrong Here . To the Editor of The New York Times : The following paragraph is from an article on renewed outbreaks in United States prisons published in The Times here today : " Tennessee Legislature today discussed the report of its Committee on Penal Institutions . The warden of the State penitentiary told the committee that one form of punishment administered to women was to hand ? cuff them and then hang them up by the wrists from pegs in the wall . One woman testified that : he had been left hanging by the arms in this way for ten hours . The committee reported that conditions in the State prison at Brushy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the Russian regime . ' and recommended that the exploitation of convict labor in Tennessee be discontinued . " Can it be possible that our States allow prisoners to be tortured , and that our methods are no more advanced than those of the Inquisition ? What can be done about it ? Cruelty is the most abhorrent of all evils . Is it legalized in our States ? Are there no regular visiting inspectors for our prisons ? Only a short time ago I visited Wormwood Scrubbs , where the prisoners seem to be exceedingly well treated and to be given every inducement to become useful members of society . What is the matter with our prison system and what can we do about it ? The horror of the Columbus prison fire a while ago and the many subsequent outbreaks all ever our country would indicate that something is radically wrong . ALINE W. HALSTEAD . London , March 18 , 1831.                     