@@700158

txt F. H. LaGuardia , Fusion nominee for Mayor , in an address last night at the Harvard Club at a dinner given by a group of Harvard alumni committed to the Fusion cause , pledged support of the next city administration , in the evqnt of a Fusion victory , to the four-year agreement with the bankers . Samuel Seabury , chairman of the Fusion campaign committee , was cheered when he denounced James A. Farley , Democratic National Chairman and Postmaster General , as an " arch spoilsman . " He predicted that the " bubble " would burst before long . " We have already beaten Tammany ; we will beat the others , too , if you will help us , " Mr. Seabury said , amid applause . Calls Farley ' Arch Spollsman . ' " Farley , " Mr. Seabury said , " is the arch spoilsman of our time . Never in the history of this city was there a spoilsman who could equal Farley . He already has the distribution of State and Federal patronage . Now he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If he should succeed in this , he would be in a position to wield a power greater than that Tweed , Croker , Murphy , Olvany , Curry and McCooey combined ever possessed . " 1 Langdon W. Marvin , president of the Harvard Club , presided at the dinner , which was attended by some 125 Harvard alumni and members of the alumni group representing universities which have affiliated with the Fusion Campaign Committee. , Major W. Arthur Cunningham , Fusion candidate for Controller , and Langdon W. Post , who is running for Borough President of Manhattan , also spoke . Mr. LaGuardia 's entire speech was concerned with the city 's finances , He endorsed the pledge not to increase the taxes on real estate during the four years the financial agreement would remain in force unless abrogated earlier by mutual consent . Mr. LaGuardia also came out against increases in subway fares . Mr. Seabury was received with stormy applause when introduced . He said his investigation had shown that the city government was " honeycombed with corruption . " The Tammany system of government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system of government , the district leaders being brokers and fixers . " Mr. Seabury asserted that his investigation had disclosed " the whole sordid story . " " Truth compels the statement , " he continued , " that the then President of the Board of Aldermen voiced no protest against any of these conditions and after the whole foul story had been told he still did not protest . " There is not a man on the whole ticket who now professes to represent civic virtue , who then had the courage to protest against those conditions . " Attacks 's Ticket . Going through the list of Joseph V. 's running mates , former Judge Seabury characterized James Cuff , candidate for Controller , ea " subservient " and Nathan Straus Jr. , candidate for President of the Board of Alderman , as " vacillating , weak and itching for public office " and " fawning on and flattering Curry and McCooey . " As to , Mr. Seabury said that despite the revelations of the legislative investigating committee there had been " not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could to get to act Iil e a man . " " All through those trying days , " Mr. Seabury went on , " stoqd by the side of Walker . He voted for the Equitable bus franchise . He voted for the salary grab . When , at last , Walker was forced from office , you began to see some gesticulations of indepen-1 deuce from Mr. . " Touching upon Mr. 's term as Acting Mayor after Mayor Walker had resigned , Mr. Seabury said : " Point to a. single constructive i act that he accomplished during that time . You ca n't do so . " He was asked to run for Mayor and he ran away . Later , he was again urged to run and he went into business . " Mr. Seabury then went on to tell how the Fusion movement began and how it spread . He added that . within a few weeks , it became perfectly apparent that the whole Tammany machine was about to be smashed . The district political leaders , Mr. Seabury said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and these leaders " got together under Farley and Flynn . " However , said Mr. Seabury , that did not change the situation as far as the Fusion movement was concerned . Fusion 's fight was still being made against Tammany Hall and all that the nomination of meant was that Mayor O'Brien was not acceptable to the people and that the district leaders were looking around for another candidate . Mr. Seabury said that the stampede of Tammany district leaders to was taking place because the district leaders " hope to perpetrate the old Tammany system of government . " He added that these leaders see more hopes of getting spoils through than through Mayor O'Brien who , they feel , will be defeated . Mr. Cunningham in his address said one reason advanced by the present city officials for the financial straits of the city , inability to collect $250,000,000 in taxes , was spurious , He said that with a city administration committed to an honest , efficient and economical conduct of the city 's affairs this delinquency could readily have been turned into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard Club , Mr. LaGuardia hurried to two other meetings . At the auditorium of the Church of All Nations , 9 Second Avenue , where he spoke under the auspices of the Workers Committee of the Unemployed , he was greeted enthusiastically by a crowd of 700 . " When I am Mayor of New York no unemployed man wi:1 have to go to a political club to get relief , " he declared . " I expect to push very vigorously a program of public works . Would Jail Grafters . " I will not permit one penny of graft to go to any municipal inspector . If I catch any inspector taking graft he 'll not only lose his job , but I 'll send him to jail . " We 've had Tammany at the City Hall . We do n't want four more years of Tammany Hall of the Bronx . " Other speakers at this meeting included Jacob Gould Schurman Jr. , Fusion candidate for District Attorney , and Irving Ben Cooper , candidate for justice of the City Court . At Public School 21 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enthusiastic crowd of 3,000 that booed mention of Tammany or . An overflow crowd of 300 , standing in Mott Street , heard the addresses from loud speakers . The meeting was under the auspices of the Second Assembly District Fusion . committee . Other speakers at this meeting included Mr. Post , Mr. Cooper , and Chief Justice Frederic Kernochan of the Court of Special Sessions . Justice Kernochan , candidate for the Judge of General Sessions , said that two of the present nine judges on the Court of General Sessions were formerly Tammany district leaders . He said his Tammany opponent , Owen W. Bohan was leader of one-half of the Fifth Assembly District , the other half of which is the political territory of Tammany Leader John F. Curry . " Should he be elected , there will then be three ex-district leaders on the General Sessions bench , " Justice Kernochan said . " I think that is just a little bit too much . " " Is Tammany Halt . " he asked in concluding his speech , " trying to tie up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid the Tammany racketeer who preys on the poor merchant by a weekly levy for protection when protectio1a is not necessary ? We have the grandest police force in the world , able to cope with the blackmailing mobs who terrorize you merchants and workers . " I pledge you that if I am elected to the Court of General Sessions I will order the grand juries to exercise all their initiativeness allowed them under the Iaws of the State to throw the fear of God Sind the law into the monstrous racketeer whose spread of activity has gripped every . line of human detivity in the city . "                     