@@703341

txt The British Minister to Mexico informed the Mexican Foreign Office ? that he had been ordered by his government to withdraw from Mexico . He said he would leave as soon as he could pack his belongings . Labor unions issued a warning that they would strike if wage cuts were instituted to offset the general business depression in Mexico caused by the boycott of Mexican oil . Page 1.3 The Mexican Minister - in London gave formal notice of his departure . But final British policy on the subject awaited the , return from Geneva of Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . In press comment President Cardenas was called a. " bandit . " Page 36 . ) Washington was gravely concerned over the breach between the two nations . Apprehension was felt that coolness might develop between Britain and the United States because of their different policies . Page 36 . Diplomatic Break Completed By FRANS L. SLTICISJI.01:IN By Telephone to THE /caw YORK mass . MEXICO CITY , May 14 . ? The British Minister , Owen St. Clair O'Malley , called upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today and informed Foreign Secretary Eduardo Hay that the Brit , . ish Government I-tad ordered his withdrawal from Mexico , thus completing the rupture iii MexicanBritish relations . Mr. O'Malley said that he would go to the United States by way of Laredo , Texas , as soon as he could pack his belongings . He expected to leave Mexico within a few days . Since the British consul general is absent on leave James Dalton Murray , 27-year-old vice consul and acting consul general , will be left in charge of British archives here . Mr. O'Malley did not say who would be left in charge of other affairs of his government in Mexico . This information was given to the foreign press by Mr. O'Malley in a communiqu ? which said : ! The British Minister called upon the Foreign- Secretary and handed him a note saying that he had been instructed by His Majesty 's Government to withdraw himself and his diplomatic staff from Mexico and to leave the legation in charge of the acting consul general . " " Absolute Courtesy " Noting that the Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wave of anti-British feeling exists in Mexico , " the British " Minister said : " I have been treated with absolute kindness and courtesy . I have received no complaints of rudeness from any British subjects in Mexico . " The opinion is being widely expressed here today that Mexico , expecting the aid of the United States , made a daring move to get the full support of public opinion by breaking diplomatic relations with Britain . This move , it is btlieved , was timed to take effect at -a period when the country is - feeling the full force of the economic consequences following the expropriation of foreign-owned oil companies and their - boycott of Mexico 's attempt to sell her oil . The Mexican press is taking the attitude today , as the govermitent did yesterday , that Mexico was injured by the - tone of the British notes in demanding the return of the seized foreign-owned oil holdings . The government feels that Mexican pride was injured and therefore that the government was justified in its policy . In an editorial today the newspaper Novedades says that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has made the charge that many industrial - firms , chiefly in the electric power and cotton business , are attempting to take advantage of labor 's restraint to impose wage reductions and to readjust personnel . " The C. T. M. warns that it will resort to the strike weapon if necessary , " the newspaper . declares . Wages Are Being Cut - - Employers , not only in large and small foreign-owned companies but Mexican-owned ones as well , assert they are cutting wages and dismiss- I ing workers because it is necessary under current business conditions . In relation to the break in diplbmatte relations with Britain , The Novedades declares : " Mexico could expect aggression from countries having regimes dia .. metrically opposed to ours but did not expect attacks from a democratic country . England is the mother of democracy and liberty while its properties , investments , colonies and money are not endangered . But when there is the slightest hint of danger all of England 's ideals disappear and . it is bared as cruel in its dealings with the government . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " The National Committee of the Federation of Mexican Workers has sent a message to President Cardenas announcing that the present self-imposed ban against strikes will be lifted unless the government takes measures to restrain employers from taking any action toward wage cuts and dismissals . " Under the pretext of getting the small amount of money owed by Mexico England even makes references to our agrarian debt and our failure to pay nationals and foreigners . It would at this moment be interesting to know exactly the amount of the British war debts to the ' United States . Surely it is an astronomical figure . " Authoritative British circles here denied emphatically that Britain had done more than express bluntly what she felt to be the facts in the case and . that expropriation of the oil companies was " inherently unjustified . " The Mexican Government insists it has answered conclusively the British notes and that the force of international law is on its side . British sources insist , however , that none of the Mexican notes liar ; answered how Mexico can pay . Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement and France 100,000 pesos . Insolvency Is Admitted The newspaper Noticias conceded that Mexico is an insolvent debtor , but added that the breaking of relations with Britain was necessary . " There is something remarkable , " the paper says , " in that John Bull inclines as gracefully as his bulk permits before the positive provocations of II Duce and then tries , in his dealing with Mexico , to put us on the bench of the accused as insolvent debtors . The latter is an . unfortunate fact and nothing remained for us but to make a gesture . Since we could not do anything else we did well in suspending relations with Britain . " The newspaper Grafico published a report which was sent from London by the Nazi press agency that " the Ambassador of the United States in London has received instructions to close the embassy and leave the English capital as a protest against the British note sent to Mexico on May 11 . " There was much discussion here on the reason for this patent falsehood.       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     