@@699917

txt Many people would no doubt be much surprised if they were told that part of the economic revolution now in progress reflected a direct return to the mediaeval concept of society . It is even doubtful that the *aslrers of that revolution are fully aware of that fact . Yet , fact it is , and it lies plain on the surface . This will . readily appear on even the most superficial view . Twenty-two years ago Bruce Wyman published two portly volumes on " The Special Law . Gpverning Public Service Corporations and All Others Engaged in Public Employnsent . " The subject is introduced by a historical sketch of conditions as they existed in mediaeval days in England , where the common law developed . From that sketch is taken the following paragraph ; part of which was recently published in The Wall Street 4urnal 's editorial columns : " The mediaeval *item involved almost universal regulation of all the doings of men , and , therefore , its commercial policy was almost completely restrictive . The ideal held was a society in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every man had a right to his place in this established order . This state of affairs was by most men greatly desired . Indeed , a regulated monopoly with the ? corresponding obligation of public service seemed in that age to the great majority of people far better than an unregulated competition without public obligation . It was thought that things were put in a true balance by requiring each person to perform his part and allowing no person to interfere with the employment of another . And all of this control of industrial affairs was felt to be ultimately for the benefit of the whole public who could obtain ' thereby without favor at reasonable prices proper service in accordance with their requirements . In this industrial regulation it has been well said that ? the mediaeval system was:a consumer 's policy far more than it was a producer 's policy . " Mediaeval " Codes " These codes were jealciusly watched and frequently voided by the Courts , if found inconsistent with public , service . Outside the towns many services were " regulated , " e. g. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tailors , smiths , victuallers , millers , bakers , etc . The law of regulation of such services actually developed- before the law of contract and the law of tort ' affecting private business obligations . All this was broken up by development of the competitive principle in economic relations . On this Wyman. says : - " Great , however , as was this change from the old economic theory to the new , it was gradual and it was never complete . There was a swing of the pendulum . General but not absolute restriction of freedom of trade was the policy of the middle ages ; general freedom of trade with the restriction of certain exceptional occupations has become the policy of , modern times . " Thus the present revolution is a reversal of the policy which in 1922 Mr. Wyman called " modern , " and a return to the mediaeval policy . The continuing principle of the common law is the connecting link between the two periods , and the cause of that return . . Revolution though it be , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the practical suicide of unrestricted competition ; the common law principle remains true , and now merely finds new application to new facts . What About Nationalism ? The modern world , however , differs widely from the mediaeval world in man : respects besides that of the infinitely greater complexity of its mechanical processes . It has no longer any fundamental spirit of unity , such as underlay even the bitterest fights and wars of mediaeval days .. Nor can it be said that the lipservice paid in these times to the social concept described by Mr. Wyman really means anything . Every community has in it an active principle of dissension at work between classes , and the real revolution today is what Ortega has described in his " Revolt of the Masses . " Political power has passed into the hands of the many , and they are about to use it to abolish economic inequality . The great uncertainty is whether what we call the Capitalist system will survive , or give place to either Fascism or Bolshevism . The answer to that will depend upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be a case of the goose and the ' golden eggs . We shall have to wait ' and see . In any event , it is interesting to note that the mediaeval notions on the subject of usury , the just price and the fair wage seem to have considerable vitality , ' pragmatically regarded , in these most " modern " days . Perhaps this may encourage us to acquaint ourselves a little more closely with other notions and concepts of that time . Who knows ? There might be some other of its ideas that we might find useful  --  as for instance its views on what we today call nationalism and International law .                     