@@703747

txt For the first time since he has been addressing messages to Congress . President Roosevelt yesterday drew applause where no applause was expected . It came from the newly-strengthened Republican side of Congress and it was a direct challenge on the matter of government spending and Congressional power . The President smilingly , but nevertheless decisively . picked up the challenge and sent it back like the good political tactician that he is This dramatic episode was the high point of Congressional reaction to the message , but offthe-record utterances of leading members later indicated that the reaction was typical . Influential members , both Republican and Democratic , appeared more than willing to take on the task of reviewing and revl. , irg some of the New Deal " riactments of ' he pas Vew which they c ... nsicier to ** general sustained economic recovery . Requirements of Balanced Budget The President said that a balanced budget " calls for elimination of enough activities of government to bring the expenses of government immediately into balance with income of government . " Prolonged hand-clapping and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When they died down , the President , without departing from his text , but emphasizing every word , continued : " This school of thought maintains that because our national income this year is only sixty billion dollars , ours is a sixty-billion country : that government must treat it as such : and that without the help of government , it may some day , somehow , happen to become an eighty billion dollar country " . It was the Democrats ' chance to cheer and they did it . " And an important point " , the President continued . " if Congress decides to accept this point of view , it will logically have to reduce the present functions or activities of government by one-third " Republicans applauded again . " The Congress will have to accept the re- , sponsibility for such reduction " the President went on , " and the Congress will have to determine which activities should be reduced " . Again there weir Republican cheers . Republicans Hue ? k Last Cheer Mr. Roosevelt tinned toward them and said they could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dollars saved in departmental budgets would make no gi eat showing , so Congress would have to turn to such things as agriculture , soil conservation , pensions , public works and social security grants , or relief RI-publicans obviously did not like that prospect but they still had the last cheer when the President said : " The Congress alone has the power to do all this as it is the appropriating branch of the government " Senators , composing the reconstruction bloc and who have in the past fought successfully against New Deal reforms , were not over-confident that Congress , which on the whole is no mean spender itself , would curtail government expenditures much below the figures presented in the budget for next year . They were , however . rather certain that appropriations bills would contain more specifically than in the recent past the manner in which funds would be handled for relief and other purposes . Willing to Cut Outlays At least one of the group declared himself among those willing to cut government outlays by one-third . " And I know just where 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Appropriations Committee asserted . Several of the senators declared themselves confused over ? ust what policies the President was advocating , and were somewhat critical of indications in the message that the Ad -- ministration apparently plans to continue a reform policy in the name of a national defense emergency . Members , who had hoped the President 's message would present a clear picture of the course the Administration will follow during the next year or so . were disiippsarite.l . They complained later of the vagueness with which the Chief Executive referred to polishing up previous enactments to make their operation more effective . Not Sure of Interpretation However , some were inclined to toe belief that the failure to be more epecific in this connection meant that he was willing for Congress to undertake the task of improving the farm act , the labor laws and the Lax structure as well as the drafting of transportation legislation . However , they were not sure that this was the proper interpretation . The feeling was rather widespread among Democrats and Republicans alike , that the President , for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These members were inclined to view the urgent national defense needs , advanced by the Chief Executive , is a " screen " to prevent the spotlight of public attention from centering on political reverses , which have placed in the hands of the conservative and independent voting Democrats a balance of power which can be used effectively to advance or block administration proposals . By dominating the picture with national defense needs , it was explained , the President moves into a position where he can hammer the recalcitrants in Congress with the charge that opposition to Administration measures means opposition to much needed Improvements in the national defense . In this connection , it was recalled that the Chief Executive tied economic defense Into actual military defense .                     