@@703175

txt Documentary evidence that Councilman Michael J. Quill listed his permanent residence address as 153 West Sixty-fourth Street , Manhattan , a few weeks after his election from the Bronx was introduced yesterday at the opening session of the Council committee investigating Mr. Quill 's residence qualifications . Francis W. H. Adams , counsel to the committee , produced a photostatic copy of Mr. Quill 's application for a passport to Ireland . The application was made on Nov. 22 , 1937 , and the passport was issued three days later . Harry Sacher , Mr. Quill 's counsel , told the committee that the Sixtyfourth Street address was the headquarters of the Transport Workers Union , of which Mr. Quill is inter ' national president . The committee of five is dominated by three Demo , crats , in contrast to the committee 1 investigating Councilman Hugh Quinn , which has a majority of coalitionists . " I am prepared to prove , " said Mr. Adams , " that the Sixty-fourth Street address is the address at which Mr. Quill lived , and that it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In registering and voting last Fall Mr. Quill gave his residence address as 857 Beck Street , the Bronx , election records showed . In applying for the passport to Ireland , where he went to be married , the Councilman swore that he was born in County Kerry in 1905 ; that he came here in 1926 ; that he had lived in the United States since that year ; that his permanent residence was 153 West Sixty-fourth Street , and that he became a naturalized citizen on Jan. 11 , 1932 . When the committee session opened Councilman Anthony Di Giovanna , chairman , said that Mr. Quill 's residence qualifications would be investigated first . The resolution creating the committee specified that it also was to look into allegations that Councilman Joseph Clark Baldwin actually lived in Westchester when he was elected as a Republican member for Manhattan . After the Quill inquiry the committee will take up Mr. Baldwin 's case . Mr.- Adams introduced copies of Mr. Quill 's baggage declarations when he returned with his bride on the Washington on Jan. 6 last . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A series of automobile operators ' licenses and owners ' applications starting on April 27 , 1936 , was then put into the record by Mr. Adams . In. all of them Mr. Quill gave his residence address as 153 West Sixty-fourth Street . William H. Liebling , a clerk in the Board of Elections , was the first witness against the Councilman . He produced records showing that on Oct. 9 , 1937 , Mr. Quill registered from 857 Beck Street , the ' Bronx , and enrolled as a member of the American Labor Party . He had said he lived eleven years in the State , six months in the county and six months in the election district . Mr. Quill also said that he had registered in 1936 from West Sixty-fourth Street . In 1935 , the records showed , Mr. 1 Quill had registered from 11 Wadsworth Avenue in Manhattan , giving 153 West Sixty-fourth Street as his business address . He also said that he had voted in 1934 from the Wadsworth Avenue address . Mr. Sacher objected to this testimony and told the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quill had not voted in 1934 . " On the election register in 1935 he voted from Wadsworth Avenue , Manhattan , " Mr. Adams replied , " saying that he had voted in 1934 from the same address . It is pertinent to find out whether he did so , because in any quasi-judicial inquiry the issue of credibility is fundamental . " " By counsel 's own confession they are trying to impeach the credibility of the respondent and not trying to inquire into the question of residence , " Mr. Sacher protested . Chairman Di G-iovanna warned the attorney not to question the motives of any committee member . In - 1932 and 1933 , it was brought out , Mr. Quill enrolled as a Democrat . The committee refused Mr. Sacher 's request for testimony , in preliminary examinations in the case . The committee will resume its inquiry at 10 o'clock Wednesday morning in City Hall .                     