@@702598

txt No important modification of the Federal Government 's Social Security mechanism is likely to take place this year , although a new committee to study the problem will be announced here shortly . The real reason is not that the basis of the present system meets with general approval among official and private experts , but that the social security tax-and-reserve act ... ale is deeply embedded in Treasury fiscal policy . In a very real sense , social security taxes have conic to be regarded as boom-control taxes . They will help check the rise in Treasury securities held by the commercial banking system and , if everything works out all right , may help reduce bank portfolios . Such a reduction tends to contract the total of available bank deposit dollars . Were it not for the fact that social security receipts in the 1937-38 fiscal year will far exceed actual cash outlays in the form of benefit payments , the Treasury would face the prospect of continued borrowing in the open market to meet running expenses . With the muchmaligned " reserve " plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to point to an actual excess of cash income over cash outgo during the next 12 months . Pledged for Future Obligations Of course , it can hardly be said that the social security taxes are really balancing the budget . The funds accumulated are pledged to " meet future obligations . But the reserve is not kept in cash  --  it is " invested " by law in government securities , and this leaves something like $1,000,000,000 in cash for the next fiscal year to come from old age and state-operated unemployment reserves . If the federal budget comes within a billion donate of balancing on what President Roosevelt called a " layman 's " basis ( excluding statutory debt retirement ) , the social security accumulations will result in a decrease in the public debt outstanding in the hands of the public . Economists here who have made some study of the whole governmental finance situation are in something of a quandary . They do not like the reserve idea in connection with social security . They prefer the regular pay-as-you-go plan , because in the long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payments will have to be met out of current cash income regardless of reserve bookkeeping . They do not think that government securities constitute a real reserve against a future obligation of that same government . Nevertheless , these economists see what part the social security tax receipts , direct and indirect , are playing in protecting the Treasury 's position . So a few of them defend the reserve system on the basis of a set of arguments that have little or nothing to do with social security itself . The whole subject is considered rather mysterious by the rank and filo of Washington oftleialdom and by many members of Congress . Yet were it not for the fact that the social security reserves fit so well into the budget picture , there would probably be enough support for revision of the  --  system to abolish the reserve scheme entirely . Either the benefit payments schedule would be speeded up to absorb the funds now flowing in or the tax schedule would be retarded to match the current outgo  --  which is , of course , very small at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay-as-you-go plan will be adopted in the interest of simplicity , if nothing else . But while the budget is out of balance , the social security " surplus " is entirely too important to be allowed to melt away in the process of revising the law .                     