@@702823

txt The Osservatore Romano , Vatican newspaper , protested again today against the attacks on the Catholic C/mrch in Germany and predicted " direst consequences " if they were allowed to continue . Vatican prelates said Pope Pius had read and approved the Osservatore Romano editorial , according to The Associated Press . The editorial expressed alarm at the official honors showered at the Nuremberg National Socialist Congress on Dr. Alfred Rosenberg , who was said to have inspired the German Government's. religious policy . It ended by reminding Germany that the campaign of hate against the Catholic Church might turn out to be the forerunner , as in Spain , of a campaign of atrocities . The Osservatore Romano began by acknowledging that the Nuremberg National Socialist Congress had not brought about , as many expected , a break in the relations between church and State , but added : " Any one who would draw from this fact optimistic conclusions for the future relations between the State and church in Germany would give proof that he had not profited from the experience of the last four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make any one forget that the hidden and open war against the church and against the rights guaranteed to the church by the solemn concordat still continues . ' Proofs of this war are the continuous eampaign on the part of the immoderate and , to say the least , indecorous press and the cent ordinances tending to take religious teachings out of the hands of competent authorities  --  that is to say , the clergy  --  or demanding that the clergy reform the catechism in the National Socialist sense , which implies a negation of the fundamental truths of the Christian faith . " The Nuremberg congress , more over , showed that the penetration of the new Nordic paganism into the Nazi movement is constantly progressing and the official representatives of the Nazi party , , far from opposing this penetration , encourage it . " Formerly the Holy See received repeated assurances in writing and orally that Rosenberg 's works were his private affair , for which the Reich Government assumed no responsibility . But the official propaganda of Rosenberg 's ideology is assuming ever greater proportions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers depending on the State and the Nazi party , and have entered the schools with the result that the German Government 's declarations and assurances have lost their value . " Finally the first national prize was assigned in Nuremberg to Rosenberg , who has been proclaimed not the poet laureate but the prophet laureate of official D.Tational Socialist and Government thought in religious matters . " Nobody , remembering the capital importance of the Pope 's encyclical , issued in the interests of true peace between church and State and to combat the fatal union between the powers of the State and forces hostile to Christianity , can fail to appreciate how dangerous is the trend of cultural development in Germany now that the State has declared its full solidarity with Rosenberg 's literary production . " This declared solidarity suppresses the necessary conditions for religious peace in Germany and renders vague any assertion of a benevolent attitude toward Christianity on the part of the German Government . The surprising declaration was made in Nuremberg that no harm had been done to even a single ecclesiastic in Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough . " " It should be remembered , " ends I the article , " that every revolution has its successive phases . Even in Spain anti-religious books were the conscious or unconscious forerun ners of later atrocities . " Fears Killing of Priests VATICAN CITY , Sept. 14 tIES. ? The Osservatore Romano declared in an editorial today that if the anti-Christian movement in Germany , continued " sowing seeds of hatred and vilification " the blood of priests might be shed there " as it was in Spain . " The editorial condemned the " fatal union of the State with forces hostile to Christianity . " It said antireligious writings in Spain preceded the strife and demanded " who can guarantee to the present rulers of Germany that the seeds of hatred and vilification of every sacred thing , which are being matured ever more powerfully under the eyes of the authorities , will not also produce on German soil the fruits which should bring terror to every true friend of the German people and of its future ? " The newspaper expressed its " sorrow " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support anti-Christian forces . " This fact , " it added , " tends to suppress the necessary conditions , for that religious pacification for I which the Holy See has sincerely hoped . " The editorial indicated that supposedly bettered relations between the Vatican and the German State , which had been seen as a prelude for a visit to the Pope b3-47.ardinal von Faulhaber and a com.nittee of I Bishops , do not exist .                     