@@700660

txt No one who has spent much time recently in Central Europe before attending the present sessions of the disarmament conference can easily escape a feeling of deep pessimism as to the probable outcome of the latter despite the optimism that characterized its latest session . For the optimism , as it is generally admitted in private , relates to the present only  --  concerning the matter of keeping the conference alive . It is confined , moreover , to the surface aspects of the problems before the delegates , that is , the possibility of keeping on discussing them . And below all this are deeper disagreements and certain hard facts which have produced them . These are as real as ever and are not seriously affected by the decision to continue . Period of Great Peril Seen . To one observer from overseas Europe , while showing distinct signs of economic improvement in many spots , never has been more disunited or more discordant politically and never , even in 1914 , has faced a period of greater peril than she does now , twenty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all wars . In every country save three disunion and uncertainty are the prevailing notes , and the people seem to know neither exactly what they want nor how they are going to get anything that they think they do want . Russia , where things were worse , seems to be emerging from the shadows and stabilizing into something cohesive , determinable and united . Italy has accepted her dictatorship , seems rather to have grown to like it and though economically in straits is on her way , skillfully steered , to better things than she has known since she became a kingdom . As to Germany , there all wills and all opinions have been beaten and welded into one to achieve something unspecified and greatly feared everywhere but in Germany . Contrast Marked in Genera . Here in Geneva , where a neutral observer without ties and with as few prejudices as may be sees the game best , the contrast between these set national wills and the rest of the world looms very large . Particularly it has come out strongly in the disagreements and debates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority is so very disunited both in aims and methods , so lacking in determination to come to grips with realities , so prone to catch at straws and temporary expedients , so certain that verbal formulae will bridge factual chasms instead of merely concealing them until the wayfarer falls through . What the late Lord Salisbury once called " the dreary drip of dilatory delegation " reaches its apotheosis in Geneva and here also postponement has been elevated to a fine art . This has come out strongly in the latest stages of the disarmament debate : The conference , it is true , will continue , debating and planning in small bodies instead of one large one during the Summer while the two principal European governments represented therein do their best to induce Germany to come back and resume the debate . The chief ground for hoping for success seems to be that Germany must be uncomfortable away from the conference and none too happy with Russia very busy in it forging chains to bind her and preparing to take a seat at that other council table from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany are not so sure that these are very strong reasons for the Reich Government 's reversing its course . In the first place it is not so sure that Germany is uncomfortable away from Geneva or that any assumption that she must be is well-founded . Germany is quite absorbed with her own practical occupations and it is far from certain that in these occupations peace , despite the lip service paid to it , has any part . And as to the diplomatic chains which are being forged , treaties are one thing ; obedience to them when obedience is hard is quite another , as the world discovered twenty years ago and the League of Nations itself has been ascertaining ever since the World War . Germany certainly takes little stock in treaties made by other people or in words used about them , and says so openly . Her faith is in her strength , the will to do and the might to back the will . That is one of her reasons for despising Geneva , with its compromises and formulae that displease nobody but rarely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many foreign travelers come to Geneva out of Germany from time to time , and they are bringing many tales , all to the same effect . Travelers ' tales are sometimes synonymous with fables , sometimes not . It all depends upon the traveler . But it is strange how most of these tales agree , dovetailing each with the other and with half-concealed statistics and known facts . The tales brought to Geneva are of enormous activity and great increases in personnel in the German iron and steel foundries , metal factories , machine shops and the chemical industry without a corresponding increase in the domestic consumption of whatever is being produced and despite the great decrease in all exports . Travelers tell of new factories being erected and old factories being extended inside protective cordons and under conditions of strange secrecy . Particularly they stress the attention being paid all over the land to underground constructions , particularly in the cities and industrial centres . The fears and misgivings of these travelers are general and are strongly expressed . They are all impressed by the drilling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of schoolboys and by the militant spirit which everywhere characterizes the more youthful population . And these people are quite skeptical about Germany 's returning either to the disarmament conference or to the League . In which case , while the League will undoubtedly continue , what the disarmament conference can or will do is very much in doubt , despite the elaborate plans for its continuance .                     