@@699260

txt Democrats will have an overwhelming control of the next Congress , having won sufficient seats to bring their Senate total to GO out of 96 . In the House they will , have in the neighborhood of SOO members . Senatorial elections to fill unexpired terms threatened the last vestige of Republican enntrm In the present Congress , as Republicans lost one of their 48 Senate ' testis and Democrats added one to their 47 . If Senator Shipstead . Farmer Labor Senator , should vote with the Democrats , they would have immediate Senate control . If he remains with Republicans on organization , the Senate would be a tie to be decided byVice rresident Curtis . Wets control clear majorities in both branches . Democrats will have 60 Senate seats in the Seventy-third Congress . on the basis of elections held Tuesday . In the present Congress , the Senate Democrats number 47 . Democrats have picked up 13 Senate seats out of 34 which were in contest . They lost no seat which is now held by a Democrat . The House line-up will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contests will not be finally settled for a day or two . It Is probable that two-thirds of the House will be wet although present estimates place the number far above.ithat figure . There is reason to believe that these estimates are exaggerated . However , there is no question whatever about the strength to put through an enabling act to resubmit the prohibition amendment to the states . Wets in the Senate are estimated at 60 . This is four short of two-thirds and it is possible that this figure is an overestimate . However , the drys will probably combine with the wets for a resubmission proposal . There is a majority in both Houses for modification of the Volatead Act , which requires only a majority vote . Shipstead in Strategic Position The big Democratic majority will not come into existence until the seventy-third Congress , which may be called into special session some time after March 4 . For the lame duck session control of the Senate appears to depend on the vote of Senator Shipstead . Farmer-Laborite from Minnesota . If he continues to vote with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Vice President Curtis will cast the deciding ballot . The Senate had stood 48 Republicans , 47 Democrats and one Farmer-Labor Senator . In two elections for a short term the Republicans lost a seat held by Senator Barbour in New Jersey where Stewart ( Dem. ) defeated Barbour , and retained a seat in Colorado left vacant by Senator Waterman . Karl Schuyler won the race for the short term but lost for the long term . Thus the present standing is 48 Democrats , 47 Republicans and one Farmer-Labor member . Many Familiar Figures Pass When America 's morning whistle the day after election summoned a new Administration to work at the nation 's Capitol , many old hands prepared to put their Congressional dinner pails away on the shelf and settle back with their feet on the home table once more , as the result of a replacement vote that was no respecter of persons in the Senate and House of Representatives . Men like Reed Smoot who have long been headline fig-urea here and abroad , with their names attached to important legislation , are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the exception of topical metropolitan interviews when they happen to leave home on business or pleasure excursions . In some cases the eclipse will be temporary ; in some cases , forever . Lightning does not strike twice in the same place . It was found to have struck in many places at once when the press associations had sufficiently completed their counting of noses to give a good indication of the coming changes in personnel in Congress . Senator Smoot ( Rep. ) , so-called dean of the Senate and chairman of its Finance Committee , is lost to Utah . Senator George Higgins Moses ( Rep. ) is lost to New Hampshire . He was defeated by Fred H. Brown ( Dena . ) . The roll call in the delegations from the South may not be greatly altered , certainly not as to law-makers who have made their names outstanding . But no other extended sections have proved exempt in the shake-up which the public has ordered . La Guardia , Mrs. Pratt Lose Senator James E. ' Watson 's years in the Senate hardly equal Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress in 1894. and since then has been increasingly a force in politics . To serve his first term in the Senate he had to defeat Senator Thomas Taggart in 1916 , an accomplishment which he repeated in 1920 . To the country at large there can be few more pertinent examples of the changing complexion of Congress than Senator ' Watson 's defeat by Frederick Van Nuys ( Dem 1 . Big names made particularly good targets in Iowa , the scene of many controversies over agricultural conditions and policies Democrats defeated Senator Smith W. Brookhart ( Ind Rep. ) as well as the regular Republican nominee in Iowa , Henry Fitid . And with these two fell Representative Gilbert Haugen ( Rep I. coauthor of the bill In Wisconsin John B Chapple. who defeated Senatoi Blaine ( Rep. ) in the primary , was likewise in turn defeated by a Democrat . New York City districts did not choose to return Representatives Fiorello La Guardia ( Rep. ) and Mrs. Ruth Pratt to their accustomed posts , La Guardia being defeated by J. J. Lanzette . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unseated by a Democrat is Senator Hiram Bingham , of Connecticut . It may also be worthy of note that former Representative Tilson 's old district in Connecticut is sending F. T Maloney ( Dern ) . to the House in preference to his Republican opponent , T. A. D , Jones , the football coach . Dr. Elbert D. Thomas ( Dem. ) of Utah , who defeated Senator Smoot for reelection , will be one of three Thomases in the Senate . If many of the old faces are leaving , one erstwhile familiar face is going back to Washington  --  William Gibbs ( Dem . ) , Senator-elect from California                     