@@700649

txt Governor James Rolph Jr. , a prominent figure in the political life of the State and nation , died at 1:30 P. M. today at Riverside Farm , the Santa Clara County ranch where he had been battling against a long illness . He was 64 years old . The death was due to a mio-cardian malady involving the entire circulatory system . This caused kidney complications and a general disturbance of the nervous system . His illness began in the midst of a stumping tour of the State . The State Executive had fought his illness with a vigor that was incomprehensible to his physicians . Governor Rolph 's restlessness and his will to live made it almost impossible for the doctors to keep him quiet so that he would obtain the maximum rest needed for a completely exhausted mental and physical condition . Last Tuesday the Governor 's condition took a turn for the worse and the physicians summoned his family and his most intimate friend , State Motor Vehicle Director T. J. Roche , to his bedside . This morning all hope for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the bedside when the Governor died were Mrs. Rolph and a son , James 3d , holding his father 's hand . In the bedroom also were the Governor 's brothers , Will , Ronald and Tom , and the four attending physicians . By the death of Governor Rolph , Frank F. Merriam , 67 , of Long Beach , succeeds to the Governorship of California . Mr. Merriam was elected Lieutenant Governor Nov. 4 , 1930 , at the same time Mr. Rolph was elected Governor . Mr. Merriam was nominated by the Republicans in a three-cornered contest with the then Lieutenant Governor , H. L. Carnahan , and State Senator Tallant Tubbs . As Lieutenant Governor , Mr. Merriam served as presiding officer of the State Senate during the past two sessions of the Legislature . He was an Assemblyman for ten years . He served as Speaker of the Assembly for two terms . In 1928 he was elected to the State Senate , but he resigned his office to ? run for Lieutenant Governor . Alsct in that year he was chairman of the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party organization in the successful Hoover Presidential campaign . New Governor Born in Iowa . The new Governor , a native of Iowa , came to California in 1910 and engaged in newspaper work at Long Beach for eleven years . He is a widower . He has long been active in civic , church , club and fraternal circles . He is engaged in the real estate business and also is vice president of the Citizens State Bank of Long Beach . For many years he was one of California 's leading dry advocates , but he has accepted the change in public sentiment as far as the prohibition amendment is concerned . He now believes ' in a campaign of temperance rather thanprohibition . Fulfilled Pioneer Ideal . - Governor Roiph , who was Mayor of San Francisco ? for twenty years before he became Chief ' Executive of California , had been one of the most colorful figures in . American political life for more than a quarter of a century . The son of pioneer parents , he carried out in appearance and action the pioneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faultlessly dressed , but always until recently wearing polished high-heeled boots , he was a striking personage , a bane to the political leaders who played the game ac11 cording to the regular rules . Rising to fame and acquiring a fortune in the shipping business , he was often in the national spotlight , although on some recent occasions he was a target for criticism . His refusal to pardon Torn Mooney and his lauding of the San Jose lynchers drew widespread attack . Governor Rolph was born In San Francisco , the son of James and Margaret Roiph . He was a native of the famous Mission district , " south of the slot , " Jack London 's contribution to local geography , based on the old car-cable that ran through Market Street . The date of his birth was Aug. 23 , 1869 . After attending the public schools and Trinity Academy , he obtained in 1888 a job as office boy with a shipping company . From the first he displayed the energetic characteristics that were to lead him to financial and political success . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firm of Hind , Rolph his business activities . spread and he launched . seVeralenterprisea ; including : . the Ralph Shipbuilding Company and the Roiph Naviga-1 tion ? Company . Trade , across the Pacific was booming , and Shipping ' was enjoying an era of expansion . Mr. Ralph prospered . Lost Fortune in Wooden Ships . Then came the World War . The country needed ships to . meet the emergency , and there was a demand even for wooden ships . Mr. Rolph ; Who - had been a builder of steel vessels , helped supply wooden craft , plunging heavily to get them out in a hurry . As soon as the war ended , the expected profits were turned into losses . There was a surplus of wooden ships that commanded only junk prices . Mr. Rolph 's losses were estimated at $3,000,000 . He accepted the setback , devoted his energies to recouping his fortune and by 1926 was able to tell friends that he was " about out of the woods . " In 1928 he became a member of the firm of James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He continued other activities as head of James Rolph &; Co. , shipping and commission merchants . For many years Mr. Rolph had been the most prominent citizen of San Francisco . He attained this high honor in 1906 , when " San Francisco became a city that was " because of earthquake and fire . Mr. Rolph organized the Mission Relief Committee for the district of his nativity and played a leading part in solving the problems of the crisis period . In 1910 he entered the race for Mayor . His opponent was P. H. McCarthy . president of the Building Trades Council . Mr. Rolph , always the breezy , smiling , personality , was widely known as Sunny Jim . Mr. McCarthy , running- for re-election , was also popular . But Mr. Roiph won out . A " Business Man 's " Mayor . In 1911 Mr. Rolph took over the office of Mayor of San Francisco and he remained in it-until he went to Sacramento as Governor of California in 1931 . He was a " business man 's " Mayor , but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoothing the path of business , but neglected none of the ordinary tricks of the professional politician . He even went beyond others in stunting . He was Sunny Jim to the citizens , and he made the most of it . If there was a prizefight , he would have no ? hesitation in stepping into the ring to speak " a few wcfrds to the boys " during an intermission . At a football game he dunked his sandwich in his coffee and held the cup in his left hand , so he could be photographed shaking hands with visiting sports celebrities while thousands looked On . As Mayor he frequently was in the national picture . He always claimed that he taught New York City the way to meet distinguished guests , giving lavish welcomes to foreign dignitaries and homecoming American notables . Meanwhile , conflicting groups in the Republican party of California were having their troubles . On one side were arrayed the forces of Senator Hiram Johnson and on the other the conservative group . Mayor Roiph , essentially a conservative business man , stood between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governorship , taking advantage of ' the factional . fight . His election followed . He ' pursued many of the policies at Sacramento that he had followed as Mayor of San Franciaco . But at the State -- capital things did not run as sMoothly . For one thing , the nation was beset with ? . the economic depression , and the citizenry became more critical of public officials . Late in 1931 Mayor James J. Walker of New York headed a delegation of lawyers who went to San Francisco to fightfor the release from San Quentin prison of Torn Mooney , who had been languishing there for many years - as a result of the Preparedness Day parade in San Francisco , although considerable evidence had been produced since the trial to indicate that he had been improperly convicted . At the time of Mayor Walker 's journey across the continent there wig a widespread belief that all was set on the California stage for a showing that would enable Governor Roiph to free Mooney . But in the ? following-April the Governor declined to- ' free Mooney . His action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1933 , when a mob- stormed the San Jose jail and lynched two men who had been arrested for kidnapping and killing Brooke Hart . Thousands watched the lynching , but Governor Rolph gave public expression to his approval of the act . Approval of Lynching Scored . From all over the country came a storm of protest . Former President Hoover joined in a denunciation of lynching as a direct result . President Roosevelt took occasion in a public speech to condemn the Governor by implication . Meanwhile things were stormy in State politics . Open accusations of corruption and graft were leveled I at the Roiph administration . But Sunny Jim continued to hold the affections of large groups , although a bill-to legalize horse racing on a large scale was approved by the people at a referendum after he had vetoed it . California , like many other States , soon began to show a change in attitude toward political leaders . However , it was agreed that , despite the opposition of many groups to Governor Rolph , he still held a place in the affections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rolph maintained to the end a large measure of the good humor and imperturbability that had . characterized him throughout his career . He still was the impressive ' figure , with the broadcloth frock-coat , top hat and striped trousers .. ' In 1933 he wore ' his first pair of shoes . Rheumatism compelled this concession for a time . He paid $13.87 for them , he said , including the sales tax which he had approved . Mr. Rolph married Anna Marshall . Reid of San Francisco in 1900 . There- are three children , Mrs. John P. SYrites , James Rolph. 3d and Mrs. Richard C. Willets. * - The Governor was an Episcopalian . His clubs included the Union , the Bohemian , the Union League , the Press , the Commercial and the Commonwealth of Sag Francisco . His home was at 288 San Jose Avenue , San Francisco .                     