@@703779

txt Legislation authorizing the $2,000 , - 000,000 Exchange Stabilization Fund and the alteration of the gold content ' of the dollar at the President 's ' discretion is due to expire on June 30 . The President has requested Congress to continue the Fund and his power to alter the gold content of the dollar until Jan. 15 , 1941 , a date virtually corresponding with the end of his present term . There are really two separate proposals here , and it is important to consider them separately . The request for the continuation of the Exchange Stabilization Fund ought Unquestionably to be granted . Even if we leave aside the actual and potential service of the Fund in protecting not only the dollar but other currencies from violent oscillations , it would be important to maintain the Fund if only to keep the $1,800,000,000 idle gold in it out of the monetary stream , out of our already overswollen bank reserves . But the Fund should be continued subject to the condition that it abandon its past efforts to maintain complete secrecy for its gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has always been possible to obtain indirect light on the operations of the Fund from other sources . But the efforts toward secrecy have obscured the situation and given rise to unlimited rumors and conjecture , which are always the enemies of stability and confidence . If there are good reasons for withholding current information , there is no good reason for not releasing information after it has ceased to bear on the immediate situation . Though the pound has been in a much more vulnerable position than the dollar , the British give out information regarding the gold holdings of their own Exchange Equalization Account after a lag of three months . The publicity on our own Fund could safely be not only more complete but more recent than this . Permanent secrecy concerning the workings of any important instrument of government is contrary to our political traditions . While the Stabilization Fund should be renewed subject to this condition , there is no good reason why the power of the President to alter the gold content of the dollar at his discretion should be continued at all . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its continuation . It will be said that the power is necessary in order to give us a certain amount of trading leeway in case any other country attempts competitive devaluation . It will be said that by removing the President 's discretionary powers we will be virtually committing ourselves to the present level of the dollar , and that such a cothmitment is both unnecessary and dangerous in the present unsettled state of world affairs . It will be said that if we now definitely value the dollar at its present level , we will attract still more unwanted gold to this market ; Inflationists , of course , will argue for continued tinkering with the monetary unit . Against even the best of these arguments , it must be pointed out that by allowing the President 's discretionary power to lapse we will remove from the present economic situation a major source of continued uncertainty . As long as the President has this discretionary power there will be intermittent rumors and guesses regarding what use he will make of it . This cause of uncertainty must be removed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The danger to us of depreciation of other currencies has in recent years been enormously exaggerated . During the period from 1919 to 1923 , when the pound was unstable , when the French and Belgian francs and the Italian lira were all plunging downward and the German mark was collapsing to a trillionth of its former value , the dollar remained unchanged , firmly anchored to gold . Its firmness was not only a source of great strength to this country , but a great stabilizing factor in the world economy . Even if we accept the argument that the value of the dollar may again have to be changed , for whatever reason , it may still be pointed out that the power to change it should not rest with one man , but with Congress . If this is not properly a function that Congress should retain for itself , it would be difficult to think of one that is.                     