@@702436

txt News of the adoption of the forty-hour work week by the leading steel companies was received with pleasure by government officials today , particularly Secretary Perkins and Charles Edison , Assistant Secretary of the Navy . Mr. Edison immediately moved to readvertise for bids on 25,000,000 pounds of steel which is urgently needed . for naval construction . The Navy has tried without success since December to buy that amount of steel . President Roosevelt said at his press conference that he was not acquainted with details of conferences now going on toward a , collective bargaining agreement between employes and steel companies , but added that he discussed the forty-hour week with Myron C. Taylor , chairman of the United States Steel Corporation , when Mr. Taylor last visited the White House . The agreement on the forty-hour week by the larger steel producers , which meets the terms of the Walsh-Healey act , removed the last obstacle to steel procurement , in the opinion of officials . Mr. Edison expressed the hope that other industries supplying naval construction materials would quickly follow the action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steel situation , he said , would not be definitely clarified until the results of the bidding were known . He apparently referred to the prices that would be asked . The expected bids will probably be opened on March 16 . Secretary Perkins hailed as " the most important victory in recent years for the principle of collective bargaining in this country , " the announcement of the agreement between Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation and the C. I. 0 . " I am especially grateful that the agreement was so quickly and peaceably arrived at , " said Miss Perkins , when advised of the pact to negotiate a one-year contract . " It is probably the first step toward voluntary recognition of the collective bargaining principle in a great mass production industry as the best solution of management-labor differences . " Miss Perkins professed not to be surprised that the C. 1 . 0 . had finally been able to negotiate an agreement with the principal subsidiary of the United States Steel Corporation , although other officials who declined to be quoted evinced an opposite reaction . Miss Perkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been watching the progress of negotiations . Although some officials were less ready than others to grant off-hand the accomplishment of a great union victory , Miss Perkins was emphatic in her assertion that " it is not right to question the good faith of the management in agreeing to this contract , which , to my mind , represents an honest attempt at a peaceable settlement of what was about to become a serious labor dispute . " " Statesmanlike Attitude " " What this contract represents , " said the Labor Secretary , " is a more modern and statesmknlike attitude in labor relations . " Earlier in the day Secretary Perkins called a press conference on the news that Carnegie-Illinois had adopted the forty-hour week . She remarked cheerfully that " Now the navy is safe . " Reached by telephone from Washington in Coshocton , Ohio , William Green , president of the American . Federation of Labor , said : " Of course it is n't entirely pleasing to me , but we always like to see them the steel workers win their struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible labor authority who , because of the nature of his position , could not be directly quoted , expressed the opinion that the C. I. 0 . contract with CarnegieIllinois could be viewed as nothing less than a decisive victory for John L. Lewis and his industrial unionism campaign . This official , while hedging slightly as to the extent of the union victory as such , having not seen the terms of agreement , said that the very fact that the C. I. 0 . had been able to obtain the agreement from one of the largest components of United States Steel , after the American Federation of Labor had failed for so many years to make a break in the solid front of the steel companies , would be a telling argument for Mr. Lewis in his fight with William L. Green , A. F. of L. president . Expressions of gratification were general at the probable avoidance of a general strike in the steel industry . It was generally assumed that the Carnegie contract would be followed by similar arrangements between other companies and the union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a forty-hour week and a general rise in basic prices as stimulated to a considerable extent by the organization campaign of the C. I. 0 . The view was also expressed that the apparent end of the steel labor battle would undoubtedly have the effect of alleviating the tension in the coal industry , where the United Mine Workers of America and the operators are now deadlocked over the terms of a new contract to replace the one expiring April 1 . In general , no government official would comment on the intra- I labor aspects of the matter , taking the position that they should not express any opinions on a battle over basic policy as between two I factions of labor , neither of which 1 has the endorsement of the government . Other Navy Buymg Projected Mr. Edison said that he was " naturally very gratified . " He added that " this action on the part of these steel companies should now make it possible for the Navy Department to receive acceptable bids on the navy 's requirements for this basic material . " He expressed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see their way to follow the lead of the steel industry . He listed machine tools , hydraulic gears for ordnance equipment , Diesel-driven electric generators , refrigerating and air-conditioning machinery , electric outlet and feeder boxes , twine and ingot copper as articles the Navy Department had been unable to obtain . The steps by the steel industry toward action under the WalshHealey Act caused postponement of a meeting of the House bloc organized to fight for nationalization of steel for purposes of national defense . Representative Maverick said that at least thirty-five members were ready to attend the scheduled meeting . Observers await the result of the new advertisements for navy steel . They are anxious to see whether the bids will be sharply increased over those offered when the last purchase was made , and also whether the different companies will offer bids nearly identical for the same kind and quantity of steel . Miss Perkins said she had no idea what the price differential might be as a result of the forty-hour week and pay increases . The House Appropriations Committee adopted the report of its naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $25,000,000 armor plate factory at South Charleston , W. Va. , be sold . The plant was constructed during the World War , but it was never put into production . A special subcommittee investigated the plant during the last session of Congress , but failed to report its recommendations . The Navy Department has twice recommended that the plant be disposed of , because procurement through commercial sources would be cheaper . The report to the House recalled that a year ago it was found that " it would take about three years to get the plant back into producing major-calibre gun forgings and heavy armor , and that to rehabilitate the plant and properly equip it would cost around $4,400,000 . " " The committee feels that the Congress should be apprised of this situation , " the report continued , " and , further , that if it be not the intention to use this establishment , that disposition should be made of the property and the government saved the annual expense of halfway maintaining it and of policing it , which has been going on for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              