@@701961

txt The Democratic platform , now being drafted , will declare in favor of public works " planning " and also will contain a pledge for a longrange public housing program , ac-1 cording to information obtained today . Thus the Democrats will go the Republican platform , which declared simply in favor of independent public works , one better . With the Republican platform a matter of public record , Democrats , under the leadership of Senator Wagner of New York , are busy on a final synchronization of the New Deal platform . In such matters as public works , they see a chance of stealing a march on the Republicans . The administration 's farm , social security , stock-market regulation and other operating programs must , in the drafters ' opinion , be endorsed as a matter of course . In certain controversial matters they are awaiting the return of President Roosevelt to Washington tomorrow before acting , but on public works they are going ahead on the assumption that they will not be vetoed . The Republican platform calls for the " undertaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration of relief . " Some administration leaders , including Secretary Ickes , who is understood to be highly gratified over what he regards as nonpartisan endorsement of the PWA heavy construction program , have always held that a public works plan should be prepared that would permit the quick start of large-scale construction in event of another depression or other need . Patterned on Army 's System It is the present plan to endorse the preparation and maintenance of a huge list of approved " useful " public works which could be employed on a moment 's notice . This would follow the army program of drafting future mobilization plans in advance . The administration leadership , after directing the expenditure of huge sums on works of this type , virtually has decided to shelve the PWA program because of its alleged failure to supply quick jobs . Only pressure from Congress led President Roosevelt to approve its continuance during the fiscal year beginning July 1 , by permitting the Senate to make provision for $300 , - 000,000 to be used from the PWA revolving fund to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief to continue for another year , and perhaps longer , administration leaders feel that financial considerations do not permit a coincident heavy Works program on the scale hitherto carried on , but plan , like the Republicans , to endorse further public works in principle . President Roosevelt has long been convinced of the need of a longrange public housing and slum clearance program . Senator Wagner , the father of the public works part of the NIRA , now has a housing bill in Congress , and Democrats plan to endorse , and carry out , a planned housing program . The President , however , has opposed adding to the national debt through the construction of modern buildings to replace slums , and , while it is not intended to mention the method of financing such housing in the Democratio platform , Treasury experts have been working upon a plan for issuing bonds through a new agency and permitting the RFC to handle part of the remaining financing . A declaration promising " a prompt determination of facts concerning relief and unemployment " is contained in the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for such a study , but administration leaders have declared that something more fundamental than a mere list of the jobless needy is required . With a January census showing 6,235,000 eligible for - work jobs , Harry L. Hopkins , WPA administrator , feels that his estimate of 10,000,000 unemployed is fairly accurate . In the meantime , a study of the technological causes of unemployment and what can be done to remedy them is being carried on by the WPA in Philadelphia . Administration leaders are convinced that this study will go further toward providing " a permanent solution " of the relief problem than would any census , which is what they believe the Republicans are demanding . The National League of Women Voters , which last week submitted similar ideas to the Republican convention , announced that it would request the Democratic convention at Philadelphia to pledge abolition of " the spoils system " in favor of a universal merit system , not only in the Postoffice Department but in all " Federal , State and local offices . " A statement to this effect was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   