@@702645

txt The widespread impression prevailed here today that President Roosevelt has instructed his congressional leaders to go ahead and break the deadlock over the Supreme Court plan by making the best bargain they can contrive . If this impression is correct , and it was generally accepted on Capitol Hill last night , it means that the President 's original court bill is discarded , and that the fight has begun to get a two-judge " compromise . " Such a bargain , presumably easy a month or two ago , has now become highly doubtful . It is not clear that the President can get any legislation through the Senate on the subject of the Supreme Court at all , although all such conclusions must be t , aken with sweeping reserves . A bottoming period has opened , and with so many diverse factors thrown into the horse-swapping pool , it would be venturesome to forecast the outcome . With the impression that orders have gone down to stroke a bargain , goes the speculation that events may now quicken , and if an agreement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court deadlock would begin to move . Plans to Speed Program To speed things along , President Roosevelt today conferred with Speaker Bankhead , Majority Leader Rayburn , and Representative Fred M. Vinson of Kentucky on methods of expediting legislative labors in the House . By putting the spotlight on legislative duties in general , the President removed it from his court ' plan , thus conforming with the general impression here that some sort of a bargain may speedily be worked out , to permit real legislative progress . After an hour 's conference , the following legislative program was outlined by Speaker Bankhead and Representative Rayburn : 1 . Judiciary reorganization : The House probably will await Senate action ; Mr. Roosevelt did not discuss a compromise . 2 . Governmental reorganization : Mr. Roosevelt asked for a report on the progress of the House part of a joint Senate-House committee considering the program to create two new cabinet positions and abolish the comptroller gen eral 's office . 3 . Taxes : Discussed whether legislation is necessary at this session to plug avoidance and evasion loopholes ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . National Planning : Discussed plans for committee hearings on Administration recommendation to create new TVA 's throughout the country to develop land and water resources . 5 . Farm Tenancy : Mr. Roosevelt has agreed to an experimental aid program costing 510.000,000 in 1937-38 ; $25,000,000 in 1938-39 , and $50,000,000 a year thereafter . 6 . Wages and Hour Legislation : A general discussion on when the House can consider the President 's request for legislation to set minimum wage , maximum hour and anti-child labor standards . 7 . Housing : Bill probably will be pushed as soon as executive departments agree on methods of financing . The legislative list was virtually the same as Pi esident Roosevelt discussed earlier this week with Senate majority leader Robinson , except that the House group added national planning . Strategy of Senate oppositionists s now to prevent pasgage of any Supreme Court bill whatsoever in heir chamber . For such a bill , even If it only embodied the procedural features of the President 's . proposals and made no mention of added justiceships. would go to the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ' in : nlargement feature of two or more iudges . This done , the measure would go into conference , where Administration forces appoint the conferees and always have an edge . But the opposition is confident that it can prevent any legislation at all on the judiciary issue in the Senate . Thus far have events moved since March , when all sorts of sweeping constitutional amendments and other such proposals were being hurriedly advanced by the opposition . Administration leaders have told the President . first , that the five-judge enlargement is out of the question ; second , that they can scrape together enough votes to support a two-judge plan , based perhaps on a 75-year retirement age , and with the appointments spread over several years . But the problem remains of bringing a two-judge plan . however attenuated , to a vote on the floor of the Senate . Here the opposition , encouraged by its improved position , can prevent action almost indefinitely President 's Chances Fade of one justice a year in the Supreme Court to supplement or supplant those above 70 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills much desired by various groups are being linked with the court fight . With an agreement over the judiciary proposal , the way would be clear for these other measures . This tendency supports the natural desire of many members of Congress to reach a compromise : to get back into the good graces of the White House . But their strength is such that they think they can dictate the terms of the compromise themselves . A group of 13 senators  --  many of them opposed to the President 's bill  --  called at the White House yesterday and with departmental leaders considered diverting WPA funds to relief of dust-bowl farmers . Much relief funds are now going into the area , but more is said to be needed . in spite of recent rains , These senators , at least , will not be inclined to vote for cutting the President 's relief recommendations below $1,500,000,000 . And they will not be inclined to oppose any " reasonable " compromise on the Supreme Court plan . Therein , with similar appeals to many other groups compared with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress . There has therefore been a constant recession in the chances of the President 's plan . At the outset in February it n as speculated that he would get his way in the end : in I March and April a two-judge victory seemed certain : now it is June . and if the trend continues . it would be safe to conclude that the President 151 unlikely to get anything . But that is only speculation based upon the way things have been going . Administration confidence that a bare majority of the Senate would vote for a two-judge plan is accepted here as well founded , but the prob . I lem is to bring the matter to a vote . Leaders have to talk with the out-and-out opposition . whose spokesmen ? heady with victory  --  are , in no mood to compromise , and scarcely in the mood to accept favors . But , for the first time since last ' February , matters appear to have been placed in the hands of the President 's leaders in the Senate  --  Senator Joseph T. Robinson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the others . These men , speak the language of their opposition colleagues , and if anything can be worked out they can do it . Opposition Status The opposition leaders , otherwise confident , are not quite sure what the effect of this group 's wiles may be on rank and file of their supporters . They have got plenty 01 votes nailed down against a five-judge enlargement , and they think they have enough votes pegged to prevent any addition of justices . But they are not sure . After all . one of the most practical possible compromises  --  the Hatch amendment  --  was advanced by one of their members . This plan proposes the increase                     