@@700648

txt Sir John ' .7* non , Foreign Secretary , who returned today from Geneva , went directly to his home in the country without calling at the Foreign Office . Prime Minister is at Chequers , his country home , and other key members of the . Cabinet are week-ending in various parts of the country , so there will be no formal consideration by the British Government of President Roosevelt 's debt message before Monday . Perhaps there will be no debt discussion before Tuesday because at the Cabinet meeting on Monday Sir John will report on conditions at Geneva . The Conservative Morning Post is demanding that Sir John resign from the Cabinet because of the manner in which he handled the British case at the disarmament conference . Token Payment Is Likely . - Although there is disappointment because President Roosevelt was unable to give special , assurance that another token payment in lieu of the full amount due June 15 would absolve the British Government of a default , there is at least no prejudging of the matter . Therefore there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on account with the understanding . that it is done in anticipation of Anglo-American negotiations for a readjustment of the whole debt question . It has been the British Cabinet 's determinatidn to do that all through the recent discussion on the subject , but a statement of this policy was withheld by Neville Chamber ' lain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , from Parliament pending the promised Presidential message . Two things in the message which please the British are President Roosevelt 's expressed willingness to negotiate and his agreement with the British argument that international debts have been one of the major factors in the world depression . That was the case which the British Cabinet developed so elaborately in diplomatic notes to the United States just prior to paying the instalment due in December , 1932 . Early Negotiations Doubted . Those arguments will be reproduced when the two governments get together for consideration of revision . Britain will make no modification of her old arguments because she is now enjoying a budget surplus instead of facing a deficit as was the case two years ago . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to participate in such negotiations until after the November Congressional elections . The feature of the message which most irritates the British is Mr. Roosevelt 's reiteration of the American theory that reparations have no connection with what Britain owes the United States . Aside from the technical economic arguments to the effect that transfers of huge sums would ruin the world 's business , the best defense the British have in their own opinion is that , having forgiven Germany and the allied debtors , this country should have the same treatment from the United States , and they insist that such was implied by the United States at the time of the Lausanne Conference . Mr. Roosevelt 's intimation that the debtor States were spending too much for non-productive nationalistic purposes , meaning armaments , is admitted by many Britons to have force , especially in view or the Geneva collapse , but this charge also is characterized as being something of a boomerang because of the huge naval budget of the United States . So far as the general political opinion of all three parties in Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unanimity against paying any more instalments under the Baldwin agreement . They would all prefer a default to that . Many of them would refuse even a token payment without advance assurance against a default . " The Manchester Guardian says editorially today : " If , despite a token , we are branded defaulters under the Johnson act then we might as well clinch the matter and cease paying altogether . " The gap between the American and European points of view is still so wide there seems little hope of gaining anything by keeping up the pretense any longer . Has n't the time come when the only way to force a realistic settlement is to cease to pay ? " SAYS FRANCE WO N'T PAY . Neither Will She Disarm , Prof. Paul Fryess Declares . " France wo n't pay and wo n't disarm , " Professor Paul Fryess , who has been lecturing at the New School for Social Research on French civilization , said before sailing for Havre yesterday aboard the- Charnplain of the French Line . " France made a mistake by nctt paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its Johnson bill , " he said . " It was a diplomatic mistake for President Roosevelt to link French armaments with debt paying . Eventually , there will be a settlement of the commercial debts . There will never be any settlement of the political debt . " The political debt was money borrowed to defray the expenses of France in the World War , and we feel we have already paid in blood . The commercial debts will be settled in time , but not so long as there is any attempt by America to link armaments with the debts . At the present moment France is not in a disposition to pay anything . "                     