@@703666

txt Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain is considering a direct approach to President Roosevelt for Anglo-American cooperation to rescue Jews from Germany . British officials believe that the future of Anglo-German relations and European " appeasement " will be endangered unless there is a rapid solution of the German Jewish problem on the largest possible scale . Already the atmosphere is so bad as the result of the past few days ' events in Germany that there is no possibility of an immediate resumption of Anglo-German conversations on armaments , colonies or other items in the " appeasement " program . The Prime Minister'is said . to feel , that mere protests are useless unless they take the form of organized action to move large numbers of Jews from Germany and settle them elsewhere . The belief in Downing Street now ; is that such action can be launched only by the British and United States Governments and probably without reference to the intergovernmental committee established after the Evian conference last Summer . " Fine " Upsets Deal Plan With the imposition of the German billion-mark " fine " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal by the intergovernmental committee has disappeared . The original intention was to offer commercial inducements to Germany in return for allowing a stated number of refugees to leave Germany each year with at least part of their property . Now it is seen here that the Jews of Germany will have no property left and may find themselves actually in debt to the State that has dispossessed them . In these circumstances it is felt that the only alternative is to organize and subsidize vast emigration with the . least possible delay or to leave the Jews in Germany where their plight would be a constant irritant to Anglo-German friendship and an obstacle to the " appeasement " on which Mr. Chamberlain has set his heart . Nobody knows yet where the emigrants can settle permanently , al -- though the United States can take about 30,000 annually under the quota system and Australia has expressed a willingness to take about 5,000 annually . The general idea , however , is that governments and private citizens together would provide ships and money , that British and United States Governments would ask the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuge camps might be established until permanent settlements could be found. , In recent weeks George Rublee , director of the intergovernmental committee , has been studying the possibilities of establishing another Jewish national home in some relatively empty and secure part of the world . Various places have been examined , among them parts of South Africa and Northern Rhodesia , both of which are suitable for European colonization . Ultimately such territory may be set aside for the Jews , but vast amounts of money would have to be invested for its development before large numbers of Jews could settle there . The first task , it is recognized here , is to get the Jews out , and this would be the primary object of the British approach if it is made . Pressure on Chamberlain If Mr. Chamberlain finally decides to appeal to President Roosevelt it will be after much hesitation . Only . a few days ago the Prime Minister was reluctant to say anything or do anything about the Jews for fear of snapping the thread of personal access between himself and Chancellor Adolf Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a wave of public feeling and private persuasion which seems to have had some effect . United States Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy has been active in this process of persuasion . On Friday he discussed the German Jewish problem with Mr. Chamberlain and spent most of yesterday at Malcolm 's country cottage in Essex . It is believed Mr. Kennedy gave the young Dominion and Colonial Secretary a " fight talk , " although Mr. feels the present situation deeply enough and knows its urgency from his work on the Palestine problem . It is known Mr. Kennedy talked earnestly of the need for action by Britain and all nations of the British Commonwealth . Emotion and sympathy were useless in the present circumstances , he said ; the need now was for deeds , not words , to rescue hundreds of thousands quickly from a. fate that was growing worse every day . Presumably this message reached Mr. Chamberlain today , not only from Mr. but also from Mr. Kennedy , who visited Downing Street again late this afternoon . Prior to Mr. Kennedy 's visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commons today when asked for a statement on the past few days ' events in Germany . " I regret I have to say that the reports in the press of actions against Jews in Germany appear to be substantially correct , " said the Prime Minister . " They have indeed to some extent been corroborated by Propaganda Minister Goebbels to the foreign preel correspondents in Berlin and the measures taken by the German Government have now been published . " No one in this country would for a moment seek to defend the senseless crime committed in Paris . At the same time there will be deep and widespread sympathy here for those who are being : lade to suffer so severely for it . " Mr. Chamberlain then announced that Sir George Ogilvie-Forbes , British Charg ? d'Affaires , had taken action to safeguard the rights of British subjects and to reserve the right to present claims for damages . Protest Made to Berlin " His Majesty 's Charg ? d'Affaires also has been i structed to addre=3 a strong protest , to the German Government regarding recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and members of this house with the recent murder of a member of the German Embassy in Paris , " said Mr. Chamberlain . This referred to the charge in Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels 's newspaper , the Angriff , that Wipston Churchill , Anthony Eden , Alfred Duff Cooper and Clement R. Attlee had " incited the assassination . " Philip Noel Baker , a Laborite , asked : " Will the Prime ? Minister endeavor to find some means , either alone or in cooperation with other powers , whereby he can make known to the German Government the deep feeling of horror which has been aroused in this country among all sections of the people by the action taken against the Jews ? " " There are many means of that being made known , " Mr. Chamberlain replied . " In fact , I do not think there can be any doubt about it . " Answering other questions , Mr. Chamberlain said that an immediate meeting of the intergovern-1 mental committee was not necessary as " the whole matter is under con- , consideration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ V. Alexander , former First Lord of the Admiralty , asked whether Mr. Chamberlain had " considered having consultations with the President or officers of the United States with a view to joint representations being made " the Prime Minister simply answered that he would need written notice of such a question before answering . This is the time honored device used by British Ministers when a questioner asks something awkward or premature . George Lansbury , Laborite , then asked whether some place could not be found for German Jews in the 38ritish Commonwealth . " That is not a matter for His Majesty 's Government , " said Mr. Chamberlain , " but I have no doubt we shall be taking into consideration any possible way in which we can assist these people . " Answering still another question Mr. Chamberlain said an intergovernmental committee already was considering settlement of refugees in Britain 's colonial empire . Anglicans Pray for Jews Meanwhile the tide of protest and condemnation continued to rise in many parts of the country . The Archbishop of Canterbury , presiding over the Autumn meeting of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under " the renewed and fierce persecution of the Jews in Germany " and all churchmen present bowed their heads in silent prayer . But the emphasis had shifted and for the first time since the Nazis came to power in Germany one found serious discussion in the British press and in the lobbies of Parliament about the possibilities of emigration into the open spaces of the British Empire . The Labor party tonight sought an opportunity for an early debate in Parliament on the emigration of German Jews . More significant was the fact that The Times  --  of all London newspapers the most sympathetic toward Germany  --  gave the most prominent position in the pa- , per to letters demanding " deeds not words " in solving the German Jewish problem ,                     