@@704341

txt German Exiles Interned Plight of Those in France Is Reported as Unhappy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was amazed to read the article of your correspondent Lansing Warren in your edition of Nov. 26 under the heading " France is host to exiles from land she is fighting . " I have lived in France for the last five years and came back quite recently . Although I am a great admirer of that country , I am compelled to say that the correct state of affairs , as far as German exiles are concerned , has escaped your correspondent 's notice . When he says that " persons of German origin , no matter to what group they claim to belong , are now under investigation , " he certainly puts the matter in a euphemistic way . The fact is that all persons of German origin are at present held in French concentration camps . On Sept. 5 the government order was issued that all persons of German origin were to present themselves in the stadium of Colombes , 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours . They actually remained for ten days , sleeping in the open , and were finally driven off to different parts of the country . There are about sixty camps . Examination Delayed The interned are waiting for their cases to be examined , but so far very little has been done in that respect . Many among the interned had lived in France for several years . They had been given refugee passports , documents which place them under the protection of the French Government , and their dossiers had been thoroughly examined before these passports were granted . Consequently there is little point in saying that the French Government did not know anything about the status of these people . When stating that a number of organizations with Communist affiliations had been dissolved , your correspondent omitted to mention that all members of such organizations , without exception , are detained in the Sante prison . As regards facilities for obtaining French citizenship , I am sorry to disagree with your correspondent 's views . I know of a single case where such facilities were afforded , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I happen to know of innumerable cases of people who for many years have made every imaginable effort to become naturalized , without success ? people whose children were born in France , people who had married French women , people who offered their services in the French Army . French citizenship is one of the most difficult to obtain . EDITH PETERS . New York . Nov. 28. 1939.                     