@@702304

txt Clarification and revision . of . anti-trust statutes to facilitate voluntary agreements covering interstate business and industry which would eliminate " obviously unfair trade practices " was urged today by Ernest G. Draper , Assistant Secretary of Commerce , in the first concrete proposal from an official source for carrying out President Roosevelt 's expressed determination to abolish child labor and sweatshop wages and hours . Mr. Draper urged business and industrial leaders to come forward and assert their right to know definitely the rules under which they were asked to meet the responsibility of giving employment , creating purchasing power , and supplying the goods and services which keep such purchasing power in motion . These rules , embodied in the antitrust laws , now are " often unintel ligible , contradictory , and sometimes absurd as the result of changes in economic and social conditions , " Mr. Draper said . Only the lack of clarity and the existence of unnecessary prohibitions in such laws stand in the way of an industrial cooperation that could abolish existing abuses , according to Mr. Draper . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the anti-trust laws should be clarified and modernized , " and that , " where necessary to accomplish that result , they should be revised . " He recommended that in addition " the methods and agencies for their enforcement should be simplified and strengthened . " Interpreting Body Proposed As an integral part of his plan for giving effect to the President 's ideal , Mr. Draper suggested the creation of a division of industrial economics in the Department of Commerce . Such an agency , he argued , might interpret the clarified laws by specific regulations . In much the same manner as the Bureau of Internal Revenue now interprets tax laws , the proposed division could tell industrialists and business men how far they might go in voluntary agreements which would be binding on minorities in the matter of unfair trade practices . As explained by Mr. Draper , the proposed new division would be able " to grant sanctions for the execution of voluntary agreements covering entire industries engaged in , interstate commerce and including the abolition of obviously unfair trade practices , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages . " When these agreements are made in good faith and under the proper auspices they should be protected against legal penalties and against onslaughts by irresponsible chiselers , but they should not contain any provisions for price-fixing in a maze of doubt and unwars on the part of recalcitragi minorities . Considerable sentiment is said lie exist already amond trade associate tion executives for the kind of 4i1 , - rangement Mr. Draper proposed , ard his open advocacy of the idea is v pected by some trade experts to gifig the movement considerable Mere niTenhteuse - experts expect an immlath : diate favorable reaction am trade association executives to Draper 's suggestion that : " Business should take advant of the present favorable opportun to ask for such a clarification of the rules of competition . " The essence of the scheme proposed by Mr. Draper is not entirely new . Something similar was attempted by the Department of Commerce when Herbert Hoover was its Secretary and William J. Donovan was Assistant Attorney General . In a more informal way than is now proposed , business men and industrialists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements without running counter to the anti-trust laws . Authoritative Ruling Sought Under the old arrangement , however , the government officials consulted were not responsible for the advice given , and manufacturers or other business or industrial groups following it would be exclusively liable for the consequences of their undertaking . According to the present proposal , the Department of Commerce would be able to say definitely and by regulation whether the provisions of a proposed industrial agreement were consistent with the anti-trust laws as revised . Presumably , too , the proposed new division would be in a position to suggest the inclusion of provisions not proposed by parties to agreements in the first instance . Mr. Draper made no mention in his statement of the Federal agency , existing or proposed , that should be responsible for enforcement of the agreements be recommended . He explained , however , that the Federal Trade Commission probably would be the proper agency for the job in view of its experience with voluntary conference agreements in the past . Mr. Draper 's statement embodying his proposal for anti-trust law revision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1937 is the need for clarifying the assured against competitive praWs tainty . Court determination ines heavy expense , long delays punitive publicity that is often eserved . The decision in each ante applies only to the facts hat particular case . usiness and industry are rged with the responsibility of ng employment , of creating chasing power and of supplying goods and services which keep purchasing power in motion . iness executives are asked to t this responsibility and disge their functions under rules regulations which are often telligible , contradictory , and etimes absurd , as the result of changes in economic and social conditions . " For reasons of public welfare and for the proper functioning of an industrial system on which that welfare exists , the anti-trust laws should be clarified and modernized . Where necessary to accomplish that result , they should be revised . " The methods and agencies for their enforcement should be simplified and strengthened . Holds Business Should Act " A new agency , such as the proposed Division of Industrial Economics in the Department of Commerce , might be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws by specific regulations , to grant sanctions for the execution of voluntary agreements covering entire industries engaged in interstate commerce , and including the abolition of obviously unfair trade practices , of which one of the most important is overlong hours and sweatshop wages . " When these agreements are made in good faith and under the proper auspices , they should be protected against legal penalties and against onslaughts by irresponsible chiselers , but they should not contain any provisions for price fixing or production control . " It seems to me that business should take advantage of the present favorable opportunity to ask for such a clarification of the rules of competition . "                     