@@698063

txt Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt will take speedy action on the petition of the HOfstadter committee for a special session of the Legislature which reached here this afternoon by courier , it was indicated by persons close to the Executive . The Governor , according to advisers , will act on the petition either tomorrow or Sunday , and it was generally believed that his action could be only a summons to convene the Legislature in special session to enact the immunity legislation sought by the committee . The courier bearing the message from the inquiry committee reached here late in the day and the Governor made no comment on the decision of the committee . He left the capital after the committee had acted , but before the courier had arrived . to attend the races at Saratoga , and on his return in the evening he remained at the executive mansion only a short time before departing for a week-end at Hyde Park . Swift Action Expected . The presence of the Governor at his home in Dutchess County over the week-end , it was indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here within the next forty-eight hours if present plans were carried out . The Governor , it was said , was desirous of moving swiftly on the request for a special session for several reasons and intimation was offered that the announcement of the call might be made tomorrow or Sunday afternoon , with the decision being telephoned from Hyde Park for release here . The conferences held by the Governor last night and today on his return from his State inspection trip , it was reported , altered the previous opinion that the special session date would be set for after Labor Day . It was believed that , as a result of new discussions , if the Governor did announce his decision for a special session within the next forty-eight hours , the call would be for the final week of the month . It was pointed out that the custom at the capital has been to hold special sessions of the Legislature on Wednesdays , and it was suggested that if the custom were followed in the present instance the date would be Aug. 26 . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been decided upon . The Governor , it was said , was anxious to dispose of the problem created by the demand of the inquiry committee for a special session in order to avoid piling up pressure on himself and others to include numerous measures in the work of the extraordinary meeting of the legislative body . In the past few weeks , after the possibility of a special session appeared , there have been several public suggestions that unemployment relief , veterans ' relief , special appropriations for emergency appropriations and other legislative activities be handled when the tiro houses assemble to consider an immunity bill . The Governor and others , it was said , were of the opinion that the sooner the special session was ordered for the specific purpose of dealing with enactment of an immunity bill , the easier it would be to avert the embarrassment of holding aloof from taking in other legislative work in the extraordinary session . It is feared a multiplicity of business would confuse the immunity bill issue . Senator George R. Fearon , Republican leader of the upper house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the special session , but it was asserted that the new leader was prepared to push ahead with the task of enacting a bill as soon as the session was ordered . In the Senate , it was pointed out , the Republicans have just the twentysix votes required to pass the measure . If there should be any slip-up , with one of the majority members absent through illness or from any other reason , the Democratic bloc , with its probable opposition to such a bill , would be able to stop the passage . In the Assembly the count is now seventy-nine Republicans and sixty-nine Democrats . In the lower house seventy-six votes are necessary for passage , giving the Republicans a margin of three votes . The Governor spent the morning at the Executive Mansion after his conference last night and early in the day with Samuel I. Rosenman , who went back to the city after the talk . The Governor was accompanied to the Saratoga track by Mrs. Roosevelt . At Hyde Park tomorrow he will entertain the Bee Keepers of America , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may possibly visit Camp Smith at Peekskill again to inspect several additional units of the National Guard . He will return to the capital either Sunday night or Monday , and on Wednesday and Thursday he will speak at a conference on rural problems to be held at Ithaca.                     