@@698885

txt Seeking to expedite provision of funds for immediate relief of the unemployed , President Hoover tonight summoned to the White House four leading members of the House Banking and Currency Committee for conference on the Senate Democrats ' relief bill recently passed in the upper branch . The measure authorizes the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to lend $300,006,000 to States for immediate relief work , the money to be allotted on the basis of population . It was written by five Democrats and is sometimes referred to as the first Wagner bill . ? The President agrees with this proposal ? in substance , although the administration has sought to have discretion granted to the Finance Corporation in allocating the ( money . Participating in the White House conference were Chairman Steagall of the House Committee and Representative Stevenson , Democrats , and Representatives Strong and Luce , Republicans . No Agreement Is Reached . The conference resulted in no agreement ; it lasted about an hour and , upon emerging from the White House , the committee members said that it consisted " of simply an exchdrige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Steagall acted as the spokesman for the House members ; the White House issued no statement . " We were asked to come to the White House , " Mr. Steagall said , " to discuss relief legislation , principally the Wagner bill . We talked over the whole proposition from various angles , but nothing was agreed upon except that we would consult our associates on the committee with reference to the legislation . " Asked when the committee would meet to take up the bill , Mr. Steagall said that had not been decided but that it would be considered by the committee Monday . He made it clear that he would consult Speaker Garner on the question and expressed the hope that the Speaker would be at the House on Monday . Action on the measure has been withheld in the committee pending Speaker Garner 's recovery from an illness . Mr. Garner has indicated that he wishes to testify before the committee , presumably to ask that the measure be amended to include his own bill , passed by the ' House and providing $1,190,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projects and $100,000,000 for relief , to be disbursed by the President . The Senate spent part of today debating the so-called second Wagner relief bill , which provides $500,000,000 for public works financed by bond issues and $1,500,000,000 for loans for self-liquidating projects by the Finance Corporation . Hardly had debate begun when amendments were offered by Progressive Republicans , who have contended this , sum of money will be inadequate to provide emergency work for the unemployed . Senator Norris introduced a bill providing $3,000.000,000 for public works supported by bond issues , while Senator La Follette offered an amendment to the Wagner bill to raise from $500,000,000 to $5,500.000 , - 000 the allotment for public works of this nature . The Senate adopted an amendment offered by Senator Reed providing ** for army housing , an item which was inadvertently omitted , Mr. Reed said , from the regular War Department supply bill and covers numerous housing projects for which plans have been drawn , including some construction at West Point . The War Department bill went to . conference today , having been passed yesterday by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impasse over the various relief bills , heightened by President Hoover 's strenuous objection both to Speaker Garner 's and Senator Wagner 's provisions for public works financed by bond issues , will be broken . If , as expected , the House tacks the Garner bill on the Senate Democrats ' relief bill , further discord will appear . On top of this situation is piled the expectation that the Senate will pass the Wagner bill , possibly in an amended form , by Tuesday night . If there is a deadlock , Senate Republicans are expected to attempt to force action on the Barbour bill , written by Secretary Mills and incorporating President Hoover 's own proposal to authorize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to lend $1,500. - 000.000 for self-liquidating enterprises , including those of private industry . When the House Banking and Currency Committee meets next week , Mayor Cermak of Chicago is expected to appear and urge speedy passage of the Senate Democrats ' bill in the House- He is here conferring with the Illinois Congressional delegation . Opening debate on his bill in the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan marks a departure from previous emergency legislation enacted during this session in that it directly attacks the difficulties of the depression by actually initiating and financing a construction program which must , of necessity , create a demand for commodities , and thus help to check price decline , stimulate trade and industry and bring about a resumption of employment . " In full operation it would give employment on a thirty-hour-a-week basis to 2,000,000 men directly engaged in construction and in the manufacture and transportation of the materials necessary for construction . To that figure should be added the further employment that is created when the wages of these 2,000 , - 000 men enter into the channels of trade and are expended upon food , clothing and other commodities . " Both the financing of the selfliquidating projects by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and the initiation of an expanded program of necessary Federal construction were essential parts of the program . Holds Budget Would Keep Balance . " The Federal construction projects called for in the bill would impose upon the National Government a modest share of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery . As an investment of capital in permanent improvements it would not unbalance the budget , but would on the contrary help to balance it by reducing current appropriations by $193,000,000 . " During the past few years a number of efforts have been made which were intended to check the decline . The methods employed were directed toward the stimulation of confidence and the liberalization of credit . These methods have proved insufficient . " Predicting that President Hoover would realize the need for a much greater relief program , Senator Norris said that nevertheless the President 's methods of meeting the situation would be entirely inadequate . Senator - Wagner warned that too great a demand for public works might endanger the outcome of relief legislation , but Mr. Norris countered . " Let us do our duty here and let the President do as he sees fit . "                     