@@700463

txt A market for securities , if it is to exist at all , must be " free and open . " A market is not free if its prices are subjected to any interference other than that of real supply and demand . It is not open if access to it is so hampered that real demand and supply can not therein meet and strike a. bargain by mutual consent Integrity of prices is an indispensable requisite for a free market A price resulting from a meeting of supply with demand fulfills this requisite when there is an actual transfer of ownership openly made between two parties . This editorial will deal with the provisions of the proposed National Securities Act of 1934 which are addressed to that requisite , and also with the matter of the requirements for listing of securities on stock exchanges . In so far as " wash sales " and " matched orders " are concerned it is clear that they are inadmissible under any conditions in a market that pretends to be free , inasmuch as they do not reflect an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyone knows , wash sales have long been effectually prohibited by the New York Stock Exchange . They are easy to detect and in practice have been of rare occurrence . Matched orders are more difficult of detection , for , unlike wash sales , they are not effected by a single act on the part of a single person , but may be accomplished by two innocent parties , at the instruction of a third . Where all three parties are members of a registered exchange the governing body of the exchange can in the exercise of its plenary authority readily probe any suspicious transaction without infringing the proper privacy of an individual . If it is a case of a non-member individual placing the matched orders with members , neither of whom has cognizance of the matching , detection would be more difficult . It could however be accomplished with less invasion of proper privacy by the governing body of the exchange than by an outside authority . In any event there could be no objection to making such an operation illegal . With respect to " manipulation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purchases and sales with a real change of ownership , and is , therefore , quite distinct in character from wash sales and matched orders . Section 8 ( 3 ) makes it illegal to purchase or sell securities " for the purpose of raising or depressing the price of such security or securities , or for the purpose of creating or with the expectation that there will be created a false or misleading appearance in respect of the market for such security or securities . " Here we deal with purposes and expectations . These lie in the forum of conscience which is impenetrable by legal process . Again , there is the matter of " short selling , " and " stop-loss " orders . The bill would prohibit both except " in accordance with such rules and regulations as the commission shall prescribe as appropriate or necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors . " It is , therefore , regulation and not prohibition that is intended . Clearly . It is in the interest of price stability that regulation is proposed . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , provide in advance ; lie essential thing  --  that is , prevention of " bear raids " or collision of stop-loss orders of a kind to affect the price , when the effect of these things on prices depends entirely upon market conditions as they may exist at a given moment ? How can such things be prevented at all , except by authority which is on the spot and fully conversant with conditions ? No merely " quantitative " regulations  --  such as amount of securities involved , margins or other physical facts  --  will achieve the desired result . In a word , given a complete exclusion of all " fictitious " transactions , control of actual transactions in the interest of either investor or speculator or the public at large can not be accomplished by seta of rules laid down in advance . For immediate control there is required an authfy unhampered as to methods or powers , constantly informed of all relevant facts and conditions , and prepared to act at a moment 's notice to whatever extent is necessary . Ultimate control should be provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hold an exchange to strict responsibility for its conduct at the peril of its very existence . This would fortify , not demoralize , the present system of discipline ? the product of 150 years of experience . Coming now to the requirements for the listing of a security upon an exchange we must sharply distinguish betvi-ten a purpose to make sweeping reforms in corporate practice and a purpose to provide members of an exchange and the public with adequate information concerning the securities admitted to dealings . If we mean the former , those reforms will never be made uniformly effective and all-pervasive if they are involved , as is here proposed . in the intricacies of exchange and trading control . Aside from the endless complications thus set in train . in and out of the courts , it is apparent that any corporation willing to forego the privilege of exchange registration could circumvent the control of its activities which this bill attempts to effect . Corporation control is wholly out of place in an act to regulate stock exchanges and the trading thereon If the country needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it in a statute or statutes drawn specifically to accomplish that purpose . No such effort as this bill makes to use stock exchange organizations as an intermediate policeman over corporate enterprise will produce anything but divided responsibility , ambiguities of legislative intent and litigation as ceaseless as the waves of the ocean . So far as security listings on stock exchanges are concerned , the first thing to bear in mind is that no laws , no rules , no regulations by whomsoever made can guarantee value in any security . The second thing to remember is that all that such regulations , rules or laws can do is to enforce publicity of the facts . The third thing is that whatever is necessary to do in order to secure such publicity should be done . The Wall Street Journal would ask no limitation on the range of publicity required by law . Throughout the fifty years of its existence it has labored to expand the investor 's understanding of what was being done with his money . At no time has it felt fully satisfied with the completeness in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in this bill to convert the wholesome uses of public information into machinery to put the essential functions of corporation management into the hands of a federal commission goes immeasurably beyond Stock Exchange regulation .                     