@@700984

txt The Federal Government , through Rear Admiral R. E. Bakenhus , Public Works officer in the New York district , rejected yesterday an offer made by the Consolidated Gas system to cut by $60,000 a year the bills of the government for lighting in Federal buildings and power for other Federal purposes in this district . In Washington Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau said in reply to a question that the Federal Government had no intention of abandoning its plans for its own power plant here even if the companies reduced their rates . The companies had had their chance to reduce rates , the Secretary indicated . Admiral Bakenhus 's letter was made public after he had conferred in the afternoon with Mayor La Guetria at City Hall . Although the Mayor offered no comment , it was believed the result would be that the city administration would hold out for substantial concessions from the Consolidated Gas system , both for itself and for consumers , on the strength of its plans for municipal street lighting plants . The companies are prepared to make concessions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Carlisle , head of the system , is expected to outline those proposals to the Mayor whenever a conference can be arranged . Unless the Mayor balks at attending such a conference it is expected one will be held soon . Resigned to a Rate Cut . At the conference the company 's representatives are expected to inform the Mayor that they realize a substantial immediate cut in the rates for general consumers must be made to appease public sentiment and to end the anti-utility drive being carried on by the Federal and city governments . They also are prepared to submit to the Public Service Commission and the city a list of specific items , part or all of which they concede might be wiped from the existing rate base In the formation of a rate base under the Washington plan of rate reduction . Mayor La Guardia called for such a list in his letter to Mr. Carlisle , which was published in yesterday 's newspapers . In addition , it became known , the proposed merger of the seven electric companies in the Consolidated system would include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The properties and corporate structure would be merged , but separate accounts would be maintained so that the consumers would get their share of the excess profits of the electric system under the Washington plan without having to bear any of the deficits of the gas system . The gas " deficits " are deficits only in the sense that the company has not been earning the legal rate of return on its investment in the gas business . The companies in their Conference with the Mayor are expected to point out , as they already have done with the Public Service Commission , that the loss occasioned by a substantial cut in electric rates could be absorbed by the companies only if they were permitted to abolish sub-metering and to merge and . effect further economies . They are believed to be willing to put reductions into effect as soon as the city and the commission agree not to put any obstacles in the way of these two objectives . The profits from sub-metering in ' Manhattan , where it is most extensive , have been put at ? between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they could pass that benefit and more on to the consumers . The cuts also are dependent , the companies have pointed out both publicly and privately , on the retention by the companies of the street lighting business of the city and , to a lesser extent , of the building lighting business of the Federal Government . The correspondence between Mr. Carlisle and Admiral Bakenhus was made public by authorization of Basil Manly , chairman of the President 's committee on power coordination and vice chairman of the Federal Power Commission . Carlisle 's Letter to Bakenhus . Mr. Carlisle 's letter to Admiral Bakenhus follows : The New York Edison Company , 4 Irving Place , New York . Dec. 31 , 1934 . Rear Admiral R. E. Bakenhus . Public Works Officer , Commandant Third Naval District , Washington and Christopher Sts. , New York , N. Y. My dear Admiral : The electric companies who are subsidiaries of the Consolidated Gas Company of New York have determined to apply to the proper authorities and seek such legislation as may be necessary to put into effect in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for fixing the rates of electricity charged to consumers . This we are actively pursuing and believe that by reason of certain economies that can be made by financial simplification and readjustment of schedules of rates we could initiate such plan with a substantial reduction in rates . We earnestly desire to continue our sales of electric current to the Federal Government and to other government purchasers . The loss of this business to us would mean a very substantial reduction in our earnings and reduce very considerably the amount of rate reductions that could be made to the general public . We have our present investment made to render this service , which would amount to almost a total loss to us if the sales were discontinued . We are prepared to reduce by $60,000 per year our present charges based upon the consumption for the year ended June 30 , 1934 , and the application of this amount may be made in such a manner as will distribute it most equitably between the various points of service . We are prepared to discuss in detail this matter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional current by reason of the new buildings now under erection . Very truly yours , FLOYD L. CARLISLE . Admiral Bakenhus 's Reply . Admiral Bakenhus 's reply was as follows : Washington and Christopher Streets , New York , N. Y. 12 January , 1935 . Mr. Floyd L. Carlisle , Chairman of the Board . Consolidated Gas Company , 4 Irving Place , New York , N. Y. My dear Mr. Carlisle : In view of the amount of the prospective annual saving to the Federal Government that will resuit from the construction of a Federally owned and operated power plant , I find after some consideration and conference that I do not see my way clear in the present situation to recommend acceptance of the proposal which you made by your letter of Dec. 31  --  and there is the consideration that the Procurement Division has reluctance in accepting proposal should conditions be attached . Sincerely yours , R. E. BAKENHUS , Rear Admiral ( CEC ) , U. S. N. , Public Works Officer . Effect on Gas Considered . With relation to the proposed merger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reductions that would come both immediately and under the Washington plan , the companies are understood to have considered carefully the inroads that cheaper electric rates would make on their gas business . They are said to be reconciled to the fact that at least part of their gas plant would become obsolete as a result of the increased use of electricity , particularly for cooking purposes . However , under the corporate set-up that now exists , the gas company owns the electric companies and dividends of the electric companies are paid to stockholders through and by the gas company as the holding company . They would ask that the Washington plan be put into effect for the gas company as well , but with a stipulation that no rate increases be granted to the gas company even if it failed to earn the agreed rate of return , at least for several years . The electric profits , even under the Washington plan , should be sufficient to carry the load of the joint corporate set-up , they believe . Lower Rate Base Likely . The companies are confident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ base and a rate of return under the Washington plan . It is believed also that concessions to the consumers will be made more in the form of a reduced rate base than in a substantially reduced guaranteed rate of return . If the rate of return were made much lower than 6 per cent the agreement always would face the test of constitutionality because of the confiscation argument that could be raised . On the other hand , if a 6 per cent return were accepted on a rate base which the companies agreed was fair , the confiscation argument would disappear . Legislation which the companies have asked the legislative investigating committee to recommend would permit the carrying out of the Washington plan here and , more important to the companies , would permit merging the several companies without the threat of minority stockholders holding out for exorbitant prices for their interests . The legislation would permit mergers to be effected without the consent of 100 per cent of the stockholders , as now required . Mayor La Guardia revealed that the fact that Staten Island was served by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consolidated . Gas system , would not prevent him from attacking rates in that borough . " Staten Island would certainly be a beautiful place to set up a yardstick plant , " the Mayor said . The yardstick idea is progressing , the Mayor said . He was indefinite when asked if acceptance by the companies of his demand for a 20 per cent rate cut would mean abandonment of the " yardstick " plan . " Nothing is abandoned , " was his ! reply . A resolution asking the city to hold up expenditures for a mu-1 nicipal power plant until a public hearing has been held was adopted by the directors of the Broadway Association , meeting at the Hotel Astor . They also adopted a resolution opposing the use of city property for such enterprises as the Tavern on the Green in Central Park .                     