@@704164

txt Premier Count Paul Teleki 's position as head of the Hungarian Government has become endangered , according to advices received here today , by acts that have earned him the reputation of being anti-German . One of these acts was his attitude concerning Professor Ivan Lajos 's anti-Nazi book , since the Premier permitted its publication , and , secondly , in a recent speech he openly admitted that he had waited for six weeks without obtaining a reply from the German Minister as to whether Germany regarded the book as offensive . Rightly or wrongly , he has been blamed for pursuing a double policy in recent months . As a matter of fact the ties between the Rome-Berlin Axis and Hungary are too strong to be loosened by a sudden switch of policy . Dr. Tibor Eckhardt 's semi-official soundings in British political circles and Count Teleki 's friendly relations with the British Minister to Budapest were quickly discovered by Germans , who keep thoroughly advised of events in Hungary , often with the assistance of voluntary Hungarian informers . Csaky in Line for Premier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stamina to withstand these troubled times , and if he is forced out of office it is believed Count Stephen Csaky , now Foreign Minister , would succeed to the Premiership . In that case Andreas Meese ' ' , leader of the Hungarian Nazi movement and an intimate friend of Chancellor Hitler , would be a candidate for the Foreign Office and Laszlo Endre , not a Nazi but an extreme Rightist , would probably get the Ministry of the Interior . As regards Hungary 's relations with Germany , it is improbable that there exists a military convention between the two countries . Nor is it likely that , if pressed , the Hungarian Government would permit free passage of German troops against Poland . Regent Nicholas Horthy would have to go before that could happen . Not one word has appeared in the Hungarian press concerning the meeting of Count Csaky with Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop of Germany , apart from a meager communique issued in Budapest . No communiqu ? has been issued in regard to Count Csaky 's return to Budapest or concerning his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any information on questions of general interest , and the people seem to be content with guessing who will gain the upper hand . As to Hungarian Nazis they are mostly of a low class and uneducated , and their parliamentary representatives are lacking in foresight and tact . But it may safely be said that the country as a whole is Nazi . In most places any one reading a newspaper or even holding one in his hand that is not Nazi inspired must be prepared for insults and taunts that he is a Jew . Anti- Semitism in Hungary is so widespread that the Nazis have gained adherents by no more complicated a slogan than " Beat the Jew . " The people in general are much influenced by the press , which recounts that Germany and Italy are prosperous countries and France , Britain and the United States on the verge of bankruptcy . All that Hungarians see are thousands of German and Italian tourists , and it is quite natural that the lower and middle classes from which Nazis recruits their followings should envy the amenities afforded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazis are becoming strong is that the Hungarian Government 's reform program , launched with great ostentation , has made no progress . Nothing has been done beyond the second antiJewish law and the curb put on Parliament by the new standing orders . There is little or no talk of land reform . Time passes without an acre being given to the indigent peasantry . There is also dissatisfaction concerning the handling of the regained territories in Slovakia and Carpatho-Ukraine . Differences in Hungary Shown BUDAPEST , Aug. 18 ( .1 ' ) . ? The Hungarian Government continued tonight to shroud Foreign Minister Count Csaky 's movements in the strictest secrecy . Count Csaky 's visit to Rome was described as a " personal pleasure trip , " as was his stay in Germany . But some diplomats were sure of one thing  --  that Count Csaky in his talks in Germany and Italy had reiterated Hungary 's friendship for Poland . It can be taken for granted , these diplomats said , that Count Csaky expounded this country 's will to remain apart from any action unfriendly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Comintern pact fostered by Berlin , Tokyo and Rome . Declarations by Berlin editors that " Hungary is now Germany 's comrade-in-arms and will act with Germany , come what may , " were called " entirely untrue " by a Foreign Office spokesman . He said there might be a " different story tomorrow . "                     