@@704307

txt Just as the dawn sent a rosy flush along the horizon , the North Star , Rear Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd 's " flagship " of the two-boat fleet headed for the South Pole , cast off lines at the Army Base pier and slipped quietly into the harbor en route for a first stop at Philadelphia . Without the " Anchors Aweigh " by a 50-piece band of the Works Projects Administration , the farewells of relatives and friends , or " we 're off for the Pole " sound movies by the principals of the expedition  --  such as was staged in what became a " dress rehearsal " late yesterday afternoon ? the North Star got under way to a few crisp orders from the bridge and repeated down the line to the sailors who cut the final ties with I Boston . . inst Another Voyage On board were the crew of 44 under Lieutenant Commander Isak Lystad and 30 members of the natural scientific staff of the Government-directed expedition . To the crew , which has sailed the Seattle , Wash. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of the Interior this was just one more voyage , headed south into the Antarctic instead of north into the Arctic . The on-theice party , which will dig in at the East or West Bases , included a number of men who are embarking on polar life for the first time . The sailing at 6:14 a. m. had something of the bleakness of the goal of the tri itself . South Bos ton was enveloped in a hush and alongside the North Star the silence was broken only by the low whine of the huskies awaiting their pans of breakfast . For'ard in the half-light bulked the Snow Cruiser , snugged down with heavy chains . A single light gleamed 111 the crow 's nest . Clutter of Gifts Aboard the supply ship the crew went about its day 's routine . Galley and social cabin were invitingly warm . In the social cabin some of the clutter of last-minute gifts and personal belongings was still in evidence . Mute in one corner stood a large electric disc music player . One reporter expressed the ' hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and quarters to operate it . Among the 12 selections to be enjoyed off Little America were " Sailing in the Moonlight , " " I Get Along Without You Very Well , " " Blue Hawaii " and " Little Sir Echo . " After a halt in the outer harbor to make compass adjustments , the North Star headed for Philadelphia where she is to pick up two or three airplanes . Thence the route will be to the Panama Canal  --  possibly Valparaiso , then New Zealand and from there to the first base near the pole . Admiral Byrd said yesterday he would join the ship either at Philadelphia or at Panama , probably Panama , traveling by air .                     