@@698178

txt Letters to the Editor PESSIMISM OVERDONE . No Time for Acting as if We Were Already Ruined . Permit me to say a word of thanks for the editorial " British News and the Markets , " in this morning 's TIMES . In seizing the occasion of the recent spectacular phenomena in Wall Street to teach a general lesson on the harm done by the extravagant optimism of two years ago and the similarly extravagant pessimism of today , you have done a genuine public service  --  all the more so because you refrain from making any specific forecast of the near future , which is a thing no man can make with justified assurance . To contribute to the correction of irrational hopelessness , without substituting for it unwarranted confidence , is the most wholesome thing a financial commentator can do in the present situation . Perhaps you will allow me to add that one remark you make might with profit be further dwelt upon . You speak of those who , without sound reason , " have now been looking apprehensively to individual ruin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal expenditure far below- normal figures , " but you do not explicitly say that this is a great factor in the continuance of the depression . There are millions who are compelled , either by actual necessity or by reasonable prudence , so to cut their personal expenditure ; but there - are also millions  --  and a large proportion of these are persons of wealth ? who follow this course without any need to do so . Unfortunately , many prominent men have spread the notion that retrenchment in personal expenditure is in its nature beneficent in time of depression  --  a notion which is precisely the opposite of the truth . Such retrenchment is of course desirable where individual necessity or individual prudence demands it ; where this is not the case , it is distinctly and unqualifiedly injurious to the general welfare .. People will doubtless spend no more than they feel inclined to spend , whatever preachments may be made to them ; but at least they ought not to be misled into believing that their failure to spend what they might safely spend is a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime factors in preventing the return of prosperity . FABIAN FRANKLIN . Ridgefield , Conn. , Sept. 27 , 1931 . GEN . HARBORD 'S REMARKS . There Is Difficulty in Following His Line of Reasoning at Detroit . To the Editor of The New York Times : I wonder whether General Harbord will answer a few questions regarding his recent remarks before the American Legion Convention at Detroit . Why does he refer to pacifists as " misguided " ? Are the greatest living geniuses of our day who believe in human progress " misguided " ? How does he account for the statement : " and in truth there is in war itself something beyond mere logic and above cold reason " ? Why can not war be logically discussed ? More astounding to my mind is the assertion : " there is still something in war which in the last analysis man values above social comforts , above ease and even above religion . It is the mysterious power that war gives to life , of rising above mere life . " Human expression is limited . Either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotional way . When men rise above these modes , a certain amount of superhuman faith is required . On which plane of human expression can war be understood if it be " above reason , mere logic and above religion " ? The dreams of centuries must be realized in this century or else the products by which man has progressed will destroy him . Man must become conscious of his power to avert bloodshed and rise above the level of the beast . J. H. SIDIMUS . Brooklyn , Sept. 30 , 1931 . DISAPPROVING SHORT SALES Stock Exchange or Congress , It Is Held , Should Stop Practice . To the Editor of ' he New York Times : It was undoubtedly a very grave mistake and against the public interest for the Stock Exchange to remove the ban on short ? selling , which worked so well for a day or two in reviving confidence and clearly illustrated what short selling has been doing to securities and public sentiment . It is quite true the banning of short sales reduces the volume of sales and therefore reduces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about " free markets . " The price being paid by the public as a result of this situation is staggering . Normal buying and selling of securities is needed , but at this time Ind for months back the thin argument of the assumed advantage of short sales providing a cushion for the market is so obviously wrong as to need no cemment . There is no cushion at present . Many good seourities have long since been forced down on the rocks as the result of the persistent and practically continuous raiding tactics of the shorts . It has been represented that at certain critical times in the past two sears the short sales represented only a small percentage of the total business done . However , it takes comparatively little to throw the balInce when that little is well organzed and thoroughly seasoned by long experience , as against the general public 's well-known lack of knowladge and experience . Basically , the Stock Exchange fills I real need . There is , however , presmt and growing " evidence that it should have strict government repsation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the su- pervision given banks , utilities , railroads and others to protect the public welfare : I have never been in sympathy with Congressional meddling in business , but now it is high time to hope that Congress or an aroused public opinion will make it hot for this unpatriotic element . LOUIS FENN VOGT . Westfield , N. J. , Sept. 25 , 1931 . Benefit in Short Selling . To the Editor of The New York Times : When I read the ? letter , " Curb on Short Selling , " I began to wonder why its writer has failed to study short selling thoroughly enough to learn its benefits and its necessity to the market . Have not the members of the Congress already given us too many poor examples of economic legislation without seeking to again speculate in a field that they know little or nothing about ? They not only fail to accomplish beneficial results , but add greatly to the chaos that now exists . Where does Mr. White suppose the market Would have gone , in October and November of 1929 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover their borrowings ? The descent of the market would probably have been sd great that the losses suffered would have thrown us into a panic . He loses sight of this needed stabilizing effect that the short seller has on the market . I am of the opinion that the results of the suspension of short selling last week were purely luck . For if the market had begun to go down as a result of more startling news , where would it have stopped ? FRANCIS L. LEE JONES . East Orange , N. J. , Sept. 30 , 1931 . Special Teachers Needed . To the Editor of The New York Times : In a recent issue of THE TIMES there appeared a statement by Dr. Louis M. Schleier that " one of the greatest needs at the present time is an adequate suprsy of well-trained teachers of special classes . " The Board of Examiners of the New York City Board of Education , again , some months ago issued a statement , which warns that " successful candidates of the last examinations are not likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the promulgation of the eligible list resulting from the examinations . " I know one field of special teaching in which an adequate supply of well-trained teachers would be a perfect godsend ; and this is in teaching the many thousands of hard-of-hearing pupils in the public schools . Any teacher wishing to take the additional training to fit herself for this work should apply for information to the Volta Bureau , 1,537 Thirtyfifth Street , Washington , D. C. The need is for teachers trained to teach lip reading , correct speech and conserve the residual hearing of the school child with defective hearing . M. D. New York , Sept. 28 , 1931 . Independent Judiciary Slats . To the Editor of . The New York Times : It is up to a vigorous bar to smash this so-called bargain for justices in the Second Judicial Department , It is and should be the duty of every right-thinking and clean-minded lawyer to help keep the courts clean and out of the rottenness of politics . The time is none too soon to do this . A slate should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers of the Second Department . Then let members of the bar go on the stump and tell the voters to put these men in office and so show their disapproval of the bar . gaining for justices . There are a few thousands of lawyers in this department , and if most of them would go out on the stump and drive this home to each voter , I believe they would elect the independent bar-approved slate to office . The people are now in a receptive mood . All they need is a little stirring up . LEO KRAUSE . New York , Sept. 29 , 1931 . Adding to Mental Strain . To the Editor of The New York Times : While so many of us are under mental strain , would it not be a good time to start to abolish unnecessary noise ? For instance , the automotoilist who drives through the quietest residential sections after 11 P. M. blowing his horn 150 feet before each crossing instead of slowing up , or , as the law provides , getting his car under control . Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. or thereabouts , there is frequently a wanton and cruel blowing of the horn , noisy starting of the motor , and grinding of gears . A dozen summonses only , by policemen who could specially watch for these offenders , would save miles and miles of frayed nerves and prevent that harsh awakening from that first sweet sleep that often is so hard to attain . In conclusion , a word about the noisy truck with loose chains and loud exhaust and high speed . HARRY WEISBURG . Brooklyn , Sept. 28 , 1931 , Ten-Juror Verdicts . To the Editor of . The New York Times : I read with interest the article In THE TIMES in respect of the action of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York recommending the ten-juror verdicts . This , in my opinion , would be a most desirable change for two reasons : " ' First , it would make it more difficult for a party to fix a jury ; second , it would make it impossible for an obstinate , unreasonable individual to prevent reaching a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Supreme Court which took two weeks . The jury was out thirteen hours and from the end of the first hour stood 11 to 1 and ' never changed . I sincerely hope that we shall see the day when ten-juror verdicts will be accepted not only in our civil but in our criminal courts . WILLIAM J. RAPP . THE HABIT OF THINKING . It May Be Cultivated in Pupils by Teachers of Right Spirit . To the Mdftor If The New York Times : The high school teachers of New York City very laudably devoted the week beginning Sept. 14 to consideration of the most difficult and most important of educational problems . I mean the problem of how " to develop in their pupils the power and habit of thinking . " It would be a momentous event if a formula could be found that would enable high school teachers to meet the demands of that great problem . There is , however , no reason to expect that such a formula can ever be invented . But there is in that fact no reason or justification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reasonably expected , a , little reflection suffices to show the'nature of a highly important partial solution . If we can not state fully the sufficient conditions for enabling high school teachers to develop in their pupils the power and the habit of thinking , we may be certain that we know one , a very grave one , of the necessary conditions . That necessary condition may be first stated in the form of a negative proposition . It is that no high school teacher can develop in his pupils the power and habit of thinking unless that power and that habit have been developed in the teacher himself . The condition stated is a necessary one , ' but it is obviously not sufficient . Every one knows that a man or a woman may have the power and habit of thinking , and may have great joy in thinking , without the ability to develop such power and habit and joy in pupils . What is lacking in such exceptional cases is native aptitude for teaching or training in the art of teaching or in both . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumed . That being so , we may now pass from the negative statement of the necessary condition to a positive statement of it , arid say : A high school teacher in whom has been developed the ' power and the habit of thinking can develop that power and . that habit in pupils . The- last Wproposition is supported by a large variety of weighty considerations . I will briefly indicate some of them . Intellectual curiosity , or wonder , is the feeling or faculty . in which , as Aristotle said long ago , all philosophical reflection begins . A. teacher who has the prescribed equipment of power and habit knows from personal experience not only the nature of intellectual curiosity but the kind of situations that awake and sustain it . He is thus qualified to ? arouse and develop that thought-engendering faculty in his pupils : Such a teacher , being one who has gained and steadily maintains the status of an independent and autonomous thinker , knows how to foster the growth of intellectual autonomy in his pupils ; having himself acquired the fortitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candor of thought , he will know how to engender such fortitude in his pupils , making them alert and valiant rebels against the multiform tyranny of fear ; having learned the literally infinite difference between genuine conviction and mere opinion , he will lead his pupils to see that genuine conviction can come only as a result of hardy skepticism and circumspect examination of all available evidence , while mere opinions spring up like weeds and without cultivation flourish in all the fields and highways of community life . But the greatest of all the considerations remains to be stated . It is that , no matter whether the teacher 's subject be or be not one of the so-called branches of science , the teacher , if he be one who has acquired the power and the habit of thinking , will be animated and controlled by the scientific spirit . That spirit is the most precious influence lin the world . For the spirit of sets ence , the spirit of genuine thinking , is the spirit of truth-seeking . It is , therefore , both reverent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veracity , absolute freedom from prejudice , absolute freedom from taboos , absolute loyalty to the highest known standards for the ascertainment of fact . The scientific spirit , the spirit of genuine thinking , though it is thus austere , is yet a magnanimous spirit , non-provincial , non-sectarian , non-partisan , non-tribal , non-nation .. al , non-racial . It is , moreover , friendly spirit , not selfish nor jealous nor vain nor contentious nor quarrelsome ; criticism it neither resents nor repels but invites and welcomes . It is a spirit that never resorts to war ; in all times and everywhere throughout the world its great devotees , led by intellectual curiosity and sustained by the inner compensations of research , have been and are friendly , peaceful , cooperating rivals in the work of augmenting and spreading abroad the radiance of psychic light . The spirit of science , the spirit of genuine thinking , the spirit that seeks truth , the spirit that leads to knowledge and wisdom and understanding , is the animating principle of ideal man . Pupils of a school where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ndeed blessed . Pupils of a school in whose teachers that spirit is lacking are indeed unfortunate , for in such pupils the power and habit of thinking will not be developed . CASSIUS J. KEYSER . Columbia University , Sept. 17 , 1931.                     