@@700300

txt The . struggle to pi otect consumers  --  and of course that means every last man . woman , and child in the United States  --  reaches the second gm eat milestone in its history this %leek . If " peace halls its victories equal to war , " then in the current httrlyz burly about the dancing dollar and tangled politics American citizens should pause to consider the contents of the can , the box , or the bottle which they buy or see and hear advertised daily . Investigation will reveal to them an astonishing state of things . The time for another reform , it is widely conceded , has come . This week marks the opening , in Washington , of hearings on a new Food and Drug Act . It is sweeping and stringent , controlling acitertismg claims fully for the first time , and including ' rachocast advertising . The bill 1. ; tenaciously opposed by some groups in the advertising fraternity. , by some food manufacturers and by most of the proprietary and drug industry . Some of them admit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ History Repeating History is repeating itself . Back in 1906 , on the heels of a slashing campaign of investigation during which daring writers exposed the iniquities of the packing industries , the food and drug manufacturers and their embattled allies , the first Pure Food and Drug Act was written by Dr. Harvey W. Wiley . Abuse was heaped upon his campaign by certain vested Interests . The bill was described as a vicious conspiracy against business , as an unwarranted interference in pm ate affairs and as a sin against all the canons of sturdy inditidualism . Today the criticisms are being repeated , but with more caution and with different tactics . But the American public read Upton Sinclair 's " The Jungle , " published in 1906 , exposing the conditions under which foodstuffs were prepared in great packing houses . and it supported the bill . Dr. Wiley s great Act was passed . Today many a social analyst , writing of the year 1906 , has jut this Act as the outstanding event in the history of the era . Certainly it hal affected more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The best authorities insist that incalculable good to the American people has flown from this supervision of foodstuffs and drugs But since 1906 conditions have changed vastly . Advertising has taken on new proportions . The radio has arrived . Many more foods are prepared by factories and sold through chain stores The whole mode of American domestic economics has altered radically . New Act Essential Therefore the Administration considered a new food and drug act essential , and charged its preparation to the office of Prof. Rexford G. Tugwell , Assistant Secretary of Agriculture . Many of its provisions , however , have been urged on Congress previously by its outstanding physician . Dr. Royal S. Copeland , Senator from New York , and Dr. William I. Sirovich , Representative from New York . Together they sponsor the new bill The new bill repeats much of the 1906 measure , and then attempts to plug its loopholes . It has eight major provisions : 1 . Jurisdiction over false advertising . The 1906 act carefully regulated the labels placed on packages of food or drugs , but left published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innocuous , but adsertising claims have soared to the skies except where the individual consciences of manufacturers or of publishers intervened The bill seeks to enforce truth in advertising . 2 . Cosmetics  --  virtually a new industry since 1906 ? are brought under supervision for the first time . In this field the worst and most dangerous abuses have occurred In recent years . 3 . Poisons in foods are better controlled  --  previously only those actually added to the product were provided against , and the new bill prevents the sale of all dangerous foods , whether the danger arises from specifically added poisons or not . Quality Standards 4 . The standards of quality which present law established for canned foods is extended by the new bill to all foods . .5 . Pei inits aic required for manufacture of food that may be injurious , or made in insanitary factories . 8 . False curative claims for drugs are banned . 7 . Fully informative labeling of foods and drugs is required ? " An expression of the right of the consumer to know what he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " 8 Heavier fines and other penalties are set up , since many of those at present are regarded by some manufacturers as mere license fees It goes without saying that these provLsion.s have aroused violent controversy . But most of it is confined to mere invective ; there is a singularly small residium of specific criticism of the bill . On concrete points . the bin sponsors have announced their willingness to cooperate in drafting changes . One of the few tangible matters raised is in connection with point seven  --  the informative labeling of foods and drugs . Opponents claim that this would give away a manuI facturer 's private formula . Such is , 1 of course , no part of the bill 's objective . There should be a simple compromise possible and the De-1 partment of Agriculture expects it will come , so that the purchaser may know what he is buying with-I out insisting upon trade secrets Criticism Made A second criticism is that the bill gives the Secretary of Agriculture too great authority . This is one of the 1906 charges . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " However , the bill 's sponsors point out that all decisions of the secretary must be in accordance with the law " and are all subject to court review . If any decisions are found unreasonable or arbitrary , they will be declared invalid by any relevant court . The rest of the criticism against the bill is largely composed of sucn charges as " The bill will cripple three major industries . " " It is a mischievous and dangerous measure . " etc . But the Government has a powerful case . It has merely to . go down the list of damaging productions and almost incredible cases of fraud which have occurred in the last two or three . The list is formidable . Advertising claims , some published in journals of repute , have turned out to be deceptive and dangercus                     