@@698273

txt The Prime Minister , Mr. Ramsay Mnc onald , In the House of Commons debate upon the King 's speech fr in the Throne before a crowded and Intensely attentive house today , announced that decision will be reached and . If found necessary . action will be taken before Parliament rises for the Chtistmns vacation upon the question of dumping foreign goods In Britain . Meanwhile the Government will take up all the time at the disposal of the House to expedite the work that has to be done . The first cheer of the debate was when the Conservative proposer of the address to the King touched upon the controversial question of tariffs . On this subject Mr. Indicated that the Government considers Itself fully empowered to act . Ile made the point , however , that diagnosis ' must precede treatment , and that conditions have been changing so rapidly that It Is n't passible to decide right off what will be the best action to take . He dwelt upon the need for international reconsideration of economic conditions but declared that mistakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all nations concerned . No time would be lost In starting negotiations . The Round Table Conference , Mr. said , would go on and he hoped agreement would be reached such as would enable the Government to take early action . Replying to a question from Viscountess Astor , Mr. indicated that the Government looks forward to continuing the system which has worked well of appointing women as Ministers . - 'The King and Queen reopened Parliament , today with traditional ceremonial , the reception of their gilt conch in the streets , which were crowded despite the rainy weather , being even more enthusiastic than usual . The speech from the throne leaves the Government at absolutely free hand . It declares that the Ministry has received from the electorate " unfettered discletion " to consider every proposnl likely to rebstablish confidence and Insure n favorable trade balance . Decisions , it says , will be taken and applied with the least passible dclay and any necessary legislation undertaken . The speech declares the Government 's intention to piomote world peace and good will , support the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internationally to restore trade . It also makes cordial mention of the Indian Round Table Conference now sltttug here and the British Empire Conference which takes place at Ottawa in July , and announces a measure to be introduced to " make clear the powers of Dominion parliaments and promote free cooperation among members of the British Commonwealth of Nations . " Tim fact that no reference whatever Is made to any other specific legislation is taken to emphasize the freedom of action given to the Prime Minister .                     