@@701028

txt While a truce was maintained yesterday in the strike activities of members of the Building Service Employes Union , the union leaders were completing preparations for a general strike movement which may ultimately affect some 10,000 apartment and office buildings in all parts of the city . James J. Bambrick , president of the union , said last night that strikes would be declared against all owners of buildings who have not signified in writing their intention to abide by the award of the arbitration committee which is considering the dispute between the union and realty interests . About 4,000 of the buildings to be affected are in Manhattan . The arbitration committee , of which Major Henry H. Curran is chairman , failed again to make known its award yesterday . This was attributed to additional demands presented by the union affecting the formulation of the award . The committee remained at work in Major Curran 's office , 280 Madison Avenue , all day yesterday and last evening . Major Curran indicated the award would probably be announced today . Nearly 7,000 owners have already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who failed to do so , Mr. Bambrick said , will be confronted with strike action . Mr. Bambrick said that not all the 10,000 buildings remaining outside the award would be " hit " at once . Instead , he said , the union will call sectional strikes , tying up about 200 buildings every twenty-four hours , and the movement will continue until all owners sign agreements with the union on the basis of the arbitration committee 's award . The committee was appointed last December by Mayor La Guardia as a result of the strikes conducted by the union at that time . In addition to Major Curran , members of the committee are Mr. Bambrick for the union , and Clarke Dailey , representing the Realty Advisory Board . Harlem Landlords Settle . Mr. Bambrick said 100 buildings would be " pulled " in Harlem next Monday , where the union , acting through a " rank-and-file committee , " called strikes in some 200 buildings , mostly apartment houses , on Wednesday . According to union spokesmen , about fifty landlords settled with the union yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the rest of the buildings the tenants had to walk , as elevator service was either crippled or completely at a standstill . In some of the buildings there was no heat , and other services were likewise cut off as a result of the walkout of elevator men , porters , engineers , handy men , window cleaners and others . According to Dave Richey , one of the strike leaders in the Harlem region , settlements are being signed rapidly with the landlords , and it is expected that this phase of the situation will be cleared up by Monday , if not sooner . Edward Poll , treasurer of the union , intimated at union headquarters , 1,450 Broadway , that among the first areas to be affected by the contemplated spread of the strike movement would be the garment , textile and fur districts where owners , he charged , have been violating agreements signed with the union last October and November . About 550 owners signed such agreements . A check-up is being made by union officials of owners in these districts , extending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and part of the East Side . The Wall Street district and residential sections between Park Avenue and Riverside Drive are also said to be first on the list where strikes may be declared . " Ultimatum " in Brooklyn , Matthew Fiore , president of the Brooklyn unit of the union , announced yesterday his organization was preparing an " ultimatum " to the Brooklyn Real Estate Board in which the union win demand the same scale of wages as that being sought by the union in other parts of the city At Mr. Fiore 's office , 550 Atlantic Avenue , it was declared that no date had as yet been set for the presentation of the union 's demands , but it was assumed these would be presented soon after publication of the arbitration committee 's award , and that the Brooklyn unit of the union would act in unison with units in other parts of the city . Officials of the Brooklyn Real Estate Board declined to comment on the union 's threats . Major Curran characterized tile threatened large-scale suspension of elevator and other services in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health . He revealed that both parties to the arbitration proceeding had signified their acceptance of 90 per cent of the award by last Wednesday . but that yesterday 's delay in the publication of the award was necessitated by additional demands presented by the union Wednesday evening . Because evidence presented to the arbitration committee bore out the union 's contention that " starvation wages " were being paid in many buildings , it was learned , the award will contain substantial wage in. creases for certain classes of employes , although it was not believed likely that the union 's demand for a $35 weekly minimum would be met.                     