@@699059

txt James Madden , 40 years old , a city sidewalk inspector , was shot and killed early this morning at 22d and Dearborn streets while In his automobile , accompanied by two policemen . He was the father of five children , and lived at 8105 South Sangamon street . Two or three gunmen , whom the policemen were chasing after engaging in a traffic dispute , committed the mur ? der . They escaped as one of the policemen emptied his revolver at them . Madden 's - . Jmpanions were Patrol . man Louis Starr or 8253 Throop street , assi  --  gned as a detective to the Grand Crossing station , and Policeman Patrick of 9914 Throop street , attached to the detective burcau and now on furlough . During the evening they had attended a meeting of the Civil Service post of the American Legion at the Elks club downtown . Chase Follows Traffic Row . They started homeward In Madden 's automobile . Somewhat Ill , Madden sat alone in the rear seat , and allowed Starr to drive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when , at Archer avenue , a small automobile containing two or three men cut In ahead a them , forcing Starr to swerve sharply to avoid a collision . Momentarily , both cars paused , and Starr shouted a warning to the men to drive more carefully . They answered derisively . and then shot ahead , south in Dearborn street . The policemen gave chase . At 22d street the fugitive car turned east , and then halted . The men leaped out , and ran to a corner hallway . Corning fast behind , Starr Jammed on the brakes , and brought his automobile to a near stop , but not before passing the abandoned automobile . Bullet hills Madden . The next moment three or four revolver shots were fired , followed by a shotgun blast . One of the bullets ripped through the rear of Madden 's car , and pierced his back , killing him instantly . The charge from the shotgun grazed the side of the car . leaped out , and fired six shots at the gunmen , but they fled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ root , Starr called out that Madden had been hit , and rejoined his friends . Madden was driven to St. Luke 's hospital and pronounced dead . As soon as the policemen disappeared with their slain friend , the murderers returned to the scene and drove their car away . No ! Icense number was obtained , so far as could he learned . One Negro witness was picked up . Police squads were dispatched to the south side by radio orders , and early this morning were still cruising* about to find the slayers . The men apparently were young . Neither Starr nor was able to get a good look at them during the mmentary Pause Incident to the traffic dispute at Archer a venue and Dearborn street .                     