@@702279

txt The Argentine delegation today again upset the equilibrium of the InterAmerican Conference for the Maintenance of Peace by withdrawing the approval it was understood previously to have given to the neutrality convention coordinating ex1isting peace machinery of the Americas . After seven hours of consultation a special subcommittee prepared a revised draft to be circulated tonight among all delegations , hoping to get unanimous approval by tomorrow morning . Some delegates hinted today a belief that the British Foreign Office had had a hand in stiffening Argentine opposition to the United States neutrality plan in the last few days . These conjectures represented Great Britain as not fearing the present scope of the proposal , but rather possible future developments . In the event of war Great Britain would undoubtedly be largely de-1 pendent on Argentina for wheat , beef and mutton . The United States neutrality plan , following the lines of domestic legislation , carefully limited restrictions to arms and loans , but Argentina apparently feared that other commodities might be included later if the principle were once established . Senator Connally and others at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Congress at the last session . The history of the neutrality convention illustrates the uncertainty of the situation here , which seems to change every few hours . When the conference love feast Saturday won unanimous adoption of the collective security and non-intervention agreements by the standing Committee on Organization of Peace , it was understood that the i neutrality convention was equally acceptable . Because it had to go before another standing committee this convention was put over until today for action . Secretary of State Cordell Hull , leader of the United States delegation , was so strongly convinced that the unanimous backing of all delegates would be obtained that he ordered release of the text of the draft Saturday . At 3 o'clock today he and Sumner Welles , Assistant Secretary : Francisco Castillo Najera , chairman of ? the Mexican delegation : Felipe A. Espil , Argentine Ambassador to the ? United States ; Oswaldo Aranha of Brazil . Humberto Albornoz of Ecuador , Pedro Manini Rios , delegate from Uruguay , and a few other leading delegates assembled in the imposing office of Dr. Carlos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discuss final plans and parliamentary procedure needed to put the neutrality convention smoothly through the conference . At this gathering Dr. Saavedra Lamas announced that he thought the measure needed further consideration . Mr. Hull and the other startled Foreign Ministers rushed fuming from the office after hastily naming the special subcommittee to examine the project in a further attempt to make it acceptable to Argentina . The committee was originally composed of Messrs . Welles . Aranha , Castillo . Miguel Cruchaga Tocornal , chairman of the Chilean delegation : Albornoz , Leopoldo Melo and Jose Maria Cantilo. both of Argentina ; Carlos Concha of Peru , Isidoro Ruiz Moreno , Argentina . and Jorge Soto del Corral of Colombia , but as the hours wore on weary members left , sending sub- I sti tutes . Mr , Welles stayed to the end and announced the agreement when the meeting broke up . He said it had been agreed upon to keep the revised text a confidential document until it had been presented to the delegations that were not represented at today 's drafting session . Asked whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phraseology , he said : " My opinion is that the revisions affect only form , not substance . " Other sources indicated that sixteen or seventeen delegations had : already agreed to back the new draft , but Messrs . Hull and Welles were holding out for the same unanimity that characterized the collective security move . While leading delegates appreciate Mr. Hull 's motives in insisting on unanimity , if possible , before the measures are thrown open to debate on the floor , some feel that this procedure gives Dr. Saavedra Lamas undue influence and liken it to an attempt to put legislation through Congress by unanimous consent , where one voice can block it . Argentina Heads Opposition So far as can be learned , the United States , Brazil . the Central American nations and Colombia have been fighting to try to retain as many as possible of the principles outlined in the original neutrality proposal of the United States . Argentina has led the opposition , combating any suggestion for permanent machinery for concerted American action or any positive declaration of policy , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belligerents . In the draft believed to have been agreed upon over the weekend the project for a permanent consultative committee of foreign ministers of the twenty-one republics , which the United States pro- I posed , was deleted , leaving the machinery for consultation described vaguely as among " the high contracting parties . " If unanimous backing can be won for the draft as revised tonight , it is planned to call a meeting of the standing Committee on Neutrality tomorrow to give formal approval by acclamation . The plenary session scheduled for tomorrow- has been postponed to Wednesday , apparently in the hope that the principal political measures to be put before the conference can be passed . These would include a resolution urging ratification by all republics of the five peace treaties , the nonintervention protocol , the collective security convention , and the neutrality convention . Provisions of Main Proposals The sum total of these declarations would commit the Americas to pacific settlement of difficulties among themselves , obligatory con ' sultation in case the peace of the Americas was threatened in any manner , consultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex ' ternal affairs of one republic by another the same as though actual hostilities had broken out and a general objective to try to pursue a common neutrality policy in case a pacific settlement failed in any given dispute . Mr. Hull 's position , that these I steps would constitute an important advance toward the preservation of peace in this hemisphere , was confirmed today by an official of the Uruguayan Foreign Office , who is a member of his country 's 1 delegation . He said these agreements were a start in the right direction and could be tightened up in future conferences . Like the representatives of most smaller countries he attached the utmost importance to willingness by the United States to sign the protocol admitting the right of mutual consultation in a case of intervention . It is evident from the attitude of the Mexicans , those from Central American nations , and the Uruguayans that President Roosevelt 's I " good neighbor " declarations have sufficed to dispel completely memories of the " dollar diplomacy " of ' earlier days . The Central Americans were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lead . Probably they were all relieved to dis- ' cover that the United States had no , objection to the proposal . United States delegates treated the measure on a theoretical basis , as if it could have no possible application to their country . One United States delegate took occasion today to voice the highest ? praise of Mr. Welles 's role in the negotiations here . He said that the Assistant Secretary of State , besides bearing the ! brunt of representing his own dele- ' gation , had , because of his command of Spanish , also acted as ! mediator between factions in other delegations , ironing out differences between leaders and their subordi- ; nates . To outward appearances , Mr .. Welles has maintained his usual imperturable demeanor amid ups and downs of situations which must have surprised him , since the promised unanimity of opinion here has been chiefly notable by its absence .                     