@@700590

txt Inflationary proposals , principally the Dies silver bill and the bank depositors ' reimbursement bill , are giving Administration concern and carry the possibility of putting it into what admittedly would be a " tight place . " There is every indication that President Roosevelt and his aides are meeting the situation in part by resistance and in part by negotiation and offer of compromise . Whether the Administration offers will be satisfactory at a time when Congressional elements are more assertive than at any time since Mr. Roosevelt took office is at least doubtful . In the past three days the hand of the inflationary group has been undoubtedly strengthened by the drop in grain and cotton prices and by the admission of high Administration officials that these price changes were in part due to the impression that the Administration would do nothing more for silver at this session of Congress . Will Sliver Objections Be Overthrown ? Even before the current commodity recessions the President was authoritatively described as being dissatisfied with the price trend . He was said to recognize that further moves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , he also was aware of the extent of silver speculation and the possibilities of large profits which might arise from a silver program . Silver advocates in Congress Thursday were discussing the possibility that the drop In commodities might cause the President to overlook some previous objections and to offer a silver proposal . Supporting this idea was the sudden action of the White House in postponing from Thursday until Saturday a conference with Treasury officials and Senate silver advocates . The latter saw an indication that some proposal was under consideration and that the White House wanted further time to pf. - rf " , rt it Indicating that the ** tiend has strengthened inflation sentiment was the admission of Departirent of Agriculture officials that the declines probably were attributable to the impression that the Administration has turned its face against silver action now . Silver senators were more outspoken in this respect . Borah and Comment Senator Borah of Idaho , when asked concerning the drop in commodity prices , replied that it is an indication that " we need sound money . " He added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you do n't say inflation . " " The decline in the price of commodities is traceable to the decline in the price of silver , " said Senator of , Kansas , an advocate of the Dies bill . Administration officials refused to discuss the silver question in any way At the White House it was said that postponement of the scheduled conference v. as due to the unwillingness of the President to take many Senators off the floor at one time . Silver advocates did not take this seriously . pointing out that one man could prevent the Senate taking action on any important measure until the absent Senators could return from the White House . Also , the silver advocates pointed out that the markets would be closed Saturday and that further silver moves of their rejection would have less effect than if the conference were held Thursday . Want More Than Perniissi  --  e Action Generally the silver bloc indicated it would be dissatisfied with granting merely " permissive " powers to the President . The silver men pointed out that he already had wide powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them expressed belief that they should hold out for mandatory legislation unless the President were willing to promise strong acLion under terms of the Thomas amendment . Others believed that the silver advocates would have to accept what the President offered , since they could not muster strength to override him if he vetoed mandatory legislation . The general disposition was to await a possible White House proposal before laying out a future course of action . Silver advocates were prepared to argue with the President that acceptance of silver legislation or a promise of silver action would help meet agitation for the bank depositors ' reimbursement bill Whether this argument will impress the President was not clear . It is known that he wishes to stop the bill and that he has several government departments concerned gathering data to show that the government already has been liberal with depositors in closed banks . Bank Aid Being Pushed The Reconstruction Finance Corp . is bending every effort to advance loans for the liquidation of deposits in closed banks , and Chairman Jones stated that on Wednesday , the board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over 59,000.000 To date , the corporation has approved 2,528 loans to 2,360 banks , involving commitments of 5753 659,000 . In this connection , it was pointed out that 950 closed banks with deposits of about 51.500 , 000 have not applied for loans . Failure to request RFC assistance was attributed to various Causes . Nevertheless . receivers of many of these institutions have made part payments to depositors . The chairman emphasized that for some time past the corporation has been reappraising assets of closed banks and extending additional loans wherever the collateral permits .                     