@@701372

txt The attitude to be taken by the Council of the League of Nations toward the ItaloEthiopian dispute in its present stage was settled tonight among the delegations of France , Great Britain and Italy . The settlement covers the action of the Council at this session and will be put into effect at a meeting planned for 10 o'clock tomorrow morning , which , if successful , will conclude the extraordinary Council session . The settlement , nominally a compromise , accepts from beginning to end the Italian attitude toward this whole matter . Italy is committed to nothing except continuation of the almost farcical coneiTiation proceedings . These will be converted into attempted arbitration by the appointment by the four conciliators of a fifth member . There is no pledge against resort to force pending the conclusion of this proceeding . Boundary Issues Ruled Out . The arbitration proceedings will cover merely the responsibility for frontier incidents , in which each disputant contends the other was the aggressor . The sovereignty of the territory on which the incidents occurred will not be within the scope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attempt at arbitration must be finished before Sept. 4 . At some subsequent date , not yet fixed , the whole matter will be returned to the Council , according to the promise of the French and British . The Italians , however , are not committing themselves . In the meantime there will be initiated negotiations among Great Britain , France and Italy as cosignatories of the treaty of 1906 , which Ethiopia resents and has never recognized because it envisages dividing her territory into spheres of influence among the " big three . " The object of these negotiations will be " to facilitate the search for a solution of the differences between Italy and Ethiopia . " But they will take place outside the League . Resolution Ignores Parley . The resolution to be submitted to the Council tomorrow takes no note of these negotiations . They will merely be mentioned in the speech in which Premier Pierre Laval of France will lay the resolution before the Council . Thus Ethiopia is blocked from protesting other than verbally . She can do nothing about the negotiations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their object can be none other than the disposition of her territory . She can only refuse to recognize such negotiations and defend her land if she is able . And agreement among the " big three " will naturally entail their mutual support of each other against Ethiopia . Late tonight the Ethiopian delegation had not been informed of this agreement , nor had it been made acquainted with the provisional text of the resolution to be presented to the Council . The Ethiopians will hear it only at the meeting tomorrow . The text of this resolution , which may be slightly changed before its presentation , stands tonight as follows : The League of Nations Council , recalling its resolution of May 25 for settlement of the ItaloEthiopian dispute by arbitration , notes that the work of arbitration has been interrupted and that the two parties ask the Colin- cii for a resumption of this work and for interpretation of the accord of May 25 . The Council , without professing to give an opinion on the meaning of the arbitral sentences of July 8 and considering that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions involved , and considering that the arbitration commission should not prejudice questions relating to sovereignty , whether Italian or Ethiopian , or the territory where incidents occurred , declares : A. ? The arbitration commission shall not take into account the sovereignty . of the place where the incident occurred and shall examine the other elements of the dispute . B. ? To determine the responsibility for an incident , it is desirable that the commission shall take into account equitably the opinions which those present on both sides held with good faith regarding the sovereignty of the place where the incident occurred . The Connell takes note that the two parties have declared their willingness to continue arbitration according to the 1928 treaty and invites them to pursue this arbitral procedure with all diligence , - said procedure having to reach a settlement of the dispute before Sept. 4 . In any case , the entire question shall return to the Council . The Council takes note , finally , of the willingness of the two parties to name a fifth arbitrator . Laval to Present Resolution . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Council . Unanimity is required for its adoption , but this will be obtained by a possible reservation by Baron Pompeo Aloisi of Italy to the paragraph providing that the results of arbitration proceedings shall come before the Council or by his abstaining from voting on that particular . Ethiopia is not represented in the Council 's votes . The negotiations under the 1906 treaty will be announced in a joint communiqu ? by the three powers , issued from their hotels , outside the League . This communique will contain no reference to the League . All the machinery for putting this program into effect tomorrow was ready tonight , well oiled and efficient after a troublesome day in which at one time the possibility of a night meeting was under serious consideration . That idea was abandoned finally because it seemed indicative of haste . A protest from Ethiopia is expected , but it will not count for anything . The Council is not even waiting to hear the result of an inquiry sent to Addis Ababa regarding her government 's attitude toward the proposal at large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been taken into account , and that is a remote one . It is that one or more of the smaller powers represented in the Council , such as Turkey , who has shown some concern , may vote against the procedure and wreck all prospect of unanimity . This possibility does exist , for the procedure  --  resolution and communiqu ? together  --  establishes distinctly disagreeable precedents . In such a case the Council would have to sit through next week , fighting it out all over again . As late as 6 P. M. a whole day of separate conversations had not seemed to bring en agreement any closer . It was generally understood , however , that at this time some of Premier Mussolini 's objections to the arrangement proposed yesterday had been met . The British , for instance , had agreed that instead of a pledge laid on both disputants not to resort to force before the negotiations definitely succeeded or failed , a simple reference to the 1928 treaty . in which Italy and Ethiopia agreed to arbitrate their differences , should suffice . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the negotiations should proceed under the supervision of the League Council , but that the Council instead should " take note " of their continuance among the three powers participating in the 1906 treaty . Objections Anticipated . It had been further agreed that the Ethiopians ' objections to any such negotiations over the disposition of their country between powers who already had  --  agreed on the principles by which it should be divided at ein appropriate time might be disregarded . The phrase actually used was " dealt with . " Matters seemed to be going swimmingly when further messages came from Rome . While their exact purport was in doubt , it was understood that Mussolini entered new objections . One was said to concern the date of the next Council meeting , at which the progress of the resumed arbitration should be reported or its failure and abandonment noted . Mussolini is understood to have desired that this date be put off to September . The British strongly objected . At luncheon Messrs . Laval and Eden were said to have informed Baron Aloisi that they had gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The word was passed around that the British attitude had " stiffened " and that neither the French nor the Italian delegate was pleased . A meeting of the Council was obviously impossible in the existing state of deadlock . In these circumstances the experienced and resourceful Joseph A. Avenol , Secretary General of the League , who had been watching with paternal solicitude over the various conversations and their scant success , conceived an idea . A formal meeting of the Council was out of the question , but there was no reason why its individual members should not get together socially , and something might come out of it . Ile therefore announced a cocktail party at 6 o'clock in his rooms at the League palace . His idea apparently was that the mellowing influence of ardent liquors might dissolve the obstacles that pick and spade had found insuperable . It was a new idea , even for Geneva , but this League on occasion knows how to set aside precedents . All Council members were invited , and the Ethiopians to boot , apparently on the principle that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would make the last march to the place of execution easier . They all arrived , each according to his mood . Mr. Laval climbed the stairs silent and preoccupied . It is understood that at the party he told Mr. Eden that he had other serious business than this afoot and wanted to get back to Paris to attend to it . The bewildered little Ethiopian delegate , Bedjirona Tecle Hawa , riate , carrying a cane fully six inches too tall for him in the manner of a shepherd 's crook , ascended as though more out of his element than ever . A cocktail party as a solution to a diplomatic deadlock was obviously strange to him . The faithful Gaston Jeze , who has not yet resigned , as the Italians hope ' he will , followed his chief , advising and reassuring him . The representatives of smaller powers , who had been growing restive while the " Big Three " had been dealing among themselves and in consequence had been calling for a Council meeting in order to learn what was going on , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conjunction of individuals and cocktails can be called that ? lasted about an hour . Replies Awaited . It is understood Mr. Laval made an informal talk in which he said an agreement had been held up until decisions on certain points could be received , both from Rome and from Addis Ababa . Replies might arrive at any time , he added , and , should they come later in the evening , a night session of the Council . might be held . He further remarked that it was desired to reach an understanding as soon as possible , since this Council meeting in the circumstances could do no more than get arbitration resumed and await its outcome . This tentative promise of a conclusion was well received . The Ethiopians , who were disposed to argue that their instructions from Addis Ababa might not come for two or three days , were sternlysuppressed . They still obstinately clung to Professor Jeze 's simile of yesterday that the choice offered them was between " suicide and assassination . " But they were informed in effect that during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in fact , is what it all amounts to . There is an aspect of unreality about this whole proceeding which is having no good effect upon the prestige of the League , but apparently it is unavoidable . The Italo-Ethiopian issue will not be decided here , but elsewhere . Every one realizes this . Every one realizes that the Council is merely going through certain motions which may or may not affect the future world attitude toward the institution of which it is the crown and symbol .                     