@@699477

txt The Hitler gov4 ernment today forbade the Communists to - hold outdoor demonstrations in any part of Germany and instructed the police to keep their indoor meetings under the closest supervision . Searches of the homes of Communist leaders were also begun throughout the Reich , the government having ordered local authorities to carry them out without obtaining judicial warrants . It is understood that the National Socialists have demanded that the Communist party be outlawed , but this step is not yet in prospect , although Vice Chancellor von Paper is willing to go a long way with Chancellor Hitler in curbing the Reds . The Wall-Strasse in the Chariottenburg district of Berlin , where a Nazi storm trooper was shot Monday night as he was leading his men back to their barracks after the torchlight parade before the Chancellery was put into a state of siege by the police tonight , as were adjacent thoroughfares , because several thousand storm troopers had chosen the site of their comrade 's death for a demonstration in his memory . Police Clear Streets . A large force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public entertainment , cleared the streets of pedestrians , and , keeping the housefronts under searchlights , compelled the residents to keep in doors , threatening to shoot whenever anybody showed himself at an open window . Further sanguinary collisions between Nazis and Communists in various parts of the country today resulted in several deaths and a number of injuries . Altona was the scene of a pitched fight reminiscent of the one that occurred there last Summer . The Communists appear to have acted as the aggressors there and elsewhere , giving the government a convenient excuse for repressive measures . A huge open-air demonstration 1 that Berlin 's Socialists and the socalled Anti-Fascist League planned to hold in the Lustgarten Sunday has been banned by the police on the ground that it would interfere with the funeral services for the Nazi trooper shot Monday night , which are to be held at the same hour in the Protestant , cathedrals facing the Lustgarten . The Social-. ists will hold their rally Tuesday . Requests for a statement regarding Herr Hitler 's position as Chancellor on certain measures that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as whether he intends to inaugurate the program of anti-Semitic legislation that he has dangled before the eyes of his following , remain I unaccommodated . The Official Reply . Requests for a specific statement met with this official reply : " The present government does not intend to make any unreasonable experiments of an economic , financial or social order . It is dedicated to the preservation of internal peace and work and will guarantee the personal protection of all classes . " It was added that the government was concerned for the time being with more urgent matters than redeeming agitatory promises . Since Herr Hitler 's party is in a minority in the present government , which is built on the check and balance system devised by Colonel von Papen , whatever ambitions the Chancellor might have of making good his anti-Semitic pronounce- ments would be checkmated by the veto of his Cabinet colleagues . Vice Chancellor von Papen is understood to have no mind for letting his Cabinet of national concentration and its prospects in the impending campaign be wrecked on race issues or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years by Herr Hitler and his spellbinders . The Chancellor made his first official appearance on the ReichsI tag 's premises today when he paid a courtesy call on the Reichsrat , the Federal Council . Has Faith in the People . His government , he told its delegates , " had taken over the affairs of the State in one of its darkest hours . having implicit faith in the zeal , industry and moral forces in , herent in the German people and in its capacity for adaptation to adversity . " These , he confidently believed , would enable the nation 1 to survive crises and depressions 1 and again make Germany what it was in bygone generations  --  a worthy habitation . Herr Hitler told the Reichsrat 's members that the Federal government desired to work with them in closest cooperation , whereupon Dr. Arnold Brecht , Prussia 's delegate , read a homily on the historic functions of the council , in which , he said , the sentiments and wishes of the federated States were represented exactly as in Bismarck 's day . Leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Brecht reminded Chancellor Hitler that it not only remained unliquidated but provoked grave concern among the , other German States and threatened to affect their relations with the central government . The speaker then called for an early clarification of the Prussian impasse , which he said was also desired by the other States , and the Chancellor bowed himself out of the chamber . ? Rule There Will Continue . Although a Presidential decree has designated Vice Chancellor von Papen as the Reich 's commissioner for Prussia , the new government has not yet indicated the course it intends to pursue in the State . Its rule there will continue , however , until new elections produce a Parliamentary solution . The Presidential decree dissolving the Reichstag is frankly deplored , even in more conservative newspapers , as premature and unwarranted in the existing parliamentary situation and has provoked outspoken recriminations between the government and the Centrist and Bavarian People 's parties . Both Catholic groups openly challenge President von Hindenburg 's justification for ordering a new election and charge that Herr Hitler and Colonel von Papen deliberately broke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly explored . Premier Heinrich Held of Bavaria demands to know " who had the audacity falsely to inform President von Hindenburg that there was no majority available in the Reichstag for a government of national concentration . " But the election has been ordered and both the government parties  --  the National Socialists and the Nationalists  --  defend it on the ground that it definitely poses the problem of who is for and who is against " national concentration . " i The liberal press brands Chancel- ' for Hitler 's talk on the radio last night as the prelude to a campaign in which he is evidently to be used as " drummer boy , a role he will not despise , since he can now add the glamor of office to his campaign panoply . " Call Talk Campaign Stunt . Although Herr Hitler 's radio address was ostensibly a government declaration , approved and countersigned by the entire Cabinet , the opposition views it merely as an electioneering stunt and soft soap for his own following and as otherwise destitute of practical meaning . The principal newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Alfred Hugenberg 's Lokalanzeiger , the Stahlhelm 's Kreuz-Zeitung and the reactionary financial Boersenzeitung  --  all of which used to follow up the broadcasts of Colonel von Papen and General von Schleicher appreciatively when they were Chancellors  --  print Herr Hitler 's text without a word of editorial comment , and so does his own Voelkische Beobachter . Outside the nationalist press many newspapers print only summaries of Chancellor Hitler 's broadcast . The Centrist organ Germania declares : " On the one side it is replete with injustice against all those  --  including the President of the Reich  --  who have contributed their utmost to Germany 's existence ; on the other , the alleged new reconstruction program consists of meaningless phrases . " The Tageblatt says : " In its wealth of verbiage and poverty of ideas and practical proposals , the speech constitutes the most convincing evidence of the character of this government . " Says He Has Not Changed . Ever since Herr Hitler loomed up as a practical possibility for the Chancellorship , there has been speculation on " the sobering influence of office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says that " trustful souls expectant that Hitler the agitator , called to the Chancellorship , would divest himself of the spirit and tone of mass meetings and assume the toga of statesmanship , have experienced bitter disappointment . " Concerning what Herr Hitler can really do on his own , opinion among the opposition is divided , but the preponderance of judgment is typified by the Frankfurter Zeitung 's observation that " Hitler has got to walk with von Papen on one side of him and Hugenberg on the other . " This school of thought believes , that the real power in the Cabinet lies with the von Papen-Hugenberg , wing , but that Herr Hitler will get plenty of rope to use to the full his 1 vote-getting powers in the coming election . In the Nationalist camp there is unmitigated satisfaction that the Reichstag has been dissolved and a new election ordered , while the Nazis , with first call on the radio ? Joseph Goebbels , their " fireeater , " is being touted as the prospective broadcasting commissioner ,  --  and all the other government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   