@@698337

txt The impact of economic depression might have been lessened by a check on inflation during the recent boom years , Charles E. Mitchell , chairman of the National City Bank of New York , testified today before the La Follette subcommittee of the Senate committee on manufactures . Banking policy was too liberal , even if the public " ran around with the bit firmly in their mouth , " Mr. Mitchell declared . The present situation was described as a " backwash " of the World War . An excess of production displayed itself in real estate and security values , the banker explained , adding that in " looking back " it can be seen that curbs might have been effective on production , distribution , banking investment and consumer purchasing . Answering Senator La Follette , Mr. Mitchell agreed that r investment banking might properly be subject to governmental regulation , but he wished , first , to see specific recommendations on the subject . The manipulation of interest rates to correct the economic situation was not favored by the witness on the ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " whenever fear is in the king seat , the interest rate has no power at all . " Objections to an Economic Council . He thought Americans would strongly oppose the establishment of a national economic council on the theory that it would be an " invasion by a public authority in the field of private business . " Press reports , showed , he observed , that members of a German national economic council were disputing among themselves and endeavoring to promote interests of special groups . However , he held that a national economic council , limited to advisory power , might be useful . Asserting that he could not go whole-heartedly along with either the Gerard Swope or Chamber of Commerce plans for closer cooperation between factors in a given industry , Mr. Mitchell said that while he was not a lawyer , he thought business should be able to sit down and compare views of conditions and , perhaps , develop a sound policy of procedure " without the possibility always confronting them of going to jail . " He said he would like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors in industry . " As to the plan for a national economic council , he asserted a belief that the laws of supply and demand will control the business situation more effectively than any regulatory or advisory body . The country , the banker observed , is confronted by a grave problem in its efforts to take the lead as a financial centre of the world while it re- tains its present tariff restricting the exchange of goods and services . " The situation today , " he said , " is a backwash of the war and all it brought about in inflation ? excess production of commodities and of values , flow of gold that brought an inflation that showed itself particularly in real estate and security values , where it usually shows itself in commodities , and then the natural deflation and disorganization that took place as the inflation subsided and the effects were felt  --  complete disorganization existing as a result of the backwash of the war . " Senator La Follette asked if some sort of control ' " would have mitigated or lessened the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon it now , " was the reply , " I should say yes ; but the after-look is so much better than the forward-look that it is really unfair to criticize too severely . But all factors of production and distribution , banking , investment banking , consumer buying , went on without perhaps , as heavy curbs as might have been put upon them . The situation could not have been averted , in my mind , but it probably could have been lessened . That is the situation of distress that exists today . " Banking Credits- Discussed . This led to discussion of the credit policy of the American banking system . , " Again looking backward , the policy of the banks as a whole was undoubtedly too liberal , " Mr. Mitchell stated . " They were too ready to loan , too ready to meet the competition of neighbors , . too willing to cut down their margins to a point of encouraging excessive borrowing . They were at fault with others ; yes . " There was warning aplenty . Bankers generally warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors I have stated ; and just as an evidence of being foiled by conditions that werb extraneous to'themselves , you will bear in mind that the banks made an effort to limit their own lending to the stock markets ; and that the public took the bit in their month and ran around the banks and developed that very large item in the inflation which Ave commonly refer to ad the ' loans for the account of others . ' " Do you mean people generally or do you mean corporations not generally considered to be in the banking business ? " the banker was asked . " None of these people were in the banking business , " was the reply . " It was a combination of corporations and individuals . Individuals with accumulated wealth , and very often in small amounts , found it possible to put those funds at work in the loans for the account of others . " " What would have happened if the regular banking institutions had declined to handle these accounts for others ? " " At that particular time the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mouth that I am satisfied that they would have taken the chances that would have been involved in operating through outside agencies . As you doubtless know , the New York Clearing House has recently passed regulations prohibiting its members from lending for the account of others . " Horse Was Running Too Fast . The horse , Mr. Mitchell said , " had got to running pretty fast " in 1928 , and the amount in the loans for the account of others was so large that an abrupt refusal to lend for the account of others would have thrown a burden upon the banking community which would have brought very sharp repercussions . " It was impossible , with the horse running at that speed , to check it instantly by such a ruling , " he continued . " As a matter of fact , the Clearing House banks of New York quite generally used whatever influence they had with corporations to get them to withdraw from that market . The influence was used with individuals . It was the direct appeal to common sense which , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small degree refused to accept . He agreed with Senator La Follette that the steps taken at the time to stop such loans were not very effective . Mr. La Follette suggested that some more concerted action aside from simply attempting to use influence , had it been taken early , might have had an effect in curbing credit available in the lending of corporations and individuals for speculative purposes . Mr. Mitchell recalled , however , . that this class of lending had been going on for twenty year 's , even though some banks frowned upon it and others refused to do that class of business , the National City Bank among them . Loans for Others ' Lucrative . ' " As it developed in larger amount that very competition between banks of which I spoke led some of us who had followed the paths of righteousness into the error of serving that class of business , " he said . " We all came to the place . where we were serving it ; and then the clearing house of New York made a fixed charge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It made it a lucrative business . Then it began to run wild ; and when you say ' early , ' . it should have been stopped perhaps ten years ago . That would have been early . Five years would have been early . " When we once crossed the line where all banks did it , recognized by the ? New York Clearing House as . sound banking practice , the thing immediately grew to a point where to have curbed it suddenly would have been impossible . To use your own word , the - point of ' early ' had been crossed with the recognition of that as a sound banking practice by the New York Clearing House . It was an error . " There would have been " a steadying effect , " Mr. Mitchell agreed , " if the Clearing House Association ' and New York banks had used all of their power to prevent the growth of this practice instead of " deciding to legitimatize it . " Excess Production the Problem . Measures to sustain business were brought into the questioning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , do you think , that we could have kept up the rate of what , for want of a better term . I will call business activity which prevailed prior to 1929 ? A. ? In 1929 all of the fundamentals spelling inflation had been established . In other words , we had the excess production of the farm that came about as a natural situation with the closing of the Russian production field during the war . We had  --  again referring to the farm ? the excess production of sugar in cane-growing countries that came about as a result : If the closing up of beet production during the war . We had our great manufacturing plants built to high speed as a result of the war , and after the war furnished manufactured commodities in great quantities to a world that had a depletion of its stocks . I think all the fundamentals were there for that which occurred : and I doubt whether those tactful ( of production could have been kept . at work to their full with the resumption 31 more normal conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem now as one of absolute overproduction or in part a problem of underamlity to consume ? A. ? I would rather look upon it as complete disorganization . Sometimes we would find one of the conditions that you mentioned prevailing and sometimes another . hut always disorganization , lack of equilibrium . Senator La Follette asked if the policy of several banking institutions had any bearing in the encouragement of excessive speculation prior to the depression . " Unquestionably yes . " Mr. Mitchell replied . " It was a part . of the machine that . developed inflation . It came about in part by reason of demands of corporations seeing the possibility of changing their capital structure to their advantage . It came about in part by reason of the public 's interest in and fever and fervor for investments and speculation , if you will . " It came about as a result of the demands of foreign countries for funds and an obvious appetite on the part of the American public for investments therein . The investment banking community became one of the tools by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements . They were a factor , of course . " Demand for Mergers Existed . Asked whether some investment banking Institutions promoted mergers and floated new securities because of the profit , Mr. Mitchell said that where a demand exists a producer will present himself . " That producer is in business for profit , " he added . " The demand among industrial corporations existed for uniting themselves . The demand existed on the side of the investing public for securities . The investment banker stood between . Hp naturally was in business for profit , and he served both of those interests , and he did it fundamentally for profit . " Mr. La Follette inquired if the " element of promotion " did not originate primarily from the desire of half of a dozen different corporations to merge , and Mr. Mitchell said " unquestionably . " The Senator asked whether investment banking institutions could adopt policies to prevent a recurrence of excessive speculation . While the investment banking interests " of first quality in the country " recognize the necessity for sound practice , Mr. Mitchell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be " written out , subscribed to and enforced upon " the investment banking community . The witness had " no hope " that the investment bankers would consolidate into a body which would " respect their own rules and regulations without exception . " Turns to Methods of Control . Senator La Follette asked if investment banking should be subjected to regulations similar to commercial banking . Mr. Mitchell sought specific suggestions as to organization , method of control and so on . " I think , undoubtedly , I might agree with you a long way if T could know , those details but , in substance . if there is any way to do it , I should he heartily in favor of it. , " the witness added , Q. --  Doti you think that conscious regulation of the interest rate can he a helpful factor in endeavoring to check the sharper fluctuations in economic activity ? A.- The interest . rate . has a direct effect during a period of expansion of trade and of credit It . has very much less effect , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially when it gets at a low level . The Federal Reserve banking system has tried to keep interest rates low during the period or depression . It has had no effect . I think it is impossible to correct such a situation as we have now through the interest rate . Expansion can he checked to some degree . Q. ? In other words , it is your opinion that conscious manipulation of the interest rate may have an effect to a certain extent in checking the rise ? A. ? Quite so . Q. ? But in periods of serious depression you feel that our experience indicates that , it has little or no effect in helning to stimulate recovery ? A. ? Quite so . Wherever lack of confidence ? fear , if you please  --  is in the king 's seat the interest rate has no power in It at all . As to Investments and Trade . Our foreign investment policy , Mr. Mitchell said , has a marked effect upon our export trade . " Naturally , when we are lending for instance , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tendency for ft sign countries to buy to a larger degree , because the exchange is created , " he stated . " At . such times of expansion of foreign investment , , we can expect an expansion of foreign trade . It is quite difficult to see how we can expect to continue the creation of foreign debt to ourselves , however , when by our tariff policy , if you please , we refuse to accept goods and services in payment . ' We get back the gold because that is the one means of payment , and that leads us into inflation again . " So that , by and large , we have in this country , I feel , a very grave problem with respect to our taking what is desired by so many , the lead as a financial centre of the world , so long a ; we have a restriction upon the freedom of the passage of goods and services . " Q. ? As you look hack on it . do you feel that that foreign investment policy was too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unquestionably . The witness thought the demand for our goods abroad started during and subsequent to the war and grew apace with our foreign financing . " I think the foreign financing . therefore , accelerated the pace of building of the means of production in this country , " he stated . Sees a Task for " Supermen . " Discussing the proposal for a national economic council , Mr .. Mitchell said that only " supermen " could be trusted with the work of programming the industrial production of this country . Mr. Mitchell , in voicing the opinion that Americans would strongly oppose governmental interference of the character suggested , observed : " We are frankly skeptical that the ideal can be attained , freedom for the individual to engage in whatever business he chooses and to develop that business in accordance with his talent and judgment is a privilege which all Americans cherish . It involves freedom to make mistakes . " I do not believe that as a practical matter any group of men that could be assembled is wise enough to exercise unlimited dictatorial powsrs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any one who knows the American people must realize that any such invasion by a public sut thority of the field of private hush : ness would be bitterly resented . " Benjamin A. Javits , New York laws yer and economist , also testified : " Unless the American people insets their business leaders to plan their future activities scientifically and to direct the economic order along lines of sane and progressive growth , " he said , " we are destined to stiffer periodically recurring major depres. sions with their ensuing human suffering , , soeial disorganization and destruction of national wealth . " A national economic council as pro . posed by Senator La . Follette , ha said , is preferable to " leaving the larger planning for industry to such groups as may in the future he organized " under the Swope or Chamber of Commerce programs .                     