@@698100

txt Mr. Russell Boardman and Mr. John Polando returned to Boston at exactly 12:30 o'clock today . Hardly had the wheels of the Betlanca monoplane grounded at the East Boston airport before the pilot and leader of the flight and his smiling navigator were whirled away through throngs of cheering spectators by an official reception committee . In an accompanying plane was Mr. Cy . M. Bellanca , designer of the ? record-breaking plane . On the morning when the Cape Cod headed eastward into the gray dawn that stretched away over the Atlantic , Mr. Bellanca was at the Floyd Bennettairport before daylight in order to assist Mr. Boardman in final preparation for the flight that was destined to end at the threshold of Asia slightly less than 5000 miles away . Leaving the air field in an open automobile which headed the official procession , the fliers proceeded down Meridian Street over a course which has become known as the " Lindbergh route . " From East Boston , the line of automobiles proceeded to Chelsea , Charlestown and Boston . The first stop was at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clock to each of the airmen on behalf of the city . From City Hall , the fliers went up Beacon Street to the State House to be formally welcomed into the executive chamber by Gov . Joseph B. Ely . At 2 o'clock , Captain Boardman and Lieutenant Polando were guests of Mayor Curley at a luncheon in the Copley Plaza . Later in the day it was planned to take the fliers on a visit to Rear Admirable Richard E. Byrd 's flagship , the bark , City of New York , moored near the Army Base , South Boston . Tonight the aviators are to be guests of the Advertising Club of Boston at a dinner in the Hotel Statler . Gifts will be bestowed by Mayor Curley and the Junior Aviation League . Among the guests will be Mr. Bellanca , a representative of the Turkish Embassy of the United States , State and city officials and prominent aviation leaders . The municipal reception scheduled for 7:30 - o'clock at the city stadium , South Boston Strandway , will be held at the Boston , Arena if it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program may be delayed on account of the affair at , the Statler . Tomorrow , Captain Boardman and Lieutenant Polando take to the air again on a visit to New Bedford and Hyannis . On the following day the aviators will visit Lynn , Lieutenant Polando 's home city .                     