@@704217

txt Railroads and shippers are cooperating in efforts to avoid serious ear shortages and traffic tleups during heavier freight movements anticipated over the next few months . The Association of American Railroads , among other steps , sent out over the week-end an emergency order for box cars on all roads is western territory to be returned to home lines as soon as they are unloaded . Some 500 large shippers and railroad executives at a meeting in Newark , N. J. , October 4 and 5 , of the Atlantic States Shippers Advisory Board discus means of avoiding shortages of equipment . From Toe WALL STRKICT JOMINAL Washington Bureau WASHINGTON  --  With freight traffic last week soaring to a new high level for the year . probably equalling or surpassing the 1937 peak of 843,861 cars , the nation 's railroads over the week-end took drastic steps to prevent serious car shortages and tie-ups in traffic . Developments were : 1 . The car service division of the Association of American Railroads sent out an emergency order to all railroads that box cars of all roads in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are unloaded : such cars must be returned e.impty unless new loads consigned to owners ' lines are obtained at once . 2 . The railroads , through the car service division , appealed to all shippers and receivers of freight for cooperation in securing maximum utilization of all equipment in order to assure a well-balanced car supply ; special instructions went forward . Compelling reasons for the railroads ' emergency action was given by W. C. Kendall , chairman of the car service division of the Association of American Railroads who asserted that ** is doubted " if freight traffic has ever shot up as rapidly as it has in the past month . Appeal to Shippers In a letter addressed to all AAR member carriers and the 13 regional shippers conferences . Mr. Kendall appealed for cooperation , stating : " Freight car loadings , while still considerably under the volume of 1929 and earlier years , are increasing rapidly in fact . it is doubted if there has ever been the degree of acceleration which has occurred within the past month ? ? " This is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railroads in the same manner as they have in past periods of heavy car demand to the end that the maximum utilization may be had of available car supply . " Emergency Order The emergency order issued to carriers by the AAR covered all box cars of the railroads in northwestern , central western districts and those of the Illinois Central Railroad . The order , issued at the urgent request of the western lines , said " western districts being predominantly originating territory for box cars , current and regular return of such equipment to home roads is absolutely necessary . - In the absence of immediate loading in accordance herewith , cars must be given expedited empty movement in home route . When such home route involves a circuitous movement , cars should be routed under reciprocal trading arrangements when possible ; western cars empty lit Chicago or St. Louis without home route at that point should be reported to district manager for disposition . " The emergency order directed : 1 . When released from lading on a railroad not a direct connection , box cars of the roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a ) to or via owner 's line ; or , ( b ) to a destination in road-haul service on-a direct connection of owner when such loading is in direction of owner . 2 . When released from lading on a railroad that is a direct connection , cars of the western roads may be used for relading only : ( a ) to or via owner 's line ; or , ( b ) to a Junction point with owner . Assures Prompt Return Observance of this order by the eastern lines will assure prompt return of cars to the west , even if they must go back empty . In his letter asking cooperation of all A.AR member roads and the 13 regional shippers advisory boards , Chairman Kendall of the car service division , urged that all shippers consider the following means in which they can assist in their own interest : Aid in the observance of car service rules that cars may be forwarded promptly to the owners in order to maintain a well balanced car supply , especially , it was stated , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much in advance as possible , specifying type and size of car , destination . routing and commodity to be loaded . Refrain from loading cars released at plants where such loading is not in accordance with car service rules , and unless authorized by serving road Eliminate Switching Match loading and unloading performance to the extent possible with the scheduled switching service , thus eliminating extra and special switching . Also promptly notify railroad agent of cars unloaded and ready to be moved out . Shippers , it was said , should load cars to rapacity. where orders or unloading facilities permit , and consignees should order full capacity loading . Such procedure , the AAR asserted " furnishes an excellent way for shippers and receivers to provide additional equipment through self help " . ' " Prompt Unloading It was urged that shippers load and unload promptly . Instead of taking advantage of the full 4S hours free time , - cooperate in releasing cars in time for an earlier switching pick-up and thus add to available car supply . Completely unload cars , removing all dunnage and debris , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay and expense incident to switching to and from cleaning tracks . Prevent damage to high class cars , and consequent lost car days , by avoiding loading with contaminating commodities . Cooperate by utilizing without rejection cars furnished by the railroad , if such cars have been approved by the railroad mechanical inspector for the commodity to be loaded . Avoid inflation in car orders . New Estimates In addition to the above emergency steps , it was understood that estimates of the shippers ' advisory boards conceking freight car needs for the third quarter of 1939 have been returned by the AAR for a re-check in the light of most recent developments . In his letter , Mr. Kendall stated that railroad car and power supply during the past several years has been necessarily geared to the demand for utilization of the railroad plant although there has at all times since 1930 been a substantial surplus of serviceable cars and locomotives . " In view of the rising tide of business and the prospects for further increase in volume . " he asserted , member roads of the AAR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all available equipment . Plans to purchase 25,000 cars in addition to the 20,000 previously installed this year were announced , he said . " It has long been recognized  --  dating from the early 1920 's ? that no effort of the railroads themselves to provide - adequate transportation service can succeed under heavy demands without the wholehearted cooperation of shippers and receivers in the use of railroad equipment , " Mr. Kendall said . " Cars , for example , are in possession of shippers and receivers approximately 60% of the time . " Loadings Near 1937 Level Carloadings in the week ended September 16 advanced to a new and unexpected 1939 high of 805.733 cars , gaining to within a small percentage of the comparable 1937 total . The gains in rail traffic appear all the more spectacular when it is recalled that in the early weeks of 1939 carloadinga were running below the level of the comparable 1932 periods . Even the heavy increase in tonal cars loaded does not tell the complete story of the gain in revenue freight . officials here state . It is declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not show such a large gain as did carload freight , there probably was a heavy increase in LCL tonnage . The greater portion of the LCL movement is on regular schedule , it is pointed out , and a certain number of cars move each week regardless of the amount of freight loaded into each one . For this reason it is said to be probable that there have been heavy gains in the amount of freight loaded into cars which heretofore moved practically empty or half-loaded and that this tonnage has not resulted in a gain in total car-loadings.                     