@@701626

txt Unless there is some further but now unforeseen deviation from the Ethiopian policy which the electorate had expected would be pursued , the British Government will not especially exert itself in Geneva next week to have the League of Nations approve the Hoare-Laval plan for the dismemberment of Ethiopia . Anthony Eden . Minister for League of Nations Affairs , who arrived in London from Geneva today , is returning to Geneva early next week for Wednesday 's Council meeting . But he will do as little as possible in consistency with conventional diplomatic appearances to further the plan which his chief at the British Foreign Office has approved for rewarding Italy 's aggression . On the contrary , he and several of his colleagues in this government feel that rejection of these peace proposals by the League is an indispensable preliminary to Great Britain 's redeeming her prestige , to say nothing of national honor . Eden 's Status Clarified . Mr. Eden 's right to assume a negative attitude toward that deal became evident today when there were revealed for the first time the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its nominal condoning of what he regards as an international crime . His conditions were granted last Monday night when the details of the Hoare-Laval proposals were first disclosed to all the British Ministers and an open Cabinet rupture was narrowly averted . Mr. Eden was at first determined to resign . Then , it is reliably reported , he was called to Buckingham Palace . where King George presumably urged him to stand by Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin and the government . In addition to that Mr. Eden recbived assurance from Mr. Baldwin that the British Government would not put any pressure to bear on the League to approve the peace proposals . On those conditions Mr. Eden agreed to retain his Cabinet post and to carry on at Geneva . This explains his utterances to the League this week that the plan was not final or sacrosanct and that it could be accepted , rejected or modified . Sanctions Steps Reported . It is also indicative of the same thing that the day after that stormy Cabinet meeting the British Government sent a letter to the League secretariat stating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Italy of British goods covered by embargo sanctions already in force . Thus the tradition of Cabinet solidarity was preserved , at least as far as outward appearances were concerned . It is now hoped that the League , by rejecting the HoareLaval plan , will remove the cause of hidden dissension . Sir Samuel Hoare , who must bear the brunt of public disapproval , no matter how much support he had from other British Ministers , is coming back to face the House of Commons next Thursday in a debate which may be based on an Opposition motion to censure the government for its Ethiopian policy . If well enough , the Foreign Secretary will return to London before Mr. Eden departs for Geneva the middle of next week so that there can be a full Cabinet meeting to decide upon the government 's defense against parliamentary attack . Material for that attack is growing daily . There is hardly a member of the Commons whose mail has not been flooded with protests by constituents against what the public deems a betrayal of the League and Ethiopia by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adhere to League prin'ciples and to see that Ethiopia got a fair deal . As far as the carnpaigr pledge phase is concerned , it is expected that the Government spokesmen in the Commons will declare that such proposals as were agreed upon a week ago by Sir Sarnuel'Hoare and Premier Pierre Laval of France were- never dreamed of here before the election . Whether Mr. Baldwin will be able-to explain what has happened . since the election to ' Three his government to cooperate with France in agreeing to give a large part of Ethiopia to the inVader remains to be seen . Grave military matters are supposed to be involved which may keep Mr. Baldwin 's lips sealed , . as he said they were early this week when he %last addressed the Commons on the subject . There is the double fear that Italy may attack Britain in. the Mediterranean and that France might be so slow in rendering her promised aid that the result would be disastrous . The text of the Hoare-Laval terms in the form of a White Paper was delivered by the Foreign Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Commons was not in session , the government has technically confided the matter to it before telling the public , hoping that such punctiliousness may be gratefully remembered by the Opposition next Thursday when the debate begins . No such punctiliousness was shown in the Foreign Office 's announcement last midnight that Sir Samuel Hoare had broken his nose while skating in Switzerland . It is unfortunate , so far as the needed comic touch to the situation is concerned , that Winston Churchill happens for the moment not to be in the Opposition and that David Lloyd George , who is in the Opposition , is absent . What those two statesmen might say about SW Samuel 's nose being damaged at this juncture would give the House of Commons the merriest of Christmases.                     