@@700614

txt Sharp opposition to provisions of the SeCurities Act and the stock exchange bill featured a series of formal attacks upon new deal legislation by the United States Chamber of Commerce . The national business body announced its position in a series of resolutions , passed with no dissenting vote , at the 22nd annual meeting of the chamber . The attacks came immediately following a statement by President Roosevelt asking cooperation with the federal government and warning that " the people " will be impatient with those who hold out " false fears " The chamber scored the double budget system of ordinary and extraordinary expenditures , opposed compulsory unemployment insurance legislation , and went on record against any interference with rights of workers to bargain as they see fit . The Wagner bill , which would guide through further laws , procedure in collective bargaining . wa , s not referred to by name . The chamber voted that stabilization of the dollar would be of " further assistance " to world trade . Reciprocal tariff agreements by the Department of State were favored . Harriman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I Harriman for a third term as president . He was unopposed and his election was a foregone conclusion . " Only international action can successfully deal with silver in its monetary uses , " a resolution adopted by the U. S. Chamber stated . The Chamber stated that progress made in previous conferences augers well for the possibilities of further international agreements . Repeal of present law providing for permanent plans for insurance of bank deposits was urged in a resolution which termed the plan " unsound and destructive in its character . " immediate passage of legislation to extend operations of the temporary insurance plan was favored . The Chamber opposed liquidation of security affiliates of banks by June 16 , stating the move should be postponed to permit its more orderly accomplishment . Another resolution opposed legislation for compulsory unemployment insurance . " There should be careful redefinition of the term ' affiliate ' so as to exclude such accidental ahiliatc relationships of banks as are acquired for temporary purposes or result from casual holdings of bank stock by other corporations not engaged in banking , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of unnecessary reports of affiliates should be modified . " In order that men of integrity and sound business judgment may not be compelled to relinquial positions in institutions where their counsel is needed , the Federal Reserve Board should be given authority to permit , in its discretion , an officer or director to act as such in both a bank and a business enterprise which may in connection with its normal business operations have occasion to make some loans . " Provisions for cumulative voting by shareholders of a national bank should be repealed in the interest of equitable and orderly procedure , and such a bank should be permitted to vote shares of its own stock held by it as trustee . In order that all bank stock may carry the                     