@@700655

txt After less than an hour 's consideration , the House passed the Administration 's bill for regulation of the nation 's cornmodity exchanges . The measure was brought up in a surprise move by Democratic leadership and was approved under a suspension of all regular rules of procedure . Debate was limited to 40 minutes . There was no opportunity for amendments . No substantial opposition developed during the brief debate on the bill . Those few congressmen inclined to oppose it failed to secure a record vote . When Speaker Henry T Rainey put the motion for final passage , a thunderous chorus of " ayes " drowned out the scattering " noes " of a few Republicans . Mr Rainey announced that , in his opinion , the requisite two-thirds of the members present had voted affirmatively . None challenged his decision . Senate Action in Doubt In this way , one of the most important pieces of legislation pending before this session was sent to the Senate . However , there it is expected to receive more attention . and there is still doubt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill on the crowded Senate calendar . Its advocates . holding it to be essential companion legislation to the Fletcher-Rayburn Stock Market Act , will press for Senate action . As the bill passed the House , the chamber had before it a report from its agricultural committee declaring the commodity exchanges " have failed utterly " in self-regulation . The report added that there is " nothing " in the bill which will interfere with any legitimate business or normal trading activity . New Federal Body Created In brief , the measure establishes a commission to be composed of the secretaries of agriculture and commerce and the attorney general . This new federal body is given extensive power to fix ' limitations upon so-called " purely speculative trading " However , hedging transactions are specifically exempted . The commission is given power to fix limits on net long and net short positions of any one person and to fix limits upon futures trading done by individuals during a business da ! . Certain transactions . as in the stock market bill , are banned . Coming under this heading are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc . The bill would have the new commission license futures commission merchants and floor brokers , and provides for revocation of these federal permits for failure to abide by the rules and regulation made thereunder .                     