@@703896

txt The opening up for the first time of the possibility of synthesizing the building blocks of proteins , the most important constituent of the protoplasmic clay out of which an living substance is fashioned , was revealed here tonight on the eve of the opening of the ninety-seventh meeting of the American Chemical Society . The possibility of the first synthesis of some , if not all , of the protein constituents , known as amino acids , comes through an epoch-making discovery , made accidentally last Summer at Purdue University . The accident , like many another in scientific research that led to startling discoveries , gave an important clue on how nitrogen , one of the most inert of elements , can be made to combine with a host of other chemical substances under the proper conditions . Nitrogen is one of the constituents of all living substance , being universally present in all things alive , and always present in protein , the keystone of protoplasm , building block of living matter . But although the seeds of living things , plants or animals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good mixer with other chemicals , this secret had eluded efforts to duplicate it by artificial means in the laboratory . As far as chemistry was concerned , nitrogen remained a relatively inactive chemical element , that would combine with only a few other chemicals when in liquid form . The accident at Purdue University revealed that when nitrogen in liquid form , such as nitric acid , was heated to the vapor point there was a split second during the boiling when the vaporized nitrogen reacted with the vapor of other chemical substances with almost lightning rapidity . Nitrogen in the vapor phase was , in fact , shown to be far less inert than in any other form , so that it became possible for the first time to make nitrogen combine with many other chemicals with which it had previously refused to mix . This discovery promises , it is believed , to remove one of the great , if not the greatest , obstacles that have hitherto stood in the way of the artificial creation of the amino acids , the basic constituents of the proteins . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technically known as vapor phase nitration , is the discovery of Pro- fessor Henry B. Hass , head of the Department of Chemistry at Puri due , and his assistants , Dr. Edward B. Hodge and Dr. Byron M. Vanderbilt . The possibility of synthesizing some of the constituents of proteins , Professor Hass said here tonight , was at present only of scientific importance . But the new nitration process already has yielded practical results in. , other fields , he disclosed . One of these results , the details of which Dr. Hass will describe before the technical sessions this week , is a new method that makes 1 possible cheap and limitless production of high explosives from air , steam and natural gas . The air will supply the nitrogen for these powerful new explosives , while the natural gas consists of methane and ethane , abundant by-products of the oil industry . " An insignificant fraction of the natural gas resources of the United States , which has 98 per cent of the world 's supply , is capable of furnishing all of the high explosives which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The supply of the new explosives is therefore limited only by demand . " By the new process the natural gases , methane and ethane , are mixed with the nitrogen from nitric acid , forming the chemical sub1 stances nitro-methane and nitro1 ethane . These in turn are condensed with formaldehyde , forming the new explosives . The formaldehyde used in the process : s derived from synthetic methanol ( wood alcohol ) made from carbon monoxide and hydrogen produced by the action of steam upon natural gas . The nitric acid for the nitration ( combining with nitrogen ) comes from ammonia made from air and hydrogen , the latter also being produced from natural gas . The methane and ethane are , of course , also present in large amounts in natural gas . Thus the whole source of these new high explosives , aside from the sulphuric acid used as catalyst in the final nitration , is air , water and natural gas . New industries ultimately valued at $3,000,000,000 had been forecast by Dr. Frank C. Whitmore of Pennsylvania State College , former president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovery of the nitration process was announced last Summer . In particular , it was pointed out , the process can be applied to America 's vast supply of natural gas , finding an industrial use for that half of it that is now entirely wasted . Besides methane and ethane , it was stated , butane and the heavier oils also have been found to combine with nitrogen vapor . Dr. Hass was assisted in the development of the new explosives by H. J. Hibshman and E. H. Pierson . The investigations were financed by the Hercules Powder Company .                     