@@701210

txt Practically the entire midwestern agricultural area now is a mud pond . Only a few weeks ago most of the same area was darkened by dust storms . Farmers everywhere are rejoicing over the heavy and widespread rainfall which has fallen on the grain country in recent days . This rainfall is not immediately so beneficial as casual observers might conclude , since over large areas it is retarding spring planting . Nevertheless it is most welcome . ' YIshis is the Beason of the year when 33101Btiiie is needed for fall-sown crops such as winter wheat and rye , as well as pastures . Contrarily enough , fair weather with a moist bedding is the proper set-up for spring-sown grains such as wheat , corn , oats , vegetables , etc . The almost continuous heavy downpours of the past week , particularly the past three days , were centered in the area utilized for springsown crops , thereby delaying seeding operations to a point where apprehension is beginning to be entertained . However , seeding operations could be extended into the late days of May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maturing before the autumn frost season . This applies particularly to corn , as it is the heart of the corn country where moisture is currently most excessive . Should inclement conditions continue for another two weeks , a serious condition could develop . Even this could be offset by a tardy frost period at the end of the season . Wheat Farmers Unworried Wheat farmers have little to worry about for the time being . Those in Montana , the two Dakotas and Minnesota , where wheat the all important crop , have started a new season under most satisfactory soil conditions although planting was about two weeks late . Compared with recent years , this slight delay is more than offset by the ample supply of mois- ture just as the seeding season was due to get under way . The winter wheat farmer , who operates in the more southerly states of Nebraska , Kansas , Missouri , Oklahoma , Texas , Illinois , Indiana and Ohio , appreciate that , while the heavy rains have weakened his crop 's outlook in low lands , they more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is particularly true in parts of Kansas , Oklahoma and Texas where the crop was withering until only a few days ago for want of rain . This latter area surrounds what is known as the ' dry bowl , " situated along the Kansas-Colorado state line , where hope for a crop has been abandoned . Crops Got Good Start The territory surrouding this limited bowl , however , was favored with sufficient fall and winter precipitation to give crops a good start but as the spring season progressed , a moisture deficiency developed . Wheat crop prospects were being lowered daily in central Kansas up to the past week and when rains to the extent of three inches and more not only definitely checked deterioration but revived rapidly the ebbing plant life . A substantial boost in the next crop estimte is now conceded for Kansas . Oklahoma , Texas and Colorado . Fear of damage to wheat is entertained in lower Illinois , Indiana and parts of Missouri where large areas are actualy under water . Damage will be limited to low lands adjacent to rivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will throughly eliminate the crop menacing chinchwbug which thrives under dry conditions . This bug alone accounted for crop losses measured in millions of dollars to the Indiana Illinois . Iowa . regions last year . While officially summarized data has not yet been compiled on the total amount of rainfall to date over the midwest , it is generally conceded that most of the central part of such territory has received a much heavier than normal precipitation thus far this season .                     