@@699155

txt The Lytton report , issued here today by the League of Nations Secretariat , finds absolutely and unanimously against Japan on every important point in her conflict with the League of . Nations and the United States over the methods she has been using in the past year to advance her case with China . The League inquiry commission I finds Japan had not " exhausted " means of settling peacefully her many grievances against China and that on the bitterest single quarrel at issue . the slaying of Captain Nakamura in Manchuria , these means seemed to be " progressing favorably up to the night of Sept. 181E 1931 , " when Japan , because of an incident which " was not in itself sufficient to justify military action , " resorted to what " can not be regarded as Pleasures of legitimate self-defense . " Manchukuo Regime Condemned . It finds Japan responsible through her troops and civil and military officials of then establishing the Manchukuo Government , which is " constrained more and more to follow the direction of Japanese official authority " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manchuria . " It finds " the steps by which this was accomplished are claimed by Japan to have been consistent with the obligations of the covenant of the League of Nations , the Kellogg pact and the Nine-Power Treaty of Washington , all of which were designed to prevent action of this kind . " And this ail leads it to find " the maintenance and recognition of the present regime in Manchuria " is in the interests of neither China nor Japan and is not " compatible with the fundamental principle of existing international obligations , " and " any loss of confidence in the application of the principles of the covenant and the Pact of Paris in any part of the world diminishes the value and efficacy of those principles everywhere . " This finding presents a serious issue because Japan , without awaiting the Lytton report , recognized Manchukuo . Direct Negotiations Favored , The commission proposes a comprehensive plan for settlement of the Manchurian problem and goes so far in conciliation as to recommend that it be settled by the method Tokyo has always demanded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure depend on Manchuria remaining definitely under Chinese sovereignty while becoming autonomous and demilitarized . For this plan even to reach serious discussion now requires Japan to abandon her policy of an " independent Manchukuo " to which she so strongly and so recently committed herself after having good reason to know the broad lines of the commission 's report . Even before Tokyo 's reaction to the Lytton report came it was the consensus here that the Japanese Government could not be expected to turn back and that consequently the rest of the world must now choose between the commission 's report that Manchukuo must not stand and Japan 's recent notification to the powers that Manchukuo will remain . The next big practical issue the report implicitly raises is : What about Russia  --  shall it be invited to sit with the League and the United States in the settlement of this conflict ? The report 's first two chap- ters stress the spread of communism throughout China , the special interests in Manchuria of ' Russia and Japan 's strategic fears . of Russia . In , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the important interests of the U. S. S.- R. would risk a future breach of peace and would not be permanent , " and " to make peace " without regard for them " would be neither just nor wise - and not in the interests of - peace . " In proposing a Chino-Japanese non-aggression treaty it adds : " If the Government of the U. S. S. R. desired to participate " therein " appropriate clauses could be embodied , in a separate tripartite agreement . " That amounts to recommending that China do far more than renew relations with the Soviet Union . Geneva Pleased by Report . The report , which will be presented to the League Council Nov. 14 , has made an excellent impression here . Praise is being showered on it from nearly all sides , and fir many reasons , but most . of all for its " high statesmanlike qualities , " its broad grasp of realities and its ' judicial tone . The greatest enthusiasm is shown by the strongest supporters of League ideals , for whom it is far better than exliected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XI of the Covenant " for them goes " to extreme limits of moderation " and thereby makes it all the harder fore Japan to answer or for China to refuse and the easier to mobilize public ) opinion behind the League 's pacific . procedure . They also strobe the fact that the report was signed by men of five great powers whose governments could hardly disavow them . It is felt the report is so written as to make it particularly hard for the British not to stand behind it : There are many things in the report hard for the Chinese to accept , particularly in regard to boycotts , which the commission finds were organized by the Kuomintang . It also blames the Chinese for many Nationalistic excesses in Manchuria , both against Japan and Russia , and rejects their demand for a return to the status quo ante as flatly as it rejects Japan 's demand for an independent Manchuria . Offers Advantages to Japan . Its own peace plan amounts- tci ? offering Japan greater economic financial advantages than she hitherto enjoyed in Manchuria in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It gives the Japanese a special position in Manchuria through advisers , through confirming her treaty rights and otherwise , but involves a complete change in the status of the railways , reaffirms the open door and requires broad international cooperation in the reconstruction of all China . It aims throughout to appeal to what its authors believe to be a large body of civilian opinion , in Japan which will not remain forever terrorized by the military . One gets the impression that though the authors of the report do not expect Japan to accept it now they think Japan in a few months may be glad to have this bridge on which to return . They know Japan has not enough money to keep enough ' troops in Manchuria to keep even the main railway lines open . The report itself expresses the opinion that even if Japan recognized Manchukuo the commission 's work was not entirely valueless . That seems to be a very modest statement .                     