@@699483

txt England seems to be waking up to the fact that Americans have a viewpoint of their own about the war debts . There are pleasing signs that the British Government perceives the need of finding out more fully and accurately what people in this country think and want and are prepared to do . When the British notes were delivered at the Department of State after the Presidential election they were found to contain an argument 1 which was strong but hardly tactful . It rather cavalierly overlooked the position previously ' taken and the contentions upheld by the United States . Now a change appears to have come in English opinion , both official and private . London newspapers are insisting that more effort must be made to understand the attitude of American taxpayers , and consequently of the American authorities . One avowed purpose in summoning the British Ambassador , Sir RONALD LINDSAY , to London , was to get from him a report , oral and confidential , on the views now held in this country respectmg the intergovernmental debts . It has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last Summer he gave to the Foreign Office information which was to some extent misleading with regard to American sentiment in the matter of the war debts . If so , the obvious endeavor at London now is to put itself in possession of the facts , as seen through American eyes . Yesterday 's statement of the case by Lord SNOWDEN , former Chancellor of the Exchequer , was highly suggestive of this new temper . He is not now in the Cabinet , but his resignation did not rob him of the power of bold and incisive speech . The rebuke which he now gives to his successor , Mr. CHAMBERLAIN , is very Snowdenesque . He sees that it will not do at all to tell Americans what they must do , or not do , about the war debts . For Mr. CHAMBERLAIN to declare in advance that Great Britain will make no concession whatever in return for a revision or remission of her debt to the United States is to go far to ruin the whole negotiation before it begins . Lord SNOWDEN roundly declares that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war debts , and makes due allowance for our " se " rious financial and trade condi " tions , " it will not be possible to arrive at a " settlement of the debt question . " A somewhat similar tone was used by Sir HARRY GoSCHEN in his report at the end of January to the shareholders of the National Provincial Bank in London . His address was published in yesterday 's TIMES . In ' the part of it relevant to the present subject , Sir HARRY spoke of the need of giving due attention to " the 1 " susceptibilities of the American " electorate . " In international affairs it is hardly true that to understand all is to forgive all . But if negotiators understand but a little , and do not take into their reckoning the ebb and flow of feeling among the people with whose representatives they have to deal , they can certainly accomplish only a little . The first duty for both sides in such a business is to understand each other . The thing is not so easy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is hard for us to understand each other ; misunderstandings are sure to occur ; irritations are sure to arise ; resentments must frequently come . But we must understand each other . The safety and development of both our countries require that we should understand each other . Mr. Ro ' was speaking of the relations between France and the United States . But his words apply just as truly to those between the United States and Great Britain . In both it is reassuring today to see evidence of an effort to enter into the other 's point of view before endeavoring to justify and maintain its own .                     