@@702418

txt The issue of county government reform which was voted by the citizens of New York in 1935 and promptly relegated to a committee shelf by the Democratic majority of the Municipal Assembly , today had reared its head again in city hall councils by motion of Borough President Raymond V. Ingersoll of Brooklyn . Mr. Ingersoll is a member of the Fusion minority on the Beard of Estimate and of the committee holding up the legislation . His protest against further inaction on the reorganization mandate came in the form of four bills to immediately implement its terms , since the county offices to be abolished otherwise would be filled by elections this fall . He declared that no meeting of the committee , which is representative of both the aldermanic and Board of Estimate branches , had been called since the first one , when everyone had their pictures taken . His repeated requests to Alderman Murray W. Stand , Manhattan Democrat and chairman , to call another had met with no success , he said . The reorganization program in tho counties was designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine boon that costs the taxpayers $830,000 a year . The Ingersoll bills would consolidate the functions of sheriff under a single officer , transferring the custody of prisoners and witnesses to the correction department and effect a like centralization in the offices of the county registers and commissioners of record . These provisions were overwhelmingly approved by the voters in a 1935 referendum to amend the state constitution to this end . The new charter , which embodies the same reforms and for which citizens voted with emphasis last fall , will go into effect next January . Another mayoral election will have transpired by then , however , and observers see in the committee treatment of the county reform amendment an indication of how these matters may be held indefinitely in abeyance when the controlling group is a political machine deeply concerned in seeing the old way perpetuated .                     