@@701970

txt Springfield was busy yesterday trying to unscramble the facts about a one round battle that began and ended Friday evening on the drinking floor of the Club tavern near the statehouse . The participants were : in one corner , Stale Senators William .1 . Connors 29th and John M. Lee UAW , both of Chicago , and in the other George Tandy , manager of the Springfield Horner for Governor club .. All are Democrats , but the slate senators have never had any truck with Horner for Governor clubs and are not very friendly with the state 's chief executive , even if he is bearing the party banner this fall . Mr. Tandy Barges In . State Senator Connors , who is built on the short , round model , and State Senator Lee , who is of medium size , were having a bit of refreshment in the saloon and chatting amiably about-affairs of state when Mr. Tandy , an ex-football player who weighs upward of 200 pounds , entered and called for a beer . Having quaffed his potion he looked aiound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known as an earlolt , which means he hoard their conversation . ? " You fellows , " he said pleasantly , " have got Horner all wrong . " The Trouble Begins . Senator Lee looked searchingly at the H. for G. manager. , " It seems a pity , Bottsie in pet name for Senator Connors on the near north side ! , that legislators can not have a bit of lunch without being interrupted by outsiders , " he said . " Is that so ? " demanded Mr. Tandy . " It is indeed , " retorted Sr.nator Lee . " As for you , phooey ! As for Horner , another phooey ! A bigger one ! " Then things began to happen . One fist flew . Another fist flew . A ' third fist flew . A bottle of mustard air planed . The contents spilled impartially on the three important cogs- in Illinois Democratic politics . Who Swung When ? There is some dispute as to who swung first . Mr. Tandy said Senator Lee struck the first blow . Senator Lee insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tandy said he became belligerent when one of the senators called both him and the governor bad names . The senators ? declared that was n't so ; they were talking relief , not politics , they said  --  and had merely resented the butting in of Mr. Tandy on their privacy . At any rate the fistic honors rested with the senators . Mr. Tandy , with one or two loose teeth , was ejected from the saloon and the senators appeared to have been marked only with the mustard .                     