@@702989

txt The possibility of another flare-up over President Roosevelt 's intentions toward the Federal judiciary were seen today in the determination of a Senate subcommittee to search the record of Professor Henry W. Edgerton of Cornell before passing on his qualifications for membership on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia . Professor Edgerton 's nomination as associate justice of the court , which is considered as second only to the Supreme Court in the importance of cases before it , was sent to the Senate Friday by President Roosevelt , along with that of Representative Vinson. of Kentucky . Mr. Edgerton 's qualifications were called into question during the day : by members of the Senate Judiciary Committee , when their attention was called to opinions alleged to have been expressed by him in regard to the right of judicial review . The subcommittee , which had been appointed to consider the nom- ' ination immediately , sent a telegram to Mr. Edgerton asking him to appear next week to answer questions about his views . The subcommittee is composed of Senators Burke , Van @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan to reorganize the Federal judiciary . Views on Courts ' Powers Scanned The opinions which brought Mr. Edgerton's. eligibility into question were found in the record of the Judiciary Committee 's hearing of the Court Enlargement Bill last Spring . They were contained in an article which he is supposed to have written for the Cornell Law Quarterly and which were inserted in the record by a committee member . Among other things , Mr. Edgerton seemed to certain Senators to have questioned the right of the courts to review actions of Congress . The part that attracted the renewed attention of the Judiciary Committee members read : " It may be necessary to national survival that some national tribunal have authority to decide that acts of State Legislatures are inconsistent with the Federal Constitution . Judicial supremacy Over national legislation rests on no such necessity . " Whether to preserve , restrict or abolish the power of courts to hold acts of Congress void is a pure question of policy the answer to which should depend on the char- acter of the results which the present system has produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Burke , chairman of the subcommittee , declined to state his views on the nominee , but he said that if Mr. Edgerton really opposed the power of review . of acts of Congress by the courts there might be considerable question whether the committee would recommend his confirmation by the Senate . Burke Refers to Action on Black The Nebraska Senator referred to the confirmation of Associate Justics Black , whom the Senate ap ; proved without considering his connection with the Ku Klux Klan , which Mr. Black later admitted . " We should look thoroughly into the qualifications and record of this nominee , just as we should have in : vestigated the record of Justice Black and all others who come before the Senate for confirmation , " Senator Burke said . It could not be learned definitely who called the Senators ' attention to Mr. Edgerton 's article , which was tucked away among the hundreds of thousands of words uttered in person or extended in writings in the record of the hearings on the Court Enlargement Bill . Several persons , both in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with Senators relative to Professor Edgerton and his views and his qualifications for the court post . One of these wrote a New England Senator , in a letter circulated among committee mem ; bers , that Mr. Edgerton was an enemy of the capitalistic system and a member of the Socialist party . A person called Senator Burke by telephone from New York to make I certain charges about Mr. Edgerton 's views and activities during the World War and to suggest that they be investigated before confirmation were voted upon .                     