@@702139

txt Automobile parts and accessory companies have operated at a much higher rate through the current quarter than for the corresponding period of last year with the rebult that earnings will in many instances show wide gains over a year ago . Automobile production is due to get into full swing by about the middle of October . The parts industry . accordingly , is stepping up operations rapidly and should go through the fourth quarter at near capacity rate . Prospects are good that last quarter earnings will equal those of the first or second quarters which for many companies represented new records . Automobile production fqr the current three months will be approximately 21q larger than for the third period of 1935. although Ford and Chrysler , both of whom buy more parts from outside parts companies than does General Motors , have had considerably greater percentage gains . It is estimated that Ford production this quarter has exceeded a year ago by approximately 385o while for Chrysler the indicated gain is around 72% . Both of these companies continued 1936 model production somewhat longer than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been scraping bottom for the past three or four weeks , although continuance of Ford production sustained the total for the industry at a considerably higher level than during this period last year . At the moment . Packard and Studebaker are running at close to capacity levels on 1937 models . Buick . Nash-Lafayette and Graham are getting underway and within two weeks or so Chrysler lines , other General Motors divisions , Ford and Hudson-Terraplane will be well into operation . Suppliers of Studebaker and Packard have had heavy releases for the past month and large schedules are being made up on other makes about to start . Last year only Buick began its new-model production year in September and it was not until well along in October that the industry as a whole was in quantity production . Not only have the parts makers been called upon to manufacture in quantity through all or September on two important lines and through part of September on others but their operations through the first month of the quarter were at a high rate . July for some parts companies was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ahead of a year ago . August and September also have witnessed larger parts company operations , particularly for those supplying Ford . Year 's Earnings Well Ahead As a result of the relatively satisfactory operations through the third quarter together with the probability of large-scale fourth quarter business , parts companies ' earnings for the year will run well ahead of 1935 even though only moderate gains were shown by many in their first six months results . Satisfactory profitable operations currently and in prospect together with rehabilitation of financial positions of most of the parts makers lend force to predictions that dividend increases , mostly in the form of extras , will be . declared between now and the end of the year Most parts companies want to get a glimpse of the probable course of the 1937 automobile market based on the November automobile shows before determining the size of their disbursements.                     