@@699108

txt Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt 's study of agricultural problems has carried him into a partial acceptance of the so-called " domestic allotment plan . " It was this plan which he had primarily in his thoughts when he delivered his speech at Topeka , Kan. , yesterday , it became known here today . The six " specifications " which Governor Roosevelt laid down yesterday for any satisfactory solution of the farm problem automatically barred out most current farm panaceas except the " domestic allotment plan . " For example , Governor Roosevelt declared no plan could be accepted that was compulsory , which strikes out ' the equalization fee ; and next he ruled out plans involving dumping and foreign retaliation , which eliminates the export debenture proposal . The allotment plan has been before the country for several years . It involves voluntary reduction in farm production , to limits prescribed by some carefully thought-out national plan , And a tax on processing of which the benefits will accrue to the farmer . How It Would Work Thus , Farmer Jones , who now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 80 acres , and thus bring himself within the program . At the same time , a federal tax would be imposed on millers of wheat , the proceeds of which would go into a common fund . The tax levied upon the millers , or other processors of farm commodities , and later distributed to the farmers would be so proportioned that , to use Governor Roosevelt 's own words yesterday , it would provide " a tariff benefit over world prices which is equivalent to the benhfit. given by the tariff to industrial products . " The plan would . of course , raise the price of farm products to the consumes . Governor Roosevelt 's view is that farm prices ate too low anyway , and that the proposal would give the farmers no mote of a subsidy than manufacturers now receive under the high tariff . Though not finally committed to this plan , Governor Roosevelt believes it deserves sympathetic consideration , and that it has points of advantage over other proposals so liar made to aid agriculture . In rear platform speeches at Colby and Goodland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Kansas , Governor Roosevelt today promised large crowds that he would make an effort to bring the purchating power of the farm dollar up to that of the industrial dollar . On the whole , it would seem , party lenders ore well satisfied with the Topeka speech . Many of them boarded the train on its brief stops through western Kansas and eastern Colorado to confer with the party standard bearer . They told Governor Roosevelt that the chances of carrying the two states in November are good , and they indicated that they believe the candidate should confine himself to general terms which will bring to the party the " protest vote " arising from the existing business conditions , without raising too many new issues that will antagonize the electorate . Governor Roosevelt 's farm speech in Topeka accordingly was praised as the kind of address he should deliver in his present tour . Critics assert that this speech did not offer any new or specific program for farm relief , but contented itself with defining the " specifications " within which the program should be worked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , local Demo ' crats seem to praise it for the same reason . They applaud it for what it did not say . There is little in the address they assert to antagonize western supporters of either the rival equalization lee , farm deben1 ture or the more recent domestic I allotment proposals . The undercover situation is that many callers are taking the stand that the Maine election shows a national current setting in toward the Democrats , and , accordingly , that the best thing the candidate can do is to remain passive , and avoid mistakes . In this connection there is no question that Republican strategists have hoped that some embarrassing statement or radical phrase would slip from one of their rivals , particularly from Speaker John N. Garner , which would alienate wavering eastern voters . Long conferences between Governor RooSevelt and Mr. Garner were held at Topeka yesterday . It is learned that Mr. Garner will bo extremely cautious In his utterances , and that  --  although he himself would prefer not to make an extensive speaking tour ? ho will make at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Roosevelt Is asked at every press conference whether he Is prepared to make a statement on tho soldiers ' bonus , but thus far he has made no additional comment . In a press Interview before his nomination he went on . record informally against Immediate cash payment . The recent drop In the stock market is causing mixed feelings among the party . Newspaper reports from Wall Street which linked the decline with the Democratic victory in Maine caused resentment , as did also a newspaper report which attributed the drop in wheat prices yesterday partially to Governor Roosevelt 's speech . But on the other hand the failure of business recovery to develop fully until after the election is believed to aid Democratic election chances , by keeping alive the feeling of resentment against the party in power .                     