@@699208

txt The Association of the Bar of the City of New York recommended last night that the Hofstadter legislative committee investigate its own chairman , State Senator Samuel H. Hofstadter , and City Court . Tustice Aron Steuer in regard to Ihe manner in which they received'bf-partisan nominations for the Supreme Court . The action was embodied in the adoption of an oral report made to the association at a full meeting by Kenneth M. Spence , chairman of the executive committee . Mr. Spence reported that inquiry by the executive committee had revealed that the only proper and legal body which could investigate the " bench deal " was the committee of which Mr. Hofstadter is chairman , since an investigation conducted by the grievance committee of the Bar Association would have to be without power of subpoena and the matter was not within the jurisdiction of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court . He had therefore communicated with Samuel Seabury , counsel to the Hofstadter. committee , he said , and informed him of the situation and recommended to him that such an investigation be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter under consideration but had , so far , given him no answer as to what course would be followed . Under the conditions governing the operations of the committee , private hearings for the taking of testimony may be held at any time before any committee of one member of the legislative committee . However , the committee itself can not meet except at the call of the chairman and , unless the ex-officio Republican members , George R. Fearon , majority leader of the Senate , and Russell G. Dunmore , majority leader of the Assembly , were present at the meetings of the committee , Mr. Hofstadter 's vote would constitute the balance of power . Beside Mr. Hofstadter there are four Republican members and four Democratic members , excluding the two ex-officio Republican members . Mr. Seabury declared last night that he had been in communication with Mr. Spence , but would make I no statement on the matter , at least for the tire being . He will attend the meetir.g of the New York County Lawyers ' Association tomorrow night , when the organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last few days Mr. Seabury has held several conferences with Senator Hofstadter , and the counsel is believed to be in possession of a great many statements on varying aspects of the " deal . " Former Supreme Court Justice James A. Delehanty , a member of the County Lawyers ' Association , also , attempted to have the City Bar Association rescind last night the action of the judiciary committee on Oct. 6 in condemning the deal in so far as the condemnation applied to Justice Steuer . Mr. Delehanty was one of the subcommittee of the County Lawyers Association which approved the nomination of Mr. Steuer . His motion that the name of Justice Steuer be deleted from the previous condemnatory resolution was shelved when the motion that it be referred back to the judiciary committee for consideration , made by Jacob Chitakin , was adopted . Mr. Delehanty 's motion provoked considerable debate . Henry Ward Beer , president of the Federal Bar Association , was among those who took the floor to argue for its adoption , with Morris L. Ernst among those who opposed it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Socialist candidates for judicial office be considered and passed upon by the judiciary committee as well as candidates nominated by the two dotninant parties . S. John Block , Socialist candidate for Supreme Court , was then included in the list of judicial candidates meeting with the approval of the association . The others were Judge Cuthbert W. Pounds , nominee for chief judge of the Court of Appeals ; Supreme Court Justices Edward P. Lydon and George L. Genung , up for re-election , and Bernard S. Deutsch and George W. Alger . candidates put up on an independent ticket by the bar association to oppose Justice Steuer and Mr. Hofstadter . Hofstadter Denies Macy 's Story . The inquiry of the New York County Lawyers ' Association into the " bench deal " centred yesterday around the examination of Senator Hofstadter , who flatly denied the charge of W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State chairman , that Mr. Hofstadter , a Republican , bad said a year ago that he could be a Democratic nominee for the Supreme Court . Mr. Hofstadter was questioned by Terence J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's offices at 170 Broadway . Both declined to discuss what was said . The letter in which Mr. Macy made his charges and defended the nomination of Justice Steuer as having been prompted by the public service of Max D. Steuer , his father , will be , laid before the judiciary committee I of the association this afternoon at 4 o'clock , together with all other data collected by Mr , concerning the deal . Mr. had been delegated by the judiciary committee to serve as a fact-finding commission of one , and the letter which Mr. Macy made public on Monday was in response to Mr.-qzmcq#Manus'a request for information . His findings will guide the judiciary committee in preparing a report which is to be submitted to the full membership of the association torow night . What action might be taken remained in doubt , although it Was generally believed that the judiciary committee would approve the nomination of Mr. Steuer and condemn the action of Mr. Hofstadter in accepting the . Democratic designation . This belief was based largely en the fact that a subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already had reported approval of the nomination of Justice Steuer while another subcommittee , composed of former Justice Joseph M. Proskauer and Edward . , had reported Mr. Hofstadter as qualified for the office but had left entirely open the matter of the Democratic designation . Mr. Hofstadter was understood to have told Mr. that he had not at any time talked with Mr. Macy about a Supreme Court nomination , although he had asked for a Federal judgeship . He also Was said to have denied Mr. Maoy'fi charge that " a little less than a year ago , Senator Hofstadter asked my support for a bill creating three additional judges in the First Judicial District , he stated then that he had every assurance he would be named - by the OppOsitiOn party . " Tonight the Bronx County Bar Association , of which Bernard S. Deutsch is a former president , will meet to consider the judiciary situation . Mr. Deutsch and George S. Alger comprise the independent ticket placed in the field to oppose the candidacy of Mr. Hofstadter and Justice Steuer . It was expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal , " would be adopted tonight . It also was expected that Mr. Hofstadter would bear the brunt of the attack because of his position on the Investigating committee . 51,739 VOTERS- CHALLENGED Hudson County Bureau Questions Sixth of Record Registration . John J. Ferguson , Superintendent of the Hudson County Bureau Of Elections announced in Jersey City yesterday that although a record registration of about 310,000 was indicated for the county , challenges had been . made for about one-sixth of the registration for non-residence and other reasons . He said that 2,573 additional names had been placed on the " order list , " in the belief that they had been gathered from tombstones , out-of-date telephone books and other suspicious sources . The owners of the names , if any , he said , would have to obtain a court order before they would . be allowed to vote . A total of 51,739 names were challenged on the ground that the registrants no longer lived in Hudson County , or that they had failed to establish legal residences within the county .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       