@@699136

txt The meetings of the National Liberal Organization now going on in England have revived the rumors that there will soon be a break in the National Government . Party pressure is applied to several members of the Cabinet who are Liberals to induce them to resign . Among them are the present Home Secretary , Sir HERBERT SAMUEL ; the Foreign Minister himself , Sir JOHN SrMoN , and the Secretary for Scotland , Sir ARCHIBALD SINCLAIR . Besides , there are a number of undersecretaryships , such as that for India now held by Lord LOTHIAN , which would have to be vacated were the Liberals to refuse longer to have part or lot with the National Government . Naturally , Mr. LLOYD GEORGE , the nominal leader of the Liberal party , is keen for a dissolution of the unnatural partnership . He compares the Liberal Ministers to a cat with its head in a cream pitcher out of which it can not get except by breaking it or having some one pull it out by the tail . Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes that the country may once more have a strong Liberal party , " united on a great platform of human brotherhood . " Of course , he would expect to be the Big Brother . Till now the National Government has been kept going by adopting an extraordinary principle . This is the " agreement to differ " within the Cabinet . Instead of all the members being ready , according to all precedent , to say the same thing , no matter what they think , the House of Commons is now treated to the previously unheard-of exhibition of one or more Cabinet Ministers attacking a measure advocated by another . This kind of team-play will apparently be seen again when the Ottawa agreements are submitted by the Government to Parliament . They have been roundly condemned in advance by the Liberals . Exactly what the proposals are is not yet known , but the National Liberal Organization is certain beforehand that they will be very bad , and hence resolves mightily against them . Thus it is probable that the genial agreement to differ will soon , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more pungent ridicule , than ever before . If the Liberals quit the Ministry , will RAMSAY MACDONALD consent , or pretend , to remain as its head ? Quite apart from an actual rupture such as is threatened , his position is obviously becoming more difficult every day , It is not open rebellion against his leadership that endangers him , but quiet and repeated disregard of it . The common belief in England is that after he has done his best to round out his career by a further great international achievement in bringing about a reduction of armaments , he will be glad to surrender an office which has become difficult if not almost impossible for him to hold and administer . In that case the overwhelming majority in the House of Commons controlled by the Conservatives will set up a new Government and feel that it is at last coming into its , own .                     