@@704093

txt The price which Britain may pay for maintaining her place in the world armament race was driven home forcibly yesterday as official budget and trade figures spelled out a story of snowballing deficit financing and increasing import trade balances . The figures show : That England , which must export to live , is undermining her world trade position by hilying more than she sells abroad  --  and by a wide margin . That the nation which once was banker for the world is going to be forced to borrow more in the next year than even her gigantic industrial and commercial structure will be able to accumulate as national savings . Financial London , searching for an answer to this problem . saw , and yesterday was openly discussing , the possibility of an inflationary trend nurtured by borrowing for armaments and fed by the too-familiar cycle of mounting prices and wages . Prompt to mirror this conviction , prices of gilt-edge government securities showed marked weakness on the London Stock Exchange . Import Balance Rises Two government statements highlighted the British financial position . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed a balance of imports over exports and re-exports during the month of ? 37,971,736 . In May it was ? 31,255,612 and in June a year ago ? 34,622,000 . The other official pronouncement came from Cisancellor of the Exchequer Sir John Simon who told the House of Commons Thursday night that defense borrowing in the current fiscal year would approximate ? 500,000,000 as compared with an original estimate of ? 350,000,000 . When the original estimates were presented , it was pointed out by economists that the existing rate of national savings would only just meet such a demand upon the capital markets , but that , with an expanding rate of industrial activity , a sufficient margin might be obtained to ensure borrowing needs . However , with the increased government loans now contemplated , it appears almost certain that current savings will be insufficient to supply the government 's needs without some measure of inflation . Industrial Expansion Rapid Rapid industrial expansion  --  due to the armaments boom ? already is being reflected in decreasing unemployment , and a shortage of skilled labor in the arms and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to demands for increased wages . This is the road toward the vicious spiral of rising prices and further wage demands . So far the outward signs have been lacking , due to the extremely low level of world commodity prices . However , unless steps are taken , and soon , to check imports of consumption goods of a semi-luxury character , the inflationary process already foreshadowed appears inevitable . Yesterday 's foreign trade report , showing another increase in the import surplus emphasizes , in the opinion of competent observers here , the necessity for more drastic regulation of imports in order to protect Britain 's foreign exchange position . Such a policy , it is believed , could best be carried out by still higher taxation , not necessarily on imports . However , in view of the possibility of a general election within the next few months , the government might be unwilling to risk such an unpopular step . Mechanics of Financing So far as the mechanics of the armament financing is concerned . it was indicated that ? 150.000,000 would be raised by treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loan in due course . The amount of the indicated borrowing by bills should be well within the capacity of the money market . The amount to be raised by the long-term loan is formidable , but if the treasury should meet the market 's preference for comparatively short-dated bonds , the response of institutional investors should be adequate to take up a sufficient portion of such bonds without pla.cing eundue strain upon private investors . ' However . this is but part of the picture and to the direct defense loans must be added the ? 60,000,000 armament export credits to Great Britain 's allies and further probable borrowing by local authorities for air raid precaution measures . Purist financial critics would like to see a second budget introduced in the autumn in order to raise the proportion of taxation to borrowing to meet increased defense expenditures , which now total ? 730,000,000 for the current fiscal year . At present , however , there seems to be no prospect for such action , though there may even yet be further supplementary estimates ; for instance , in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ August . Tinder the circumstances , it is considered likely that the recent transfer of 120,000.000 of gold from the Equalization Fund to the Bank of England will remain in the Bank of England . as there is every prospect that note circulation will continue to expand . especially as banks are keeping a larger volume of cash in provincial branches , both in order to meet the growing wages bill and in order to have a reserve outside London in case of a war emergency . Should there be any weakening of sterling exchange as a result of the potential threat of inflation , however , there might be a return of hoarded notes from the Continent , of which there are still considerable quantities believed to be held . especially in France and Belgium , though such a movement would not alter the general trend of note issue expansion .                     