@@698118

txt The longawaited and often prophesied abolition of the present purely dictatorial system in Yugoslavia was announced quietly tonight at the first session of the reconstructed Cabinet of General Zhivkovitch , held at o m. under the chairmanship of King Alexander . After the King had formally thanked the members of the retiring Cabinet for their services , Minister of the Court Jeftitch arose without ceremony and quietly read to the spellbound Ministers a draft of Yugoslavia 's new Constitution . King Alexander remained at the council until 10 P. M. , when the sitting adjourned . The laws establishing the revised Constitution and regulations for the transition period will be made known by tomorrow . The expectations of the Yugoslavian people for a return to constitutionalism have been aroused often , but they were finally taken by surprise after all . This correspondent is informed in political circles that the new Constitution has a broad democratic basis . The new Parliament will consist of two houses , a Chamber and Senate . The name of the kingdom remains the " Kingdom of Yugoslavia , " as established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in place of the original name of " Kingdom of Serbs , Croats and Slovenes . " . Three Languages Recognized . Three languages  --  Serb , Croat and Slovene ? will be recognized as the official languages of the State . / Only Yugoslavian citizens who have , reached the age of 40 years will be permitted to become members of the Senate , which will consist of 50 per cent of members elected for six years and 50 per cent of members nominated by the King . Candidates for election to the Chamber of Deputies must be at least 30 years of age . The Chamber will be elected for a period of four years and Parliament will meet every Oct. 30 , commencing this year . Towns and banats  --  provinces  --  receive far-reaching autonomy , governors or banuses being named by the King on proposal of the Prime Minister . Laws governing the transition period , as well as the new electoral law , will be issued in the next few days . Tomorrow 's official Gazette will publish , in addition to these particulars , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared a democratic and parliamentary kingdom , whose Chamber shall be elected by secret , universal suffrage granted to all persons 21 years old . Parliamentary Rights Unrestricted . Parliamentary rights respecting budgets , interpolations of Ministers and passage of laws are unrestricted . The Constitution will confer all the freedom of political rights customary in democratic States . All citizens are equal before the law and the freedom of the press is inviolable . The courts are guaranteed independence and all are placed on a basis of equality . The Constitution establishes Yugoslavia as a constitutional hereditary monarchy with a member of the House of Karageorgevitch as inlet .. The King , in opening the Cabinet council at which the new Constitution was announced , said the moment had arrived when he was able to restore to his people rights which be had been obliged to suspend on the proclamation of the dictatorship . At the conclusion of the meeting at 10 P. M. the King invited the members of the new Cabinet to dine with him . The dinner lasted until midnight . A number of persons who played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ royal decree tonight to Cabinet rank . Two Ministers retire in their stead . Dr. Dragutin Kojic , former Deputy of the Serbian Radical party , who still enjoys valuable support , is appointed , Minister of Justice . Dr. Adalbert ' Kramer , the present Yugoslav Minister in Prague , a former Deputy of the Independent Democratic party , is appointed Minister of Public Works . In addition six prominent politicians , including former members of the Radical and Pribitchevitch parties , which so long resisted Belgrade through the Peasant - Democratic coalition , are appointed Ministers without portfolio . Obviously the idea behind the new appointments is to present an appearance of a united Yugoslav party of unity , since only the Slovene clericals , of all the former important Yugoslav parties are unrepresented in the new Cabinet . On the other hand it is worth noting that none of the new Ministers are - the leaders of the parties from which they were drawn , so obviously a certain amount of window dressing has taken place . No Vote on the Constitution . As the new parliamentary bodies will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise the parliamentary functions allotted to them , the Constitution is a dictated one . Therefore there is no question of a Constituent Assembly . Pending acceptance of the new laws by the future Parliament existing laws retain force . Disregarding the Prime Minister and Minister of War , who are both Generals , the new Cabinet consists of ten Serbs , two Croats , two Slovenes and one Bosnian Moslem . Political opinion is that the new Ministers represent only , certain fractions of the former great State parties who will be employed to form a party of unity , which will present itself as a whole at the new elections . The dramatic announcement was made at the King 's Summer palace near Belgrade . No publication of details of the new Constitution will be allowed before 8 A. M. tomorrow , when the official gazette appears . Ministers Without Portfolio . BELGRADE , Sept. 2 ( 20 . ? King Alexander promulgated a decree tonight - returning the government to a parliamentary Constitution . The King 's decree was preceded by another in which the Cabinet was reshuffled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ivan Palacek , Andra Stanitch , Ivan Pucelj , Pavle Matica and Hassan Bekovitch . Rumors Current , For Weeks . Rumors that the royal dictatorship established in Yugoslavia in 1929 would be changed have been current for several weeks . It was expected that the announcement to this effect would.be made when King Alexander celebrated the tenth anniversary of his accession to the throne last Aug. 16 , even though the King had declared that there would be no modifications except those guaranteeing continuance of the national policy . The anniversary passed and nothing happened , but the rumors persisted . On Aug. 28 Premier Zhivkoitch went to Bled to see the King , and great significance was attached to the visit . The popular guess then fixed Sept. 6 , the birthday of Crown Prince Petar and the occasion of a great national festival , as the date on which the announcement would be made . At the same time conferences were being held in the foremost cities between adherents of the present regime and leaders of former political parties . Every one knew the purpose of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ripe for abandoning the absolute government in favor of modern constitutionalism . Unity Is the Goal . The government plans to make a beginning toward resumption of constitutional rule by organizing a nation-wide and uniform Yugoslav State party whose fundamental creed will be the thesis that the three Slav tribes , united under the crown , are racially one ; in other words that , racially speaking , there are no Croats , Serbs or Slovenes , but only Yugoslays . It was the antagonism between Croats and Serbs , the struggle of nationalities for supremacy within the monarchy that caused King Alexander to Issue his decree establishing the dictatorship . For ten years prior to that time Yugoslavia had been united In name only ; and for at least two of the years the king had been urged to declare himself dictator in the interests of the union of South Slays . The Croats are Roman Catholics and belong to an older and higher civilization than the Serbs , who are Eastern Orthodox . The ideal of the Croats was an autonomous Croatia within the framework of the Triune Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Serbia 's idea was a strong centralized state binding the whole country into one rigid entity ; making it rather a Greater Serbia than a Kingdom of the Serbs , Croats and Slovenes . It was inevitable that these ideals should clash . This party will be the foundation on which the new Yugoslavia will be built up as a centralized and racially united Parliamentary State . Only after the new party has gained sufficient strength and influence will the formation of other parties be permitted ; and then only if their programs are not openly antagonistic to the fundamental principles of the present rule .                     