@@700969

txt It seems probable that Prime Minister MAcDoNALD 's address on Saturday contained an echo or two of President ROOSEVELT 'S message . The head of the British Government spoke of its hopes and plans for a shorter week and fewer hours a day for the benefit of British labor . Being , however , a clearheaded and thrifty Scot , Mr. M.AcDoriAIM did not deny that such a scheme would push up costs of production . He also said that it could not be adopted until international understandings were reached , whereby in competing trade one nation would not have an unfair advantage over another . But viewed in any aspect , his program seems mild and insipid compared with the one which Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is soon to announce . Thus far he has given merely an outline of it . It will include nationalization of the Bank of England . Mr. LLOYD GEORGE has discovered that it has become intolerable for the Central Bank of Great Britain to be a private institution . He also has come to see that a rigid balancing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the needs of the people call for a vast spending policy by the Government in order to furnish work , why not borrow the money required and let the financiers worry about the deficit ? As a final step , Mr. LLOYD GEORGE would put all of the unemployed " on the land . " What they would do after they got there , unless it were to go to spend a year or two in learning something about agriculture , he does not tell the public . But just about the time when he was setting forth this part of his plan , the President of the Board of Trade , Mr. RUNCIMAN , was telling a delegation that came to ask for further subsidies for the farmers that Great Britain was already producing too much milk , raising too much grain and other foodstuffs . If 2,000,000 unemployed men and women were set to raising more , it would seem that Mr. LLOYD GEORGE would have to call on all patriotic citizens to drink another quart of milk and eat one more loaf of bread every day in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance given by Mr. LLOYD GEORGE was that his plan was to be thoroughly worked out by " experts . " This may inspire the British with confidence , but would it Americana ? We have a large body of now unemployed experts whom Mr. LLOYD GEORGE could have for the asking . They might be sent abroad as ex-experts . But the kind which Mr. LLOYD GEORGE requires is political . What he wants is a plan , or a dream , which will unite the Liberal and Labor parties while drawing in a goodly number of young and impatient Conservatives , whose united voices would demand that he again conduct a raging electoral campaign for the purpose of making him Prime Minister once more . That would be , one fears , too large an order for any expert out of confinement . But Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is offering the United States the sincere flattery of imitation , experts and all .                     