@@697817

txt Mayor Walker and William J. O'Shea , Superintendent of Schools , united yesterday in defense of the city 's educational system in speeches made before a gathering of several thousand school children and parents on the Mall in Central Park . The/Mayor declared that if administration critics must find something at which to direct their fire , let them aim it at him personally , and not at the Board of Education , which , he said , is carrying on a gigantic task with unparalleled success . Dr. O'Shea assailed the critics of the city 's school system as " irresponsible . " The gathering at the Mall was in celebration of Parents ' Day , and the Mayor drew cheers from the audience , both when he ' was introduced by Uncle Robert , the master of ceremonies and sponsor of the program , and again when he had concluded his address . Defends School System . The Mayor began his address with a brief apology for even injecting a hint of politics " on a day so sunny and an occasion so beautiful . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say something to the parents in response to the detractors of the city 's school system . " That mein Is an enemy of this civilization , of the peace and comfort of the household , who attacks the confidence you honestly and justly have In the gr " at public school system of the city of New York , " the Mayor declared . " If those people who have constituted themselves as critics must find something to direct their fire at , let them direct it at me and leave the Board of Education alone . " The Mayor then referred to the vastness of the task that confronts any one called upon to educate 1,200 , - 000 school children , an army in itself bigger than the population of many of the world 's greatest cities and bigger than the school population of three or four populous States combined . " One has but to reflect on the order , the discipline and the well-mannered attention of the children in this gathering to realize that the Board of Education is carrying out its obligations with unparalleled success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that behavior belongs to the parenthood of the city of New York . It is an answer eternal to the detractors of the city and its fair name that the parenthood of the city is of the fine , high , lovable type that it is , the best that has been known in the history of mankind . " The Mayor then veered sharply from the schools to the subject on which he had intended to speak , the obligation of children to their parents . " Your city officially bids you rededicate your lives today to giving affection , comfort and love to your parents , with the realization that you may not always have them with you and that when they are gone you can do nothing for them . " At one point in the Mayor 's talk he remarked about the beauty of Central Park , and said : " I always thought it was a great park , but never was certain until yesterday . Believe me , when I was through marching up with the police parade from the Battery and saw this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world to sit down in . " Dr. O'Shea , who preceded the Mayor , declared that " the schools have been assailed recently by irresponsible people , by men not American at heart , because a true American recognizes , next to his church , the greatness of the public school system of this country . " They have been talking about our Mayor , too , but where in this country is there a Mayor whose heart beats so warm for the young . I 'm glad that you applauded him as you did , that you appreciate the goodness of this man , who , by the directing of the spending of millions and millions of dollars for the betterment of the city 's school system , is largely responsible for the splendid condition of the schools today . " Police Commissioner Mulrooney , in another speech , stressed the necessity for supervision of children 's recreation by their parents . He referred , without enumerating them , to " the sordid influences brought to bear on children of today . " Other speakers were Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Uncle Robert " and Mrs. Happy Lynch of the Lighthouse . Music was furnished by the band of the Department of Sanitation . The Mayor 's address and Superintendent O'Shea 's were broadcast by Station WNYC , the municipal radio station . A program of entertainment by the school children took place between the speeches . Alan Fox , chairman of the city affairs committee of the National Republican Club , made the following statement last night in reply to Mayor Walker 's defense of the school system : " I am glad that Mayor Walker admits that the responsibility for the existing conditions in the public schools is largely his . That is just what I have been contending . I said that a large part of the graduates of the elementary schools could not properly read or do arithmetic or geography . Mayor Walker and Superintendent O'Shea attempt to answer by mere denunciation . " I challenge them now to make public the results of the tests given by the Board of Education in 1929 in connection with the survey of commercial education to 8,000 graduates of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures will bear out my assertions . " There should be no question of partisan politics in connection with discussion of the schools . We are , perhaps , hardened to what machine politics has done to other parts of the City Administration , but , for the sake of the children , Mayor Walker and his crowd might at least keep their hands off the schools . " Mr. Fox explained that the 1929 tests to which he referred were those prescribed by the State Board of Education for seventh and eight grade elementary school pupils . When given to 8,000 graduates here , he added , only 30 per cent passed . He charged that the results of the tests had been suppressed by officials of the Board of Education here .                     