@@701145

txt The prime ministers of England , France and Italy concluded their four day conference here today with the issuance of a seven point resolution . It embodies a readjusted program fog maintaining peace and limiting arms : ments in Europe , and also soundly . arraigns Nazi Germany for undermining public confidence and shaking world hopes for a peaceful order . The resolution proclaims the solidarity of the three western powers and emphasizes their complete unity of views on the steps which are to be taken to confront the condition arising from Germany 's unilateral repudiation on March 16 of the military clauses of the Versailles treaty . According to statements made after the closing session of the conference the world war allies believe they have regained the initiative now in maneuvering with Germany . and that their solidarity is such as to promise tranquility for the future in Europe . Points in Peace Program . The peace program of the resolution , based on the salvaged AngloFrench proposals issued on Feb. 3 , is briefly as follows : FIRST  --  The pursuit of a common : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French appeal against the German treaty violation . SECOND  --  The negotiation of an eastern European security pact on the basis of recent information given Sir John ? Simon , British foreign secretary . THIRD  --  To strengthen the position of Austria . FOURTH  --  To proceed with the negotiation of an air convention . FIFTH  --  The regulation of armaments . SIXTH  --  Readjustment of the mill . tary status of Austria , Hungary and Bulgaria through new regional pacts . SEVENTH  --  To oppose by all Prani. ticable means any unilateral repudiation of treaties . Plan Five Power Pact . With regard to the air pact , the resolution says the powers agreed to continue a study of the question with a view to drafting a five power pact including England , Italy . France , Germany and Belgium . It also adds that in addition bilateral agreements between certain signatories might also accompany the pact . Accompanying the seven point peace program of the former allies is also an Anglo-Italian declaration in which the London and Rome governments reaffirm all the obligations assumed under the Locarno pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention to fulfill them if need arises . This reaffirmation by England and Italy is said to be a warning to Germany that both powers are behind France in opposing any Nazi attempt to refortify the demilitarized zone in the Rhineland  --  that is , between the Rhine river and the French frontier . Permit Increase in Arms . The resolution setting forth the new directives for peace on a basis of the altered conditions brought about by Germany 's jumping over the traces and resuming military conscription an . pounces that the three powers are considering readjustments of the peace treaties limiting the arms of Austria , Hungary and Bulgaria . These countries will be permitted to increase their armaments in accordance with the advocacy of Premier Mussolini of Italy . But the statesmen , in view of the French insistence , decided that diplomatic exchanges must first be had with the little entente Jugo-Slavia , Czechoslovakia and Rumania . They suggested that any increase of armament of these Balkan states in order to resist expanding Pan-Germanism in : their direction should come about by mutual agreement and on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resolui tion , which constitutes point number seven in the peace program , stresses the anxiety which Germany 's repudiation of the Versailles treaty had caused in Europe . It pledges the three countries to " oppose by all practicable . means any unilateral repudiation of treaties which may endanger the peace of Europe , " and announces that all will act in close cordial collaboration. , Anxiety Is Emphasized . The language used in arraigningGermany as a treaty breaker is con-. sidered strong , perhaps stronger than England had been expected to in , dorse . It betrays the anxiety , particularly on the part of the British and French , about Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler 's far reaching pretensions to build up Germany 's military strength as announced to the British foreign secretary in Berlin . Hitler said he wanted an army of 550,000 men , a navy which is 35 per cent of the size of Britain 's , and air parity with France and England . After referring to German repudiation of treaty clauses at the moment when a friendly negotiation for a settlement of armament parity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler and his government are responsible for halting the progress which was about to be realized toward arms limitation Hopes Shaken by Nazi Action . The resolution says : " The magnitude of the declared program of German rearmament , already well in process of execution , has invalidated the quantitative assumptions on which efforts for disarmament had hitherto been based , and has shaken the hopes by which those efforts were inspired . " The resolution states that despite this changed condition in Europe , however , England , France , and Italy are earnest in their desire to sustain peace by establishing a sense of security and are ready to join every Pracjicable effort for an agreement on arms limitation . To Premier . Mussolini the conference was an uncontested accomplish . ment , for in the third point of the peace program he put over his insistence on building higher bulwarks around Austrian independence . Another Parley in Rome . The three powers reaffirmed past declarations in favor of Austrian independence as already announced , P.nd called a subsequent conference to be held in Rome May 20 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's promise in a telegram to Simon on Friday that he would sign a nonaggression pact even if other signatories had mutual assistance pacts in addition to it , was dismissed with a three line statement which said that it would be a good thing to continue the negotiations for an eastern security pact . This probably is because of Hitler 's explanations yesterday that he really had promised nothing very new , and also because any development of his offer to sign such a pact would be neglected diplomatically . In the British delegation it was emphasized that the resolution contained no new commitments for Britain . But at the same time , the British pointed out that Germany need not expect that the maneuverings to split the three European powers which fought her in the war would succeed . Mussolini Is Jubilant . " England is not changing friends , " British circles said . " She is sticking ro her old friends , but she wants to enlarge the circle . " Mussolini in plain black clothes appeared jubilant when he returned to the mainland from Isolla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He , Prime Minister , and Simon were luncheon guests of Premier Pierre-Etienne Flandin and Foreign Minister Pierre Laval of France . " The work of the conference must be considered with satisfaction , " Mussolini said after the luncheon . " The vigilant , watchful , and active solidarity of the three powers is such as to secure tranquility and peace in Europe . " France to Keep Big Army . Lava ! , in another statement , emphasized that France would have to keep a strong army under present circumstances . " We have successfully finished our work , " he said . " We are maintaining peace with much sacrifice . France must still keep strong and the French people must remain firm , and above all we must have confidence . " " I am glad the conference is over and especially glad It has been so successful . We have demonstrated our solidarity , " said . " It was not morely diplomatic solidarity but also a demonstration of our purpose to insure the peace of Europe . I believe the conference has made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The delegations began leaving Stress immediately after luncheon . Mussolini returned to his country seat at Rocca Caminato , near Forli . Laval and Simon went to Geneva for tomorrow 's meeting of the league council , which will hear France 's appeal against Germany 's violation of the peace treaty . Flandin and left for Paris . Report Aunt May Bring Vanderbilt Custody Suit New York , April 14 . ? ( R ) ? The Daily News says in a copyright story that Lady Furness , twin sister of Mrs. Gloria Vanderbilt , will attempt to gain custody of 10 year old Gloria Vanderbilt herself should Mrs. Vanderbilt lose her court battle with Mrs. Harry Payne Whitney . Girl Flyers Seek Training for Service in War Time A proposal that the government establish a training school for women pilots in order that women may serve as observation pilots in time of war , was made yesterday by the Chicago Girls Flying club at the instance of Miss Mable Cunningham , 2262 West 111th place . Miss Alice Adamec , 2119 South 67th court , Cicero , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviatrices . Four stewardesses of commercial airlines out of Chicago also propose that women be trained by the government for observation work .                     