@@699171

txt Both of the State platforms are short . The voter who looks behind candidates to the parties they represent will discover here their attitude toward the problems of the dayOn some important issues they are at one : approving the $30,000,000 bond issue for unemployment relief , for example . On prohibition the Democrats demand the outright repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and the immediate legalization of light wines and beer , while the Republicans are content to endorse President HoovEa 's position as expressed in his acceptance speech . In several other respects the difference between the two parties is one of emphasis rather than divergent opinion . The Republicans make economy their keynote ; the Democrats give speeial prominence to their program of social legislation . With Governor ROOSEVELT running for President and Lieut . Gov . LEHI MAN heading the State ticket , the 1 Democrats naturally stress their record at Albany . Their platform starts off with an impressive list of achievements which they insist were in the face of " aggressive and continuous Republican opposition . " But a lawmaking body composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor has its occasional embarrassing moments for the platform-makers . Whatever legislation emerges from the mill under those circumstances is necessarily a joint product . When the Democrats boast of the " preserva " tion , unimpaired , of the credit of " the State , " the Republicans are entitled to share the glory ; when the Republicans complain of Democratic extravagance , they are haunted by the knowledge that not a penny was spent without legislative approval . Nevertheless , if leadership counts , the Democrats have a right to boast . Many of the reforms which the Republicans now accept , and even point to with pride , their party once bitterly opposed . An amusing illustration is their reference to the Power Authority bill for the development of the St. Lawrence as having been passed by a " Republican Legislature . " If that is n't stealing the enemy 's clothes , there never was such a theft . The Democrats promise to carry on ; the Republicans pledge a new deal , at least so far as State finances are concerned . Both are for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned , being well aware of the prevailing American reaction to the British experiment . The Republicans look with favor on unemployment reserves , " without contribution by the State " ; the Democrats insist - that the measure which they advo cate shall be " on the contributory basis and not by way of dole . " Both have something to say about home I rule , but from different angles : the Democrats stress the desirability of granting the cities " sole jurisdiction over municipal transit facilities , " while the Republicans , evidently preparing for the final report of Judge SEABURY , favor a constitutional amendment permitting the voters of New York to adopt a new charter . It was the Democrats who had the happy thought of including in their platform a plank urging the rehabilitation of Puerto Rico . That island may be far away , but thousands of former residents now live in Harlem .                     