@@698947

txt President Hoover - warned Europe today against presenting a united front to the United States on war debts , and asserted that this government had not been consulted in the negotiations of the Lausanne reparations treaty . His position was defined in a 150-word letter sent to Senator Borah , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , and made public late this afternoon at the White House . The President wrote that the American people were " gratified at the settlement of the strictly European problem of reparations or any of the other political or economics questions that have impeded European recovery , " and added that " such action , together with the real progress in disarmament , will contribute greatly to world stability . " If any of the agreements made should be interpreted as effecting a combined action of our debtors , however , President Hoover said , " then I do not propose that the American people shall be pressed i into any line of action or that our policies shall be in any way influenced by such a combination , either open or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was written after Sena ' tor Borah had conferred at the State Department with Secretary Stimson concerning the revelations in London . and Paris of the " gentlemen 's agreement " conditioning the reparations settlement on reduction in debts I owed the United States , and con1 cerning the Anglo-French accord providing for close cooperation on issues arising out of the Lausanne conference . According to an authoritative explanation , the letter had a twofold purpose . It was designed to inform the European powers that the United States would not deal with them collectively on debts . Furthermore , it was intended to reassure the American people that their government had not been a party in any way to the agreements and understandings at Lausanne , and to make known that the debt policy of the administration had not been changed from one of dealing with the powers separately and on the basis of capacity to pay . President Hoover , it was said , felt that his position should be made known In view of the uncertainties that have arisen . In administration circles , generally , no real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranging a united front against this country . The view was expressed that the " gentlemen 's agreement " and the Anglo-French accord were devices to save the face of Premier Herriot of France at home . Exaggerated Claims Seen . This situation involving French politics , it was believed , led to exaggerated claims in France of the significance of the understanding , a circumstance that required the British Government to clarify its position . In these ramifications , American officials have only an academia interest . Senator Borah , in his visit to Secretary Stimson today , impressed upon him the advisability of making the administration 's position clear before the Presidential campaign got under way . He said the impression was widespread that this government had given European officials to understand that the debts might be canceled or revised if economic reforms and savings in armaments were effected in Europe . Senator Borah further told Mr. Stimson that only an official statement from the President would set at rest the suspicions that American envoys had been consulted on the reparations settlement . President Hoover apparently agreed with these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to remove the suspicions and take the debt question out of the Presidential campaign where it was fast drifting because of the silence of the President as to the attitude of the United States . Feared a Solid Front . Before the President made public his letter Senators were inclined to believe that Great Britain and France were preparing to present a solid front against this country . Senators Borah and Reed , leading members of the Foreign Relations Committee , however , held a different view . Their interpretation of the most recent accord was that Great Britain was attempting to bring about economic reconstruction in Central Europe and the compact was designed for that purpose only . If it should later develop that our debtor nations united to force the United States to revise the debts , they believed , such a move would be ineffective and would arouse public sentiment in this country so greatly that no administration would dare to deal with the European nations on that basis . Senators Johnson , Pittman and La Follette , while accepting the interpretation of their colleagues on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the entente . They read into it an alliance against the United States not only upon the debt but upon the tariff duties . They saw in the Lausanne agreements the end of the payments by the European nations of their $11,000,000,000 debt to the United States . " I have no criticism to offer of the entente , " Senator Borah said after having received the letter from i President Hoover . " It is natural i that the European countries should act together and I am glad to see them act together at this time . I hope they will go far enough to disarm Europe to a reasonable degree . " Johnson Is Unconvinced . Senator Johnson retained his doubts . " The recent pact and the so-called gentlemen 's agreement , " he said , ? ' are intended to consolidate all Europe on the debt question . They are intended to preclude the possibility . first , of any individual action by any of the debtor nations , and , secondly . a repudiation by all . It is perfectly obvious from dispatches that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? is an attitude on the part of the American Government which is entirely at variance with the Congressional position against their cancellation , revision or reduction of the war debts . " Senator Pittman , speaking for the Democratic members of the committee , said his party would oppose any revision or cancellation of the foreign debts and that this would be an issue in the coming campaign . " The agreements reached at Lausanne . which are becoming public piecemeal , show that the European nations are against paying their debts , " he said . " That is the chief purpose of the gentlemen 's agreement and the pact between Great Britain and France . The American people can not fail to resent the negotiations in Europe , and I , for one , will stand solemnly against any reduction of the debts for money loaned for reconstruction purposes . " Vandenberg Sides With Borah . Senator Vandenberg agreed with Senator Borah . " I accept what Premier said , that the accord is entirely a European affair that seeks to restore economic conditions in Europe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had no relation to the American debt and further that our position is that reparations and debts are not allied . Reparations are punitive and debts are contractual . Therefore the two compacts can have no bearing upon the war debts , " If my interpretation of the new pact is wrong , and it does address itself to some subtle and veiled effort to work against the interest of the United States , it will be a complete futility , because sentiment in this country could never stand for being clubbed into a position that is wrong . " Senator La Follette said that before commenting he desired to learn in greater detail of the negotiations abroad and to know just what the United States envoys said to Premier when they met him during the negotiations at Lausanne . He was suspicious , he said , but was unable at this time to interpret the motives of this " hidden " diplomatic move in Europe .                     