@@702055

txt At the opening of the third annual convention of the National Securities Traders Association here yesterday . David Saperstein , director of the trading and exchange division of the Securities and Exchange Commission , voiced a plea for continued support of the SEC and its work . Mr. Saperstein traced the primary steps in the application of the Securities Act . New concepts and conventions have been introduced into the securities business , he explained , and the process of adjustment to these innovations has been gradual but continuous . " Thus far , we have been strong in the conviction that we are moving in the right direction , " he declared . " We have not doubted that the goal is worth achieving , but it is not sufficient that we alone should think so ; it is a matter of deep concern to us that you should think so as well " Referring to the recent amendment to Section 15 of the act , dealing with the registration of brokers , he said that the program constitutes the first attempt on a national scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to procure certain basic information concerning their business . Since enactment of this amendment 300 additional brokers and dealers have registered , he said , and it is estimated 2,000 more registrations will come in . This is in addition to the 5 , - 785 already on file . Mr. Saperstein also warned investment bankers against premature selling of securities or soliciting of trade . He said certain practices were being closely watched . These included : extortion of exorbitant profits from customers , high pressure merchandising methods , the publication of bid and asked prices known to be fictitious , the making of offers at stated prices with no bona fide intent to effect transactions , the failure to disclose unequivocally to a customer in which capacity a broker-dealer is acting , the subsidizing of competitors ' employes , and the making of concealed profits by collusion with other brokers and dealers .                     