@@704390

txt An informal meeting of a majority of all political parties in the Japanese House of Representatives held last night , agreed to sink all party differences in criticizing the Cabinet of Premier Nobuyuki Abe , and adopted a resolution inviting that Cabinet " to consider proper steps regarding resignation . " A petition expressing non-confidence in the government was signed by 240 members of the House and will be presented to the Premier today , the United Press reported . There are 466 members in the Japanese lower house . Last night 's meeting was not organized . It was a spontaneous expression of feeling of members freshly returned from their constituencies . Party leaders , on the other hand , conferring separately , agreed that they would not deliberately seek the government 's downfall but would not shield it from criticism . Expressions of Feeling As the actual debates will not begin until the end of January these expressions of feeling at present are manoeuvres presumably intended to recover public confidence and to rehabilitate the parties in the public esteem rather than a serious operation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called on the Cabinet to resign , refrained from discussing practical measures that would force such a result . It did not threaten to defeat the budget or to introduce votes of non-confidence . Politicians attending the opening of the Diet yesterday observed that though the Emperor used the customary classical and abstract language his speech sounded two keynotes of pleasure at the improvement of foreign relations  --  clearly a reference to the Grew-Nomura talks , and an exhortation to work for the early stabilization of East Asia . The signs that the coming session would be stormy , however , broke out immediately after the formal ceremony . Petition Is Prepared TOKYO , Wednesday , Dec. 27 ( UP ) ? Premier Nobuyuki Abe today will receive a petition signed by 240 members of the lower house . of Parliament expressing non-confidence in the government and suggesting its resignation . The petition , adopted at a secret meeting yesterday , declares that the government 's program has been " unsatisfactory " and blames the Cabinet for the recent rice and fuel Oortages and its failure to regulate prices in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Diet for the New Year holiday today , members of the Cabinet were expected to confer informally on the situation . Parliament will reconvene on Jan. 20 and it was believed that the Premier and his associates would make frantic efforts to gain support of party leaders before that time . Associates of the Premier said that General Abe did not plan to offer the government 's resignation and would try to hold his Cabinet together in the face of attacks that were expected after Parliament reconvenes . The Premier was represented to feel that the situation was nat serious . Dissatisfaction Spreading Party leaders , on the other hand , asserted that dissatisfaction with the government was spreading to all classes and that resignation of the Cabinet might be expected soon . Neutral observers saw spreading dissatisfaction but believed that the opposition groups as yet had no unity . Ryutaro Nagai , Railways and Communications Minister , and other party men were attempting to effect contact with the leaders of the political parties to arrange an " understanding . " The situation was of keen interest to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grew and Foreign Minister Admiral Kichisaburo Nomura to- find a working agreement to replace the Japanese-American commercial treaty which expires Jan. 26 . Admiral Nomura was reported to have told the Cabinet yesterday that the American attitude toward Japan was improving and that Washington ' was beginning to recognize the sincerity " of Japan 's program in China to which the United States long has objected . Emperor Opens Parliament Emperor Hirohito formally opened Parliament yesterday , reading his usual stereotyped rescript in which he asked members of the Lower House and the House of Peers to direct their efforts " toward expansion of the national power so that the aims of the empire will be realized and the situation in East Asia fully stabilized . " In a gesture toward his armed forces the Emperor mentioned " our loyal and brave army and navy officers and men who , defying manifold difficulties , have ' acted properly in their planning and operations while our subjects behind the guns , all alike , energetically are devoting themselves to patriotic service . " Specific policies rarely are mentioned in the rescript and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abrogated Japanese-American commercial treaty which expires Jan. 26 . He professed to feel , on the other hand , that " our relations with all nations have become more amicable and closer . " - ders Budget Measures Emperor Hirohito said he had ordered his Ministers to introduce budget and extraordinary military expenditures and other legislative matters when the Diet reconvenes on Jan. 20 . He said he expected harmonious action by the members . " In view of the gravity of the present situation , " he said , " you are to make endeavors to fulfill your duty , giving consideration to approval , in harmony and cooperation , to the budget plan and legislative measures . " The Diet recessed after hearing him . The naval section of the Imperial Headquarters in a communiqu ? summarizing results of the year 's naval activities in the China conflict , said that China 's entire coast line-2,850 miles  --  is now under blockade . Bombings have been carried out " far inland , " the communiqu ? said , and other rivers besides the Yangtze now are Japanese-controlled.    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        