@@703619

txt With many business men still uncertain whether operations of their enterprises fall within scope of the act ( minimum wage 25 cents and maximum hour 44 a week ) . provisions of the Wage and Hour Law went into effect yesterday for employes of most concerns engaged in interstate commerce . While Administrator Elmer F. Andrews said provisions of the act will not be retroactive , he indicated that business men in doubt as to whether they are covered should comply , when he announced that Western Union would have to conform pending a ruling on the company 's petition for exemption of nur -- srugera paid.lettrthan 25 cents an hour ' ? .1 An informal report has been received , from the examiner who held hearings here last week on the Western Union petition , but no decision is expected for some time . Commenting upon goods made at substandard wages before October 24 . Mr. Andrews said the act was not retroactive in its effect and that such goods did not become **outlaw " on that date . Banks Must Comply Banks , also , must comply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the legal department of a brief filed by the American Bankers ' Association seeking exemptions . It is expected that a bulletin covering the banking industry will be issued shortly . Handicapped by lack of funds and a small staff , only two regional offices have been set up thus far  --  one in Birmingham for the south and the other in San Francisco for the far west . Offices will be set up this week in Chicago and Boston . Meanwhile . Mr. Andrews has sought aid of state departments of labor in enforcing the act . with seven governors promising cooperation . Under the law employers violating the act are subject to suit by employes damages equal to twice the amount of their unpaid minimum wages and unpaid overtime plus attorney 's fees and costs . Penalties of a $10,000 fine and six months ' imprisonment may also be imposed for wilful violation of the act . Mr. Andrews praised William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , for setting up some 500 committees to advise union members as to their actions under the act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advised its members to " go slow " in bringing court cases for violations of provisions of the act . Extent of Unemployment Unknown While extent of unemployment created by the act becoming effective is not known , it is probably substantial , particularly in the south . However , Mr. Andrews said he understood many of the shutdowns attributed to the act were seasonal and expressed hope that such plants will reopen . Questioned as to whether or not he had conferred with WPA Administrator Hopkins on aid to persons who had been put out of work by shutdowns , Mr. Andrews said that he believed relief would be a natural consequence in the event of shutdowns . However , he said he hoped local charities would assist in taking care of these people . Conferences were held yesterday between pecan processors and officials of the division . Mr. Andrews said approximately 30,000 workers are affected in the pecan selling industry . some of whom are being paid rates of eight to 10 cents an hour . Some of the processors are asking for exemption , while others are willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearings will probably be held at a later date . Mr. Andrews will speak here tomorrow at twelfth annual meeting of the Cotton-Textile Institute at the Waldorf Astoria on application of the act to cotton mill operations . Dr. Claudius T. Murchison , president of the Institute , will head the morning speaking seeMon. which will Include talks by Dr. James T. Jardine . chief of the Department of Agriculture 's experiment stations , Lawrence F. Myers , chief of the division of cotton marketing , and Richard T. Harries of the firm of Harries &; Vose.                     