@@702580

txt The army-supported Cabinet of General Senjuro Hayashi , overwhelmingly defeated in Friday 's general election , faced a choice today between resignation and an attempt to continue in power in disregard of the electorate 's rebuke . Either decision , political authorities believed , would mean a new period of internal tension . Resignation would entail the crisis attending selection of a new Premier and Cabinet . An attempt to continue in power would mean another election , with intensified political bitterness . An indication that Premier Hayashi might continue in office was seen in a statement he made today immediately after he had conferred with Emperor Hirohito . Speaks of ' Emergency ' " I hope the new members of the Diet will sacrifice personal interests and serve the higher interests of the nation , " he said , " thus promoting constitutional politics and fulfilling the great task of assisting the Emperor during the present emergency period . " In political circles the opinion was held that General Hayashi could continue in power only on the plea that a national emergency existed that demanded early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fresh elections . Final returns showed that the parties avowedly opposed to the Hayashi Cabinet had retained about 400 of the 466 seats in the new House , of Representatives . Only eleven members were definitely cominitted to support of the government . No government in Japan 's history has received such a defeat at the polls . Political writers compared it to Governor Alfred M. Landon 's defeat by President Roosevelt . Friday 's election was to name a new House succeeding that Premier Hayashi had dissolved March 31 , within a few hours of the close of the session . The large vote against him was in part an expression of popular disapproval of that action . Line-up of Parties The party line-up in the new House will be : Minseito 179 Seiyukai 175 Shakai . Taishuto ( Social Mass party ) ? 37 Showakai . 19 Kokumin Domei 11 Tohokai 11 Independents and others . 34 Total 466 An outstanding feature was the swing to the Social Mass party and other proletarian groups , which doubled their strength in the House . In Tokyo all eight Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as indicating urban voters ' dislike of both the army supported Hayashi regime and of the relatively conservative old line parties . Even in conservative quarters there was a growing belief that Premier Hayashi must resign . The Iarmy , which sponsored formation of his cabinet , was believed unlikely to try to maintain him in power in defiance of the expressed popular will . In the House of Peers , which was not involved in the election , the prevalent opinion was that General Hayashi must step down . The Privy Council , stronghold of conservatism , has shown displeasure at the Cabinet 's political tactics . There seemed to be little chance that the two major parties would seek its overthrow . The Minseito retained its position as largest party , although its former strength of 205 was reduced to 179 . Its losses were largely to the Seiyukai and the Social Mass party . . Labor Alarms Old . Parties Wireless to Tam NEW YORK TIMES . TOKYO , Monday , May 3 . ? Labor has increased its parliamentary representation more than 100 per cent . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteen previously . The majorities were large and the popular vote even more impressive than those figures . In Osaka the Social Mass party came second , polling 137,220 votes and thrusting the historic Seiyukai into third place with 85,231 . Although labor Is still far from being an effective parliamentary force either in numbers or debating power , its spectacular advance strikes terror into the old parties , who foresee the time , not many years ahead , when labor may sway city voters . As the farmers are even poorer than the town workers , corresponding developments are predicted in the country when the peasants awake to the fact that the Seiyukai and the Social Mass party . Labor 's influence in the present House will be chiefly moral , as the parties are so divided that it is virtually impossible that the Social Mass group can hold the balance . A possible alignment by the time the regular session begins next Feb- ruary would be a bloc formed by the Seiyukai and . minor parties supporting the government , with the Minseito and the Social Mass party in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of Representatives and the latter 216.                     