@@700435

txt Addressing the New York State Bankers Association on Monday evening , Mr. JESSE H. JONES , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , reverted to the dispute whether private banks are extending as they should credit to industry . This controversy began as long ago as President HOOVER 'S program in 1932 , to enlarge facilities for private bank credit through the purchase , by Federal Reserve Banks , of government obligations held by member institutions . The expedient failed of its purpose . At the end of 1932 , although the Reserve Banks had taken over from the member banks $1,000,000,000 government securities during the year , loans on other than security collateral reported by the member banks had decreased $1,300,000,000 . This may have reflected the impending bank crisis , which came to a head in formidable shape last February . But Mr. JONES can also cite this week 's member-bank return ; showing that even now , after six months of appreciable recovery in trade activity and public confidence , " other loans " of the reporting member banks are still $291,000,000 under this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the familiar complaint , " almost everywhere , " that banks are not lending . He intimated plainly that " if the banker fails to meet his responsibility , " the only alternative would be " government lending " ? probably authorizing " direct loans " through the RFC . Declaring that he " would be the last man in the " world to advise loose credits or un " sound banking , " and admitting that much of our recent financial crash " came from too easy credit , " he nevertheless urged on the bankers that " too " little credit and too severe terms at " this time would be worse than too , " much credit . " All this should be fairly considered . It is possible that banks , rushing like the general public from an extreme of confidence to the opposite , are pushing the policy of ultra-caution now as far as they pressed the policy of overconfidence in 1929 . Yet that can hardly be accepted as the only explanation . Dr. EURGESS of the New York Federal Reserve reported on Monday what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emergency proviso " for direct loans by Reserve Banks . During the eighteen months since that enactment 1,286 applications for loans had been received . But of this large number the bank decided , after thorough investigation , that it " could properly run the risk of making loans " to only fourteen borrowers . This is at least an interesting sidelight . It will , however , be admitted by any one familiar with banking history that underlying conditions which made the great majority of borrowing applications precarious six months ago have since then changed considerably ; also , that banks are not always as a body quick to recognize the meaning of such a change . Mr. MCLAUGHLIN , speaking as president of the Bankers Association , himself made the point that " an " improved demand for legitimate " credit " will always follow " a few " months behind an improvement in " general business and prices . " The country 's past experience confirms this view . The serious depression and collapse of earning power , after the panic of 1893 , terminated at the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report of the national banks to the Controller in the ensuing May showed their loans and discounts to be nearly $50,000,000 under the same month of 1896 . Even in July , 1897 , the aggregate of such credits was barely $7,000,000 above July , 1896 . It was left for the report of December , 1897 , to show a $200,000,000 increase over the year before . Perhaps the critics of the action or inaction of the banks may likewise be reminded that only recently has the overhanging dread of a reckless Congress , and of demoralizing experiments with fiat money , been actually dispelled . Mr. JONES himself suggested that possibly the banks are " still afraid " ? adding , " Of what , I am unable to divine . " One might suggest that he reread the Congressional speeches and the Congressional threats of 1933.                     