@@698433

txt In a statement issued yesterday through Thomas W. Lamont of J. P. Morgan &; Co. , the eight banking houses with whom Controller Charles W. Berry is negotiating for a loan of upward of $90,000,000 in effect warned Mayor Walker and his associates in the city administration that the city 's ability to borrow money under present conditions rested largely upon the determination of its officials to adopt a strict economy program which would warrant the confidence of bankers and investors that municipal affairs would be handled prudently . The statement , given out by Mr. Lamont after conference with Charles E. Mitchell , head of the National City Bank , and other banking officials , denied that the banking group had attempted to force exorbitant interest rates or to stipulate as a condition of a loan any change in the city 's 5-cent fare policy . It declared that the bankers , . on the invitation of Controller Berry and with the subsequent approval of Mayor Walker , were trying to be of constructive aid to the city in its present financial situation , leaving it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey of its own condition , what policy to follow . Economy Called Necessary . " Mayor Walker and his associates undoubtedly realize , " the statement declared , " that New York City , like the National Government and other large governmental bodies and corporations , must undertake measures of strict economy and , especially in these times , must proceed on a more restrained and orderly development of its construction program ; must make every effort , wherever possible , to transform existing enterprises which today are not self-supporting into ones that carry themselves , and thus take a heavy burden off the city 's budget . " The rapid transit lines of the B. M. T. and Interborough , run under lease from the city , as well as the new city system , comprise by far the largest part of the city 's enterprises falling within the category mentioned by the banking group . The bankers voiced their belief that Mayor Walker 's telegram to Senator Royal S. Copeland , urging legislation to permit the proposed Federal finance reconstruction corporation to lend to cities as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its criticism of alleged failure to cooperate with municipalities . Mayor Walker declined to cora ' ment on the statement , but it was indicated he would meet spokesmen for the banking group today in an effort to clarify the situation . The Mayor , at a meeting of city department heads this afternoon , will urge upon his subordinates a policy of strict economy and will ask them to abandon or defer all contemplated projects which are not vital for the public welfare at this time . " Humanity Versus Dollars . " At a dinner last night in honor of Borough President Samuel Levy , the proceeds of which are to go to the Federation for the Support of Jewish Philanthropic Societies , the Mayor said that he intended to draw the line of battle with the bankers on the issue of humanity versus dollars . He declared that he was not looking for a fight , but that be would not in any circumstances run away from one . He spoke of those who figured on the discount rate , of those who add figures while in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families . He told of the number of benefit performances he has attended , three or four in one night , " but never at one of them have I tripped over a banker . " " I insist that the first consideration shall be humanity , " the Mayor declared . What is the city of New York , he asked , a skyline , a subway ? the Mayor answered his own question by declaring that it was the people who made the city , not the physical aspects of a crowded metropolis . " Property and buildings have their champions beyond count , stocks and bonds have their champions , but Federation stands for humanity , and may it always prosper , " the Mayor declared , in paying one of his tributes , frequent during his address , to the work that was being done by the private charitable institutions in the city . The Mayor was far from optimistic in touching on the situation facing charitable institutions in the city , and it was while telling of the 800 , - 000 out of work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salaries of civil employes , that he talked of those who forgot the hum &n; side , and operated an adding machine . In their statement the banks declared that their investigation of the city 's financial condition has not yet reached the point where they could discuss any specific measures of financing . The group has engaged Price , Waterhouse &; Co. , accountants , which is now going over the Controller 's records . THE BANKERS ' STATEMENT . The statement represents the views of the following banking houses : J. P. Morgan &; Co. , Guaranty Trust Company , Bank of Manhattan Trust Company , National City Bank , First National Bank of New York , Bankers Trust Company , Kuhn , Loeb &; Co. and the Chase National Bank . It reads as follows : It is hardly possible that Mayor Walker , in his telegram to Senator Copeland , intended his declaration that the country 's banks bad been non-cooperative to apply to the attitude of New York banks or to current discussions between the New York-banks and the city authorities . In order , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , it may be well to review the situation as follows : Controller Berry recently invited eight New York banking houses and institutions to confer with him in regard to the city 's present financial status . Those so invited were Messrs . J. P. Morgan &; Co. , Messrs . Kuhn , Loeb &; Co. , Chase National Bank , National City Bank , First National Bank , Guaranty Trust Co . Bankers Trust Co. and Bank of Co. , Trust Company . The Controller explained to this group that , owing to the absence of any satisfactory public interest in new offerings of New York City obligations and in view of the large and quite immediate requirements of the city , he desired that the bankers should acquaint themselves more thoroughly with the facts in order to put themselves in position to be of assistance . The banking group accepted Controller Berry 's invitation first , to make a careful exploration of the situation , and thereafter to consider with him . the problems presented . In a small conference only last Tuesday Mayor Walker endorsed the Controller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploration of all the questions involved . The inquiry which the banking group has been invited to make has not yet proceeded to a point where discussion of specific measures of financing is possible . And contrary to intimations that have appeared , there have been no concrate suggestions made by the bankers as to possible measures of economy or curtailment that might be undertaken by the city . Such measures as may ultimately be found to be important or necessary must naturally be initiated by the city officials , who are the only ones familiar with the whole structure of the city 's financial and construction program . Therefore , any public report to the effect that the members of the banking group have stipulated a change In the city 's subway fare or in the city 's social and charitable service is wholly without foundation . And this point should be made clear that , in case that it should appear that the investment market and banking channels are unable to supply the full extent of the city 's present proposed program of expenditure , it will be for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City Administration , as to what retrenchments can best be made in the city 's program . Further intimation that New York City banking institutions have been exacting for the city unusual rates of interest , or have been laying down specific conditions or restrictions , or have been refusing reasonable credit facilities is equally unwarranted . The facts are that the city has today outstanding $140,000,000 in short-term indebtedness , arranged in large measure by the New York City banks , no small portion of which rests in the portfolios of those banks . The total sum of New York City 's shortterm debt is not so large as to be alarming , - but the amounts shortly due are substantial . In addition , requirements for capital expenditures and for the budget are great . This situation naturally emphasizes the positive need for such a degree of public confidence in the prudent administration of the city 's affairs as will warrant steady and satisfactory absorption by the investment public of the city 's obligations . Mayor Walker and his associates undoubtedly realize that New York City , like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporations , must undertake measures of strict economy and , especially in these times , must proceed on a more restrained and orderly development of its construction programs ; must make every effort , wherever possible , to transform existing enterprises which today are not selfsupporting into ones that carry themselves and thus take a heavy burden off the city 's budget . The New York banking community generally is deeply interested in the maintenance of the city 's high credit . It must naturally count upon the continued cooperation of investors as well , and if all these groups can be assured of a thoroughly cooperative and constructive attitude by the ' administration of the city , of a determination by the Mayor to exercise his great constitutional powers for the prudent handling of the city 's affairs , then there will be ample cause for confidence as to solution ' of the city 's pending problems . Although the statement issued by the banking group denied that ' any demand had been made upon Mayor Walker or other city officials for a change of fare policy as a condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source that the fare question was raised  --  and in emphatic fashion  --  during the informal discussion in Controller Berry 's office last Tuesday . The head of one of the city 's largest banking houses , when pressed by Mayor Walker to be specific in a reference to placing revenue-producing enterprises on a self-sustaining basis , asserted unequivocally that he was talking about the rapid transit situation . Despite the efforts of another of the banking delegation to close the discussion , it persisted . Finally John H. Delaney , chairman of the Board of Transportation , who was present , together with Aldermanic President Joseph V. and Charles F. Kerrigan , assistant to Mayor Walker , launched into a vigorous defense of the 5-cent-fare policy , both as to existing and new lines . It is literally true , however , that no formal demand was made that a change of fare policy would be a condition of banking cooperation . Among those who attended the conference last Tuesday were Mr. Lamont and Mr. Mitchell . Mayor Walker voiced his complete willingness to cooperate with the banking group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared his confidence that it would warrant the loan desired . He also gave his assurance that every possible economy that could be exercised without detriment to public welfare would be put into effect immediately . At the conference with department heads today Mayor Walker plans to call upon his subordinates for sharp retrenchment wherever possible . They will be asked to outline their plans for the year , in the order of importance , and will be asked to abandon or defer those which can be put aside without positive injury to the public . Mayor Walker 's conference with his aides will be behind closed doors , it was indicated . There is a possibility that Controller Berry , if he attends , will urge that a $25,000,000 saving be made by changing to fiftyyear bonds the four-year subway construction bonds now held in the city 's sinking funds Such a move will be opposed by Mayor Walker and Mr. Delaney and has little chance of success .                     