@@700852

txt As the gray dawn was breaking over the Adriatic at 6 o'clock this morning amid the thunder of guns from ships and forts and the ringing of dozens of church bells , the body of King Alexander was brought back to his native land at Split . That city with its 45,000 inhabitants awakened , and the streets filled with the murmur of hushed voices as the populace came to pay its last homage to the King by marching past the body . In narrow alleys and on broad quays men , women and children ? peasants , prosperous townsmen , weather-beaten Croat women and Sokol members in picturesque jackets braided with black  --  had patiently awaited the arrival of the funeral ship . Planes Escort Ship . Before dawn even began to touch the tops of the mountains ships had slipped softly from their anchorage to greet the Yugoslav destroyer Dubrovnik bearing the body of the King . Shortly before 6 o'clock the first gun announced the destroyer had been sighted . Five squadrons of airplanes flying black streamers flew out to give the ship an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soldiers in gray uniforms and French-type steel helmets , admiralty officials and Orthodox priests in elaborate robes were standing . At 6 A. M. Prince Arsene reached the quayside , and five minutes later the Dubrovnik arrived . Amid dead silence , without the clanging of a single bell or the shouting of a single order , the ship came to the quay with the coffin of the King , draped by the Yugoslav flag . On the cbffin was the officer 's kepi and sword that King Alexander was wearing when he was assassinated . On the deck the officers and crew of the Dubrovnik stood rigidly at attention . From the hills re-echoed the thunder of guns . Bells began to ring , and airplanes were droning . Then the commander of the ship landed and saluted Prince Arsene , who with Ministers and other officials boarded the Dubrovnik . The coffin was opened and they gazed on the features of their dead King . They signed a document certifying to the commander of the cruiser that they had received the King 's body from his hands . Officers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthem was played , and twelve naval officers lifted the coffin from the black bier on which it rested and carried it down a prepared ramp , where Orthodox priests escorted it up the steps to the catafalque . Behind the priests were acolytes , singing , and others carried plates in the form of a cross as a symbol of the resurrection . Others I carried ikons . Behind the coffin I came an aged servant of King ' Alexander . As far as the eye could see along the shores were black masses drawn up in military formation , awaiting word to begin the march past the coffin . The reverence of those who had waited up half the night to see the spectacle was a marvelous sight . Thousands silently filed past , the women all carry ing flowers , if only a few wild flowers gathered from the Dalmatian hills . Many women were red-eyed and sobbing . Here and there men also lost their composure , but for the most part the men were steely eyed with set jaws . A group of old Comitajis. with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gleams of vengeance in their eyes . At 10 A. the procession concluded , and military officers carried the coffin to the train . Your correspondent was able to travel along the , funeral route from Split to Zagreb immediately ahead of the royal train . When the coffin reached the Split railway station it was met there by a detachment of the Royal Bodyguard in their picturesque uniforms ? gold and scarlet tunics , bright blue breeches and Russian booth . Two companies of Sokol members wearing tunics and cloaks were drawn up in formation . The coffin was reverently lifted and placed in the black funeral coach . On either side of the sliding doors a large white cross was displayed . The coach doors were left open throughout the journey so that peasants along the route between Split and Zagreb could see the coffin . Two priests prayed continuously throughout the fifteen-hour journey and six officers of the bodyguard stood on both sides of the coffin with their swords drawn rigidly at attention . They and the priests were the only persons visible , as the blinds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and officials were closely drawn from the beginning to the end of the journey . Outside the sun shone brightly . but within the train the highest Personages of Yugoslavia rode hour after hour in funeral gloom . One hundred thousand candles tied with black crepe , some as tall as a man and others little more than tapers , lined the route as the train passed through the countryside of his native land . The candles were held by peasants of all ages in a bewildering variety of national costumes . The railway line climbs ' grindingly up from the sea level and crosses a barren plateau where habitations are few and villages almost nonexistent . Yet wherever there was a house there stood a family in the glaring sun patiently waiting until their dead King should be brought past them . The devotion of the toiling thousands was a moving spectacle . Old men with swarthy , furrowed faces , heroes of forgotten battles of the wars of liberation against the Turks , stood shouldering their elaborately inlaid muskets . For many miles in the more populous areas men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black bodices and brightly colored handwoven aprons , stood patiently waiting . As the slow-moving funeral train approached school children scattered flowers before it and crossed themselves . and women wept . In the bigger stations companies of troops with military bands were drawn up among the inhabitants . When the train stopped for a moment priests came forward to bless the coffin . troops presented arms and bands played the national anthem and funeral marches . In Gradacac there were detachmeats of King Alexander 's comrades-in-arms of the World War , their eyes remaining dry but their lips twitching , and here and there I shoulders moved convulsively as the body of their warrior King passed . Not all the peasants were dry- I eyed as the train came into view . In past years these men of Croatia have been hardened by the struggle that goes on with them from the cradle to the grave to glean a living from the rocky soil and they had stubbornly resisted the King 's policies , but today , at least , they seemed to feel that death had sealed all wounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man whose vigorous right arm had sheltered them from the foreign enemies to whom they felt themselves exposed today . As darkness fell the scene became more impressive . Against the blackening sky great mountain peaks were outlined , while along the route as far as one could see there were candles and tapers lighting up houses and stations as the train slowly passed . The train was two hours late in arriving at Zagreb . ? Here in the capital of " rebellious Croatia " the huge square outside the railway station and all streets leading to it were black with reverent crowds . To the thunder of guns from the Zagreb fortress , the ringing of church bells and the playing of the national anthem by military bands , the royal train slowly pulled into the railway station while hundreds stood hatless on the platform . The locomotive was draped in black and beside the royal arms were the famous last words of King Alexander . " Look after Yugoslavia . " A group of high State officials came forward to lift the coffin and carry it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arsene was the only family mourner . He followed the coffin into the hall . All the time bands were playing funeral pieces . The shouts of people . " Glory to him ! " were mingled with the sobs of women . Women fainted and were carried out . Prominent Croatian women , all dressed in mourning , had great bouquets . which they laid on the catafalque . As soon as the body had been placed on the catafalque , a great procession of mourners began . It will last the whole night , and until 1 P. M .. when the train is scheduled to leave for Belgrade .                     