@@703978

txt While the representatives of the United Mine Workers and operators of the Appalachian conference were unable yesterday to break the deadlock in their tnegotiations ; despite President Roosevelt 's peremptory demand that they do so without delay , developments in the negotiations early this morning assured the country of substantial relief from the coal shortage arising from1the situation . The United Mine Workers agreed to call off the strike outside the Appalachian area , in the region west of Ohio to the Pacific , representing a total production of 126,000,000 tons of bituminous annually . John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , announced at 2:45 this morning , upon adjournment of the conference with the coal owners , that instructions would be issued forthwith to the union 's district organizations outside the Appalachian area to sign new contracts with the owners . Resumption Likely Monday The strike outside the Appalachian area was called on May 4 and 5 in support of the 320,000 Appalachian miners made idle by the expiration of the Appalachian agreement on April 1 . Resumption of work outside the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relieve to a great extent the coal shortage confronting railroads , industries and public utilities . Coincident with Mr. , Lewis 's announcement , Dr. John R. Steelman , chief/ of the United States Conciliation Service , who has been trying to bring the conflicting parties together , and participated throughout yesterday 's negotiations , which were at the Hotel Biltmore , made known a proposal by the government affecting the Appalachian stoppage . He announced that the government will ask such companies and associations in the Appalachian conference as are in agreement with the union 's demands for a union shop or lifting of the penalty . ; lause in the proposed agreement to sign separate contracts with the anion and begin operations immediately " in order to relieve the ; rave crisis facing the nation . " Meanwhile negotiations with opa  --  ators who refuse to sign separate agreements will be continued by the union . The negotiations with the ) perators will be resumed at 4 P. M. today . The proposal was regarded as a ) low at the Appalachian conference ) f the operators as such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One hundred and twenty thou ; and miners are expected back at work outside the Appalachian area ) 3r Monday . Convening at the Hotel Biltmore , where their sessions have been held ; ince March 14 , subcommittees of ; he miners and owners had gone wer yesterday the points that livide them without having made my progress toward the objective ; et for them by the nation 's Chief Executive . President Roosevelt had lemanded that the conferees present to him by last night a plan by which the mines would be reopened immediately . Indications from official sources vere that failure to agree , at least , o the extent of reopening the nines pending further negotiations , vould bring drastic government ac.ion . President 's Step Awaited It was learned that , if the miners Ind operators did not present a ) ositive reply to the President by , his morning , he might go on the ? adio and lay the situation before . he people , preparatory to other steps designed to reopen the mines . : n his conference with the disputants at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ le was determined to avert the ? apidly advancing emergency arisng from the coal stoppage . The first intimation of drastic acion by the State ' Affected by the Itoppage in the Appalachian mines Ind the strike in other regions : ante from Kentucky when Covertor A. B. Chandler declared " the teople of Kentucky and the nation rave become weary of this controversy , " and announced that he vould send National Guardsmen in , o Harlan County on Monday if no Lgreement had been signed by that time for the Appalachian region . The Appalachian agreement serves as a model for the rest of the bituminous area . Governor Chandler declared the troops he would bring into action would have " instructions to give protection to every citizen of Harlan County who desires to work in the mines upon terms and conditions acceptable to him and his employers . " The Governor described " the miners and their families and all labor in allied industries " left idle by the mining shutdown as " innocent victims of rivalry between two major labor factions in this country . " Chandler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mine union and the operators with respect to wages , working hours and working conditions , " the Governor said . " The whole controversy is a demand for ' closed shops ' or elimination of penalty clauses to prohibit illegal strikes , both of which are aimed at keeping American Federation of Labor miners from the mines and both of which are being insisted upon by John L. Lewis and the C. I. 0 . " This controversy is of no interest to the public , although society is seriously jeopardized by the controversy . The position taken by John L. Lewis , as spokesman for the C. I. 0. , would force every coal miner in America to join his union and pay dues to it or be refused work . It is my considered judgment that the people of Kentucky and the nation are not in sympathy with this demand . It violates the American principle of freedom . " Reports from Harlan County said all was quiet there yesterday . Governor Chandler declared Harlan officials had requested that troops be sent in , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Governor 's statement concerning the merits of the coal controversy referred to the conflict being waged against the United Mine Workers , key union of the C. I. 0. , by the Progressive Miners of America , A. F. of L. affiliate . Mr. Lewis 's demand for what he calls the " union shod , " referred to by the operators as the " closed shop , " or the alternative of elimination of the penalty clause from the proposed new agreement , has been explained as motivated by a desire to strengthen the position of the United Mine Workers against encroachments by the Progressive Miners and other organizations . Governor Chandler said " about 700 " National Guardsmen would be sent to patrol the Harlan coal fields , scene of many violent labor outbreaks , and that State highway patrolmen on duty there would be withdrawn . " Other troops will be available to go in if necessary , " he added . The Governor made public a letter from Harlan County Judge C. E. Ball , declaring 75 per cent of the miners " are facing starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation is beyond control of the county ( ) Metals " and that reopening of the mines " would mean trouble and bloodshed unless we have soldiers in sufficient number to keep order . " The meeting of the miners and operators at the Hotel Biltmore was followed closely by Dr. John R. Steelman , chief of the United States Conciliation Service , who has been trying to mediate the dispute as the representative of Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins . Dr. Steelman took a direct part in the proceedings , assisted . by James F. Dewey , another Federal conciliator . Miss Perkins was in close touch with the negotiations from Washington and kept President Roosevelt informed of the situation . The miners , headed by Mr. Lewis , and the operators , whose spokesman is Charles O'Neill of New York , president of the Eastern Sales Coal Company , opened their meeting at 10 A. M. , adjourning for lunch and reconvening shortly after 2 P. M. Part of the time was devoted to joint sessions , broken by caucuses of the two groups , with Dr. Steelman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the President 's statement to the joint conferees yesterday , my position in the conference today is one of imperatively demanding a solution of this situation within the time limit set , " Dr. Steelman declared as the day 's meeting began . He said he was determined to keep the conferees in constant session . Meanwhile negotiations for a new agreement in the anthracite industry continued at the Engineering Societies Building , 29 West Thirtyninth Street , with Major W. W. Inglis acting as chairman of the operators ' committee and Thomas Kennedy , secretary-treasurer of the United Mine Workers , as chief spokesman for the miners .                     