@@700247

txt After Aeking in a long conference with British representatives for a way to resuscitate the Disarmament Conference , Foreign Minister Joseph , Paul-Boncour of France said tonight the two governments no longer were agreed on how to handle the problem of German arms demands . As the disarmament deadlock seemed more nearly complete than at any time since Germany left the Geneva council a month ago , the United States arms delegates were invited to explain in a meeting to-1 morrow their attitude toward the outline which Sir John Simon , the , British Foreign Secretary , gave on I prospects a month ago when Germany quit . M. Paul-Boncour reported that France would stand by the accords already reached , and said he par- I ticularly favored the declaration of I Sir John on Oct. 14 regarding a draft convention . This statement provided for a trial period of five or eight years during which there would be a substantial measure of disarmament among heavily armed powers and the achievement of the principle of equality . Concession Plan Reported . It was reported that the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " for Germany . The American position was understood to be that nobody chose Sir John to speak for the other powers at the Oct. 14 meeting of the conference , although the Americans agreed to the principles of his declaration . In an official communiqu ? it was announced that Arthur Henderson , president of the conference , would confer tomorrow with representatives of the United States , Great Britain , France and Italy , which were among the powers for which Sir John spoke . In the conference between M. Paul-Boncour and Sir John today their task was made difficult because of Germany 's absence and Italy 's aloofness . A meeting of German , French , Italian and British representatives at some place other than Geneva , however , remained a possibility in the attempts to proceed with arms conversations from the ; point at which they were disrupted last month by the Reich 's withdrawal . Sir John Simon and M. PaulBoncour held a long conference and then conferred with Mr. Henderson . Afterward the indication was seen that France was apprehensive as to the disarmament concessions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , but which the French believe they can not support . French Position Unchanged . M. Paul-Boncour , at a press conference , said : " The departure of the Germans from the disarmament conference changes nothing in France 's position . We wait to proceed in making a disarmament convention , but on the bases of accords previously reached . However , we are ready to talk . " This was taken to mean that M. Paul-Boncour was apprehensive that Sir John 's return to Geneva would involve Great Britain 's withdrawal from the Paris and Geneva accords . Under these agreements France and Great Britain took a stand against the rearmament of Germany . Afterward Chancellor Hitler of Germany proclaimed his demands for equality and the right to self-defense , and then quit the Geneva parleys . Simultaneously , he declared the League of Nations was " sterile " and indicated a belief that nothing could come from disarmament talks under the aegis of the . League . Italy , too , has revealed a desire to conduct a four-power conference elsewhere than in Geneva . Danger Seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League in the combined German-Italian criticisms . Italy did not send the head of her arms delegation , Baron Pompeo Aloisi , nor her Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs , Fulvio Suvich , but was represented today by the Marquis di Soragna , the second ranking member of the delegation . A plan was talked about , meanwhile , involving a meeting of statesmen , including Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini , either in Rome or Locarno . London also has been mentioned as a possible site for such a gathering . France was understood to be willing to send delegates to Rome if necessary , but a feeling prevailed that the Little Entente nations ( Yugoslavia , Rumania and Czechoslovakia ) might oppose such a move .                     