@@701852

txt It was impossible that the annual convention of newspaper publishers should ignore recent official activities in Washington and elsewhere affecting the integrity and independence of the press . Some of the things done have been startling and scandalous . The facts have been carefully collected and studied by the publishers . They have prepared a report outlining the more flagrant instances of attempting to censor or intimidate newspapers , and will adopt today resolutions covering the various cases . The concrete evidence reveals a series of unlawful encroachments upon fundamental freedoms , including the freedom of the press , which must be resisted in the courts and in the forum of public opinion . The developments as recited and verified seem like a parallel to " The New Despotism " of which Lord Chief Justice HEWART of Great Britain has written so pungently . What he objected to is the dangerous extension of the powers of delegated bodies and agencies of the Government . They assume quasi-judicial authority . They inquire into affairs which do not concern them , and more and more set up the rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods provided by law . Lord Chief Justice HEWART 'S denunciation of British commissions and committees would neatly fit some of the despotic actions of the Communications Commission and committees of Congress in Washington . With some of their attacks upon private individuals and corporations the public has been kept informed . Not so well known has been their unwarranted invasion of the rights of the press . They have prostituted official inquiry to serve political spite and personal grudges . They have not shrunk from the meanest forms of espionage and would-be intimidation . When their acts have been boldly withstood and challenged in the courts , they have often slunk away in secrecy and tried to conceal what they had sought to do . The newspaper publishers meeting in this city call upon all their number to use every lawful means of opposing and defeating these disguised forms of vengeful tyranny and government . Moreover , they urge that suits for civil damages be brought against every agent of the Government or member of Congress who has exceeded his authority in efforts to muzzle or harry newspapers . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they are not too great or powerful to be subject to the law of the land . Newspapers are , of course , also subject to that law . They can be held to trial if they violate the statutes against libel , obscenity or sedition . But they have constitutional rights , which have been sustained again and again by the decisions of our highest courts , in which they must be protected , or set about protecting themselves , at all hazards . Ordinarily , only an exposure of such high-handed efforts to destroy the independence of the press is needed to make an end of them for the time being . But the thing has gone to such lengths lately in Washington that it must be continuously and openly fought . If the matter can early be brought , in one form or another , before the Supreme Court of the United States , there could be no doubt that its decision will clamp the lid down hard on upstarts clothed in a little brief authority who think it possible , under an official guise , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before them .                     