@@702865

txt The capital , appraising Justice Black 's " fireside chat " to the nation , mingled its approval or disapproval today with disappointment that he failed to clear up the principal point in the mystery , as it appears here . There was a desire to learn his motive in keeping silence on the Senate floor while colleagues and friends of years ' standing voted for his confirmation in the belief that he had never been a member of the Ku Klux Klan . In his avowal of past connection with the Klan , accompanied by his declaration of belief in religious and civil rights for all Americans , Mr. Black avoided any reference to his previous silence on the subject , both before and after his appointment to the Supreme bench and his confirmation by the Senate . Among politicians that aspect of the matter has- assumed more importance than the other issues involved . Returning Leaders Silent Most of the Senators who voted for his confirmation appeared to be maintaining a discreetly taciturn attitude . Senator Minton arrived in the Capital today on his return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byrnes , who also returned on the Matihattari as a fellow traveler with Justice , did not stop in Washington on his way home . Some expression of opinion from those Administration leaders had been hoped for here . Among unofficial observers there appeared to be considerable opinion that Mr. Black may have helped his standing with a large part of the public by his radio address . The portion of the public supposed to be impressed was thought to be " the man in the street , " who was represented as admiring the former Senator 's determination to stand on his record in public life as a guarantee that any misdoings of early days had been lived down . Prepare for Ceremony Tomorrow With the radio speech out of the way , interest centered on the scene in which the new Associate Justice will take his seat in the high court on Monday . One of the largest crowds that ever stormed the court 's $11,500,000 marble palace will be at its doors seeking admission long before noon on that day , but the court chamber seats only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his entrance to the court for attention on . Monday . Up to nightfall he had not communicated with court officials on whether he will again take the judicial oath , which he has already sworn at a ceremony in the , office of the Secretary of the Senate on Aug. 19 , the day he received his commission from President Roosevelt . Legally speaking , a repetition of the oath would not lre necessary but it is understood that the new justice will probably conform to court custom , raising his hand as Charles Elmore Cropley , clerk of the court , pronounces the solemn words in open session . There have been few instances in which justices took the judicial oath before arrival at the bench , but it has been done , notably in the case of William Howard Taft . Under ordinary circumstances when a new member of the court appears to take his place he remains seated beside Mr. Cropley until the Chief Justice formally opens the session . To Sit at Right End of Bench In the present instance , Mr. Black would then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewing the justices from the spectators ' seats . After Mr. Hughes 's announcement the usual procedure would be for Mr. Black to rise in his place and take the oath , while the other justices also stood . This ceremony ended , the marshal , Frank Key Green , would escort Mr. Black to his seat , which will be at the extreme right hand of thb bench . To reach his place , he would pass with Mr. Green behind the other justices . Marshal Green received a telei phone message from Mr. Black today , the jurist announcing that he would not visit his new offices before , Monday . Thus far he htls not appeared at the court at all . The question of Mr. Black 's eligibility to occupy a seat in the court will be presented to the tribunal on Monday by Albert Levitt , former Assistant Attorney General . Mr. Levitt bases his motion to deny Mr. Black a seat on the , ground that the justice while in the Senate voted to increase the emoluments of the office he now holds , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as , the motion alleges , Associate Justice Van Devanter is still a member of the Supreme Court . The first charge springs from the contention that the last session of Congress voted voluntary retirement for justices of the Supreme Court , after the age of 70 , with full pay for life . To Press Case Vigorously Mr. Levitt holds that this legislation increased the emoluments of the office , since Supreme Court justices did not formerly have that privilege , - and that the occupancy of a place on the court by Mr. Black or any other member of the Seventy-fifth Congress would violate the constitutional prohibition . The second point in the motion advanced the argument that Mr. Van Devanter 's retirement did not constitute a vacancy on the Supreme Court bench within the meaning of the Constitution or the judicial code . Mr. Van Devanter , in announcing his retirement , wrote President Roosevelt that he had " retired from regular active service , " and the President used the same words in his reply . Presumably , when Mr. Levitt presents the motion the Chief Justice will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the court has a right to take the matter under consideration and decide it later . There are reports that Mr. Levitt proposes to press his motion as vigorously as is possible under the strict procedure of the 150-yearold tribunal . Joseph H. Lieb , political writer and self-styled founder of the first Roosevelt-for-President Club in 1930 , announced today that he intended to ? distribute handbills before the Supreme Court Building on Monday proclaiming Oct. 4 as " Black Day , " to be " mourned each ? year as the blackest day in the-history of American justice . " Debate in Capital Continues By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Oct. ** an uproar such as has seldom preceded the seating of a Supreme Court member , Justice Black waited tonight to take his place as the ninth man on the nation 's highest tribunal . As far as he , personally , was concerned the case made out by critics who attacked his appointment because of his connection with the Ku Klux Klan was closed . Having denied present Klan membership and denounced religious bigotry and race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained today the aloof since of an associate justice . By his own statement he will not break that silence to discuss the Klan issue . Both his friends and foes , however , carried on the wordy dispute which originated in the Senate before his nomination was confirmed . Generally his friends took the position that he had made an adequate explanation of the Klan charges when he said that he had joined the order fifteen years ago , but later had resigned and never rejoined . They expressed hope the controversy would be dropped . Many among those who opposed his appointment insisted their views were not changed by his speech . They continued highly critical , and the impression prevailed that in political campaigns of the coming months and probably in the next session of Congress there would be renewed attacks . Observers speculated whether President Roosevelt would have anything to say on the matter when he returns after his Western trip . He is due back Wednesday . Wife May Stay for Ceremony Friends of Mrs. Black said today that she might delay a projected trip to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on , the court Monday . She has been planning to g. o to Birmingham to get their3-year-old daughter , Josephine , who stayed with relatives while her parents traveled abroad . Five of the other six " Supreme Court wives " are back in the capital and precedent indicated that one or more of them would be in the reserved section- at the court 's opening . Which ones , however , was a matter of speculation . Mrs. Hughes and Mrs. Brandeis have occasionally attended opening sessions , but neither has indicated she will be present Monday . Mrs. Sutherland , an infrequent court visitor , reported that she felt better thansshe had in years when she returned from Scotland with her husband last week . Mrs. Butler is back home here with Miss Margaret Butler , their daughter , after a Summer in Blue Ridge Summit , Pa . Attendance at the formal opening is no ritual with Mrs. Stone , but she may be present . Although Justice Roberts is expected just before the court session , Mrs. Roberts will not return immediately from their home at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Issue Is Expected to Dominate Its First Sessions WASHINGTON , Oct. 2 UP ) . ? The Supreme Court session beginning Monday is an important one on its merits , aside from the overshadowing controversy on the eligibility of Justice Black . More than 400 cases ; some of them vitally affecting administration legislation , are on file . They , include such important parts of Pr ant Roosevelt 's program as the system of granting Federal aid . for municipal power plants , the 1 . Home Owners Loan Corporation , the Tennessee Valley Authority and the 1936 act broadening the regulation of commodity exchanges . For a little while at least , the Black case will dominate the court 's proceedings after the new justice takes his seat at one end of the high bench . During the new eight-month term starting Monday the court will be watched closely for an answer ' to the question whether it will continue to sustain New Deal legislation ? as it did last term  --  or vote against a large number of Roosevelt Administration laws ? as it did before the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court has voted for administration legislation I sixteen times and against it eleven times . Prior to last October , however , the count was two for and eleven against . Last term , following President Roosevelt 's overwhelming re-election , the court sustained administration legislation in fourteen straight cases . Not once did it deliver an adverse opinion in a major dispute . Besides the litigation involving eight New Deal laws already pending before the tribunal , more controversies are on their way from lower courts . In all , more than 450 cases are on file . The pending disputes of greatest interest also involve the legality of sit-down strikes . Except for developments'resulting from the nomination of Justice Black , the first session of the court will be perfunctory . It will meet only briefly to admit attorneys to practice and to receive motions by attorneys for litigants.                     