@@703739

txt Our Economic Policies Investigation of Monopoly Regarded As One of Vital Importance To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : No more important matter than the National Economic Committee 's investigation of monopoly has engaged public attention since the formation of this Republic . The Constitutional Convention dealt with the political side of our national life , while the present inquiry relates to its economic side , which is of equal importance . The committee should have little difficulty in diagnosing the case . Evolution has now proceeded so far that little room for conjecture is left . Private monopoly has arrived . The practical question is , What is to be done about it ? Shall Bryan 's slogan , " Private monopoly is indefensible and intolerable , " be adopted and destructive methods be applied , or shall the " rule of reason " prevail and private monopoly be permitted to function under such rules as may be promulgated by the proper public authority ? Or shall the government enter the economic field , restoring competition and letting the devil take the hindmost in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under private initiative , integrated to the extent that private , monopoly connotes , be operated so as to give the continuity of employment necessary to preserve economic well-being ? Or must it in the future as in the past move intermittently , giving first a feast , then a famine , and in the latter period drive millions to the public treasury to be fed ? Is private monopoly inherently incapable of giving an opportunity to its millions of employes to earn their daily bread , or must it for lack of ability and faith have its business cycles , whatever the privations and sufferings of others may be ? Since continuity of social effort is absolutely essential to social well-being , what can be done to establish this es-sential ? Economic power and political power are the two fundamental powers that underlie and support social operation . Can private monopoly operate to its highest degree of efficiency unless it possesses both ? If private monopoly has acquired these two powers , has it become totalitarian in principle ? The Russian , German - and Italian Governments have arrived at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social activity . Is it possible , then , that the uniting of economic and political powers is of itself an improvement that should be adopted by the democracies of the world ' ? Can this change be made by democratic methods , and if not , why not ? If this fundamental change represents an economic advance , will not international competition compel its adoption either by consent or force ? These are a few of the questions that the National Economic Committee should consider before formulating a. future economic policy for the United States . Their task involves the writing of an economic constitution , which is even more difficult than was that of formulating the political constitution in the formative period of the government . A. F. THOMAS . Lynchburg , Va. , Jan. 2 , 1939 . Our Vocational Schools To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : It is interesting to note in reviewing your editorial " How Good Are Colleges ? " that the report on the colleges of Pennsylvania , issued by the Public Affairs Committee , bears out the contention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women is not always in an institution of higher learning . The Board of Education of New York City , which has realized this for many years , is building a system of vocational high schools to train students in various fields of endeavor . Many students of institutions of higher learning , after graduation , have very little use for their degrees and can not obtain jobs because they have no specialized training . The graduates of vocational high schools , on the other hand , although younger , because of their specialized training , get jobs much more quickly and earn good wages . If more of the students of the country who do not intend to make special use of their degrees after graduation would attend technical business and vocational schools instead of colleges they would get jobs more quickly and they would not waste four years . HERBERT ECKSTEIN . Brooklyn , Jan. 2 , 1939 . For Fewer Holidays To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Reading between the lines of your account of New Year 's Eve results in the midtown section of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that the night clubs and the large hotels are coming to realize that the week-end celebrations commencing on Friday and ending on Tuesday following only tend to bring about an exodus out of town . The influx of out-of-towners to the city does not make up for the loss of patronage , because most of the out-of-towners come to the city with the expectation that the city cousin will spend money , and the cousin with rent day staring him in the face , and the inevitable bills , has to count his money . Every small business man in the city dreads these triple week-end holidays . The automobile is his greatest competitor , and the night clubs and hotels have the radio to contend with as well as the automobile . This New Year 's Eve I attended a house party , had plenty to eat and drink , and when the witching hour arrived we simply turned on the radio and listened and danced to the music of the dance bands that functioned nearly all the early morning . We avoided the crowds and had just as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ club or a hotel , and as this was a Scotch treat , that is , every one attending paid his proportionate share , no one was gouged and every one was satisfied . These triple week-end holidays are of no benefit to middle-class citizens , and the sooner this is realized by the public the better it will be for all . We have altogether too many holidays . If we are to have prosperity in this country , It Is necessary for the people to do more work and play less . P. J. HANNIGAN . New York , Jan. 2 , 1939 . Fears for Columnists Hater of Dictators Is Worried by Idea Writers May All Have to Join Union To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have a friend who has a weak heart and a dislike for newspaper columnists and dictators . Having read in the January issue of Scribner 's that the Newspaper Guild had refused membership to General Hugh Johnson , I took it to my friend with the idea that it might give him some New Year 's cheer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in bed he took the magazine , turned to the marked page . His face paled , and with a shriek , " My God , one more dictator ! " he fell back on his pillow . In a moment he was able to reach for the smelling salts , some of which he spilled on the silk dressing gown I had given him for Christmas . Soon he was able to sit up again . " Do n't you see , " he shouted , " what this means ? Broun is president of the Newspaper Guild . The Guild is trying to force the newspapers into contracts under which no one not a member of the Guild can write for newspapers . " Now , the Guild will not give General Johnson a union card because of what he did once in the past when he was head of the NRA . Good gracious , see where that can lead . Take Krock ; he was once a managing editor . Dave Lawrence once was a newspaper publisher . Kent was also a managing editor once upon a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might dig up on Pegler , on Kieran or Mark Sullivan ? Even Mrs Roosevelt might one day refuse to march in a Guild picket line ? and she might be out . " The poor fellow was quite disturbed . He went on to say that as much as he hated columnists , he could not contribute to a campaign which risked leaving only Broun and those he approved as the columnists of the future . He said that if the abolition movement were to begin with Broun , it might look different . " Ca n't some one do something about it before it is too late , " he shouted . " Another dictator ! Broun as dictator of newspaper columns . I tell you ! " At this point his nurse said I had better go or his heart would give way again . I left his house in sorrow . And today I decided to send you his appeal . E. P. LITRIBUS . New York , Jan. 2 , 1939 . Habits of Opera Audiences To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opera Lover , " I should like to voice an amateur 's comment on our opera habits . Bad manners , even musical illiteracy , seem indicated by vexatious fidgetings of the audience . It might he well to require the audience to be seated and composed five minutes before the start of the opera , for the sake at least of those to whom this is no mere show , but a magnificent emotional experience . In the misuse of applause , however , lies an even greater annoyance . Audiences at the Metropolitan no longer applaud during the action of a Wagner music-drama , but how often can one hear the end of an act , especially the third act , above the noise that breaks forth then ? This , occurring in spite of a notice printed in the program book , seems evidence of rank barbarism . Perhaps a five-minute silent period after the acts might be well too ; applause marring the end of Tristan or Die Goetterdaemmerung , satanic cacophony spoiling those heavenly moments , can hardly be justified . One should note how quickly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pit . DAVID F. TUTTLE JR . New York , Jan. 2 , 1939 . Preventing Icy Crosswalks To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The ice followed by slush that covers the crosswalks regularly after every snowfall could be prevented from forming were the crosswalks to be underlaid near the surface by steam pipes served from the New York Steam Corporation 's mains where they run near by . The cost would be insignificant compared with the resulting benefits to the pedestrians ' safety and comfort . FREDERICK PHILLLPB . New York , Dec. 28 , 1938.                     