@@698569

txt With recovery of business waiting for the consumer to return to the market , the nations of the world continue to make it more difficult to buy each other 's goods . During 1930 there were six general tariff revisions upward in Europe , nineteen limited revisions and five general revisions in South America , in addition to the enactment of the Hawley-Smoot act in the United States . A review of developments in 1931 has just been published by the Department of Commerce . Not only have tariff rates been increased still further in many countries , but quota limitations , exchange controls and gold embargoes have added to the difficulties of international trade . The irony of this situation is that nations often have sound reasons to take action advantageous at the moment which is certain to injure their own interests in the long run . The case of almost any South American State is typical . The prosperity of nearly all of these nations depends in large part upon the export of a ' single product , such as coffee , copper , nitrates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fallen calamitously since 1929 and tariffs in foreign nations have increased . A balance of trade which has hitherto been favorable in many cases is accordingly reversed . Nations whose exports have been cut severely , both in bulk and value , are no longer able to meet payments on their foreign debts in goods . To even the balance gold begins to leave the-country . At this point , in order to protect a dwindling reserve , the Government steps in with an embargo on the export of precious metal , with a system of exchange control , a quota OE imported gools , or all three . Osten . sibly it is forced to take this action in defense of its own interests . But by placing additional barriers in the path of foreign trade it discourages other nations from buying its own goods and thereby complicates the problem it set out to solve . For , as the present review of the Department of Commerce points out , " under the highly interdependent " world economic system of today " the repercussions of trade-control " measures or financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to lead to similar or " defensive reactions on the part of " other countries . " It is the weakness of our own position that , at a time when our own gold reserve was steadily increasing and our balance of trade was highly favorable , we helped start the rest of the world on this upward spiral of tariffs and restrictions . The experience has been costly . President HOOVER said as a candidate in 1928 , in an address in Boston , that " our total volume of ex " ports , translates itself into employ " ment for 2,400,000 families . " Since then our exports have declined 50 per cent in value . If Mr. HOOvEtt 'S estimate in 1928 was right , 1,200,000 families can now trace their present misfortunes to our loss of foreign trade . Some measure of responsibility for this loss can fairly be attributed to the Hawley-Smoot tariff .                     