@@702884

txt The A. F. of L. convention took steps toward peace with the C. I. 0. , approving a parley in a telegram criticizing the rival group . Green , re-elected , received more power to deal with " emergency . " An industrial charter plea was rejected at the session in Denver . Page 1 . Leaders of the C. I. 0 . had no comment to make last night on the new A. F. of L. proposal , but are expected to act upon it today at their Atlantic City conference . Yesterday 's session , which heard a report that the drive to unionize the Ford Motor Company was being pressed vigorously , adopted a program of State labor legislation , demanded investigation of vigilante movements , backed farm legislation and laid plans for support of the Brooklyn Eagle strike . Page 7 . Federation Acts for Peace By LOUIS STARK Special to Tr= Nzw YORK TIMES . DENVER , Oct. ** American Federation of Labor took a step of its own today toward peace in the union ranks by sending a proposal for negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's suggestion for a parley to discuss terms under which the rival groups could end . their feud . The C. I. 0 . ' s message , received Tuesday , suggested that each side name a committee of 100 to draft peace terms . The federation 's counter-proposal agreed to enlarge the A. F. of L. executive council 's three-man ' standing committee to a " reasonable " size , but held 100-man committees " impracticable . " The convention unanimously voted for the proposal , after re-electing President Green and all other officers , And in the form of a telegram prepared by the council 's committee , it was sent at once to the C. I. 0 . delegates at Atlantic City . Today 's action apparently revived the possibility of a peace conference which had been quashed by Mr. Green on Tuesday . At that time the held the C. I. 0 . offer " insincere " and as bearing all the earmarks of " propaganda . " While the exchange of telegrams between the C. I. 0 . and the A. F. of L. appear to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position , the next move is up to the group headed by John L. Lewis . It is regarded as possible that further exchanges may take place in the coming weeks so that a closer accommodation of minds may be reached before a peace conference is actually inaugurated . " Middle of the road " groups here are hopeful that in the end peace may result . The more pessimistically inclined feel that what they refer to as the " extremists " on both sides are not yet ready for peace and , until the " rank and file " of labor compels its leaders to get together , they will not do so . In the telegram by Mr. Morrison the Lewis organization was criticized for its claims of achievement , which were held to be " fulsome praise , " and criticized for its " equally contemptuous " reference to the accomplishments of the A. F. of L. These remarks were held to be " unwarranted and unjustified . " After asserting that the procedure proposed by the C. I. 0 . was impractical , the message stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the C. I. 0 . unions would again want to return to the parent body and for this reason the federation welcomed the C. I. 0 . ' s " changed attitude . " " If it be urged that the committees selected for the purposes hereinbefore indicated should be enlarged , " the message continued , " our executive council stands ready and willing to enlarge our committee to a reasonable number as circumstances may require . " " Prior Commitment " Banned The federation preferred to regard . the suggestion of a. joint committee of 200 as " an initial method of approach " by the C. I. 0 . It was argued that " mass " negotiating committees could not handle the problems . The message also voiced willingness to have the federation stand-. ing committee meet a C. I. 0 . committee " without prior commitment and for the purpose of reuniting the forces of labor under the banner of the A. F. of L. and under such terms and conditions and policies and procedures as may be agreed to and prove acceptable to all . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitution proposed by the Street Car Men 's Union granting the executive council power to issue industrial union charters . Daniel J. Tobin of the Teamsters Union and chairman of the law committee , said his committee was opposed to the amendment . Isidore Lederman of the Pocketbook Workers Union asserted he was " amazed " that the law committee could oppose the proposal after so many speakers had declared the federation believed in industrial unionism . Green Cites Constitution By rejecting the amendment , said Mr. Lederman , the convention would repudiate every action it had taken on the C. I. 0. , would throw away its slogan that the internal fight was " democracy vefrsus minority rule , " and would really admit that it had no intention of chartering industrial unions . Mr. Green said there was a " misunderstanding , " since another section of the constitution stated that a. charter could not be granted to any national union until a clear definition of its jurisdiction had been made and assurance was given that the new union would not trespass on the territory of other already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use its discretion in , issuing charters and would decide / in each case how broad an applicant union 's territory might be . Such discretion , he added , had been used in chartering the automobile and / pocketbook workers ' unions . ' Before the industrial union discussion the delegates adopted a series of constitutional amendments centralizing further authority in the hands of the president and the executive council . President 's Power Is Increased These amendments , proposed by the executive council itself , empowered the president to discipline State federations , city central bodies and Federal labor - unions ; to suspend or revoke their charters , to expel members and to remove officers subject to an appeal to the executive council and the federation convention . The president was authorized to take charge of all funds and properties of the State , city and Federal unions when necessary . Urging a grant of further authority , Mr. Green explained that a C. I. 0 . officer in one of the A. F. of L. federal unions had caused funds to be transferred and it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasize the autonomous character of the affiliated unions , presented by the International Typographical Union , were defeated after W. R. Trotter of that organization had warned the delegates that , by centralizing power , they were changing the structure of the A. F. of L. Replying to Mr. Trotter , President Green pointed out that the council would have power to revoke charters only if the convention by a twothirds vote directed it to do so . The executive council , said Mr. Green , had been confronted by an emergency- and had asked for authority to meet it . He denied that any of the powers delegated to the council would make it autocratic or dictatorial . Speech Goes to La Follette The convention agreed to send the speech made yesterday by Joseph Ozanic of the Progressive Miners of America to the La Follette Civil Liberties Committee for investigation . Mr. Ozanic had made charges of lawlessness against the United Mine Workers of America . Mr , Green 's election was his thirteenth . He was named president by the executive council on the death of Samuel Gompers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following year and at every convention since . Mr. Morrison , again chosen secretary , will begin his forty-first year in the post . The following vice presidents were re-elected : Frank Duffy , first ; T. A. Rickert , second ; Matthew Woll , I third ; John Coefield , fourth ; Arthur 0 . Wharton , fifth ; Joseph N. Weber , sixth ; G. M. Bugniazet , seventh ; George M. Harrison , eighth ; Daniel J. Tobin , ninth ; Harry C. Bates , tenth ; Edward J. Gainor , eleventh , W. D. Mahon , twelfth ; Felix H. Knight , thirteenth ; George E. Browne , fourteenth , and Edward Fiore , fifteenth . Houston was chosen as the convention city for 1938 . , The convention - wig conclude its deliberations tomorrow ,                     