@@700851

txt China undertook tonight to offset the silver buying policy of ? the United States with a 10 per cent tax on all silver exports from China , effective Oct. 15 . H. H. Kung , nationalist government Finance Minister , emerged from a twenty-four-hour conference with Chinese and foreign advisers to announce the action . The provisions of the tax were made flexible and were expected to be subject to change as necessary to restrain silver exports within limits required by the balance of payments . The nationalist government 's decision followed receipt of the United States reply to a recent note from China pleading for cooperation in maintaining silver prices and halting the drain of silver from China . The United States ' answer , offering a measure of cooperation , but pointing out that the United States silver program was deemed mandatory by President Roosevelt , failed to satisfy the Chinese . The Chinese diminished silver reserves were facing huge new reduction during the next forty-eight hours . Exports of silver had reached ever-increasing amounts with higher prices in recent days . Consignments aggregating 520,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for America and London during the next few days. ? The government 's action was timed to . halt . a major portion of future consignments , although a few million dollars ' worth of silver was rushed past the custom 's before the order could become effective . this will be allowed to depart . The nationalist government 's announcement follows : " In view of the undue rise in silver , out of relation to the level of general commodity prices , the nationalist government , in order to safeguard China 's economic interests and protect its currency , has fixed a customs duty on exports of silver eff%tive Oct. 15 , as follows : " On silver dollars and mint bars , , 10 per cent less 214 per cent minting charge : i. e. , V.1 per cent net . " On other forms of silver , 10 per cent ( in lieu of 2V1 per cent previously charged ) . " In addition , an equalization charge will be imposed upon exports of silver equal to the deficiency , if any exists , between the theoretical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed by the Central Bank of China after making allowance for the export duty . " Finance Minister Kung issued the following statement : " There is no reason to expect that forces which have been stimulating the price of silver abroad will soon cease to operate . Therefore the government , out of regard for the economic welfare of the people of China , have taken this measure as necessary to safeguard China 's currency from a potentially dangerous strain on the country 's monetary reserves and to place a check upon the harsh deflationary forces which have been reflected in falling internal prices . " The measure has been determined upon after most careful consideration of various proposals for meeting the emergency and after full consultation with leaders of ' business and finance . Among these proposals an embargo has most frequently been suggested . The government considers , however , that an embargo should not be imposed . It prefers a flexible duty that will restrain the exports of silver within limits actually required by the balance of payments . " Mr. Kung gave assurance that the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by stabilizing the situation permit legitimate business to proceed with renewed confidence . He said the possibility of reducing the silver content of the dollar had never been considered . A lively reaction was anticipated upon Shanghai markets as a result of the restrictions . Government financial experts predicted a sharp depreciation in Chinese dollars in relation to foreign exchanges , necessitating a general readjustment of market values and price levels . , A cheap American dollar was conI sidered probable once more . Chinese Exporters Pleased . Chinese exporters were jubilant , hoping for a revival of export trade which has fallen in recent months because of high silver prices coupled with cheap foreign currency . Through the sliding silver export tax the Government hoped to stabilize the Chinese dollar at a low level . Mr. Kung and three American fiscal advisers were near exhaustion ? when they emerged from long conferences . The American advisers , who play an important role in the formulation of the Nationalist Government 's silver policy , are Arthur N. Young , Los Angeles economist , who has been adviser to the Nationalist Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lynch . Regardless of its other effects , China 's new deal in silver was regarded by Americans as a boon , for persons living here will get more silver dollars for their United States currency .                     