@@703327

txt If banking is to remain in private hands , it must meet the credit needs of the country . Jesse H. Jones , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corp .. declared yesterday at a meeting of the United States Chamber of Commerce . However , the RFC head placed a part of the blame for what be termed the banks ' lack of energy and wisdom on the stand-pat policies of supervisory authorities . Mr. Jones called attention of the convention delegates to the pending legislation in Congress to have the government take over the Federal Reserve Banks . " Whatever the outcome . it is a live subject , " he asserted . Upon being asked if the RFC or some similar government lending agency would be necessary after the expiration of the R.F.C 's present lending authority on June 30. 1939 , he answered , " I am afraid so , although our demand had fallen off to such an extent that the President directed us to quit lending last October . It is our purpose to withdraw from the lending field as soon as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Competitors Banks generally have not been particularly wise or energetic in meeting the credit needs of the country , Mr. Jones told the group . " Otherwise , " he said , " we would not have the great number of credit companies , factoring companies , finance companies , private and governmental . Upon the whole , the banker has not kept pace with changing credit requirements . This is probably due in part to bank supervision . These authorities , operating largely as they have always operated , and without recognizing the necessity for longer time bank credit of a different character , have discouraged the banks . " If a business enterprise needs medium or long-term credit , Mr. Jones said , and can give sound value as security for the loan , based upon a going country , it is his banker 's responsibility to provide the credit , so long as it is within the convenient ability of the bank to provide it " Loans of this character should have definite amortizations , reasonably within the projected ability of the borrower to pay , and such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be participated in by corresponding banks , this is a good way to divide or diversify risks , and we always have the federal reserve , " he added . Resumed Lending February 18 Since the RFC resumed lending on February 18 , Mr. Jones told the Chamber , the agency has approved $20,400,000 in loans to business and industry and , in addition , it has over 2,600 applications , aggregating about $55,000,000 . Regarding loans to utilities by the RFC , Mr. Jones said that the agency was " not unmindful " of the controversy between the government and some utility companies . " These difficulties will ultimately be adjusted " , he said . " In the meantime there is no desire on the part of government to hamper any properly operated utility by making it difficult for it to secure credit . " Mr. Jones said that he had had no applications or interested inquiries from investment banking houses in response to the RFC 's offer to assist in underwriting security issues of sound value . He declared that the agency was willing to lend for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country promoted . " Our thought in this respect ' is that the available capital of investment banking houses may not be sufficient to meet the demands on any upturn in business , and if we can be helpful we want to be . " Chicagoan Defends Bankers Position Defense of the private banker 's present day position was made by Edward E. Brown , president of the First National Bank of Chicago , who asserted that " banks are anxious to assist in restoring the flow of private capital into industry . " He was particularly critical of powers to limit by regulation loans and investments of certain types . Mr. Brown mentioned five ways in which banks could be of assistance to the capital market . These ways , he said , are aside from loaning money to the government by purchasing its obligations , and then having the government use the proceeds to engage in industry directly , or re-loan them to private industry , and the origination , underwriting and distribution of investment securities , which was prohibited by the Banking Act of 1933 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These are the loans which bankers like best , which the law and supervising authorities prefer them to have , and which they can not get in any volume . " He said that complaints have been made that small businesses entitled to credit can not get such short term loans but that this is not the case . Regarding another complaint that banks are too strict in their credit requirements on short term loans , he said this is a matter of opinion , which can not be proved . Second , he said he believed that banks can do very little additional beyond what they are now doing in freeing capital for industry by financing directly , or through finance companies , consumer credit which otherwise industry must carry . Supplying Much Capital Today Third , he said that banks are today supplying capital to industry to an extent that is not generally relized by making direct capital loans maturing serially over a period of years . " This is a development of the last four years and one which is steadily expanding and is capable of much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a perfectly sound method by which banks of deposit can provide large additional amounts of capital for Industry . " Fourth , banks invest portions of their funds in marketable bonds of private corporations . Mr. Brown said . However , regulations have severely restricted the banks in the type of investment securities they can buy , he added . Fifth , he said , " While experience shows that the investment of banks ' funds in equity securities is dangerous to the banking structure , experience also shows that loans on marketable equity securities , in other words , stocks , properly diversified , are both a safe and liquid type of investment for a , bank . " On this point he said that if banks are willing and arc permitted to loan money freely on marketable stocks , the investing public and " that portion of the public which likes to speculate " will purchase more marketable stocks than they other . wise would . " And to the extent that their funds are loaned on stocks , just to that extent the banks are providing euity capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called in a group of leading private bankers to ask their opinion on prospective changes in federal bank examining practices . Included in the group of bankers were T. J. Coolidge , former Undersecretary of the Treasury and an officer of the First National Bank of Boston , Torn K. Smith , president of the Boatmen 's National Bank of St. Louis , Robert Hanes of the Wachovia National Bank , of Winston-Salem , Joseph Broderick , president of East River Savings Bank , and William White , Super . intendant of Banks in New York . The group discussed for almost two hours the proposed changes in federal bank examining practices which an inter-departmental committee has proposed at the ' request of President Roosevelt .                     