@@702941

txt The United States has sold anywhere up to $150,000,000 of gold to foreign countries in the past month and a half as the result of the movement of foreign capital out of this country , it was believed yesterday in well-informed financial quarters . This revelation came just as outrush of foreign funds responsible for the gold loss halted abruptly . accompanied by a sharp recovery of the dollar in foreign exchange . The loss of such an amount of gold has not been accompanied by a net reduction in the nation 's monetary gold stocks or in the Inactive Gold Fund , It was explained . because the bulk of the metal has come from the undisclosed holdings of the American Stabilization Fund . Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau on Monday revealed that the Stabilization Flint ' , already bad sold all the gold which it had held abroad- under earrnarl .. - ... no foreign demands now must be met out of supplies held in this country . This accomited for the actual shipment of $10.250.600 gold to France which goes out today - on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the heavy sales of gold was found in a comparison of the item " other deposits " in the combined Federal Reserve Bank statements . It is learned on good authority that the bulk of this item consists of the dollar balances held by the American Stabilization Fund . The item has been advancing each week since September 15. rising from $113,000,000 on that date to $228,000,000 on November 3 , an increase of 5115.000.000 . A further heavy increase is looked for this week to substantiate the belief that gold sales have amounted to up to 8150.000.000 . Increase in this deposit item would follow sales of gold held by the Stabilization Fund , it Kai explained . The Fund has received dollars for the metal which it held under earmark abroad and these dollars have been deposited at the Reserve Banks for the account of the American Stabilization Fund . Big as this sum is , it is not surprising . it was indicated in international quarters yesterday . Since early July , for example , there has been a steady liquidation of foreign bank deposits in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having been recorded up to November 3 . In addition , there has been a $33,000,000 drop of deposits held here by foreign central banks in the past month . Neither of these two figures takes into consideration deposit accounts for foreign institutions other than central and private banks Banking quarters reveal , however , that there has been an important shrinkage in such accounts , particularly in the past few days . Dollar Recovers Sharply The decisive reversal of the recent dollar decline , which was particularly pronounced late in the afternoon after the foreign markets were closed , was believed to have been due to two factors . First was a natural reaction following the recent steep advance in local quotations for foreign currencies . The high prices attracted considerable commercial selling in the belief that the technical position of the market made it ripe for a considerable downward move . Second was the improvement in sentiment which followed the sight of actual shipment of gold from this country and realization that the United States Treasury is placing no obstacles in the way of shipments abroad of the yellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to allay foreign fears that the dollar may be cut in value and heavy foreign selling , particularly of sterling and guild-era. was apparent in the local exchange market late in the afternoon . The local foreign exchange market , however , does not believe that the strength which the dollar showed yesterday means that the period of gold loss by this country is at an end . As matters stand now , it is felt that this may be the beginning of a persistent drift of foreign capital out of New York , although probably at a considerably slower pace than witnessed in the past few days .                     