@@699630

txt Mistreatment of Jews in Germany has virtually ceased , according to Secretary of State Hull , who conveyed this information today In telegrams to Dr. Cyrus Adler of Philadelphia and Rabbi Stephen S. Wise of New York , who came to Washington last week to protest against Ger , man treatment of Jews . Mr. Hull said Germans felt that such a far-reaching political read ' justment could not have taken place without soma delay in reaching a state of equilibrium . The situation was improving , he asserted , largely as the result of demands for discipline by Chancellor Hitler and also the reiteration by Vice Chancellor von Papen of the necessity for a cessation of individual depredations . The Secretary of State will continue to watch the situation , he said , but felt hopeful that conditions would soon become normal . Secretary Hull 's Telegram . Secretary Hull 's telegram to Rabbi Wise and Dr. Adler follows : You will remember that at the time of your recent call at the department I informed you that , in view of numerous press statements indicating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request the . Amerlean Embassy at Berlin in consultation with the principal consulates in Germany to investigate the situation and submit a report . A reply has now been received indicating that whereas there was for a short time considerable physical mistreatment of Jews , this phase may be considered virtually terminated . There was also some picketing of Jewish merchandising stores and instances of professional discrimination . These manifestations were viewed with serious concern by the German Government . Hitler , in his capacity as leader of the Nazi party , issued an order calling upon his followers to maintain law and order , to avoid molesting foreigners , disrupting trade , and to avoid the creation of possibly embarrassing international incidents . Later , von Papen delivered a speech at Breslau in which he not only reiterated Hitler 's appeals for discipline but abjured the victors of the last election not to spoil their triumph by unworthy acts of revenge and violence which could only bring discredit upon the new regime in foreign countries . As a result , the embassy reports that the au- thority of the regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany that following so far-reaching a political readjustment as has recently taken place , some time must elapse before a state of equilibrium could be re-established . In the opinion of the embassy , such a stabilization appears to have been reached in the field of personal mistreatment , and there are indications that in other phases the situation is improving . I feel hopeful , in view of the reported attitude of high German officials and the evidences of amelioration already indicated , that the situation , which has caused such widespread concern throughout this country , will soon revert to normal . Meanwhile , I shall continue to watch the situation closely , with a sympathetic interest and with a desire to be helpful in whatever way possible . CORDELL HULL , Secretary of State . that we are moved by no feeling of unfriendliness or ill will to the German nation . Our concern is for the security of the Jews of Germany and the safeguarding of their human and political rights . STEPHEN S. WISE , Honorary President . BERNARD S. DEUTSCH , President . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Jewish Congress , through its officers , announced last night that the organization had replied to Secretary Hull 's telegram . The text of the reply was as follows : In the name of the American Jewish Congress we wish to thank you for your prompt report on the situation in Germany , which confirms our fears that there has been " considerable physical mistreatment of Jews , picketing of Jewish merchandising stores , and instances of professional discrimination . " The American Jewish Congress notes your statement that Hitler " has issued an order calling upon his followers to maintain law and order , to avoid molesting foreigners , disrupting trade and to avoid the creation of possibly embarrassing international incidents . " We are deeply grateful for your assurances that you will continue to watch the situation closely with a sympathetic interest . For we feel that , in view of the official program of the Nazi party and its record of thirteen years disseminating hatred against the Jewish people , the Jews of Germany are in great and imminent jeopardy of life and property , of civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish citizens of Germany is safeguarded and the position of the non-national Jews is secured , the enlightened opinion of America must watch with profoundest anxiety the development of events in Germany . May we repeat what we emphasized in the course of our visit to the State Department , namely ,                     