@@701474

txt Sir ARTHUR SALTER 'S discussion , in the current Foreign Affairs , regarding the practical possibilities of international stabilization of the currencies , is perhaps the first concrete suggestion of the way in which the thing would have to be done . He cites , apparently with approval , the unanimous judgment of the preparatory committee report to the World Economic Conference in 1933 , to the effect that world-wide reestablishment of a fixed gold standard would require the following conditions precedent : Solution of major outstanding political problems ; the settlement of intergovernmental debts ; a return to a responsible degree of freedom in the movement of goods , in foreign exchange markets and in the movement of capital ; balanced budgets ; maintenance of healthy conditions in the domestic money and capital markets . These conditions , Sir ARTHUR thinks , can hardly be met " within the space of " a few months , or even of a few " years . " Is it possible , then , that any step can be taken in the way of definite stabilization now ? He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American and British Governments first agree on a specific ratio ( $4.86 or possibly somewhat higher ) between the doper and the pound , and that similar agreements should then be made with other countries , fixing the international ratio of their currencies . To make effective these agreements , each country should engage itself to maintain the official ratio , with somewhat wider margin than the old " gold points . " They would do this , when circumstances required , through using their several equalization funds " to " support any threatened currlency by " buying and holding it , without im " mediate conversion into gold , " or through a central equalization fund , contributed by all participating countries and administered by the Bank for International Settlements . The result , Sir ARTHUR believes , would be to make speculation in the currencies hazardous , to reduce greatly the movement of short-term capital , to remove the worst barriers against international trade , to diminish hoarding and thereby increase gold reserves , to restore financial confidence and promote recovery . What if the ratio fixed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workable under circumstances which might subsequently arise ? We hear much nowadays of " undervalued " or " overvalued " currencies , of consequent international gold movements on a portentous scale . Suppose a mistake of initial judgment were to be made , or that conditions on international markets were to change again , as they changed between 1921 and 1925 and between 1925 and 1931 . Sir ARTHUR would provide for such a possibility as follows : If , in spite of action of the kind just suggested , there should be a continuing drain on one currency or another , this would necessarily mean either that the original ratios were wrongly chosen or that subsequent developments had made them wrong . No country would be required under my proposal to make the ratios right again by forcing down its prices . It would be free , instead , to change the ratio . Evidently , this qualification makes the plan less simple than it might seem t be on first consideration . So long as every nation participating in the plan reserves the right to alter , whenever it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon , the question how far stability was actually assured would remain debatable . Sir ARTHUR urges that his plan would at least " reduce the risks of a new " course of competitive depreciation , of " a further devaluation of the dollar , of " prolonged deflation and excessive de " valuation in France , and , above all , " of an intensification of economic na " tionalism in every country . " No one will doubt the great value of merely allaying the possible menace of such occurrences . But Sir ARTHUR 'S program needs elaboration , in order to give due weight to the chances of disagreement between the contracting parties , either before or after the exchange ratio had been fixed , and how such disagr ... Lent should be met.                     