@@698877

txt In its financial difficulties it would seem that Greece might properly expect assistance . But so far it has failed to obtain sufficient help to enable it to avoid a default and to retain the gold standard . It is not for want of trying . Mr. Eleutherios Venizelos made every possible appeal . The International Financial Commission of Athens , the financial section of the League of Nations , various financial authorities , were called I into consultation and negotiations were engaged in . The plans that resulted were judged inadequate . Credits were demanded on the principal money markets , but the moment was considered inopportune . Greece has need of loans . In its program it has put the reductiqn of budgetary expenditure , the restriction of importations , the suspensfbn of amortization of debts . It has done all that could fairly be demanded . The situation in Greece is not , of course , unique . Bulgaria , Austria , Hungary , Yugoslavia , Roumania and other countries have experienced adverse conditions , and it is generally recognized that in central Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The project of a Danubian confederation was designed to ameliorate the state of affairs , but the project was criticized and was , at least momentarily , abandoned . One of the criticisms . indeed , was that it did not include Greece and Bulgaria . Could Not Foresee Events Although the relations of France and Greece have not always been as good as could be desired , it is curious to find that there is a feeling in France that Greece has been improperly neglected . Pertinax , noted political observer , for example , makes himself the spokesman of those who contrast the assistance which has been given to other nations with the apathy displayed toward Greece . Without pronouncing a word against the financial management of those countries which have obtained credits , it is possible to admit that Greece has been treated somewhat unfortunately The Athens Government could not foresee the events which have placed it in its present position ; it can not lie reproached-for extravagance ; it has endeavored to put itself on friendly terms with its neighbors and with the great powers . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to eXpect . Formerly its commercial balance was adjusted by the profits of its merchant shipping and by sums sent into Greece by emigrants . The immigration laws of the United States prevented the exodus of those who could not obtain their livelihood on Greek soil , and the transfer of Greeks from Asia Minor and Thrace added considerably to the population . Public Works Started The Government began big public works , notably the drainage of various territories , which would eventually add to its resources . Pertinax agrees that these works were logical and were courageously executed . But now come economic difficulties , such as the fall of prices , and the consequence is that the merchant marine , the banks , the insurance companies , and so forth have been affected . The abandonment of the gold standard by Great Britain which touched its reserves not only directly dealt a serious blow to Greece but diminished its confidence . Greece had not sought to accumulate gold but relied on the gold exchange standard and the guarantee of stable foreign moneys . It is obvious that when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece must also come seriously under consideration . A nation which has shown itself capable of overcoming the political complications which were inevitable after the imbroglio of the World War , of setting resolutely to work to reconstruct itself , of making such a brave beginning , can not now be left to its fate . Immediate help should be forthcoming , and any scheme for the consolidation of central and eastern Europe should certainly be comprehensive enough to bring in Greece .                     