@@699714

txt nd the smaller island colonies and protectorates . Algeria , in Northern Africa , is not really a colony , since it has virually the status of a French " departement . " Its population numbers approximately 6,000,000 of which , 000,000 are Europeans . Its foreign rade had developed by 1929 to a otal value of nearly 10,000,000,000 francs ( $400,000,000 at 25 ) , of which France 's share represented 7,500,000,000 francs . Its exports consist almost entirely of agricultural products , principally of early vegetables fruit , grapes and wine . Morocco and Tunisia on either side of Algeria are both protectorates in name , though virtually colonies . Morocco has a population of approximately 5,000,000 . French trade with Morocco amounted in 1929 to more than 1,500,000,000 francs . An arid and mountainous land for the most part , its most valuable products are its minerals . It is particularly rich in coal , phosphates , ' manganese and also contains important deposits of iroa , lead and zinc . Tunisia , on the other hand , is n rich agricultural country which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The present population of Tunisia is a little more than 2,000,000 . Its trade // velopment of what is potentially a rich agricultural district . Ports are rare , and the few railways have not ' yet been opened up very far inland . French Equatorial Africa stretches from the heart of the Sahara southward to the mouth of the Congo , including the four colonies of Gabon , Middle Congo , OubangiCharl , Chad . Here , too , the economic future of a potentially rich territory depends upon the development of transportation . The vast regions are very sparsely populated and the native tribes are far from industrious . The present value of trade with the outer world totals less than 190,000,000 francs . , The island of Madagascar alone is as large as France . It is administered by a governor-general with the assistance of a native advisory council . The 4,000,000 natives are Intelligent and progressive , and the foreign trade of the colony reached 1,250,000,000 francs in 1929 , most of which was with France . French Indo-China is in reality a mosaic of colonies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ider joint authority of the Emperor of Annam and a French governor ; Cambodia Is a protectorate ; Laos is r. collection of small protectorates . Agriculture is the principal occupation of the 20,000,000 inhabitants of the peninsula . Rice . rubber and sugar cane are by far the most important products and constitute the great bulk of export and import trade which totaled more than 4,000,000,000 francs in 1929 . France 's part in this trade amounted to nearly 2,000,000,000 francs . Wide Variety of Problems This brief economic resume of the principal possessions of the French Empire gives some indication of the vastness and variety of the problems which the conference laces , It also serves to show , however , that the French Government 's task in Paris will be much simpler than was England 's at Ottawa . The strongly centralized organization of the French colonial system , in contrast to the virtually complete independence of the members of the British Empire , makes the Paris conference little more in fact than an extended " council of state , " where the conflict is not between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single nation . The essential work of the French colonial conference therefore is that of developing and coordinating the production of all colonies in the way , that will beat serve the interest of both metropolitan France and the colonies themselves , There are a certain number of specific problems to be resolved . The most difficult is that of the conflict between the winegrowers in northern Africa and those in southern France . The question is whether to admit Algerian wine to a French market already depressed by overproduction . A solution is ex pected to be sought in an agreement to be drawn up at a gathering of representatives of the winegrowers of both regions . Most of the other problems are acute only because of the general world crisis . This is the case , for instance , with the rubber and rice producers in Indo-China , the peanut growers of the African colonies , the fruit farmers of Madagascar , and the mine owners on Morocco . Credit and Employment The main problem is one of furnishing sufficient credit to tide over the present crisis . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the development of vast public works such as railway and road systems , sanitary service , harbor projects , upon which the economic future of most of the colonies depends . Thus one of the most essential plans sure to come before the conference is that of the Trans-Saharan Railway , which would link French West Africa  --  the whole rich valley of the Niger River  --  to the Mediterranean coast at Algiers . Another project calls for the establishment of an air line from Paris to Madagascar , across Algeria and French Equatorial Africa . Preliminary surveys for such an air line have in fact already been started . The improvement of the merchant marine facilities for trade with Indo-China is a third proposal which will be considered . Along with those questions of exploitation and development , problems of tariff will have to be resolved . Since the tariff regulations of the entire empire are in the hands of the French Government in Paris , this will not present the difficulties of Ottawa . It appears certain that a policy of intercolonial preference will be successfully worked out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enfpiro a closed tariff bloc within which something approaching free trade would exist . The French Government would thus be able to attend the coming world conference as a single and complete economic unit .                     