@@700226

txt Security and freedom of religious worship for Americancitizens in Russia were reported authoritatively today to be , outstanding points in the deliberations on recognition of Russia by the United States . The administration is avoiding even the appearance of suggesting how Russians may or may not worship , but it insists that Maxim Litvinoff , Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs , give assurance that American citizens in Russia will be permitted to worship God in their own way These points became known as recognition negotiations proceeded through another day without any meetings between M. Litvinoff and American officials . The United States was said , on good authority , to be insisting that this government receive privileges similar to those accorded Germany under the Rapallo treaty . In that pact the Soviet is required to report the arrest of each German national to the German Ambassador and to grant to German prisoners the right of free communication with their government . Great Britain did not exact such guarantees in recognizing Russia and the oversight has been a cause of considerable embarrassment . Other Items on Agenda . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agenda relate to tentative word from M. Litvinoff on what Russia intends to do about $800,000,000 in claims filed by American citizens and to suitable guarantees against the dissemination of subversive political and religious propaganda in the United States . Reports from Russia of speculation over a reported rift in the negotiations , due to delays which have marked the first week 's conversations , found no echo here , where officials reiterated that much " spade work " yet remains to be done and that , as a matter of fact , considerable progress is being made despite the infrequency of conferences . Officials ignored a semi-official statement , cabled from Russia , that attempts by other governments to discuss " debts and counterclaims before the establishment of normal diplomatic relations " have " come to inevitable failure . " It was made clear that such statements will not affect the plans of the administration , which faces , in the event of recognition and the establishment of a new trade policy , a possible investment of several hundred millions in Russian credits . Much is being accomplished by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly in reducing to writing tentative agreements and points of discussion already traversed in the conversations held by M. Litvinoff with the President and with the State Department staff headed by UnderSecretary Phillips . Today also brought to light the first organized opposition to Russian recognition through announce- ment by the American Alliance of a series of four weekly radio programs , beginning next Saturday evening , designed to oppose Senate confirmation of an ambassador to Russia . The first of the four speeches will be made by Representative Fish of New York , chairman of a special House committee which investigated Communist activities in the United States . Mr. Fish 's secretary , Walter L. Reynolds , also is secretary of the alliance . The second speaker was announced as Edward A. Hayes , National Commander of the American Legion . The American Alliance was organized three years ago by Mark L. Hersey , a retired major general , who is its president . Among those listed as members of its " advisory committee " are Ely Culbertson , Bishop James E. Freeman , Martin Littleton , Nathan D. Perlman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Grover Whalen . " The American Alliance and the groups it represents , " Mr. Reynolds said , " feel that recognition of Soviet Russia is bound to increase Communist influence in this country . If President Roosevelt recognizes the Soviet Government we will fight against confirmation of an ambasador and attempt to block appropriations for the support of an embassy in Moscow . " CAT BITES SIX AT PARTY . Then Leaps Among Lighted Can ? dies on Birthday Cake . Minnie , a black-and-white house cat , attacked six persons and then leaped wildly into a huge cake containing fifty-five candles at a birthday party at 74 India Street , Brooklyn , last night . The injured were treated by an ambulance surgeon for bites and scratches , and allowed to go to their homes . The cat , after it had been clubbed by a patrolman , was taken to the Meserole Avenue Police Station and placed in solitary confinement in a packing box . It will be presented today to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . Mrs. Frances Sweeney , widow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arranged the party as a surprise for her aunt , Mrs. Clara Emenger . After twenty guests had arrived the electric lights were turned out and the candles on the cake lighted . At this joint Minnie , who had been asleep under the kitchen stove , dashed into the room , attacking those nearest to her . Screams from the darkened room attracted a patrolman , who summoned an ambulance . The injured , in addition to Mrs. Sweeney and Mrs. Emenger , included Mrs. Sweeney 's daughter , Helen , 10 years old , Mrs. Margaret Kelly , 35 , a sister of Mrs. Sweeney , Mrs. Grace Steixner , 29 , of 113 Huron Street , Brooklyn , and her daughter , Grace , 6 . Finds Baby Was Poisoned . An autopsy by Thomas Gonzales , Assistant Medical Examiner , on the body of 4-weeks ' - old Elizabeth Stoeter at Bellevue Hospital revealed yesterday that the baby had died of poisoning , the exact nature of which will be ascertained through chemical anlysis . Dr. Gonzales listed the cause of death as toxic jaundice and toxic hepatitis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 41 years old , of 1,270 Second Avenue , is confined in the psychopathic ward at Bellevue , on a homicide charge .                     