@@700581

txt President Roosevelt tonight signed an executive order providing for approval by General Johnson of all budgets and assessments of Code Authorities for financing the administration of codes . The order makes failure to pay assessments for code administration a violation of the Recovery Act in cases where codes contain provisions for assessments , or in cases where after application and public hearing codes are modified to contain such provisions . NRA officials said tonight that the Executive order and the administrative order made public by Colonel G. A. Lynch . NRA 's new administrative officer acting for General Johnson . will mean that all Code Authorities which have been collecting money for code administration must cease until their figures have received the approval of the NRA . The administrative order made it clear that industries under more than one code would not be expected to contribute to the expenses of more than one code authority . An exception provides for the submission of evidence by code authorities other than the one for which a company is already making contributions to support their contentions that they should also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Charged . Signing of the order today is the result of many charges of " racketeering " by code authorities in the form of high salaries to clerks and employes ( members of all code authorities serve voluntarily ) , unduly heavy expenses and the like . Many codes contain no provision for financing of code administration . These are expected to apply for provisions in their codes . However , several other industries , among them some of the largest in the country , have such a large percentage of members in the trade association which forms their code authority that NRA officials do not expect any assessments for code administration outside the regular dues for membership in the trade association . Notable among these industries are steel , oil and many others . President 's Order . The President 's executive order follows : EXECUTIVE ORDER MAKING PROVISION FOR A CLAUSE IN CODES OF FAIR COMPETITION RELATING TO COLLECTION OF EXPENSES OF CODE ADMINISTRATION . By virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me under the provisions of Title I of the National Industrial Recovery Act , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stat. 195 ) , and in order to effectuate the purposes of said title , I hereby order that the following clause or any appropriate modification thereof shall became effective as a part of any code of fair competition approved under said title upon application there- for ( 1 ) pursuant to the provisions of the code relating to amendments thereto or ( 2 ) by one or more trade or industrial associations or groups truly representative of the trade or industry or subdivision thereof covered by the code , if the Administrator for Industrial Recovery shall find that approval by him of such clause is necessary in order to effectuate the policy of Title I of said act : 1 . It being found necessary , in order to support the administration of this code and to maintain the standards of fair competition established by this code and to effectuate the policy of the act , the Code Authority is authorized , subject to the approval of the administrator : ( a ) To incur such reasonable obligations as are necessary and proper for the foregoing purposes and to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hereinafter provided and which shall be held in trust for the purposes of the code ; ( b ) To submit to the administrator for his approval , subject to such notice and opportunity to be heard as he may deem necessary , ( 1 ) an itemized budget of its estimated expenses for the foregoing purposes , and ( 2 ) an equitable basis upon which the funds necessary to support such budget shall be contributed by members of the industry ; ( c ) After such budget and basis of contribution have been approved by the administrator , to determine and secure equitable contribution as above set forth by all such members of the industry , and to that end , if necessary , to institute legal proceedings therefor in its own name . 2 . Only members of the industry complying With the code and contributing to the expenses of its administration as provided in Section 1 hereof shall be entitled to participate in the selection of the members of the Code Authority or to receive the benefit of its voluntary activities or to make use of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. ROOSEVELT . Approval recomended : Hugh S. Johnson , Adminstrator . By G. A. Lynch , Adminsitrative Officer . The White House , April 14 , 1934 . Johnson 's Order . General Johnson 's administrative order supplementing the executive order follows : ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER . Regulations governing collection of expenses of code administration : By virtue of the authority vested in me under Title 1 of the National Industrial Recovery Act , I hereby prescribe the following regulations to supplement the President 's executive order of April 14 , 1934 , " making$rovision for a clause in codes of fair competition relating to collection of expenses of code administration . " A member of any trade or industry , the code for which contains the provision included in the above mentioned executive order or any other provision whereunder non-payment of an equitable contribution to the costs of code administration is in violation of the code , shall be deemed in violation of that code only if : 1 . The administrator has approved an itemized budget of estimated expenses and an equitable basis of contribution as required by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In conformance . with the basis of contribution Se approved , an agency authorized by the Code Authority certifies to the National Recovery Administration that : A. It had given such member due notice of contribution due , which notice clearly stated : ( 1 ) The basis of contribution and the fact that it bad been approved by the administrator . ( 2 ) That continued non-payment after thirty ( 30 ) days of the receipt of the notice is a violation of the code , and Right to File Protest . ( 3 ) The right of the member to file a protest With such rauthorized agency or the National Code Authority or directly with NRA within fifteen ( 15 ) days on the ground that the basis of contribution is unjust as applied to such member or that the basis of contribution is not being followed by such authorized agency as to such member . B. Such member , after thirty ( 30 ) days of the receipt of the notice , has failed to pay such authorized agency the amount due and has failed to file a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the date of notice . 3 . No protest has been filed with the National Code Authority or with NRA within fifteen ( 15 ) days from the date of notice , or such a protest has been filed with the Code Authority or NRA and has been overruled by NRA . Provided , however : That no member of any trade or industry shall be deemed in violation of a code for failure to contribute to the expense of administration of the code for any trade or industry other than for that trade or industry which embraces his principal line of business , subject to such exception as NRA may provide . Any Code Authority for any trade or industry may show cause to NRA why any member or group of members , subject to the administration of such Code Authority , should contribute to the expenses of administration of that code in addition to a contribution required of that member or group of members to the expenses of administration of some other code or codes , but no ruling made by NRA on any such application shall apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industries until after July 15 , 1934 . Further , provided ; That under no circumstances may any Code Authority demand a contribution to the expense of code administration by any member of the trade or industry unless the code contains a provision whereunder non-payment of an equitable share of the ' cost of code administration constitutes a code violation adn whereunder the administrator shall have approved an itemized budget and an equitable basis of contribuation . HUGH S. JOHNSON , Administrator . By G. A. LYNCH , Administrative Officer , April 14 , 1934 ,                     