@@698744

txt It was announced here today that President Hoover will speak at the annual conference of governors next Wednesday . Mr. Hoover has taken for his subject the important question of " the relation between state and federal governments on economy and taxation . " Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt of New York . leading Democratic candiate for the presidential nomination , is to speak Wednesday night . In the Capitol of the Old Dominion , chief executives of more than a score of states sat down today to their annual discussion of some of the acute problems that face the country . The twenty-fourth conference of Governors was opened with an address by Gov . John Garland Pollard of Virginia . An executive from a state 3000 miles away , Governor James Rolph Jr . of California , responded on behalf of his colleagues . As the meetings were initiated , indications were that the executives during their four days here would ' , confine themselves to such meaty . topics as taxation , banking systems , and unemployment . Weight is added to the Governors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a century ago , by the fact that in the states are molded many of the poliI des which ultimately grow into national statutes . The Hoover plan for employment through large public works programs , for instance , was first presented to the Governors ' conference several years ago . Presidential Aspirants Significant at this year 's meeting is the presence in election year of at least four presidential aspirants . They are Governor Roosevelt of New York , Gov . Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland , Gov . Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania and Gov . George White of Ohio . Some criticism has been leveled at these annual gatherings because the Governors evade political questions and take no action . The meetings have been characterized as " annual outings . " The program this year , however , gives ample evidence that the meeting should be more than that . The unemployment situation and methods instituted by states to cope with it will be a topic under consideration , with discussion led by Gov . Louis L. Emmerson of Illinois . Experiences of states in handling their common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of federal aid will be presented . Another timely subject will be the controversial question whether state banking systems should be abolished . Advocates of a unified banking system , including Mr. Eugene Meyer , governor of the Federal Reserai Board , contend that such a system is the only one which assures relatwe stability . Defenders of state banks , on the other hand , say the abolition pi proposal is merely a campaign to have the " little fellow " swallowed up by large banking interests . Gov . Floyd B. Olson of Minnesota will lead the discussion . Fiscal Problems Fiscal problems will be discussed by Gov . Wilbur L. Cross of Connecticut and Gov . Dan W. Turner of Iowa . Motor safety , extension of state operation of highways and roads , and control of municipal expenditures are other subjects scheduled . The Governors and their wives will join their Virginia hosts in celebrating the George Washington Bicentennial and the one hundred seventy-fourth anniversary of the birth of James Monroe during their stay here . After devoting half a day to business today , the executives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the home of Monroe ; Monticello , home of Thomas Jefferson and the University of Virginia , which Jefferson founded .                     