@@704251

txt Four days having passed since he made his " final " peace offer to the Western Powers before the Reichstag and no official reaction from Great Britain or France resulting , Chancellor Hitler this afternoon mounted the rostrum again and reiterated his " readiness for peace . " At the same time , he emphasized again that " if they reject our readiness for peace , then Germany is determined to take up the battle and , fight it out  --  this way .. or that . " The immediate occasion for this pronouncement was the ceremony opening the seventh annual Winter relief drive  --  called this year " War Winter Relief , 1938-1939 " ? in Berlin 's Sportspalast . Herr Hitler 's remarks today represented no elucidation of the moot points in his Reichstag speech last Friday . They were , however , characterized by a more militant accent and a more fiery delivery . Foreign Press Blamed The explanation for this appears to be given in the semi-official Dienst aus Deutschland , which says that in the absence of an official response to Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press and radio have endeavored to obliterate the clear question and the as clearly deter : mined responsibility through propaganda manoeuvres . " Herr Hitler , therefore , felt himself obliged , " the semi-official organ continues , " once more publicly and unmistakably to declare how things stand today and  --  according to the will of responsible Western statesmen  --  how they will stand tomorrow . " A singularly striking aspect of the speech was the constant reference to " war Winter relief . " Heretofore the German people have believed , - and their belief at best was uncontradicted by press or radio , that with the end of the Polish campaign the war was over . The tenor of today 's speech , together with the name chosen for the relief campaign , indicates that although expressing a desire for peace , Herr Hitler is preparing his people eventually for war in the West . Speaking sometimes with a harsh , cold intonation and at other times so choked by his emotions that his voice became almost inarticulate , and interrupted more frequently and more enthusiastically by his auditors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not what the future has in store , but we are convinced of one thing : No power in the world will be able again to force us . to our knees . They will neither defeat us militarily , destroy us economically nor spiritually wear us down . Under no circumstances will they experience any kind of German capitulation . " Herr Hitler then repeated his readiness for peace and reiterated his assertion : " Germany has no cause for war against the Western powers . They have recklessly provoked a war on the flimsiest grounds . " He added that if they wanted to continue it Germans are determined to carry the battle through . Worst is Behind Them The last twenty years were hard , he pointed out to his rapt audience , and the future can not be harder than the past , for " since we never lost courage along the path from the past to the present , we will much less lose courage striding along the . path to the future . " The National Socialist Government could have chosen a system of taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in which one Sunday a month is devoted to collecting money by party volunteers on the streets all over the Reich as well as many other methods of gaining money , clothing and food  --  Herr Hitler told his audience . But this system was chosen because " our people had to learn self help and the communal cooperation of sacrifice . " The times which we face , he continued , will further them in this , for " the war Winter that stands before us will find us truly ready to make all sacrifices necessary in order to facilitate the battle for the existence of our people . " The German Red Cross , he . announced , will be financed from this Winter relief fund . Although last year 's collection again attained record proportions , Herr Hitler told the nation this year 's must be even greater ' in order to carry , on the new task and as " in answer to the stupidity of those in the world who believe they will be able internally to disrupt the solidarity of the German people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effects ' of these imbecilic attempts , " he went an . " We want to ' ? show them how , through them , the German people are bound and welded more strongly , more solidly together . We want to suggest to them it is necessary to respect the inner constitution of other peoples . " National socialism was born of war , said Herr Hitler , and if war comes it will prove itself in that medium . " The decision for that , " he added , no longer rests with us but with the other world . With us lies only a grim determination to receive the decision and then certainly to fight to the bitter end . " Reviewing the results of , last year 's Winter relief drive before introducing Herr Hitler , Propaganda Minister Joseph pointed out that 535,300,00 marks had : been collected , compared with 417,100,000 two years ago , and that the total collected in the last six years was about 2,500,000,000 . The number of those assisted by the relief ' und decreased from 253 per thousand inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1939 , despite annexation of the Sudetenland and Austria last year , Herr Goebbels added , while the- number of Germans who volunteered for Winter relief work ? increased to 1,185,145 , only 0.9 per cent of ' ... horn received monetary remuneration . The " one-poz " meal on Sunday , which had been a feature of the drives in the last six years , has been transformed into - " sacrifice Sunday " because , as Herr Goebbels said , " a course cooked in single pots has ' become the regular meal for the entire German people anyhow . " Relief this year , he added , necessarily will be ' different from former years because of the ration system and will require also more in order to succor families of war victims .. The first " sacrifice Sunday " will take place Oct. 22 , while street collections will begin this week-end . During the street collections , pedestrians are accosted at every street corner , restaurant , caf ? , any place where a- goodly number of people arse : likely to be gathered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contribution . The ' . Hamburger Fremdenblatt suggests that each person this year has a duty to buy at least two such souvenirs at each monthly collection , the second one for a soldier at the front . Contributions are solicited from industrial organizations as well as artists , actors and professional people in addition to the street corner collections . and household canvasses . The government railroad monopoly set the ball rolling today with a pledge of 1,000,000 marks , half of which was paid today .                     