@@703910

txt It is only a few weeks ago that tax revision at this session of Congress seemed all but assured . The Secretary of the Treasury invited Congress to " take a careful look at the tax laws to see if there are any deterrents holding the business man back from making future commitments . " The invitation was accepted promptly by Chairman Doughton of the House Ways and Means Committee and by Chairman Harrison of the Senate Finance Committee . They invited the Treasury in turn to submit its own recommendations on this subject as soon as the March 15 revenue returns had been compiled , so that Congress might get to work at once . Secretary Morgenthau and Under-Secretary Hanes are understood to have such recommendations prepared ; but so far the only public proposal that has since come from the Administration in this direction has been that to postpone the scheduled rise in the Social Security payroll tax . The tax revision movement has come to a halt , as Mr. Krock remarked on this page yesterday , chiefly because the President has several times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it would be unfortunate if the program were now to fail of enactment . For while it is quite true that it is idle to expect a reduction of the total tax burden at a time when taxes , high as they are , are hugely exceeded by expenditures , a great deal ' could none the less be done both toward restoring business confidence and insuring more fairness by the substitution of sound taxes for unsound ones . How important this is was recently illustrated by the corporation tax provisions of the Bone bill , that remarkable measure sponsored by a large number of Senators , under which we would tax ourselves into a state of industrial paralysis if-we should ever get into a war . In accordance with that bill corporations would be taxed 100 per cent on all profits above 6 per cent on " adjusted declared value . " It is important to remember , in this connection , that " adjusted declared value " does not necessarily represent either actual invested capital or fair going value . It is a purely artificial figure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fix its declared value at any level it pleased . But as it is taxed both on this value and on the percentage of its earnings on this value , the result is that each company , if it tried to fix its declared value at the figure most likely to prevent excessive taxation , was obliged to make an official guess concerning what its future earnings would be . What the Government is taxing by this scissorlike pair of taxes , in short , is primarily the accuracy of this guess  --  about as bad a form of taxation as one could devise . The unsoundness of this pair of taxes in principle has hitherto been mitigated by their comparative moderateness of rate . But the readiness with which this principle was accepted and made the basis for a tax that would be ruinous to many corporations  --  mainly because of an unlucky guess  --  shows how important it is to repeal taxes unsound in nature even when low rates make them seem comparatively harmless . This tax on " adjusted declared value , " and the other blade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " are understood to have been slated for repeal under Mr. Morgenthau 's revision program , with the lost revenue to be replaced by a higher corporation income tax rate . Such a change should be made , and it ought to have the President 's endorsement .                     