@@704258

txt The United States liner President Harding was laboring through heavy seas toward New York last night after having received from the Coast Guard cutter Hamilton , far out at sea yesterday afternoon , a replenished store of medical supplies for seventy-three of her passengers and crew who were injured , twenty-three of them seriously , in a hurricane which swept through the North Atlantic during the last few days . One member of the ship 's crew is missing , presumably having been washed overboard . Another is recovering from the effects of an emergency appendicitis operation performed at the outset of the storm . The injuries range from minor bruises to a fractured skull , a broken back , fractured ribs and broken legs . They exceed anything experienced in transatlantic travel in recent years . The terse radio reports from the President Harding , a sturdy 13,889-ton ship bearing 597 passengers from the war zones , Indicated that a number of other large ships now unreported probably have received a similar battering . These include the Manhattan , the Washington , the Conte di Savoia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Washington are inward bound from Europe . Hurricane Course Erratic The hurricane roared up from the south , according to the local Weather Bureau , and after passing over Bermuda and pursuing an erratic course in mid-Atlantic became " lost " so far as Weather Bureau reports were concerned . The local bureau said that such has been the curtailment of ships ' weather reports since the war that it was left entirely in the dark as to the storm 's movements , and was unable to provide warnings or adequate charts of the storm . The disturbance is now known to center in the area south of Greenland . The British freighter Blairberg , about 300 miles off Newfoundland , asked for assistance earlier in the day and the Coast Guard cutter Duane was dispatched to her aid , but later the freighter reported she no longer required help . The President Harding 's master , Captain James E. Roberts , notified the United States Lines early yesterday afternoon that an inspection of the ship indicated " no structural damage " and that he was " proceeding to New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the liner would reach here until Saturday , but last night the line announced she would arrive tomorrow . Thirty-six Rescued on Board She has on board the thirty-six members of the British freighter Heronspool , torpedoed 300 miles off the Irish coast , who were picked up when the President Harding answered an S 0 S from the French oil tanker W. Emile Miguet . The crew of the Miguet had been picked up meanwhile by the Black Diamond freighter Black Hawk . Also on board are Paul van Zeeland , former Belgian Prime Minister , who received abrasions of the face and forehead and multiple contusions in the storm ; John Bell Condliffe , British economist ; W. R. Clark , an official of the Firestone Tire Company , and A. Hyde Lay , Hong Kong representative of the firm of Dodwell &; Co . The vessel sailed from Le Verdon , France , on Oct. 11 . Late Tuesday night the President Harding , asked the Coast Guard in Boston to bring medical supplies and to be prepared to take off some of the injured . Captain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in heavy weather . One seriously burned , four fractured ribs , one broken leg , one skull fracture , two fractured femurs , one fractured spine , several fractured lower legs , two fractured ankles , one fractured scapula , several fractured humeri , one avulsion of the scalp . " The Coast Guard cutter Hamilton , out of Boston , which was doing regular sea patrol about 150 miles out at the time , was sent to the scene and delivered a " considerable quantity " of medical supplies . Captain Roberts earlier reported that Paul Johnson , a cabin waiter , was " missing , presumably lost overboard . " Another report from the ship said : " During heavy storm many sustained injuries ; crew and passengers serious injured ; also lifeboat No. 9 and davits and starboard side-rail aft deck carried away ; may have to make Halifax ; heavy sea at present . " An even earlier message said that Henry Heinsoth , engine room storekeeper , had been operated upon in a heavy gale preceding the main storm . This read : " Heinsoth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Oct. 17 . Dr. and Mrs. Schur of Vienna assisted , At present hove to , heavy gale . " A final report late yesterday afternoon gave a breakdown of casualties as follows : " Regret to report injuries as follows : Passengers , forty-five ; crew , twenty-eight , of whom thirteen passengers and ten crew serious . Paul Johnson , cabin waiter , missing , presumably lost overboard , particulars follow as soon as possible . " It was shortly after noon yesterday that Captain Roberts notified his office that he would proceed directly to New York instead of to Halifax . The liner 's position at the time she asked for medical supplies was reported to be about 300 miles south of St. Johns , Nfld. , and about 800 miles east of Boston . Physician on Cutter The Hamilton , one of the largest of the Coast Guard cutters , which was brought here from the West Coast recently for patrol service on the North Atlantic , is 125 feet long and carries a crew of 100 . She had a physician aboard , but fragmentary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make any transfers except those of supplies . The Harding immediately proceeded on her way to New York , and the Hamilton advised that she would go to the assistance of the Blairberg . The Blairberg , which had reported having lost her rudder chains , reported to the Coast Guard later in the afternoon that she was no longer in need of assistance . Her destination was not disclosed . She is a 3,509-ton vessel . When she sent out her first S 0 S call earlier yesterday morning , the United States liner Washington , outward bound for Europe , offered to go to her assistance and reported that she thought she could reach the stricken ship within sixteen hours . It was assumed that she turned back when the Coast Guard offered its services . The Blairberg was operated out of Glasgow , Scotland , by the Northern Navigation Company , according to the commandant 's office of the Boston Navy Yard . She was believed to carry a crew of twentyeight men . The President Harding was carrying more than her normal complement of passengers . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her normal crew numbers 222 . She is a 516-foot vessel , built at Camden , N. J. , in 1921 and designed to withstand the most rigorous of North Atlantic weather . That the hurricane which lashed her was no ordinary one was confirmed yesterday by Dr. James H. Kimball . in charge of the local United States Weather Bureau . He said that the disturbance started near St. Kitts in the British Leeward Islands on Oct. 10 and gradually worked up in a northwesterly direction until Saturday evening , when it turned north . Then it veered northeast , and the center passed over Bermuda on Oct. 16 . Dr. Kimball said that reports from Bermuda were belated and after the hurricane passed over those islands the Weather Bureau lost track of it . Subsequent reports , however , indicated that it started gaining in intensity and moved rapidly northeastward . The President Harding reported to the Weather Bureau that she found herself about 200 miles east of the center on Tuesday night . The President Harding reported that the wind velocity was seventyfive miles an hour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although in the center it must have been considerably lower . The center of the storm reached a point off Cape Race yesterday , and last night was about half way between Newfoundland and Greenland , a point which ordinarily is not traversed by transatlantic ships , but which since the war has been along the northern route chosen by many vessels .                     