@@697005

txt Routing the wet forces in a turbulent session I of fire and counter-fire on the prohibition question , the House drys today forced the adoption in the Treas-1 ury-Postoffice appropriation bill of an allotment of $15,000,000 for the prohibition unit , defeated an effort : to change the method of denaturing ; industrial alcohol , refused to vote I S300.000,000 for enforcing the Volstead act , put through an allowance of $50,000 for government dry propaganda and squelched an amendment aimed to prevent the employment as prohibition agents of persons under indictment or convicted of a felony. $15,000,000 Allotment Approved . The- wets fought valiantlyhutjggre overwhelmingly defeated at every point . For three hours uproar reigned as wets and drys clamored for the floor and shouted their views . The one-sided conflict started when Mr. La Guardia took the floor to read his preannounced argument against the allotment of $15,000,000 for the prohibition unit . His contention was that no authority for such an appropriation existed because the Eighteenth Amendment was null ? ind void through its ' own provision that . it must be ratified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Constitution . This , he maintained , had not been done . The 415.000,000 appropriation was adopted by a viva voce vote . Representatives Moore of Virginia and Wood of Indiana replied that the United States Supreme Court had declared the amendment constitutional and that under the House rules that body could not pass upon the legality of a law . They were sustained by Mr. Snell , Republican of New York , who was in the chair . He ruled the constitutionality of a law which had not been repealed could not be questioned in the House . Assails Poison Alcohol . Representative Linthicum of Maryland , leader of the wet bloc , next put forward his amendment to withhold an appropriation for the adulteration of industrial alcohol . He declared it was not a question of breaking down prohibition but of doing something to prevent the killing of people who might use poisonous industrial alcohol for beverage purposes . He was interrupted by Mr. La Guardia and Mr. Sabath of Illinois , another wet . The former asserted government officers who shot down suspected rum-runners were removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States commissioners who discharged them . Mr. Sabath declared that such agents were defended by United states attorneys instead of being prosecuted . Representative Beedy of Maine , a dry leader , took exception to these remarks and demanded that their words be expunged from the record . Representative Sloan , dry , of Nebraska , shouted above the uproar : " That is a distinct charge against the judicial system of this country which is not valid . " Mr. Snell ordered the remarks of the wets expunged . Representative Tilson , Republican leader , then took the chair . He , in turn , ruled that Mr. Sabath 's remarks were not unparliamentary , after the Illinois member , at the suggestion of Representative Beedy , had refused to withdraw them . Mention Black Duck Killings . The killing of rum runners on the Black Duck by a Coast Guard patrol was next mentioned . Representative Beedy insisted that the Coast Guar dsmen did their duty and asked Representative Linthicum whether he did not uphold the principle that officers of the law should use force if law violators resisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he had a pint of whisky , " Mr. Linthicum replied . " If it is a question between liquor and life , I 'm for life . " " Do you think the Coast Guard should have shot down their fellow guards who carried away some of the confiscated liquor ? " asked Mr. Schafer of Wisconsin . Representative Beedy world not reply to this question directly , but said that if a violator of the law attempted to escape " then that officer has a rignt to use force against the violator , and this would also apply to a Coast Guard . " " Do n't you think an officer should first shoot in the air ? " asked Representative Sirovich of New York , " and then , if the violator does not stop , might attempt to stop him by firing directly at the violator ? " " It is the duty of the officer to exercise good judgment at all times and use force only when necessary , " replied Representative Beedy . Representative Linthicum 's amendment was defeated by a vote of 107 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drys and announced that forty-four members had agreed that a bill be offered to put obnoxious drugs in alcohol instead of ethyl alcohol . He said that Representative Linthicum 's ' s amendment would have left the government without authority to adulterate industrial alcohol . His bill calls for the use of pyridine , malachite green and diethylpthalate , drugs used by Germany , France and England . These drugs , he said , can not be entirely extracted and cause nausea . They would be just as effective as wood alcohol as an adulterant , he said . After these outbursts the tumult died and the drys defeated with monotonous regularity the remaining amendments sponsored by the wets . Representative Black of New York taunted the drys for failing to defend the government 's practice of poisoning alcohol . He offered an amendment to strike out the $50,000 appropriation for the " collection and dissemination of information " regarding prohibition and an " appeal for law observance and law enforcement . " He asserted the dry question would be an issue in this year 's Congress elections and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $50,000 political contribution from the public treasury for their cause . This amendment was defeated without a record vote . Representative Sabath offered an amendment forbidding dry agents from using public funds for the purchase of liquor for themselves " and their companions " while seeking evidence . This was defeated without a roll-call . An amendment offered by Representative Palmisano of Maryland providing that no enforcement funds should be paid to persons who had been convicted of a felony or had an indictment for felony pending against them was defeated , 83 to 28 . Finally Mr. La Guardia sponsored a motion to appropriate $300,000,000 for the Prohibition Bureau instead of $15,000,000 , but this was rejected by an overwhelming chorus of " nays . " Watson for State Referendums . In discussing prohibition today Senator Watson indicated that he did not regard a national referendum on the subject as practicable . " I would like to see this question settled by a vote of the people , but each State should conduct its own referendum , " he said . " I have been advocating a prohibition referendum on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote dry overwhelmingly . I am of the opinion that if permitted to vote on it , the country would reaffirm its faith in prohibition . A test such as this would relieve a lot of uncertainty . " Senator Watson declared that a referendum on prohibition by the States should be broad enough to gain an expression on every angle of the subject . " It should include a query as to whether the people want the saloons back , " said Senator Watson . " It should also seek to elicit an expression of opinion on the question of the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , and modification of the Volstead act to determine whether the people favor an increase of the alcoholic content of beverages ; also whether the law should be amended so that each State could fix the alcoholic content , and whether the sale of light wines and beers should be made and sold and how . I think the country is dry and wants prohibition earnestly enforced . " Senator Watson said that he favored early action by the Senate on the resolution introduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eighteenth Amendment . " It would be decisively beaten and that , I believe would clarify the atmosphere which at this time is very clouded as a result of attacks upon the law , " he said . The Blaine resolution will come up for discussion on Monday before the Committee on the Judiciary , of which Senator Norris of Nebraska is chairman . At that time consideration also will be given to the administration dry program embodied in the recent report of the President 's law enforcement commission . The committee is not prepared to act at once on proposals for the transfer of the prohibition bureau from the Treasury to the Department of Justice and those that would broaden the scope of United States Commissioners in dealing with dry offenses , but there is no disposition on the part of committee members to hold up the legislation . Thus far no bills have been presented in the Senate to put into effect the administration dry plans . Consolidation Action Assured . Senator Borah expressed the opinion today that there would be no ssubstantial opposition to the President 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Justice . He thought there would be opposition to recommendations of the Wickersham Commission which in the opinion of many drys would have the effect of abolishing trial by jury in liquor cases . Senator Borah was asked what action was likely by the Committee on the Judiciary , of which he is a member , on the Blaine resolution for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment : " That is up to Mr. Blaine , " he replied ' . Senator Norris of Nebraska , chairman of the committee , is agreeable to holding hearings on the Blaine resolution . Mr. Blaine has made no request for hearings . He Is a member of the committee and will be asked Monday to indicate what disposition he would have made of his resolution .                     