@@700329

txt Pennsylvania Station was darkened and all Pennsylvania and Long Island Railroad trains in the New York area were halted  --  two under the East River  --  when a short circuit burned out wires in a substation at 242 West Thirty-first Street at 11:50 A. M. yesterday . Railroad guards , waving lanterns , led more than 300 men and women , many of them elderly Christmas shoppers , through the gloomy tunnels into Pennsylvania Station . It was a walk of six or seven blocks on a narrow catwalk , but it was negotiated quietly and safely . Candle light gleamed in the station 's restaurants and barber shops , particularly on the lower level  --  and later long queues of men and women , who had been caught on the platform while waiting for trains , were led out by lantern-bearing guards and railroad policemen . No Panic in Dark Station . Hundreds were trapped by darkness in the corridors and alcoves of the station , and here and there bewildered travelers struck matches as they sought their way toward exits . Despite all this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been in darkness for thirteen minutes , emergency repairs made it possible to switch on the lights again . Four hours passed before service was resumed on the Long Island Railroad , but trains on the Pennsylvania system were moving again at 12:49 P. M. , using power from the catenary or overhead alternating-current lines . The Long Island trains , because they use direct current , had to wait longer for repairs . By the time the evening flow homeward had started , the Long Island Railroad was ready , but thousands of worried commuters tied up the telephone system of the railroad by calling to inquire whether they could get home without delay . During the afternoon many used the subways and buses to get to Long Island . The exact cause of the short circuit had not been determined last night . D. Y. Geddes , superintendent of the New York division of the road , believed it might be traced to one of the signal towers at Tenth Avenue and Thirty-third Street , or to some fault on Track 6 or Track 10 . Fire Put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a thin , vapory smoke in the breaker room in the basement of the substation , a five-story structure . It spread up through the cable conduits to the first floor and started burning insulation in the signal con ? , trol board . The cables that provide power for the third rails of the Long Island Railroad . as well as the lines that , serve the heating and lighting , and switching and light signal systems , were affected . Two fire trucks , four engines and one rescue squad , all of the city Fire Department , went to the power station , headed by Deputy Fire Chief John E. Gunn . The firemen were powerless at first , because they dared not use water to extinguish the fire ; it would only have spread the flames . Word was flashed to W. P. Brickley , master mechanic at the main power station in Long Island City , to shut off all power . He did , and everything went dead . Then the , , fire crews sprayed chemicals on the burning panels and wires and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smoke had filtered into the station , but not much . It floated near the ceiling of the great glass dome , shot with sunlight , but caused no discomfort to the crowds there . Everything was quiet . even in the street . Few passersby appeared to know that anything unusual was happening . One Train Hauled Back . Railroad officials then moved swiftly toward resumption of service . One train , the Port Washington local , caught midway in the river tunnel , was hauled back to Long Island City by an alternating current engine after it had been stalled forty-five minutes . One of the passengers said later that the men and women aboard seemed nervous and restless , particularly the elderly shoppers , but most of them devoted themselves to their books or newspapers until the train was hauled back . The lights on this train did not go out . The two trains that stalled near the New York end of the tunnel were plunged into darkness , but emergency lights flashed on automatically and the passengers remained orderly until the trainmen led them out with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island Railroad at 4:07 P. M. , riders coming into the city were carried as far as Wood-1 side and from there finished their ' trip by subway or bus . Many returned home the same way . Several of the crack Pennsylvania trains were delayed from one to twenty-one minutes before the catenary system was used . During the brief interval incoming trains were routed from Manhattan Transfer to Jersey City and passengers came in on Hudson Tube trains . Railroad officials said the tie-up was one of the worst , not attributable to wreck or weather , that the road has experienced in many years . One official recalled a worse one in 1915. when a blizzard crippled service in and out of Pennsylvania Station for twenty-four hours .                     