@@700988

txt The creation of regular aviation passenger services across both . the Atlantic and Pacific  --  aided by federal subsidies for both dirigible and air plane building and operation  --  was reported reliably tonight to have been approved by President Roosevelt . In a move asserted ! ) , designed to help this country meet the competition of foreign " super " surface lines , It was said the President will suggest I to congress next week the construction I of a giant dirigible . It would be turned over to a private company for regular 1passenger service to Europe . , Pacific Coast to Hawaii . As part of the same plan , it was said , officials hoped government aid would make possible the establishment next summer of heavier than air service between the Pacific coast and Hawall and from the east coast to Europe via Bermuda and the Azores . The subsidies would be in addition to mail payments . Usually reliable sources , who did not care to be quoted by name , said today the President had approved these and other proposals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held their final conference with him today . The report is to be sent to congress with a special message next week . Other recommendations in the report were asserted to be : Creation of a permanent aviation commission which could be merged later by ex , ecutive order with an expanded ? interstate commission which would be given control over all other forms of transportation . Repeal of the Black-qzmcq#Kellar air mail law's. ban on companies holding more than one main line air mail contract or two secondary contracts : Modification of the law requiring competitive bidding for service aircraft contracts to permit negotiated bidding at the discretion of the federal department concerned . Increasing the number of army and navy planes to 4,000 and building a small dirigible for training purposes . Same Size as New Zeppelin . The giant transoceanic dirigible rec. ommended by the commission would be of the same , size as the new Zeppelin now building in Germany , which is one and one-half times . larger than the Graf Zeppelin . The latter craft has maintained regular passenger and express service between Germany and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German dirigibles were used in a joint service at least . one flight . a week- could be maintained in each direction , it was said . The plan calls for navy officers receiving training on the dirigible , a suggestion advanced by Dr. Hugo Ec'ner. commander of the Graf Zeppelin , when ho urged the commission to recommend construction of the craft . It was indicated that speed would be sought In setting up the new agency so that it could take control before most air mail contracts expire in March .                     