@@701221

txt Asserting there is an unexplained motive behind the extraordinary procedure of the federal administration 's efforts to rush the public utility legislation into law . C. E. Groesbeck , chairman of the board of the Electric Bond Br Share Co. is sending a statement to more than 250.000 stockholders of that company and Its affiliates urging them to express their opposition mucklv to save their investments . One would think . Mr. Groesbeck said , that from the ardor with which advocates of the bill are pressing for its enactment that there was a general demand from the American people that it be made a law . Instead . he pointed out , no one , except a few employes of the Government appeared in its support . " Not one person . " he added , " representing the millions of investors , not one person representing the millions of electric customers appeared before either of the committees to speak in favor of the legislation . Ultimate Plans of Bills Sponsors " I am forced to the opinion that the ultimate plans of those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Groesbeck said . " include not only the avowed objective of destruction of holding companies but also embrace as their primary purpose the weakening of local privately-owned companies so that they will have to seek financial aid from the government at its dictated terms , thus hastening the day of socialization of this industry without recompense to the investors who built it . " What America wants is not more destruction but more construction ; greater payrolls instead of more people on relief , more confidence in business investment , instead of fear . " Porter Urges Vigorous Protests Terming the public utility legislation now before the Senate as destructive and vicious . H. Hobart Porter , president of the American Water Works and Electric Co. has sent a letter to stockholders asking them to protest vigor- , ously to their senators and President Roosevelt against its passage . " Should this measure become a law , " Mr. Porter stated , ' ' the American Water Works and Electric Co is scheduled for dismemberment or dissolution under terms dictated by federal authority and the interests of the company 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Notwithstanding the fact that no investor or customer has appeared in favor of the measure , Mr Porter added and that it has been condemned by savings banks , life insurance companies . state public utility commissions and many business and religious organizations , it is rapidly being pushed through Congress " Gadsden Sees Crippling of Power Industry Although Franklin D. Roosevelt stated in 1930 that in the conduct of public utilities " Washington must not be encouraged to interfere , " the present Public Utilities Bill imposes so restrictive and drastic a regulation from ' Washington as to cripple the light and power inciustr2 , and place it in the hands of a Federal bureaucracy , Philip H. Gadsden. chairman of the Committee of Public Utility Executives told a nationwide radio audience Saturday night in a frank exposition of the evils of the bill . To force dismemberment of the holding . companies , Mr. Gadsden asserted , will set the clock back a quarter of a century . The country he said would be returned to the days when electric service was uncertain : costs high : and expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ netessar ? funds . DIssolutton of the holding company , he said . will not only impair the electric service but will cause immense destruction in the value of public utility securities and a tragic loss to the investor .                     