@@702727

txt More railroad history on the East Coast route to Scotland has been Written by the London and North Eastern Railway . Coronation , Britain 's new all-streamlined wonder express sped along the Great North Road of Iron at well over , 100 in. p. h. so smoothly it might he merely cruising at a leisurely 40 . This it did between here and Grantham recently on a trial run . Fora full mile near Essendine , the locomotiVe drew Coronation at 100 m.p.h . The object of the test was not to break records , but to prove to the railway 's guests that they could be carried along at a cruising speed of 00 at p. h. with no more shaking than at a mere 40 m. p. h . On the down journey the maximum speed was 03 ' 4 m.p.h . For 48 miles , an average speed of 85.1 M.p.h. was maintained . On the return journey , a stretch of eight miles Was covered at 100.5 m.p.h. , working Up to 100 m.p.h. ? this with a train 42 per cent heavier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fastest train in service in the British Empire , its average to York being faster than the Cheltenham Flyer . This great new link between the English and Scottish capitals covers the 302 miles In exactly 6 hours . One stop only is made , at Yolk on the down journey and at Newcastle on the south-bound trip . The average throughout speed is 66.02 m.p.h. giving a record speed service to and from Scotland By leaving London at 4 p. m. business men are now able to spend the best part of the day in the metropolis and still reach Scotland at a reasonable hour . The entire train is air-conditioned . There are no compartments , but small alcoves to insure privacy . In the first class carriages , swiveling chairs are placed at specially shaped tables and are so arranged that passengers when dining may face diagonally toward the windows and thus get a much better view . Five streamlined engines , named after the British Dominions and India , have been specially built to haul the Coronation expresses . By permission of the overseas governments , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the engine . Like the one named after Canada , locomotive Union of South Africa has been fitted with a whistle as used on the South Africa Railway . The corridor tender immediately , after the engine follOws the general scheme of streamlining and carries 8 tons of coal and 5000 gallons of water ,                     