@@703658

txt Practical revision of Canadian railroads ' freight rate structure will become effective today . The changes in the rate scnedules will permit the railroads more latitude in meeting truck competition . Canadian railways . - Under the revised Transport Act , will be allowed to establish so-called " agreed charges " which permit a carrier to contract with a shipper at special rates for the movement of the shipper 's total annual business Heretofore , the railroads were bound by rates applicable to all shippers . The principle of the " agreed charge " has been in effect in Great Britain and Australia for several years , but this will be the first time such a system has been used on this continent . In the United States , the railroad committee of the Investment Bankers Association in its recent report suggested the use of " agreed charges " in that country as one solution ? - ? *- United States carriers ' difficulties in meeting competition from other forms of transportation . Reserves Certain Rights The Canadian Transport Board has the right reserved to regulate the rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shippers also will have the right to apply for the same rate received by a competitor if they can establish the similarity of conditions . The rate agreed upon . by a shipper ' and a carrier are to remain in effect for one year , and it is possible at the end of that period to have new negotiations looking to a change in a particular rate . The change in the Transport Act was made at the last session of Parliament in lieu of regulating trucking rates Proclamation of the revision of the rate structure was delayed pending an increase of two in the personnel of the Transport Board . The two new appointments were made last week . The act also empowers lake carriers to contract with shippers , although in the case of water-borne traffic , bulk cargoes such as grain . coal , sand and gravel are excluded from the " agreed charges " provision . Lake Shippers Opposed Act Lake shipping companies opposed the legislation on the ground that with the short navigation season they were in an unfavorable position as compared with the railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the prospects of the Canadian transcontinental railway systems is generally conceded . Although the lateness of the year prevents much being accomplished during 1938 , qpinion is that a direct stimulus should be given to next year 's business . Means of regulating trucks has been sought for several years by the Canadian government but legal advisors have pointed out that federal jurisdiction extends only to truck traffic that crosses provisional or international boundaries .                     