@@698194

txt Disputes concerning the constitutionality of state statutes curtailing the production of oil and gas and the raising of revenue through levies on chain stores and distributive houses are among the important suits listed on the docket of the Supreme Court for its October term , which begins today . The Champlin Refining Co. seeks to enjoin the enforcement of the Oklahoma Oil Curtailment law in an appeal from the lower court decision upholding the act , while several companies led by the Bandini and Comodore Petroleum companies , are asking the court for a writ of prohibition to enjoin the lower court from enforcing a preliminary injunction granted the California State Director of Natural Resources against companies to stop the unreasonable waste of natural gas in the Santa Fe Springs oil field . Two other relatively ' important oil - cases will be before the court . The first concerns the ordinance enacted by the City of Los Angeles prohibiting the drilling for oil in residential areas . The Standard Oil Co. of California held a lease for oil drilling on land owned by the Marblehead Land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land , and the companies brought suit to have the ordinance declred inapplicable to their property , since the extraction of its mineral content 13 not regulated but prohibited , and the use of property is interfered with . Lease Restricting Statute Questioned The validity of another California statute which , while authorizing the leasing of certain stateowned tidelands for oil prospecting and drilling , withholds such lands from leasing that are situated within an incorporated city , is questioned . A rehearing has been asked of the Supreme Court 's decision of last term upholding the Indiana Chain Store Tax . Chester H. Joieleson , as adreieistrator of the estate of Lafayette A. Jackson , petitioned for a review on the grounds that the court 's decision for the first time allows a. new method of taxation on purely artificial , numerical bases , and establishes a new and dangerous principle which strikes at the future progress and growth of American business , wholesale and retail . The tax ranges from $3 for each owner of one store to $25 a store for each owner of 20 or more stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court to take jurisdiction in its suit to enjoin the collection by tab Virginia State Tax Commissioner of the state 's distributing house license tax . The Virginia statute requires a separate merchant 's license for every distributing house or . place in Virginia , other than the house or place of manufacture . operated by any person , firm or corporation engaged in the business of a merchant in the state for the purpose of distributing goods , wares and merchandise among his or its retail stores . The company contends the statute is unconstitutional in that it sets up an arbitrary and unreasonable classification . Mississippi Sales Tax Contested The Mississippi statute placing an additional tax upon the gross sales of persons operating more than five stores in the state is contested in a suit of the Penny Stores , Inc. , in which the court has already taken jurisdiction . The tax amounted to el of 1% of the gross sales in addition to the tax of ix of 1% levied against all other persons engaged in the sale of merchandise at retail . Union employes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In one , the government brought proceedings against the Painters District Council No. 14 of Chicago and Vicinity , charging that it was engaged in a combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce between the states of Indiana and Illinois in " built in " kitchen equipment in that the union painters demanded that the equipment be delivered in Chicago in an erieeished condition in order that they could complete the enameling. notwithstanding that the manufacturers could do it more cheaply . The other suit was brought by the Western Union Telegraph Co. against the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers . Local Union No. 134 , of Chicago . for " conspiring " to coerce the company to abandon the " open shop " policy . The lower court granted the Western Union injunctive relief . Blackmer Appeals Contempt Case Echoes of the Sinclair-Fall bribery trial are again heard in the Supreme Court . This time in the petition of Harry M. Blackmer for a review of the lower court decision holding him in contempt for failing to appear as a witness at the Sinclair-Fall trials . The lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charges of contempt . Blackmer took up his residence in Paris . France . in 1924 , and has not returned to the United States . The railroads have two interesting suits listed on the docket . These are the Texas-Louisiana port rate dispute and the car hire settlement controversy . Louisiana port carriers objected to an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission placing higher rates on freight shipped through New Orleans than those on freight through Galveston and other Texas ports . Prior to the commission 's order , Louisiana port carriers had maintained the policy known as port equalization ; that is , they applied the same export , import and coastwise rates for longer ' distances to and from New Orleans as were contemporaneously maintained by the Texas port carriers for shorter distances to and from Galveston and the other Texas ports . The lower court upheld the Commission . An order of the Commission , which became effective January 30 , 1931. and which modified the rules for car hire settlement , was objected to by the Chicago . Rock Island &; Pacific Railway Co. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attacked Three suits attacking the validity of the tax of 10 cents a pound on artificially colored oleomargarine have been taken to the Supreme Court . The Edward S. Vail Butterine and the Standard Nut Margarine companies are parties objecting to the tax . The General Electric Co. has petitioned for a rehearing of the Supreme Court 's decision last term holding invalid the Langmuir patent for vacuum radio tubes . The DeForest Radio Co. , which was favored by the decision , objects to General Electric 's petition for a rehearing . X-ray tube patents are the subject of a dispute between the Chemical Foundation . Inc. , and General Electric , which will be before the court . The Chemical Foundation charged that the Lilienfeld patent , which it owns , is infringed by the Coolidge X-ray patent under which General Electric and the ' Victor X-Ray Corp . manufacture and sell tubes . The South Carolina license tax of 6 cents a gallon on all gasoline imported into the State of South Carolina and stored in the state for 24 hours before its use by the importer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Greenville and the Gregg Dyeing Co. for injunctions against the collection of the tax , Injunctions were denied by lower courts . The exclusion of negroes from the Texas Democratic primary is up for review in the suit of L. A. Nixon , negro , against two Democratic primary judges of Texas .                     