@@697696

txt Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt , in naming Judge Samuel Seabury to inquire into the conduct of the office of district attorney of New York County by Thomas C. T. Crain , has opened the door to an investigation not only of the office of the moat important county prosecutor in the United States , but to that of the police and other chief departments of the New York City Administration . With the acceptance by'Judge Sea-bury of Governor Roosevelt 's formal appointment , it is expected that the investigation will begin within a few days . Judge Seabury said it would be conducted in conjunction with his investigation as referee in the Appellate Division inquiry into the lower courts of Manhattan and the Bronx , which has been going on since last fall . Judge Seabury is empowered to scrutinize not only the charges by the City Club of New York against Mr. Crain , but all city administrative affairs connected in any way with Mr. Crain 's conduct of the office of district attorney . Thul he will be able to penetrate fields closed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only thing that can now halt the investigation would be the resignation of Mr. Crain . The district attorney 's friends declare he will not resign . The Governor 's move in naming Judge Seabury as his special commissioner falls just short of the original demands made upon him by the Republican leaders in Albany a year ago , when a city-wide inquiry , embracing even the office of the Mayor , was urged . The Governor 's reply was that the Legislature had full power to authorize and conduct its own inquiry if it wanted one and that he would place no obstacle in its way . The Republican majority was unwilling to take the responsibility , however , until the advent of W. Kings-land Macy as state chairman , and then recalcitrancy in the party ranks blocked the carrying through of a legislative inquiry resolution . In the Seabury commissionership the Governor is proceeding along the lines originally laid down by him  --  that he would not act without specific and formal charges . It was declared that Governor Roosevelt was convinced of the need of an investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at an interview with Judge Seabury in Albany a week ago . Prior to the interview between Governor Roosevelt and Judge Sea-bury , the Governor had before him a complete summary of Mr. Crain 's record as district attorney . It showed that 2994 indictments were returned in major crimes in the last year and that only 4 3 per cent of the persons indicted were convicted in court for the crimes with which they were originally charged . Pleas of guilty to some lighter charge were accepted in more than half the cases , while about a fifth of the indictments resulted in dismissal or acquittal .                     