@@700448

txt Enactment by Congress of corrective and clarifying legislation with respect to the banking act of 1933 , which in the light of practical operation appears necessa. - ry. is recommended by Comptroller of the Currency J. F. T. O'Connor in his annual report to Congrass . As a whole , The Comptroller stated , this legislation is sound and contains many much needed provisions of law , but like most major legislation , application by administrative officers reveals certain features which , in practice , work in a cumbersome manner or bring about situations which its framers did not intend . He , therefore , suggested that section 2. which defines " affiliates " and " holding company affiliates " of a member bank , be clarified because it has been found that a large number of e'lfferent types of corporations , which Congress may not have intended including , are apparent affiliates of member banks . These include retail clothing corporations , churches , packing companies , newspapers . lumber yards . steamship companies , eleemosynary institutions , etc . Unnecessary Reports a Burden As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each national banking association shall obtain from its affiliates not less than three reports each year so as to disclose fully to the Comptroller of the Currency the relations between such affiliate and such bank , there has accumulated in the Comptroller 's office a great deal of information which has no practical use , since in many cases there is no dealing between the incidental affiliates and the national banks except the relationship created b3 the definition under the act . Moreover , the Comptroller asserted , the furnishing and publication of such reports has placed a. tremendous burden as well as expense on some of the banks and has naturally led to confusion in some instances in the minds of the public . Mr. O'Connor suggested that it is advisable to amend the elections calling for the reports in such a way to give discretion both to the Comptroller and the Federal Reserve Board to waive the furnishing or publication of the reports upon a proper showing . He also suggested that the following exemptions to the requirements be made : ( A. ) Where a bank is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation as collateral to a debt of a corporation to the bank and may or may not control said shares for voting purposes to protect said debt(B) Where the bank has come into control of the majority of the voting shares of a corporation as a. result of foreclosure on such ' shares which were collateral to a debt due the bank . ( C ) Where the bank holds a majority of the voting shares of a corporation as trustee and controls the voting of same subject to the terms of the trust instrument or without any governing direction in the trust instrument but merely subject to the common-law duty to exercise the control over said shares in the best interests or the particular trust estate ; as for example , where a bank as trustee in a mortgage indenture has foreclosed on the mortgage , taking title to the fee in a newly formed corporation , all or a majority of the voting stock of which is controlled by the bank in its capacity as trustee for the beneficiaries . ( D ) Where a bank holds a majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of certain of its customers , the stock possibly being registered in the name of the bank , and in the absence of specific instructions from the customer , the bank causing such stock to be voted as it sees fit , but presumably for the benefit of the real party in interest , namely , the customer . Would Clarify Holding Co . Section Clarification of section 2 should be made to eliminate the doubt as to whether or not a bank can have more than one holdingcompany affiliate , as arises where a corporation controls a corporation which is a holding-company affiliate of a bank by reason of owning or controlling a majority of the bank 's stock . The section should also be clarified , Mr. O'Connor said , so as to indicate whether or not a subsidiary of a holding company or an affiliate thereof thereby also becomes an affiliate of the bank controlled by the holding company . " This is important , " the Comptroller said , " because of the provisions of section 13 governing transactions between the bank and its affiliates , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revision of section 11 ( 3 ) which prohibits member banks from paying interest on demand deposits is also requested . Deposits of public funds made by or on behalf of any state , county , school district , or other sub-division or municipality with respect to which payment of interest is required under state law , are exempted trom this provision , but Mr. O'Connor stressed that no exception is made with respect to deposits of federal public funds upon which funds existing statutes require the depositing official to obtain interest . As a result , he said , the Federal official is confronted on the one hand with the requirement that he obtain interest on his deposits , if placed in the bank , whereas ' he bank , on the other hand . is apparently prohibited from paying such interest on a demand deposit . This section also prohibits a bank from paying any time deposit before its maturity , which the Comptroller says results in a hardship in particular instances which was probably not contemplated in selecting the language used . " Many of the banks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Rsa ; position that thy are willing and anxious to anticipate payment of these restricted deposits but the literal application of the language of this section appears to prohibit such anticipation with the result that the present policy of doing everything possible to make frozen deposits available to depositors is obstructed . " Definition of the term " executive officer " as used in section 12 should be further clarified . : n the opinion of the Comptroller . The terrn ? is not sasceptible of a meaning which is definite enough to enable the Comptroller and his examiners to advise the banks with any degree of certainty whether the section has been violated by reason of a loan to a particular officer , Mr. O'Connor reported . This section should also be clarified , the report said , so as to indicate whether or not a loan to a partnership in which an executive officer of the bank is a partner comes within the prohibition . Would Also Clarify Section 16 Clarification of section 16 is also s-ugzested as it would appear from the language Mat a national bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporate stocks for the account of one of its customers . " Since this does not entail the investment by the bank of its own funds and the bank merely acts in an accommodation capacity , " Mr. O'Connor said , " it is believed that it was not the intention of Congress to penalize the public located in communities removed from the money centers in disposing of or purchasing securities in the form of corporate stocks for investment purposes . " Section 18 provides , in part . that after one year from enactment of the banking act no certificate representing stock of any such association shall represent the stock of any other corporation . The Comptroller pointed out that some of the national banks are confronted with the problem of not being able to secure the surrender of certificates by all the holders of shares of stock of the bank for the purpose of issuing new shares which will comply with the provisions of the act if the act is not self-operative . " It is possible , " the Comptroller said , " that Congress intended that such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new certificates representing shares of bank stock . If such were the intention , the section should be clarified by providing that its prohibitions shall be effective notwithstanding any representations to the contrary that may thereafter appear on such stock certificates . " Operation of the act has also resulted in some uncertainty as to whether or not the activities of certain affiliate corporations come within the provisions of the penal statute of section 20 which provides that after one year from enactment , no member bank shall be affiliated with any corporation engaged principally in the issue , flotation , underwriting , public sale , or distribution of stocks , bonds , debentures , notes , or other securities . This section should be clarified as to enable those affected by its penal provisions to understand clearly what particular activities are embraced within the scope of the section , Mr. O'Connor stated . Section 21 ( A ) likewise requires the same clarification so that it can be clearly understood as to what dealing in securities brings a business entity within its application , the Comptroller said . Section 26 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining whether or not the obligations of all subsidiary corporations must be totaled for the purpose of determining whether or not an excess loan has been made where the bank has made no loan to the parent corporation . Directors Often Financially Limited In many cases , Mr. O'Connor reported , serious practical objection has arisen with respect to the provision of section 31 which increases the amount of stock which a director is required to own for qualification because frequently , present directors , whom it is desirable to retain on the board , are financially unable to make further investment in bank stoic , and because in some cases the stock is clo.sely held with the result that there is none available for purchase except at a prohibitive price beyond the intrinsic worth of the stock . This condition is particularly true with respect to the smaller banks , the Comptroller said , and the section should be amended to restore the requirements of the law in existence before the latest amendment . Section 32 which prohibits an officer or di- rector of a. member bank from being an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the business of purchasing , selling or negotiating securities , should be clarified so as to indicate clearly what type of securities are referred to , in the opinion of Mr. O'Connor . That is , he says , whether , as would seem likely , it was intended to apply to the business of dealing in securities commonly dealt in on the Stock Exchange , or whether it is to be taken in the broad sense so as to include the business of making direct mortgage loans or buying and selling mortgage loans . Similarly Section 33 which prohibits a director , officer , or employe of any bank from serving at the same time as a director officer or employe of a corporation which makes loans secured by stock , if applied literally , has had an effect in many cases possibly not contemplated by Congress , according to the Comptroller . " The danger of an accidental violation of this section acts as a deterrent on desirable men with wide business interest and ability , acting as directors of the bank , because they feel they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily activities of the other corporations in which they are interested as to be advised when such corporations in an isolated case may happen to make a loan secured by stock or bond collateral , whereas if the section were limited to engaging in the business of making such loans , these problems would be avoided . " Mr. O'Connor reported . Checking State Bank Resources Section 243 , dealing with the consolidation of two national banks , should be completely rewritten so as to provide ( 1 ) for effective passage of trust fiduciary powers ; ( 2 ) accountability to dissenting stockholders for proceeds of sale of stock in excess of the appraised value placed thereon ; ( 3 ) to meet the situation where one appraiser refuses to agree with the other two appraisers , as provided for in the act . Amendment of that section of the revised statutes providing for conversion of state banks into national banks , also was recommended by the Comptroller . There has been an increasing number of state banks which have applied to the Comptroller for conversion and in exaznining these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not legal for national banks to acquire and hold . To require a. state bank to eliminate these assets places a burden on it which it may be unable to meet and many times results in its inability to join the national system , the Comptroller said . He , therefore , recommended that Congress amend this statute to provide that such banks on conversion may continue to carry such nonconforming assets as may be determined , in the discretion of the Comptroller to be acceptable because of their intrinsic value .                     