@@703541

txt The whole Canadian aircraft industry , according to a statement issued tonight by Sir Francis Floud , British High Commissioner in Canada , will participate in the construction of military airplanes for the British Government . Only the frames , not the engines , will be made in Canada . For the most part they will be heavy bombers . Four firms , however , the De Haviland Company of Toronto , the Club Aircraft Company of Hamilton , the Noorduyn Company of Montreal and the Montreal Aircraft Industries Company , will be permitted to make lighter planes for the British Government . Two groups of aircraft manufacturers will be united in a central organization to make heavy belmbers . In the Montreal area will be Canadian Vickers , Canadian Car and Foundry and Fairchild Aircraft , Ltd . In the Toronto area will be grouped the National Steel Car of Hamilton , the Fleet Company of Fort Erie and the Ottawa Car Manufacturing Company . Others Also to Get Orders In addition , the Boeing Company of Vancouver and the Fort William , Ontario , plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders direct from the British Government . Capital for the central organization to be formed will be provided by the participating companies and by financial institutions . Two central plants will be built at St. Hubert , near Montreal , and at Malton , near Toronto . These will at first only be assembling plants , but the British High Commissioner said that eventually they would be enlarged and equipped to engage in production . All negotiations will be conducted directly with the Canadian aircraft industry on condition that they do not prejudice existing contracts between the companies and the Canadian Government . Engines will be shipped from Britain to be mounted here and the completed machines will be flown back to Britain . " The government of Great Britain , " said Sir Francis , " is anxious to get the aircraft industry in Canada developed to such a state that it may be of benefit or value to the Commonwealth as a whole . " British Official 's Statement OTTAWA , Sept. 2 ( Canadian Press ) . ? The British High Commissioner to Canada , Sir Francis Floud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erected in Canada to build military planes for Great Britain . His statement follows : As a result of exhaustive discussions arrangements have been made by the United Kingdom Government in conjunction with the principal firms in the aircraft industry in Canada , supported by prominent financial organizations , for the placing of contracts for bomber aircraft for the United Kingdom on a long-range program of purchases . Under the arrangements the aircraft firms will augment their existing capacity to manufacture main aircraft components , in conjunction with two new central manufacturing establishments which they will build for this purpose , one at Montreal and one at Toronto . A central company is to be formed in association with these firms which will operate the two main establishments and contract directly with the United Kingdom Government . Subject to the approval of the arrangements by the United Kingdom Government , the new company will be finally constituted and enter into contracts with that government to cover the long-range purchase program . The United Kingdom representatives are also discussing with Canadian aircraft firms , subject to confirmation , arrangements for placing contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Kingdom Government at other centers , e. g. , Vancouver and Fort William . Such arrangements , which would be supplementary to those already obtaining under which a. number of Canadian firms manufacture aircraft of British types for the Canadian Government , would involve the erection of additional manufacturing plants by the firms at those centers . These arrangements , as stipulated by the Canadian Government in accordance with the usual practice of governments in a like situation , will preclude any possibility of prejudicing that government 's existing or future contracts with Canadian manufacturers for supplying the needs of the Canadian military forces . It was also the desire of the Canadian Government that all United Kingdom Government contracts and all arrangements in that connection should be made directly between the United Kingdom Government and the Canadian firms . The United Kingdom Government accordingly have the entire responsibility for the placing of such contracts and all incidental arrangements . The Canadian Government have been duly informed of the progress made with the arrangement as here outlined . Sise Will Head Company MONTREAL , Sept. 2 ( Canadian Press ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Royal Air Force will be capitalized at about $1,250,000 , Victor M. Drury , on the proposed slate of directors for , the new organization , said tonight . , Formation of the company and 1 incorporation will be begun immediately , Mr. Drury said . It will be headed , he announced , by Paul F. Sise of Montreal , president of the Northern Electric Company . The two new assembly plants will cost $300,000 apiece , Mr. Drury continued . Mr. Drury , who is president of the plane-making Canadian Car and Foundry Company , said the company 's directors were not yet in a position to estimate the amount of the British Government 's original orders . That would be decided , he said , in London . In addition to the company itself , Mr. Drury said , the plan contemplates the setting-up of a board to maintain liaison between the Canadian organization and the British Government . Members of this board will be Sir Charles Gordon , president of the Bank of Montreal ; Morris W. Wilson , president of the Royal Bank of Canada , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ltd . All are from Montreal . The directors of the company , Mr. Drury said , will include : L. J. Belnap , Montreal president lof the Consolidated Paper Company . 1 George Cottrelle , - Toronto , a director of the Canadian Bank of Commerce . R. J. Magor , Montreal , president of National Steel Car Company . Hubert Pasmore , Montreal , president of Fairchild Aircraft . I Captain W. J. Sanderson , Toronto , president of Fleet Aircraft . W. H. , Ottawa , vice president of Ottawa Car Manufacturing Company . There will be one other director , but Mr. Drury said he had not been chosen definitely .                     