@@704317

txt qwq In a second count , Mr. Rock was accused by the Grand Jury of having solicited $1,000 from George Hibbard , a mechanic at the Courthouse , as the price of remaining on the county pay roll . According to the State 's accusation , Mr. Hibbard paid the $1,000. and so retained his job . Mr. Rock 's connection with the City ' of Boston began in 1907 when he was employed as a clerk in the Supply Department . When Mr. Curley began his first term as strong announced he would " tell Mayor in 1914 , he named Mr. Rock all " and was conducted before the to the post of Assistant . PurchasGrand Jury to permit him to do so. - in Agent , a post which he sub 3 . Announcement by the new quently lost during the mayoralty Sheriff , Frederick R. Sullivan , who of Andrew J. Peters . was appointed by Gov . Leverett When Mr. Curley returned to 1Saltonstall to clean up the office City Hall for another term , he after the resignation of Mr. Dowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ named Mr. Rock purchasing agent , a post he held from 1922 to the summer of 1925 when he resigned to enter private business . He has not been in official position with the City since that time . After pleading guilty before Judge Frederick W. Fosdick , Armstrong told reporters : " There is no sense is being a fall guy all the way ; I have covered long enough . I am going to tell the whole story . I did n't get a quarter out of this . He did n't even get me a lawyer when I was in trouble : The confession of Armstrong stunned political circles in Boston , for it was the first admission of guilt in the case , and was expected to strengthen materially the State 's position when it commences to prosecute Mr. Dowd himself . The independent investigation announced by the new Sheriff , School Committeeman Sullivan , was expected to lead to further disclosures of conditions in the " little empire " which is Boston 's Shrievalty . It apparently was inspired by recent statements of City Auditor Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supplies and the condition of the building . Mr. Reilly , the Fire Commissioner , is to check previous official reports that the fire prevention system at the Jail is unsatisfactory . Mr. Mooney is to look into reports that some of the walls are falling down . Commissioner Lyman is to examine the personnel and sanitary conditions at the Jail , while Chief Jailer Morris will study past purchases for food , clothing , and incidentals . . ? " I will recommend whatever is necessary to correct conditions at the Jail , as soon as I get reports from these investigators , " said the Sheriff . " It might be . that a com plete overhauling of the institution will be needed . But whatever the reports show is necessary will be carried out promptly . "                     