@@698029

txt Letters to the Editor CALENDAR REFORM . Only Three Religious Bodies Protest the Thirteen-Month Plan . To the Editor of The New York Times : In a recent issue of THE NEW YORIC TIMES , Isaac . Rosengarten criticized the National Committee on Calendar Simplification on the ground that the committee has made it appear in its report that " only Seventh Day Adventists , Seventh Day Baptists and some rabbis are outspoken against the blank day device of the thirteen-month fixed calendar . " Mr. Rosengarten goes on to say that " few persons are aware that the thirteen-month calendar reform with its blank day device will tend to destroy the continuity of the days of the week and the regular recurrence of the Christian Lord 's Day on the first day of the week , as well as the Jewish Sabbath on the seventh , and the Mohammedan day of rest on the sixth , as they have been observed heretofore . " The fact is that , although there is no religious community in the world which has not long since been advised by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed , perpetual , uniform calendar having the so-called " blank day device , " the only religious communities that have protested are Jewish , Seventh Day A*ventist and Seventh Day Baptist , whose Sabbath coincides with Saturday . Orthodox rabbis alone appeared to protest at the hearings of the League of Nations Special Committee on the Reform of the Calendar eight years ago . Only orthodox rabbis and representatives of the Seventh Day Adventists and Seventh Day Baptists opposed the thirteen-month calendar at the hearings of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House in 1929-30 . At the recent meeting of the Preparatory . Committee on Calendar Reform at Geneva religious objections were confined to the same interests . The National Committee on Calendar Simplification twice stated in its questionnaires that the so-called " blank day device , " which consists of giving a non-weekday name to one day each year and two in leap years , would interrupt the continuity of the Sabbath once each year and twice in leap years . The committee also prepared and widely distributed among the clergymen and religious periodicals a booklet , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the one hand the resolutions of protest of the Jewish religious leaders and Christian Seventh Day group , and on the other presented a summary of opinion in disagreement with these protests . Finally , through a questionnaire , it presented the opposing aspects of the question directly to a cross-section of clergymen of the principal Protestant denominations , with the result that 82 per cent stated they had no religious objections . It is quite true that the thirteenmonth fixed calendar would interrupt once each year and twice in leap years the present continuity of the weekly cycle ; but to say that it " would destroy the regular recurrence of the Christian Lord 's Day on the first day of the week " is not correct . In the thirteen-month calendar and beginning with Jan. 1 , Sunday , the Lord 's Day would occur on the first day of the week every seven days throughout the year , just as at present , until the last day of the year , when " Year . Day " would be inserted , with the result that the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so on perpetually . With the religious leaders of the Saturday Sabbath keepers it is a question of theological views which conflict with those of the great majority , and the inconvenience which the new calendar would cause in observing their Sabbath . They maintain that an absolute seventh-day sequence for their Sabbath is required by a literal law of God . The intercalation of the " Year Day " in the weekly cycle would therefore cause their Sabbath in the new calendar to coincide with some other day of the week each year . The forthcoming International . Conference on Calendar Reform at Geneva , however , will not deal with any theological questions . It will discuss calendar reform purely from a social and economic standpoint and leave to religious authorities liberty of action on any recisions which the conference may make from that standpoint . The Preparatory Committee said , with reference to the protests of the Saturday Sabbath observers , " while the inquiries of the conference might cover possible effects of any particular proposed reform on the economic and social life of certain religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference had any authority to consider whether any proposed reform was incompatible with any particular religious belief . " MEREDITH STILES . New York , July 28 , 1931 . SALES METHODS AT FAULT . Some Drastic Reforms Are Indicated for the Textile Industry . To the Editor of The New York Times : In his letter to THE TIMES , Austin Bolam attributes the unsatisfactory conditions in the textile industry to the costly and antiquated systems of production and distribution . These are not the evils that are causing such great demoralization . There are few large enterprises in this country that are more efficient and economic in both production and distribution . Overproduction , misdirected production and , the worst of all evils , unsound and corrupt sales methods , are the principal causes that have brought about the deplorable situation in the textile industry . The modern method of hand-tomouth buying , while economically sound for the buyer , has resulted in bringing terrific hardships and losses to the seller . This policy compels the manufacturer to anticipate the requirements of the trade , necessitating the carrying of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large stocks on the shelves of the producers operate as a boomerang which the buyer uses in dictating terms and prices . As an example , let us take the silk industry , which has enjoyed for years the greatest consumption , but in spite of the lowest price of raw material in its history is forced to sell the greatest portion of its product at a tremendous loss . In line with others , the silk industry is suffering from the present economic crisis , but even under more favorable conditions it can not escape financial calamity if some steps are not taken to limit production and stop the unethical method of distribution . A few sales made by irresponsible " pirates " seem to establish the price for the entire market and corrupt the sales policies of the strongest and best organized establishments . A spinal operation would not help a jellyfish , but would prove very beneficial to some of our leaders in the industry . Our country can not possibly recover and prosper so long as the manufacturer is influenced to sell the greatest portion of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The textile industry needs very drastic and sweeping reforms . The time for organized action should not be delayed much longer . JOSEPH BERLINGER . New York , July 30 , 1931 . RELIGION IN SCHOOLS . Instruction Might Do Much to Overcome Intolerance . To the Editor of The New York Times : The results of Dr. Adelaide T. Case 's study of religious tolerance among 6 to 12 year old children are most interesting in the light of present-day thinking on the general subject of religion . Dr. Case blames the schools for the widespread prejudice and intolerance found in , the school population . But I thought that the policy of ignoring religious training in our public schools was inspired by the fear of stimulating just such attitudes and emotions as those Dr. Case finds so deplorably prevalent among school children . Is it any wonder that there should be so much bias , misunderstanding and ignorance when religious instruction in our public schools is so conspicuous by its absence and every effort to provide such instruction under judicious arrangements is generally resisted ? I should think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remedy the situation Dr. Case complains of . Classes in religion could furnish opportunities to become more accurately informed regarding one another 's religious beliefs and convictions and could serve to cultivate more objective attitudes than those that now obtain among grown-ups and children in religious matters . Religious prejudice dies hard , but at least we can soften it by an intelligent school policy . Or will the growth of irreligion and the complete secularization of education in time act as a solvent , and will there be any need in another generation to worry much about religious intolerance ? With 50 per cent of the great American population unchurched , ands the churches losing more and more of their memberships , is not a concern over the problem of intolerance perhans a little beside the point ? ErAUl. 0 KOMORA , Editor , Mental Hygiene Bulletin . New York , July 28 , 1931 . Better Subway Ventilation . To the Editor of The New York Times : In view of the fact that fans and grated openings in the sidewalks hardly seem to relieve the subway of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ install from the subway eking the sides of high buildings here and there tubes to a higher and purer strata of air ? Some tubes might be provided with weather vane tops to suck out the foul air , and others with fixed tops turned toward the prevailing winds . The grated openings in the sidewalks , it seems to me , are obnoxious , if not outrageous , when considering human endurance for having to breath this foul subway air even when walking in the streets . DAILY SUBWAY PATRON . New ' York , June 26 , 1931.                     