@@700769

txt A Labor Day message sent yesterday to 110,000 pastors in the twentyfive denominations of the Federal Council of Churches to be read next Sunday described measures proposed for industry by the Roosevelt Administration as " of human origin and therefore fallible , but the purposes sought are divine in their character . " The Labor Sunday message was prepared by the Rev. Dr. Albert E. Day , minister of the Mount Vernon Place Methodist Episcopal Church of Baltimore . and chairman of the Social Service department of the Federal Council . With it went a prayer written by James Myers , industrial secretary of the council , in which the " orderly processes of social change " were asked . " Restrain From Violence . " " Restrain from the methods of violence , " the prayer read , " those who would appropriate for society and those who would protect for themselves the vested interests of accumulated wealth . Vouchsafe to our owning class that mind which was in Christ Jesus , who counted not privilege and power things to be grasped , but emptied himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sacrificial love , by the power of the cross , and may Thy kingdom come , Thy will be done on ' earth . " The message , in part , read : " American business and industry stand at the judgment seat . An administration pledged to the welfare of the forgotten man has anInounced its purpose to bring about such economic adjustments as will result in work and a living wage for all , under conditions in the es-. tablishment of which the worker has a voice through representatives of his own choosing ; to promote constructive cooperation instead of disastrous competition in business ; ? to secure a more just distribution of the wealth of the country in order that our vast resources may answer the human needs hitherto unmet even in years of prosperity ; to afford relief to the sorely beset farm population of the country ; to accomplish the release of children from premature toil and their return to school and to an adequate preparation for the responsibilities of life ; to effect economic planning in the place of the adventurous but socially disastrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The measures proposed ' are of human origin and therefore fallible . But the purposes sought are divine in their character , if , as we steadfastly believe , the heart of Jesus Christ is a revelation of the divine . He cared whether men were cold , or hungry , or sick . He felt the woes of those in bondage of any sort , and longed for their freedom . Many goals sought by the present leaders of American affairs are indisputably in harmony with the purpose and spirit of Jesus . " Whether these goals will be attained will depend upon the ' wisdom of separate measures adopted , upon the character of the economic system itself , and certainly upon the spirit of those in control of our economic life . If they can replace lust for personal power and profit by devotion to production and distribution for the common good ; if they can look beyond the interests of their own class to the good of all the people ; if they can rise to the realization that isolation is folly and that there can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if they can achieve a consciousness of the stewardship of their talents and their property , history will vindicate them as it writes the story of their emancipating leadership in a day of great crisis . Opportunity for Labor Seen . " Labor is also on trial . While the difficulties of organization at a time of vast unemployment are very great and the opposition serious , labor has an opportunity to gather the workingmen of America into a. , national federation of mutual loyalty and service , and to promote those compacts which will stabilize industry and- secure to labor the benefits of generously rewarded efficient toil , while protecting the just interests of industry and the public . The verdict upon labor leadership is now being written . Will it record 1 1 the operation of an inflexible purpose to include all toilers of every race and industry , whether skilled or unskilled , in the membership and service of their organizations ? And will it reveal that the underprivileged and dispossessed , if adequateI ly supported in their right to or , ganize by government , industry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and privileges withI out the hatred and bitterness of class war ? " The general public is at the bar of judgment . The measures now being tried , and any others which give promise of a cure of our social sickness , demand as integrity , a spirit of fair play , a capacity for long views , a willingness to surrender personal privilege and to share , such as have seldom been sought at the hands of any population in peace time . The inauguration of a New Era largely awaits the appearance of enough new people with new social outlooks and attitudes . Codes alone can not give us a better society . There must be consecrations , too . "                     