@@703843

txt The Problem of Idle Money Solution Is Held Necessary to Solving the Problem of Idle Men TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your editorial " The Right Way Out , " which deals with the turnover of deposit money and the failure of the government 's pump-priming scheme , is quite logical . However , I should like to point out that where existing money fails to turn over , no matter what the reason , there is a " strike of capital . " Money may refuse to circulate because of a lack of yield or lack of confidence . Correction of the cause will start it on its way again . As at present , the reason may be due to the government 's failure to cooperate with business . If this were adjusted , money would be started working and business recovery would be a reality . There are times when idle money is due to other and deeper causes , causes that can not be corrected so easily . For example , in 1929 we were confronted with such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulation of money , and since money is also a good " store of value , " it was considered better to hold than to spend or invest . The solution of our most important problems depends on the steady ' circulation of money . Capitalism is doomed unless this can be assured . It is a fact that favorable conditions for the circulation of money can not be maintained indefinitely . As long as we work with money instruments that can " strike " we will experience depressions periodically . Demand must be so controlled that it will not hamper supply and the employment of all our people . Money must not be permitted to withdraw from circulation without penalty . The president of a Midwestern bank , in an article in The Banker 's Magazine , pointed out that the weakness in our present money economy involved the indefinite suspension of spending that is permitted by the type of money instrument we employ . To permit people who get money through the process of exchange to break the vital flow of goods and services by postponing spending indefinitely is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of solving the problem of idle money If we expect to eliminate the problem of idle men and to save ourselves from dictatorship . E. J. BECKERT , Jr . New York , Feb. 27 , 1939 . Broadening Social Security Need Is Seen for Extending Benefits of Act to Other Classifications TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I have been reading with Much interest the correspondence from Martin Sherry , G. A. Huggins , and most recently from " A Presbyter , " concerning the inclusion of employes of nonprofit agencies under the provisions of the Social Security Act . I believe I have some understanding of both points of view , because I have been , as an ordained minister in the Episcopal Church , a participant in the church pension fund , and am now intimately associated with employes of social service agencies . It is , I believe , true that in my own church most ministers are adequately covered by the church pension fund . It would be difficult for me to believe , however , that such a selfish consideration would lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministers of denominations less economically favored of this protection . I am morally sure that if they realized the very real insecurity of employes in social agencies , with which their work so intimately relates them , they would not take such a position . Certainly social provision to minimize insecurity and worry is compatible with the general position of all the churches . Churches , in the last analysis , belong to their congregations , whose servants their ministers are . It would be difficult , indeed , for me to believe that the great body of church laymen would wish to stand in the way of making our Social Security Act more democratic in its coverage . Certainly they would not wish to deprive their own ministers , and the workers in philanthropic enterprises which are so intimately related to social ethics , of this modest recognition of their usefulness . FRANK C. BANCROFT , Managing Editor , Social Work Today . New York , Feb. 28 , 1939 . Old Law Still Working To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In view of the delusion under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Wallace for believing that he can control the sun , like Joshua ; nor can the SEC be criticized for thinking that it possesses the attributes of King Midas . The trouble with them is that they have forgotten the old law of supply and demand which has been operating successfully since the other end of history and will continue to do so until the crack of doom . And does n't this law hold good in national as well as material affairs ? In other words , democracy is in supply in Europe just now and fascism is in demand , so why should we try to alter this condition by the needless sacrifice of millions of our young men ? Should n't we be satisfied with our fruitless attempt to make the world safe for democracy in 1918 , which noble experiment resulted in the loss of hundreds of thousands of our youth , though let it be added , without any harm to the oldsters who were instrumental in starting it ? G. P. B. Wilmington , Del. , Feb. 25 , 1939 . New Station Held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I take issue with the members of the Eastern District Board of Trade who are advocating a new station of the elevated line at Marcy Avenue , Brooklyn , to replace the existing one . I have resided in Williamsburg for more than twenty years and have used this station at all hours of the day . The platforms extend for one and two-thirds blocks and are ample to take care of all passengers during rush hours . These platforms were lengthened for a distance of one-half block only about two years ago . I believe that no menace exists . If there is overcrowding of platforms at some points , it is because passengers as a rule do not distribute themselves , but gather at these points , especially near the entrance . But this condition can be corrected by one or two guards . Furthermore , to construct a new sta- rics , physiology , pharmacology , pathology , bacteriology , etc . He must take a two-year pre-medical course and a full four-year course in an osteopathic college approved by the Board of Regents . Upon graduation he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does for a license . After doing all this the State then tells the M. D. to go out and practice as he pleases . It tells the D. 0 . to go out and practice under restrictions . Forty-four States recognize an osteopathic physician as at least the equal of an M. D. It seems bizarre that in this enlightened age a State should regulate the treatment of the sick , and that one group of medical men ( A. M. A. ) should so elevate themselves as to tell another group that their therapy is no good . THEODORE C. NEWMAN , D. 0 . Flushing , N. Y. , Feb. 27 , 1939 . Checking Dangerous Drivers Espionage System Suggested as Means of Reducing Death Toll TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Your report of the opening session of the Fourth Annual Regional Conference on highway safety and motor vehicle problems prompts this letter . Safe driving depends on several things : properly constructed highways , the automobile itself , sane motor laws and most important of all  --  the human element . Road engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Automobile engineers have reached a high degree of proficiency in providing dependable automobiles . Countless laws have been passed . But no one yet has been able to regulate or control a slowthinking , non-thinking or wrong-thinking mind . No matter what is published , no matter what is said on the lecture platform and no matter what is preached from the pulpit , our death and injured record continues at a high rate year after year . Statistics show that 79.6 per . cent of all deaths of drivers of cars or passengers is due to four major causes : ( 1 ) excessive speed , ( 2 ) on wrong side of the road , ( 3 ) did not have right of way , ( 4 ) reckless driving . There are just two things a motorist fears , a policeman and a suspended or revoked license . I believe that accidents could be reduced 50 per cent if the States would provide fleets of roaming observation cars . The cars should have no outside identification marks . Drivers and observers should be dressed in plain clothes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They should have no power to arrest . The entire control should be through the State Commissioners of Motor Vehicles . I believe that once drivers realized that they might he under observation at any time and that frequent violations would cause suspension of licenses , they would soon strive to drive sanely and the accident rate would drop . ORSON ICILBORN . Southport , Conn. , Feb. 26 , 1939 . Postoffice Red Tape To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : With due respect for Henry Ware Allen 's feelings that " the public demands one-cent letter postage , " it does n't need that as much as it deserves unwinding relief from the red tape with which the Postoffice Department is enmeshed . Equity is one thing alien to it , and it is time the postal authorities were reminded of the fact . One ca n't mail a letter , for instance , to parts of New York City within itself , without three-cent postage . Yet in Boston a letter may be sent to some thirty cities and towns contiguous to it  --  all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are branches under superintendents , while in the New York sector they are independent offices under postmasters . Maybe some day , though , we 'll have a Postmaster General who 'll understand . G. HARRIS DANZRERGER . Scarsdale , N. Y. , Feb. 26 , 1939 . Civil Service Examination Fees To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Applicants for most municipal civil service tests are required to pay fees ranging from $1 to $3 . It is specifically stated that no fee will be returned . This is probably made necessary because of ' the bookkeeping involved in making refunds . However , where an examination is not held and thousands of dollars have been collected from applicants I feel it is only proper to return the money . This has not been the case . Many of those who suffer from this system are unemployed and could use this money to better advantage . FRANCIS JAY . Brooklyn , Feb. 25 , 1939.                     