@@700675

txt Preliminary talks concerning procedure at the naval conference in 1935 began at No. 10 Downing Street today between the Americans and British , with four on each side . Prime Minister Ramsay presided and his associates were Sir Bolton Eyres-Monsell , First-Lord of the Admiralty ; R. L. Craigie , naval expert of the Foreign Office , and Admiral C. J. C. Little . Norman H. Davis headed the United States delegation , having with him Ambassador Robert W. Bingham , Admiral Richard H. Leigh and Ray Atherton . It was Mr. 's first participation in many months in an international parley and he quickly lapsed into his old-time plenary session phrases about " assuring the peace of the world . " which indicated an optimism on his part about the results of the naval negotiations that is not shared by all his colleagues . Mr. Davis is seeing Ambassador Tsuneo Matsudaira of Japan tomorrow and will resume the discussions with the British on Wednesday . His talk tomorrow with the Japanese Ambassador is not technically a part of the naval discussions because Mr. Matsudaira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and Mr. Davis , in the jargon of international matters , are merely to have a friendly chat as two old veterans of the Geneva " war . " Japanese Are Fearful . But the Japanese are known to be fearful ' of the present situation lest the United States and Great Britain arrange something in advance between themselves . Hence the advisability of Mr. Davis 's seeing Mr. Matsudaira on the day immediately following his conference at Downing Street . Furthermore , the chief topic of discussion between Mr. Davis and Mr. Matsudaira tomorrow will be naval , and on this conversation and others that will follow , both on the part of the Americans and of the British with the Japanese , entirely depend the results of this Summer 's negotiations and the fate of the conference itself next year . It is recognized by the other two chief naval powers that Japan can wreck the conference . More than that , they fear she will wreck it by adopting the same tactics that Germany has used at Geneva concerning land and air forces . In that event @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assume the French role of insistence on security against what would be Japanese preponderance in the Pacific . Equality of fleets would mean just such preponderance along the Asiatic coast because of the American and British fleet requirements in other parts of the world . Equality is what Japan is now definitely demanding . Her naval conference program , as printed unofficially yesterday by a Tokyo newspaper , was known today by the American and British conferees in London to be accurate . The Tokyo Program . The program includes : First , reduction of United States and British tonnage to the Japanese level . Second , abolition of the ratio principle and adoption of that of Limitation by aggregate tonnage . Third , guarantees of the right of each nation to determine its own defensive needs . Fourth , adoption of the principle of equality in armaments . The question the Americans and British are asking themselves is : Will Japan back down , or could she be bought off by any political concessions that the other two countries , especially the United States , would be willing to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last two years since she separated Manchuria from China . She did not back down the other day in the economic war with Great Britain , but stuck to her ground despite the quota imposed by Britain excluding millions of yards of Japanese textiles from the British colonies . If Japan is now putting up , merely for trading purposes , naval demands that neither Britain nor the United States will consider , it is assumed she will ask for political concessions such as recognition by both English-speaking countries of Manchukuo , a free hand in China and modification of the American immigration law by which Japanese are excluded . On the first two of those proposals Japan probably would have the support of some British politicians who would give Japan everything she wanted except naval equality . Naval Race Foreseen . If there are no political concessions and if Japan will not modify her present naval demands , the expectation here is an armament race in the Pacific , with denunciation of existing treaties to clear the way for American fortifications in Guam and the Aleutian Islands . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might share the cost of competitive construetion against Japan by having a naval alliance between themselves so their combined fleets would suffi-r1 sufficiently outnumber Japan 's without the necessity for each country to equip itself with a large enough force to handle an emergency single-handed . One simple way of gratifying Japan on a non-essential point may be found by having the 1935 conference somewhere other than in London . The Japanese are much opposed either to Washington or London as the venue . Their first choice is Paris , but the Italians , who are already planning a naval race with France , do not want to go there . The French would prefer Geneva , but the Japanese consider that the atmosphere of the Swiss city is as deadly to them as that of London or Washington . So it is likely a feeler will be put out soon suggesting Brussels for the conference . Although the French have not accepted the British invitation to early naval talks , the Foreign Office understands Louis Barthou , the Foreign Minister , who is coming to London on July 8 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then without formality .                     