@@700903

txt Telling the Federal Advisory Council that its function was to act in behalf of the Federal Reserve Board and the Reserve system generally in an advisory capacity on banking and credit matters , Governor Eccles Monday sharply upbraided the council for its recent action in publicly criticizing the monetary policies of the Administration . The Reserve Council in a meeting today will vote on resolutions for submission to the Reserve Board . There is reason to believe that the views which Governor Eccles expressed Monday at the joint conference will prevail in recommendations adopted by the Council . in the first meeting with the Advisory Council as a group , the newly appointed head of the nation 's banking system expressed the view to its members that they had no right to make public utterances on federal policies . This opinion was presented at a joint conference between the Federal Resent Board and th Federal Advirory Council . fitrthe ' - r.aassitav between the two groups will be held today , after which it is expected some announcement will be forthcoming from Governor Eccles on the proceedings Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor to educate the various units of the system regarding modified policies that are expected to assert themselves soon . The new influence in the Federal Reserve believes that the system has been waning since the death of former Governor Benjamin Strong , of the New York Reserve Bank Since Mr. Strong 's death . it is felt there has been no man in the Reserve system with his concept of the way the system should be operated . Governor Ecc:es i cad a carefully prepared statement on the board a %iews at the start of the meeting . From this point , discussions hinged on euoperat.un between the Federal Reserve and the Administration . From all indications , a general understanding was reached . Members of the Reserve Board hold the view that the political situation now is the most Important element in the banking situation . Congress has expressed some sentiment for a complete revision of the banking and credit structure ' of the country . under a central banking authority . If the Federal Reserve Board . or its advisory committee . takes a position against the Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its oun hands despite vi hat the Administration may have to say on the matter .                     