@@703725

txt An amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act , to give the railroads broad discretionary power in fixing freight and passenger rates without Interstate Commerce Commission veto , is one of the major recommendations of President Roosevelt 's railroad Program committee , it was learned last night . The committee 's program . now complete except for certain details , was outlined to the Chief Executive yesterday by George M. Harrison . chairman of the Railway Labor Executives Association , and Carl R. Gray vice president of Union Pacific . These men are members of tte six-man informal rail management-labor committee named by Mr. Roosevelt to draft recommendations for railroad legislation at the forthcoming session of Congress . Other Major Points of Program Other major points of the program , designed to afford immediate relief for the hard-pressed carriers , include : I. Enlargement of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation 's railroad lending capacity and liberalization of the terms on which loans to carriers are made . 2 . Repeal of the long and abort haul provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act to enable the transcontinental carriers to compete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . Repeal of the land grant statutes under which the government now receives sharply reduced freight rates on the huge volume of traffic it moves annually . 4 . Sale of the federal barge lines to private interests , meaning the discontinuance of government subsidy to the inland waterways which now permits very low rates in competition with the railroads. 5 . Establishment of a new procedure for reorganization of bankrupt carriers . Port:her . Illetings ** ' The committee will begin a further series of meetings at offices of the Southern Railway here today to put the finishing touches on its report . The final recommendations are expected to be placed before the President in report form about Friday . Special emphasis has been placed by the committee on the proposed changes in the rate provisions and repeal of the long-and-short haul clause . Supported by organized railroad labor , with its highly important influence in Congress . the carriers are relying heavily on the suggested changes in the rate-making rule as the main way out of their financially-depressed condition . The railroads feel that under the proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates so as to realize substantially more revenue without diverting traffic , and may do this without the long-drawn-out proceedings before the ICC and without fear of ICC veto . Preferable to Other Measures The rate change , it is felt in carrier circles generally , is fir preferable to most so-called measures of immediate relief and will afford more real relief than the others combined . Resentful over repeated failures to obtain ICC sanction of proposed rate increases , the carriers want more latitude in fixing rates in much the same manner as business generally ' prices its prodUcts to fit =resumer demand and economic conditions . They feel that they should be permitted to fix rates which will yield greater revenue vrithoat injury to the public service and without diverting traffic to other agencies of transportation . In the Transportation Act of 1920 , Congress imposed upon the ICC the duty to establish or adjust rates so that the carriers " wilt , under honest , efficient and economical management and reasonable expenditures for maintenance of way , structures and equipment , earn an aggregate annual net railway operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair return upon the aggregate value of the railway property of such carriers held for and used in the service of transportation . " Fair Return References Omitted In amending the act in 1933 , Congress omitted all references to a fair return and required the ICC to give consideration . " among other factors , to the effect of rates on the movement of traffic " . The railroads contend that , in administering this section , there has been an increasing disposition on the fast of the ICC to substitute its judgment for that of the railroad managements as to rates which would prove to be , most profitable . Should the proposed rate making changes be made . there is little doubt here but that the railroads would move immediately to further increase their rates at least to the extent which was proposed last fall when a 15% increase was sought and the ICC allowed increases averaging only a little more than 57 ' .. AAR Favors Rate Proposal The proposal for revision of the rate-making rule was labelled by the Association of American Railroads in September @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At that time , the railroads said that the experience of the past year and a half " has shown the imperative necessity of so revising the rate-snaking rule as to permit the " railroads greater latitude in pricing their product . " Although the exact breadth of the Presidential rail board 's recommendations on rate adjustments was not ascertainable last night , it was reported likely that the scope of the proposal was broad enough to include more control over intrastate as well as interstate traffic . While details could not be ascertained , it is understood that the committee 's recommendations concerning RFC loans contemplate the " earmarking " of a larger fund for railroad loans as well as liberalization of the agency 's lending terms . Under the present act . the RFC can make loans to railroads only upon approval of the ICC . The latter agency must certify in approving loans , except those for equipment purchases and ' , maintenance , that the roads receiving loans are not in need of financial reorganization . This provision is a definite handicap to many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are quite stringent . Long Advocated by Railroads The railroads long have advocated repeal of the main provisions of the long-and-short haul clause . This clause of the act , under the principal provision of which a railroad , except in special circumstances , is not allowed to charge less for a long haul than the aggregate of the intermediate rates between the same points , has bloCked effective railroad =repetition with:the water ? lines transcontineital trafac. " 4 " - . - Under the land *rant ? statutes , the landgrant roads haul government freight atia sharply reduced rate , which deprives these roads of from $7,000,000 to $10,000,000 annimlly in revenue . Repeal of the statutes would be of material benefit to these roads , and especially so at this time in view of the large amount of government traffic in connection with the-construction of dams , hydro-electric plants and other public works projects . Sale of the federal barge lines to private interests undoubtedly would mean the end of the low barge rates against which the railroads now compete . The carriers contend that the existing barge rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carriers in the Mississippi Valley area and their connecting lines would be particularly benefited by the change proposed . While details were lacking as to the proposed changes in the reorganization procedure , it is understood the recommendations of the committee contemplate a more escpeditious handling of reorganization cases , probably through the creation of one or more special courts to function exclusively in such matters .                     