@@700618

txt Drought conditions in the Northwest are showing little improvement . Although scattered rains have fallen in the last 10 days , they have been followed by heat and high winds so that little permanent relief was gained . Wholesale houses in the Twin Cities report that precarious crop conditions have begun to affect retail trade . Most of money in farmers ' hands today has come from federal allotments . Whereas in March and early April they spent funds freely for necessities , stimulating retail trade , today they are holding back , fearful of conditions . Crop observers declare that never before in their remembrance has the early growing season been so discouraging as at present . Rain in the next 10 days will improve prospects , but almost normal precipitation will be needed " throughout the summer if anything like a crop is to be expected . Movement of cattle out of South Dakota is being considered due to absence of pastures and shortage of hay . Many farmers report that farm animals have ground off their teeth on stubble rations of the past winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could subsist on pastures if rainfall brings out grass . Reseeding of blown out crops is considered doubtful because of weakened condition of farm horses due to start rations , continued dryness and shortness of season in which crop could mature . Record high temperatures for May have been recorded this week at many places in the Northwest , but cooler weather is now promised . Spe , lat to TNe NV.r.T . SrnErr JOUn ? Ar . DODGE CITY , Kan. ? With poor weather daily paring wheat prospects in the Southwest , retail sales in that district have sharply decaned for some weeks . As the unfavorable farm production outlook is becoming acute , the tendency to curtail retail buying is further accentuated . Farm implement companies are badly discouraged and building material sales are at a standstill . The continuing dry windy days with temperatures above normal are dealing furthea havoc to the winter wheat Betas . April , the driest for 23 years , is being succeeded by an early May with subnormal precipitation . The Kansas wheat crop estimates are all being revised downwaid sharply , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being eliminated from the possibility of even partial recovery . Drought Becoming Serious , Says AAA Pro . Till IA ? 1.1 . S lit Jul , //NAL Wa.shimpton Bur can WASHINGTON  --  Drought conditions in the interior valleys , central plains and the Northwest , coupled with abnormally warm weather now prevailing over a great part of these areas , is rapidly assuming the proportions of a serious threat to grains and pastures , Farm Administration officials hold . The United States weather bureau reports that much of the spring wheat already planted has failed to germinate because of the dryness . Also , serious shortage of feed for cattle and other livestock is reported in the north central districts . Secretary of Agriculture Wallace says that the areas most seriously affected by the drought so far include the states of Iowa , the Dakotas , Illinois , Ohio and Indiana , that the rainfall in these states has averaged from 50% to 75% of normal . He stated that this shortage of moisture has already had a " real effect " on oats and hay . The Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of the drought in winter wheat areas for some time yet , pointing out that there has been fair to good condition in the winter wheat area in the Packie states . He thinks wheat weather conditions so far this year have been worse than in 1930 and that recent heat waves have added to the seriousness of the drought . It was indicated by the Secretary that the AAA may designate more counties in which producers will be permitted to waive the minimum wheat plantings tinder the adjustment contracts as a result of unfavorable planting conditions . Under the adjustment contract producers qualifying for benefit payments are required to plant at least 54 c , , of their average acreage over the base period . The Secretary pointed out that should the adverse weather conditions result in a short crop , a carryover of 260,000,000 bushels is in prospect for July 1 .                     