@@700041

txt A call to Democratic , Republican and Socialist leaders to mobilize their party machinery in New York City for the NRA consumer drive that will be launched on Sept. 5 and continued for ten days , was issued yesterday by Grover A. Whalen , city chairman of the President 's Emergency Re-employment Committee . In appealing to the party leaders to bring the machinery of their parties into action to sign up consumers , pledging themselves to buy only from employers who are under the Blue Eagle , Mr. Whalen expressed the belief that 1. he party organizations were in the best position to reach the consumers . It is the hope of Mr. Whalen that through the political and other organizations he will be able to put an army of 50,000 workers in the field signing up consumers on 1 Sept. 5 . Coincidentally with the opening of the consumer campaign by the political organizations and trade associations , 1,000 women will be operating out of NRA headquarters at the Hotel Pennsylvania to I give impetus to the consumer campaign . Whalen 's Wire to Leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign , and addressed to the party leaders , follows : " The National Recovery Administration in the City of New York will start a consumer pledge card campaign on Tuesday , Sept. 5 . It is the purpose of the NRA to seek the cooperation of every consumer in the City of New York to the end that 100 per cent cooperation will be obtained . The plan is as follows : Every consumer will be asked to sign a statement of cooperation which will be a pledge to support and patronize all employers and workers who are members of the NRA . " The presidents of the Chambers of Commerce in each of the five boroughs of the City of New York have been appointed as directors of the NRA campaign for their particular boroughs . In the matter of the distribution of seven million consumers pledge cards it will be necessary to seek the cooperation of existing distribution machinery . Accordingly your participation is asked as a county leader to the end that you will request your district executive members and election district captains and their workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the City of New York under the Blue Eagle . " Fifty thousand volunteers will be enlisted in the consumers ' drive . Each of these volunteers will be officially designated as an NRA volunteer worker and will be given an official government button which will be his authority to ask a consumer to sign a pledge card . " After the official volunteer receives the signature of the consumer he or she in turn will give to the consumer an NRA . consumer sticker which will identify the consumer as a participant in the NRA movement . This sticker may be displayed either on automobiles or windows in the home . We are asking all party leaders to join in this consumer movement so that the distribution of cards calling for the consumer 's statement of coopera1 tion may be speedily , effectively and efficiently handled . Would appreciate response by wire . " The telegram was sent to the following party leaders : Democratic . JOHN F. CURRY of Manhattan . JOHN H. McCOOEY of Brooklyn . JOHN THEOFEL of Queens . F.DWARD J. FLYNN of Bronx . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bronx . SAMUEL KOENIG of Manhattan . FREDERICK KRACKE of Brooklyn . WARREN ASHMEAD of Queens . ALFRED BREOR of Richmond . Socialist . NORMAN THOMAS . The women 's group will meet tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock in the east ballroom of the Hotel Pennsylvania to hear Mr. Whalen and leaders of the women 's division of the NRA discuss the plan and purpose of the consumer drive . Miss Isabel Leighton . head of the City NRA Women 's Division , will call the meeting to order , and Miss Emma Dot Partridge will be chairman of the meeting . The speakers will include Fannie Hurst , W. Averell Harriman , State NRA chairman ; Mrs. . Elinore Moorehouse Herrick , ' president of the Consumers League ; Henry F. Wolff , chairman of the local NRA Bureau of Complaints ; Mrs. Malcolm Parker MacCoy , president of the New York City Federation of Women 's Clubs ; Mark Eisner , head of the local NRA Bureau of Interpretations , and Mrs. William Brown Meloney , editor of the Sunday Magazine , New York Herald Tribune . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Mr. Whalen , " we are asking merchants of the city to tune in with advertising and merchandising programs designed to stimulate the consumer campaign . Canvassers will be asked to forward to NRA headquarters any questions asked by consumers concerning the NRA , and the answers will be supplied through the newspapers , by radio and through the Speakers ' Bureay , according to Mr. Whalen . E-Hour Day on Parade . True to the principles of the NRA , the President 's NRA Day parade , scheduled for Sept. 13 , will be con -- fined to eight hours , " Mr. Whalen announced . Eighty trade and other groups will be represented . The parade is scheduled to start at 1 o'clock , and General Hugh S. Johnson , National Recovery Administrator , will review it from a grand stand in front of the New York Public Library . Mr. Whalen estimates that there will be more than 200,000 in the parade and there will be more than 200 bands . Frank J. Taylor , Commissioner of Public Welfare ; Police Commissioner James S. Bolan , Deputy Police Inspector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Price Jones have been added to the committee in charge of the parade . A statement on behalf of the Riverside Church , Riverside Drive and 122d Street ; in support of the NRA movement , will be read from the pulpit this morning by the Rev. Dr. Eugene C. Carder , associate minister . The statement in part follows : " With the announced purpose of the National Recovery Administration to reduce unemployment and wipe out the depression with all its evils , the Riverside Church is in whole-hearted agreement . Though we think of the campaign now being carried on as primarily concerned with the rehabilitation of business conditions , the church has a very definite part to play , inasmuch as the results of , unemployment and industrial depression register the losses inevitably in the lives of the people themselves . " The church can not blink the obligation which is upon it in this emergency . Now , if ever , comes I with a force than can not be denied the injunction , ' Feed the hungry , clothe the needy . ' " In telegrams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isadore Polier , asked for the removal of Mr. Whalen as NRA city chairman on the ground that he demonstrated unfitness by announcing that he would ask for the arrest of pickets found picketing employers who had signed the NRA .                     