@@701198

txt The House yesterday passed the proposed Banking Act of 1935. providing for far-reaching changes in the nation 's , banking system , by a vote of 271 to 110 . At the same time , the lower body of Congress voted against plans of the Roosevelt Administration to use deposit insurance as a club to bring state banks into the Federal Reserve in order to create a uniform banking system . The final vote on the measure came after loyal Administration Democrats decisively defeated efforts of the Republicans to strike out sections of the bill which , it was argued , would lead to political control of the banking system and combined with conservative members of the minority party to vote down the inflationary commodity dollar plan . As the measure was approved , it contains only minor changes from the form in which it was reported to the House three wreaks ago by the banking and currency committee . The principal amendment adopted strikes out the provision for retirement and pension of members of the Federal Reserve Board . Another amendment permits banks to establish branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a local bank . Republican Move Defeated The Republican motion to recommit the bill to the banking and currency committee to strike out four sections of the controversial Title Two which provides for changes in the Federal Reserve System was defeated by a vote of 260 to 118 . These sections cover qualifications of members of the Federal Reserve System , assignment of duties to members of the Reserve Board , open market operations and reserve requirements . The Republicans , their attack led by Representative Hollister , Ohio , the ranking Republican on the banking and currency committee , . charged that enactment of these sections would create a politically controlled banking system . As the bin passed the House , the measure contained no requirement that state banks must become members of the Federal Reserve System in order to receive the benfits of deposit insurance . When the bill was delivered to the banking and currency committee by Administration official ; , provision war . made that deposit insurance would be given only those state banks which came into the Reserve system by July 1 , 1937 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Steagall , Democrat , of Alabama , eliminated this section . The fight to replace the requirement in the bill was led on the floor by Representative Hancock , Democrat , of North Carolina , member of the banking and currency committee , who declared that it was intended to " bring about one American system of credit " and to " unify the entire banking system . " Representative Wolcott , Republican , of 7%fichigan , opposing the provision , declared that within two years the Federal Reserve Board would be " the dictator " over all loan policies if the state banks were forced into the Reserve system . Representative Steagall declared that after state banks had operated outside of the Reserve set-up for around 20 years " it is a sad commentary " upon the Reserve system " to come here with a club to drive them in . " He charged that the purpose behind the requirement was the destruction of the state banks .                     