@@700139

txt Topics of The Times Little by little the Hitler German regime has been destroying Press the historic rights and priviLaw. leges of newspapers , and now the National Press Law has extinguished the last of them . Hereafter editors and publishers are to_the regard themselves , and will be regarded by the authorities , as abject servants or slaves of the government . This is an addition to previous decrees setting up the death penalty for printing what the Minister of Propaganda . and Enlightenment may regard as " treasonable " matter , or introducing it from abroad . With astonishing assurance and gravity , Minister GOERBELS describes the completed press law as " the most modern journalistic statute . " In his humorless way he declares that he expects it to serve as a model for all other countries . Not unless they wish to be hermetically sealed against informatibn , as the obvious intention now ' is to make Germany . There-nothing like freedom of speech or expression of thought is any longer possible . Censorship has been extended until it means absblute suppression . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one connected with a newspaper must have the " consecration requisite for the ask of influencing the public . " But how can the public be influenced merely by printing or parroting official opinions or desires ? The ordinary means of discussion and information are completely cut off . Such is the fate to which a nation that long boasted itself to be the most intellectual in Europe is now reduced . Everything in the press is to be stereotyped . No word of what other nations think can be printed . All the world now knows that the policies of the present government in Berlin have caused Germany to be distrusted and disliked everywhere , and to_the be put into a position of entire diplomatic isolation . But no hint of this can be given to the German people . The printed word becomes a. - sham and a mockery to them . But it is impossible that such a system can . long endure . There are ways of finding but what is going on in the world , and great numbers of Germans will learn of it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press is temporarily made into merely a series of government bulletins . For years Mr. HENRY Mr. Mencken ' MENCKEN has been on a useful irritant . If he His Own . has often . given pain , he has promoted the function of thought and opinion . By burlesque , by purposed exaggeration , by a wild gayety and joy of battle he got himself a hearing . Sometimes he set off rockets . Sometimes he fired brickbats . He created a school . He made a lot of people share what he frankly called his prejudices . He dug up many curious , whimsical and eccentric American things and persons . He loved to surprise and shock . To the Young Intelligentsia he is now an old fogy . He is more than 50 . You might as well call METHUSELAH " modern . " Meanwhile , Mr. MENCKEN has broadened and ripened . He has accumulated experience and acquired tolerance . His literary reputation is established . Probably even the honest souls who used to regard him as the devil 's hired man have long forgiven him . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their good points . Essentially he is a jovial philosopher who loves life and enjoys the free play of his energy , wit , humor , drollery and impishness . Now he leaves the editorship of The American Mercury , upon which he has long stamped his image . He becomes his own man . It is good news that he plans an enlarged edition of his best work , " The American Language . " By what prodigious industry did this busy newspaper man put together a book so full of unusual knowledge ? He expects to make two volumes of it . He is " tremendously interested " in it . So are we . Politicians are noted Another Flynn for their thick hides , of the but few have ever been . ronx more impervious to the Bronx . darts of criticism than WILLILM J. FLYNN of the Bronx , Public Works Commissioner of that borough for the past sixteen years . It was Judge SEAEURY who brought out how FLYNN , after using all his influence to prevent a rival from building a garage at a favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to erect one himself near by . On another occasion he was instrumental in having the Board of Estimate . pass a resolution protecting a similar business venture of his . Despite Judge SEARURY 'S official finding that FLYNN had " used his official position for his own personal advantage , " his superior , Borough President BRUCKNER , refused to remove him . Mr. LYONS , the candidate for Borough President of the Bronx , now says that if elected he will not reappoint Mr. FLYNN . Nothiig daunted , Mr. FLYNN announces that he will run against Mr. LYONS on an independent ticket , with a model of the Bronx County office building as his emblem . His motto will be " Achievement . " The voters of the Bronx thus have the issue left to them .                     