@@704332

txt Last spring , a basic situation almost amounting to a tacit understanding between the major democracies was recorded in this column : If Britain and France became involved in a war . in Europe , the circumstances probably would force the United States to shoulder the main burden of countering aggression in the Far East ? as far as it is countered . Nearly 12 weeks of war have now shown circumstances to be working out on schedule . Far Eastern questions overshadowed those of Europe in the foreground of State Department activities this week . There were stern words of protest from Acting Secretary of State Welles about shipments of American peanuts and coal and rugs , spread on the pavements of Tientsin by the Japanese military to make sure that no smuggled goods were concealed . There were repeated declarations that the United States is waiting for Japan to show repentance before negotiations would be opened . Two Senators revived talk of an embargo on war material shipments to Japan . To this extent , the United States was carrying the Western man 's burden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But here the neatly pre-arranged pattern stops . No sooner had the European war got under way than the Premier of all the Russias stood forth in Moscow and said to Japan : Let 's talk this matter of China over and , at the same time , not to leave any stones unturned , the same Russia which had concluded non-aggression pacts with the Eastern Baltic States , and which had sought one from Finland , now sent an enlarged military mission to the Government of Chiang Kai-shek . At once , the diplomacy of Japan which had been suffering reverses along with military defeats and a generally unfruitful war  --  not to mention the sudden collapse of the Anti-Communist Front  --  stiffened . " So Sorry " Diplomacy Even if observers saw in this an effort to play off Russia against the United States , the Japanese Prime Minister and the Japanese Ambassador to the United States this Week disavowed any such intention . Who shall say that in so doing , they did not delicately call attention to the possibility ? Meanwhile , ironies , if such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were compounded . Indications grew in Washington that British diplomacy , historically more concerned with the danger of Russian expansion in the ( Far East than of Japanese , had been putting together some sort of patchwork peace with Japan . Here in the State Department also there were those who began to watch the Russian maneuvers with some apprehension . The question then arises : just whatburden has the United States shifted more heavily onto its back ? Who is the aggressor if a large bear should begin to shoulder a lesser intruder aside ? There is no open-door policy , in the State Department for discussion of matters of this sort today . , Outwardly , American policy remains stable : support of Chinese sovereignty and resistangp to the claim 's of Japan . There is talk of economic/ pressylre along about midwinter  --  not the crude variety such as an economic embargo would impose , but more adroit and less belligerent  --  forms ' of " necessary reprisal " against Japanese trade subsidies and discriminations . Once again , an tincertain note intrudes . It is learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reliable sources , that United States Ambassador Joseph C. Grew strongly advised against economic sanctions on Japan when he was here recently on leave ; said he would not be responsible for what would ensue . Not So Hoity Toity ? One wonders also whether there was a ? hint of unbending ? in practice if not in principles ? in the address of Assistant Secretary of State George S. Messersmith at Boston on Thursday . The United States is " disposed to discuss . . . reasonable proposals which may be advanced for sympathetic and intelligent reconsideration . . . " . of the situation in the Far East , he said , adding that " any revision which may take place " must be through due process of international law and under treaties . In a word , all is not as simple on the Yangtse as it appeared some months ago . A scholarly history of American policy in the Far East written by Yale 's Prof. A. Whitney Griswold last year would seem to bear out the impression that it never was really simple . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1903 to 1938 recapitulates in a series of cycles the experience of John Hay ( as he wrote the famous ' Open-Door ' notes formulating America 's uneasy stake in the Far East ) . One by one , with variations only in manner and enphasis , , the Presidents and Secretaiies State hive moved toward idential Objectives , with identical results ... what Hay had been nimble ? to ic- ? complish ( in protecting the American stake ) by note writing and voluntary international cooperation , Theodore Roosevelt set out to accomplish by more active participation in Far Eastern politics . In the end , like Hay , he was compelled to retrench  --  to accept , if not to admit , a tactical defeat . " The remoteness , the changeableness of power diplomacy in the Far East had proved too much for them . The question of today would appear to be : can Cordell Hull break the cycle ? Saville B. Davis                     