@@704065

txt Preliminary talks are under way for a settlement of the fourteen-day British-Japanese deadlock at Tientsin , it was said authoritatively today , with actual negotiations expected to develop speedily with agreement upon a " few remaining points . " The British Ambassador , Sir Robert Leslie Craigie , conferred half an hour yesterday with Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita , on a basis for a settlement . It was understood that one of the points to be ironed out before actual negotiations start centered on the place of the conferences . Japan was understood to be desirous of holding the conferences in Tientsin where she presumably would be represented by her Consul General , Shigenori Tashiro , and a high ranking Japanese diplomat sent to assist him . Britain preferred holding the conversations directly with the Foreign Office in Tokyo . Kato May Be Negotiator It was assumed that Sotomatsu Kato , former Minister to Canada and now embassy counselor at Hsinking , Manchukuo , would be sent to Tientsin to assist Mr. Tashiro if the negotiations took place in China . The newspaper Asahi reported that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was said authoritatively that Japan had not yet outlined concrete lemands for a settlement . So far Japanese demands have been confined to press reports of Japanese Army spokesmen in China declaring that Britain must promise to cease support of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek and to aid Japan in establishing her " new order in Asia . " A Foreign Office spokesman said " no time limit " had been set for the start of the final negotiations . Rumors Are Conflicting TIENTSIN , China , Tuesday , June ( a3 ) . ? The Japanese blockade of the British and French Concessions here went into its fourteenth day amid a sudden rush of rumors that negotiations were under way to set:le the British-Japanese impasse . According to the reports , which could not be confirmed , Wang Kehmin , head of the Japanese-fostered government at Peiping , has arrived here to attempt to negotiate a settlement through Wen Shih-tseng , the Chinese Mayor of the Japanesecontrolled portion of Tientsin . They asserted that the Japanese , growing tired of the two-week-old deadlock , were seeking a way out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save face for the local Japanese Army authorities . In contrast to the rumors of attempts at a settlement , there was current a report that local Japanese military authorities were preparing for an even more strict blockade . This report , also unconfirmable , said that stricter measures would be enforced next Friday if the British had not by then complied with a demand presented by Mayor Wen last Saturday for " closer cooperation , " of foreigners with the Chinese section of Tientsin , over which the Japanese military rules . Military Truck Held Up British military authorities have taken sharp exception to action of the Japanese soldiery late yesterday afternoon in holding up a British military truck seeking to enter the concession with foodstuffs from Chinese areas for the British garrison in the concession . The Japanese held the British vehicle for one hour while officers of the two forces argued . The Japanese insisted the British were " not sufficiently identified , " while the British recalled the Japanese military declaration when the blockade began that the personnel of the various foreign garrisons and their maintenance would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British and French Concession Municipal Police whose families live in Japanese-controlled areas received another threat against their own lives and those of their families . Last week these men received letters from seemingly established Japanese sources saying that unless they resigned their families would be endangered . The new threat came in anonymous letters advising the men that they might be put to death and their families " punished " unless they ended their connection with British authorities . Violence Is Threatened " You are assisting the evil British and French rulers in their oppression of the people and protection of Communists , thereby making Tientsin a city of terrorism , " the letters read . " Thus you are responsible for these conditions and from this day of warning it is better for you to sever relations with them . " Otherwise you shall be dealt with by violent means , and even your whole family will be punished as well and all of you may be put to death . This shall be carried out absolutely . Take warning . " Despite this threat , which both British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only a handful of Chinese police took notice by resigning these few fearing their families would be molested . The Japanese announced last night that they were bringing a party of foreigners from Peiping later today " too see the real situation here . " Who the visitors would be was not disclosed . Meanwhile leaders of the British Concession met in the British Consulate . It was believed that they considered furtherance of plans to bring foodstuffs from Shanghai . British circles both here and in Shanghai stated that no such food shipments had yet been prepared , but they were planning to formulate action in a few days if the situation does not ease . Not Planning Capitulation This was taken as an indication that the British were not planning to capitulate before Japanese pressure at an early date . Food prospects for the Concession appeared to grow worse last night when Chinese dealers outside the Concession indicated a disinclination to continue selling their products in the Concessions . They allegedly feared Japanese reprisals against them . This especially reduced the milk supply , as the principal dairies are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their underwear occurred late yesterday as they reached the Japanese barriers on their way to the Concession . A Japanese spokesman declared yesterday that Japan had not investigated and would not investigate reports that a British couple had been forced by Japanese to disrobe in Tientsin because " in principle such a case could not happen . " British Consul Major G. A. Herbert had charged that a British subject and his wife , Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Finlay , were undressed and searched before being allowed to cross the Japanese barrier surrounding the blockaded British Concession here . Mrs. Finlay was said to have been permitted to keep on only one garment  --  a girdle  --  while a Chinese policewoman examined her in full view of a Japanese Army sentry . Denial Is " in Principle " Asked If he could deny the report that Mr. and Mrs. Finlay had been compelled to strip , the spokesman answered , " In principle , yes . " He acknowledged , however , that he had no report from gendarmes at the Racecourse Road barrier where Major Herbert said the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the reported incident , the Japanese apparently were beginning to be concerned by accounts of their activities published abroad . The army spokesman disclosed that Japanese Consul General Shigenori Tashiro had protested to the British Consul General , E. G. Jamieson , " against the handling of news by British newspapers and newspaper agencies , which are ex aggerating the importance of small incidents , distorting facts and in some cases fabricating so-called acts of indignity against British subjects . " Mr. Tashiro 's protest said that the allegedly inaccurate British news reports not only aggravated the situation but also reflected unfavorably on the Japanese military and consular police . The Japanese Consul General cited " for instance , the British press cable about indignity suffered by a British - lady and an insult offered British subjects . " Arrogant Attitude Charged The version ? of his protest made public did not deny the incidents . It charged , however , that British subjects assumed an arrogant attitilde purposely to make trouble and mentioned the case of G. A. Smith . Mr. Smith , a British exporter , was released from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of manhandling a Chinese policeman . Mr. Tashiro requested British authorities here to control and correct the attitude of Britons . " It is apparent , " he said , " that if British authorities do not comply in all sincerity with these requests and allow present conditions to continue the responsibility for any untoward event hereafter is on your side . " Japanese gendarmes , meanwhile , extended the strict examinations to Chinese , only a few of whom were permitted to enter or leave the concessions under a tightening of the blockade . Increasing guerrilla activities on Tientsin 's outskirts were reported by Chinese sources . Other reports said that guerrilla attacks also might be expected in Eastern Hopeh Province . A Japanese poster in the Tientsin station announced that railroad service might be interrupted because Japanese troops were engaging Chinese irregulars in Eastern Hopeh.                     