@@702064

txt Disturbed by the extent of racket eering and other organized crime and by the " appalling " number of business men giving false or evasive testimony in fear of reprisals , the special New York County grand jury that was dismissed last week has taken the initiative toward organization of a permanent nonpartisan committee of prominent citizens to combat these conditions . Recommendations contained in a presentment filed with Supreme Court Justice Philip J. McCook last Wednesday and made public yesterday embraced a city-wide group to investigate criminal courts and the activities of prosecuting officials , to assure protection to witnesses and to compel hesitant business men to give testimony . Copies of the presentment were sent to Governor Lehman and Mayor La Guardia . It is believed the committee will be voluntary and will develop its own membership and program , with no public officials on its membership list . However , the Mayor took steps yesterday to hasten the realization of such a group . He invited several men to discuss the subject with him at the Summer City Hall at 3 o'clock this afternoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas E. Dewey , Harry F. Guggenheim , former Ambassador to Cuba ; Sol M. Stroock , attorney and philanthropist ; Throop M. Wilder , foreman of the grand jury that made the recommendations ; Lee Thompson Smith , president of the Grand Jurors Association ; Philip A. Benson , president of the Dime Savings Bank of Brooklyn , and Frank Ray Howe , former president of the Queens Borough Chamber of Commerce . Mr. Dewey , Mr. Guggenheim and Mr. Stroock conferred with the Mayor last Friday . An important phase of the suggestions is that the committee 's program would be city-wide . The present racket investigation is confined to New York County . In Kings County Hiram C. Todd , with the Drukman case as a springboard , inquired into activities of the District Attorney 's office . But these two inquiries have been independent . It is proposed to correlate such investigations on a city-wide basis . The recently retired grand jury , which was dismissed at its own request after six months of arduous sessions and which indicted Charles ( Luciano ) Lucania and his henchmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's problem is " to strengthen the machinery of the law and secure the cooperation of every citizen in helping to enforce the law . " To effect a solution of the first problem , it urged a thoroughgoing study " by a non-political body of able , fearless , public-spirited citizens , whose only interest should be the welfare of our community . " As described by leader of the movement , the committee would be , in general effect , " a combination of a decent vigilante committee and a Rockefeller Foundation , " doing research on the one hand and compelling or assisting law enforcement on the other . Police Efficiency Praised Commendation was given to the Police Department for " its constantly rising standard of efficiency , " and it was emphasized that the public must be made to know of the benefits of cooperation with the police and assured of protection . " Recent events have demonstrated the importance of investigation by the District Attorneys of the five counties ; of the manner in which they procure testimony against criminals and defend the rights of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The operation of these agencies of criminal prosecution , the qualifications of their officials , the closer coordination of their activities on a city-wide scale , are all proper subjects of critical study and recommendation , with a view to strengthening the machinery of the law . " That recommendation suggested to ' some the possibility of legislation to effect " the closer coordination " of the county units on a city-wide scale . The document said " such a study would likewise include the conduct and operation of the criminal courts in the five boroughs . " Repeating its previously expressed sentiments on the subject , the grand jury deplored the fact that " members of the business community are inclined to be reluctant , and even openly unwilling , to give this information by testimony . " It found that there was an " appalling number " of instances in which business men were guilty of " obvious evasions and falsehoods . " Justice McCook already has imposed contempt of court sentences on four such witnesses . Aid of Labor Recalled It was remarked that a committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Mr. Dewey . This group was named by William Green , president of the A. F. of L. , after a session of its executive council in Aglantic City on Aug. 8 , 1935 . It consisted of Matthew Woll , vice president of the federation ; David Dubinsky , president of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , and Joseph N. Weber , president of the American Federation of Musicians . It has conferred with Mr. Dewey several times and has endorsed his work . When the committee was appointed , Mr. Green said : " We will conduct a complete investigation into alleged racketeering among the ranks of organized labor in New York . We Want any racketeer who is connected with a union expelled and punished . By racketeers , I mean men who attempt to use the union for personal gain . " Mr. Dewey is engaged in investigating at least eleven major trade rackets . The prospective organization of a permanent committee of citizens to combat crime comes a little more than a year after Justice McCook , at the Governor 's instance , swore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecutor . That was on July 29 , 1935 . Packet Control Centralized Last December the grand jury was dismissed at its own request . It said then that " racketeering is largely centralized in the hands of a dozen or fifteen major criminals , most of them totally unknown to the public . " " We have been shocked by the reluctance of some business men , who are victims of these racketeers , to give testimony , " the grand jury reported further . " It is an appalling condition when , in order to procure the testimony of citizens against criminals , it should first be necessary to make criminal cases against those citizens in order to compel them to do their obvious duty . It will take two grand juries working simultaneously two or more years to complete the work . " The second special grand jury , now retired , renewed this urging for an additional body in a statement to Justice McCook on June 30 and added : " In invading the fields of legitimate business , organized crime has most successfully used the device @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimate trade unions or the organization of new pretended unions . " If organized commercial rackets are to be eradicated , business men must learn that their testimony is imperative and that they must give it voluntarily , or the prosecutor must be enabled to compel it by the arduous and time-consuming process of establishing , before the grand jury , contempts of court by witnesses whose answers are evasive or contemptuous . " On Aug. 5 two new grand juries were sworn in. one by Justice McCook , the other by Justice Ferdinand Pecora.                     