@@703842

txt Striving Against Prejudice National Conference of Christians and Jews Works for an Ideal To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The growing concern of thoughtful citizens with the necessity of preserving democratic principles and with combating symptoms of prejudice and intolerance is one of the most hopeful indications that the traditional American principles of liberty and tolerance will be safeguarded against the subversive forces which are attempting to foist totalitarian ideologies upon this country . On every side , also , is being expressed the conviction that the maintenance of democratic institutions is bound up With the invigoration of religious faith , with its emphasis upon the sovereignty of God and inherent worth of the individual . There is an increasing need for Americans who love liberty and do not want to see this country disfigured by the religious and racial hatreds which have torn other lands , to mobilize with their fellows who are attempting to defend our historic freedoms . Struggle Against Strife Whether democracy as we understand it in the United States can be successfully safeguarded against the forces which are attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens most urgently concerned with spiritual values can successfully compete against communist , fascist and Nazi forces for the allegiance of the mass of people . It is essentially a struggle of education for religion and democracy against propagandas of hatred and strife . As THE NEW YORK TIMES pointed out in its editorial on Brotherhood Week , " We must not let ourselves be poisoned by the contagion spreading from some European countries , for if we do , it will not be some small , easily terrorized minority that will suffer . We shall all suffer : " The National Conference of Christians and Jews , founded in 1928 by Newton D. Baker , Charles Evans Hughes and Dr. S. Parkes Cadman , is earnestly striving , through a national educational program , to see that this contagion does not spread here . Through local round tables of Protestants , Catholics and Jews , work in churches , schools , colleges , women 's organizations , farm , labor , veterans ' and business groups , it is endeavoring to immunize Americans ' against propagandas of hatred and attempting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and concern to them as citizens of the one country . Support Is Needed The National Conference solicits the membership and financial support of all citizens  --  Protestants , Catholics and Jews  --  who believe that demagogic appeals to hatred must be met by an everincreasing campaign for religious and racial good-will . No greater task confronts this nation than preventing a hysteria based upon a false racialism or religious bigotry . Chicago University 's physicist Arthur H. Compton , Columbia University 's historian Carlton J. H. Hayes , and business man Roger W. Straus are the cochairmen . Advertising man Homer J. Buckley , lawyer James M. Rosenberg , and Vassar College President Henry Nobic MacCracken head the program advisory committee . Herbert J. Osborne of the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company , treasurer , will receive contributions . The conference 's address is 300 Fourth Avenue . EVERETT R. CLINCHY , Director , National Conference of Christians and Jews . New York , Feb. 28 , 1939 . Veterans and Civil Service They Believe in Merit System and Seek Statutory Preference To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League in his letter to THE TIMES does not deny that the executive order system is very unfair to candidates for civil service jobs . It was this fact mainly which prompted me to answer Mr. Kaplan , and it is too important to be dismissed lightly by importuning me to look into the " league 's annual reports from 1883 to 1938 " for enlightenment . Mr. Welling asks , parenthetically , " whether the Veterans Civil Service League is as interested in extending the merit system as in making use of the preferences in obtaining Federal employment " for war veterans . This is a fair question . The Veterans Civil Service League is not only interested in a democratic merit system in all government agencies or projects but it insists upon actual job priority to qualified veterans , for the following reasons : 1 . Veterans whose ' average ages now run around 44 , most of them married , present a far . more serious problem than non-veterans who begin life at 18 or over . 2 . Many of them gave up fairly good jobs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physically handicapped . 3 . Many veterans today can not accept any kind of jobs but such only as they are suited for and for which they have qualified . 4 . Most progressive nations grant job priority or preferences in jobs to veterans . 5 . To discourage a preference for veterans is to discourage loyalty in others in any future emergencies , or from volunteering to enter the armed forces of the government . 6 . Those who served the government faithfully in war are certainly entitled to serve their government in peace , especially when they , as taxpayers have qualified for their jobs in open competitive examinations in accordance with the requisites of a merit system . As a matter of fact , what Mr. Welling terms existing preferences to veterans under Federal civil service are nothing more than a write-up of 5 or 10 points in the examination papers of the veteran candidate as provided not so much by statutory law as by Executive orders . In truth , the non-veteran seems favored over the veteran for whom socalled preference is implied . Discrimination against veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also in numerous other bureaus of the Federal Government . In adopting a program which seeks to correct these abuses , the Veterans Civil Service League , upholding the merit system , believes that the rules governing civil service should be honestly upheld and at no time should a Chief Executive by a mere stroke of the pen sweep thousands of persons into civil service status , as was done by the President last June . CHARLES E. IR USSETT , Secretary of Veterans Civil Service League . New York , Feb. 25 , 1939 . Identifying Mr. Murphy He Seems to Be a Ubiquitous Person to Whom We Owe Much To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In your paper of Feb. 21  --  the day before George Washington 's Birthday ? you ask , " Who Is Murphy ? " Now , I 'm asking , did you ever hear of such ignorance ? Who is Murphy ? Why , he 's the salt of the earth . If there is any earth left in New York , he 's been in it , and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a skyscraper , a bridge , a tunnel or a ditch and I 'll show you a place with Murphy 's good name carved all over it . Show me a church or a cathedral , no matter the denomination , and I 'll show you evidence of the conviction of a Murphy that God exists , and of any man 's right to worship Him according to his conscience . Show me a school , parochial or otherwise , and I 'll show you a living monument Murphy built to his belief in education and decent insistence that his children and your children shall have the best of everything , and bow down to no one . Who is Murphy , you 're asking , and why should a square be designated Murphy Square ? Why not , I 'm asking , and why not an oblong , or an ellipse or an oval , or any other kind of a figure you 'll be naming ? Look at the policemen , the firemen , the judges and lawyers , the doctors and nurses , the engineers , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so-called social scale , and if you 're still asking " Who is Murphy ? " surely you must be very dense . If we 've got a nation that is better than any other ; if you have a State that 's called Empire ; if you have a city that 's called " Greater , " then it 's only because they were built , and Murphys built them , straight , level and true . Murphy Square , my eye ! Sure , it should he called Murphy Center , because wherever the center of anything worth while is , there you 'll find the Murphys . If you really want to know " Who is Murphy ? " go there , and you 'll find out . FRIEND OF THE FAMILY . Ridgefield Park , N. J. , Feb. 25 , 1939 . To Save Townsend Harris l'O THE t. , DIT01 OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was much pleased to read your recent editorial praising Townsend Harris High School and deploring the attempt now being made to abolish it . It brought home to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to it and the imminence of its passing . The many thousands of its alumni , the many hundreds of the fathers and mothers of its present pupils , the many hundreds of its present pupils have banded themselves together to ward off the threat , and the city will soon hear a roar of protest and experience a wave of feeling which will express unmistakably the aversion of the general public to such a scheme . This school is the only one of its kind ; it gives a three-year high school course  --  the same as the other high schools give in four . In other words , the city saves one year 's expense in this school ? an enormous sum . The reward for being the only school which saves the city money is abolishment . Let 's all get together to stop such stupidity . D. G. GODWIN . New York , Feb. 24 , 1939 . Tribute to Bureaucracy To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Government operation does not always result in unwieldy bureaucracy . Complaints about the heating system in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little activity and no satisfactory results , but a letter to the Health Department brought an inspector the following day . Then the landlord began to act with a promptness never before displayed . In following up the complaint , bureaucracy again led private initiative . The inspector voluntarily called on me to find out if the condition had been remedied , but the landlord did not . He had to be prodded . I am grateful for the prompt action of the department . ADOLPH MOSES . New York , Feb. 26 , 1939.                     