@@698395

txt Taxation and tariff stood out as the legislative uncertainties as Congress recessed for the holidays . They probably will remain in that state until pronouncements of Democratic policy promised after the first of the year . Democrats have criticized the Adrainistrathor tax propo6als , including a return to the income scheduleti of 1.924. new excise taxes , a three-cent postal rate and higher estate taxes . The lack of definite counter proposals points to the difficulty of drawing a program on which unity can be had . There is recurrence of the talk against any tax legislation whatever . There are certainly compelling political reasons for such a course while economic arguments can not be said to be wholly lacking . However , the best judgment is that Congress will enact a tax bill , although the total increase imposed may be less than that proposed by President Hoover and Secretary Mellon . For the moment tariff has been shoved to the background by the moratorium , and by the drive for early action on the emergency economic measures . When those things are out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of policy , which will be significant in itself . It will also have a bearing on the drives for tariffs on oil and copper , the present status of which is uncertain . The administration proposal for the creation of a system of mortgage discount banks will come up after January 1 . The outlook Ac that the measure will pass , although not unopposed . The Reconstruction Finance Corp . will be created and the capital of Federal Land banks increased without great difficulty . The proposal for permanent banking reform is in the hands of the Glass sub-committee , and there will be better chance for judgment after that committee makes its report . It is certain that any proposal to restrict the right of member banks to borrow at the Federal Reserve on government bonds will meet very powerful opposition . On the other hand . it is doubtful if there can be any widening of eligibility provisions . Last spring when the Democratic National Committee gathered in Washington , James M. Cox . 1920 Presidential candidate of his party , appeared in the role of conciliator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation brought mention of his name as a Presidential possibility in 1932 . There will be another Democratic gathering here culminating in a dinner on the night of January 9 , at which Governor Cox will be the last speaker on the program . Thus , if the prohibition differences threaten once more , Governor Cox can resume his role of peace maker . There 's no telling where the thing may lead .                     