@@700500

txt Another snowstorm , the second In three days , pelted the Eastern seaboard yesterday from New England to North Carolina . In New York it was accompanied by freezing weather and , unlike the earlier storm , coated the city 's streets to a noticeable depth . The regular street cleaning forces of the Department of Sanitation were kept busy at snow removal throughout the day , and last night it looked as if no emergency workers would be recruited . The snow began falling just before 8:30 A. M. and continued without let-up late into the night . Late last night more than two inches had fallen . This was more than the entire fall in Thursday 's storm . Little Effect on Railroads . Snow sweepers kept most of the street-car lines clear and the. , railroads were not seriously affected , although the falling snow reduced visibility and caused some trains to run slightly behind schedule . The new storm , it was explained last night at the Weather Bureau , was caused by a low-pressure area centred just south of Cape Hatteras yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storm warnings being ordered by the Weather Bureau from the Virginia Capes to Boston , Northeast winds , reaching gale force , might be expected off the coast , the Weather Bureau said , shifting to northwest south of Sandy Hook . The forecaster looked for a similar shift in New York City and , as a result of it , fair and continued cold weather today . He said a minimum of around 18 degrees was in prospect for this morning . The maximum temperature yesterday was 31 degrees , at midnight , and the minimum 24 , at 3:30 P. M. No records were broken . The mildest March 10 on record was in 1879 , when the maximum was 72 , and the coldest on record in 1929 , when the mercury dropped to 12 above zero . The average temperature yesterday was 28 degrees , 8 below normal for the date . Unlike last Thursday 's snow , which was wet and composed of large flakes , yesterday 's snow was fine and dry . The ground already was frozen when it began to fall and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where it was further packed by pedestrians or moving vehicles . Snow Workers Get Pay . A lack of funds made officials of the Department of Sanitation reluctant to hire emergency snow workers , although the regular force had been able to make only scant progress up to last night . Controller Cunningham managed yesterday to raise $605,000 pay for emergency workers for previous snow-removal jobs , averting the threatened delay in payments due yesterday to some 25,000 workers Thomas W. Hammond , Acting Commissioner of Sanitation , said last night that his department was prepared to handle " any kind of snowstorm . " " From what the weather man tells us , " he added , " it looks as if we shall be able to get along with the regular force . Not more than two inches of snow are expected , and in that case there should be no need for emergency workers . Certainly , that amount will not be sufficient to cause any serious obstructions to traffic . " Colonel Hammond said that most of the snow removal work yesterday was confined to bridges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleared first , " he explained . " Then we can turn our attention to what , in a sense , might be called the secondary streets ; that is , the principal thoroughfares . Asked how many men might be taken on if it was considered necessary to hire emergency workers , he said that the department 's plans called for a minimum of 5,000 or 6,000 . He reiterated , however , that the departmental heads wanted to get along without extra help if possible , and when he was asked if any funds were available for the employment of an emergency force he . admitted that they were not . February 's severe cold weather caused a sharp upward turn in the city 's mortality chart , Health Commissioner John L. Rice disclosed yesterday . The cold snap , he said , was especially severe on elderly people . Deaths from all causes during the four weeks ending March 3 , he disclosed , totaled 6,827 , or 516 more than during the corresponding pe- I Hod in 1933 . " In the four weeks ending March 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the group over 65 years old rose to 2,306 , as compared with 2.041 in the same period in 1933 , an increase of 265 . " Heart disease victims were particularly hard hit by the frigid weather . In the four-week period there were 1,939 deaths from heart disease , as compared with 1,667 in the corresponding four weeks in 1933 , an increase of 272 . " Eighty-three more deaths from lobar pneumonia are noted , the figures for the four weeks being 458 . , In the corresponding weeks in 1933 there were 375 . " The severe cold weather in Feb4 ruary also led to a significant in4 crease in fatal accidents . In the recent four weeks there were 375 , , as against 304 in the 1933 four-week period . "                     