@@698862

txt The world 's financial recovery must come thrOugh carefully planned and multiple measures of international cooperation , not through merely monetary reforms or further departures from the gold standard . So announced the League of Nations gold delegation , endowed with high authority derived front its reports antedating the financial crisis , in its final report yesterday in which the majority of the delegation 's members reject those particular measures of recovery which are closely associated with British policy . But the minority delegates , including Sir Henry Strakosch of South Africa , Sir Reginald Mont of India , and the committee 's president , M. Albert Janssen of Belgium . joined partly by Prof. Gustav Cassel of Sweden , present a vigorous minority report proclaiming monetary reforms as most vital and disagreeing on the position of the gold standard in the crisis . The majority , including among others , Mr. G. E. Roberts of the United States , Comte de Chalendar of France , Prof. M. J. Bonn of Germany , and Dr. L. J. A. Tripp of the Netherlands , all representing gold standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sterling group " which would manipulate the world 's monetary relationship in an attempt to raise prices and thus ameliorate financial and economic conditions . Gold Standard Defended Without political ties these experts thus differ precisely as their governments and central banks divide on financial problems . The report , however , agrees closely with American financial views and is considered as an important guidepost in the world 's march out of the money morass . The report of the majority declares categorically that the gold standard remains the best available monetary mechanism , to which the powers should return as early as possible . Practical difficulties and dangers of currencies not on a common world basis are stressed and grave difficulties to world trade air foreshadowed if other systems ate adopted . But before gold can be re-enthroned three international agreements are declared to be needed . First  --  Restoration of a reasonable degree of freedom in the movement of goods and services . Second  --  Satisfactory solution of the problem of reparations and debts . Third ? Agreement concerning guiding fundamentals for the working of the gold standard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adjust costs of production and living to international position  --  the last prerequisite being particularly important in Britain 's case . Stabilization of Prices The report 's second part discusses the possibilities of stabilization of prices  --  a reform which is universally recognized as most necessary for the return of prosperity . The majority feels monetary policy alone can not adjust the price level , stating " whelp credit contraction for one reason or another has been carried to exti ernes it is proper and imperative for central banks to take action to check excessive contraction , and in some cases to take the initiative in encouraging the freer use of credit " This important recommendation is clearly intended as praise for the United States Reconstruction Finance Corporation , and advises similar utilization elsewhere . As to maintaining a stable price level in future , the delegation feels stability is only possible by careful planning and closest cooperation by central banks . The committee 's strongest recommendation is that present ivserve ratios by which most central banks are bound should be reduced This view coincides with advanced financial policy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minority dissents entirely on the prerequisite for the gold standard , feeling that the breakdown was caused by maldistribution of monetary gold reserves . A smaller group avers that a price rise is possible through monetary policy . Agreement on the necessity of settling international debts Ls recorded by both groups , but the minority favors international action to restore prices , while the majority Urges national action . The report is considered a useful preliminary to the Lausanne conference and an even more tont guidance for the proposed London monetary conference . Views of the majority constitute a clear warning to London that nations holding most of the world 's gold will not consent to monetary measures alone or to juggling with currency standards Therefore the advisability of an exclusively monetary conference is reduced and the original purpose of the Lausanne conference to study the broadest measures of recovery advanced .                     