@@703062

txt For two days the Thompson death mystery claimed the attention of Chicago newspaper readers . Ralph W. Thompson Jr. , editor of a national safety magazine and a man of cultural attainments , was found dead Sunday morning , his skull fractured , on a loading platform behind 79 West Lake street . The position of the body indicated to detectives that the death was not accidental . A thorough investigation which was in its third day was halted abruptly yesterday by the statement of a young clerk of good reputation that he had awakened suddenly to the realization that he was the slayer . The incident that caused Thompson 's death had all but slipped from his mind . Surrendered by Father . The clerk is Harold L. Patterson Jr. , 21 years old , of 4544 North Western avenue . He is employed by the A. C. Nielsen company , business analysts at 2102 Howard street . The young man was surrendered yesterday by his father , a plumbing contractor , who connected remarks his son made Sunday with the mysterious death of Thompson . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McCurrie young Patterson told of the events of Saturday night , events that resulted in a brief but friendly acquaintanceship between two men , both above average intelligence , and then in the death of one of them . Patter. son said he was seated in a tavern at 52 West Randolph street when he met Thompson . A Chance Meeting . " I had never seen him before , " he continued . " We just happened to be sitting side by side at the bar . He struck up a conversation about sports and bought me two or three drinks . We got to talking about shows and he suggested we go to . one . " We went west to Clark street ? and I told Thompson to wait while I went into the alley . Without my knowing it he followed me . In a drunken sort of way he tried ' to throw his arms around me . I ' pushed him away and when he came at ' me again I hit him . He fell and I went away . " In the morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Thompson 's death and correctly assumed he was the man who had annoyed his son . Assistant Prosecutor McCurrie said there were some discrepancies in the tale of Patterson . It has not been explained , for examples how . It happened that Thompson 's hands were deep in his overcoat pockets when the body was found when , according to Patterson , Thompson was trying to seize him . The clerk was held while the police make a further investigation . Thompson was 31 years old . He was a graduate of Northwestern university and lived alone at 1308 Asbury avenue , Evanston . HOT SPRINGS MAY REPLACE ST OVE S IN ICELANDIC CITY Copyright : 1938 : By the New York Times . REYKJAVIK , Iceland , Jan. 4 . ? A plan to make the hot springs near this capital provide natural central heating for buildings of the city is believed nearing realization . The capacity of the springs has been increased through borings so I they can yield nearly forty gallons of hot water per second . Pjetur Hale dorsson , mayor of Reykjavik , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the right to install a pipe system . With - the system in operation Ail least half the houses of Reykjavik would be heated by natural hot water . i This Is God'sCountry , Do n't Drive Like Hell ' : Trafie Sign Minco , Okla. , Jan. 4 . ? M ? Minco citizer , worried at ' violations of the city 's speed Paws , appealed to the safety committee of the American Legion post . The committee erected this sign : " This is . God 's country  --  do n't drive through it like Hell . "                     