@@697160

txt Wet sentiment , as measured by votes , attained a new high level in the nominally dry Assembly today when that body by 82 to 61 came out in support of a bill introduced by Assemblyman Cuvillier , wet leader in the lower house , to memorialize Congress in favor of a constitutional convention to repeal the Eighteenth Amendment . Twenty Republican Assemblymen voted in support of a motion by Assemblyman Cuvillier to take the bill from the Rules Committee and bring it out on the floor for debate and final action . This is the largest number of Republicans that ever joined hands with the Democrats behind an anti-prohibition measure since prohibition has been in force . When a new high record was established last year in the vote against State enforcement , fifteen Republicans voted . Only eight voted in 1923 in support of another Cuvillier bill , the one repealing the Mullan-Gage State prohibition enforcement law , then on the statute books . The wets were jubilant when they found the Republican ? delegations from Erie , Monroe and Westchester had voted almost solidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from each of those counties gave his vote to the drys . Mrs. D. Leigh Colvin , head of the Woman 's Christian Temperance Union , and Canon William Sheafe Chase of Brooklyn attended the Assembly session and kept tab on the vote as the roll was called . Passage Today Is Forecast . Only the fact that Assemblyman Cuvillier " fumbled " his motion in a fashion to make it effective only in bringing the bill out of committee and not to make it a special order on second and third reading blocked final passage of the measure at , the session today . The bill was advanced to the order of third reading and , following the usual course , was sent to the Committee on Revision . Mr. Cuvillier said he would renew his fight today to bring the bill again before the House , and there is no doubt in the minds of wets or drys that he will get his bill through tomorrow and that it will reach the Senate in time to be passed by that body prior to adjournment . In connection with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported Senator Knight yesterday in their vote on the Sheridan-Post bill , designed to bring be-1 fore the United States Supreme Court the question of the State 's right-to establish a liquor dispensary , system under the terms of the Eighteenth Amendment , went to him today after the vote in the Assembly and told him that if the Cuvillier bill reached the upper house ' they were inclined to vote for it . This included Some Republican members of the Senate who so far had never voted with the wets . Dry Strength Dwindles . The dwindling dry strength in the Assembly was reflected by the low total of 61 of those who voted against bringing the Cuvillier bill ' before the Assembly . There were four Republican absentees and Speaker did not vote on the roll-call . But had all these votes been polled by the drys it would have brought the total to only " 66 votes , ten less than the number necessary to pass the Jenks dry enforcement bill , which in other recent years has been defeated in the Assembly by  --  a lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted with the Democrats for the Cuvillier motion included these : Bernhardt , Borkowski , Dickey , Gimbrone , Marcy and Swartz of Erie ; Condon , Garnjost , Hathaway and Shonk. of . Westchester ; Lefkowitz , Moffat , Perkins and Rivers of New York ; Marks , , Saunders and Searle of Monroe , Peters of Oneida and Potter of Suffolk . Mr. Cuvillier said tonight that he would bring up tomorrow ? on a new motion to discharge the rules committee his bill which calls for a popular referendum at the election this Autumn on repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . In the upper house Senator Cilano announced that if the legislative session . lasted long enough he would introduce a referendum bill embodying a selective questionnaire including queries on repeal or modification of the Eighteenth Amendment and on enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead law exclusively by the Federal authorities with State cooperation through the enactment of a new State enforcement law . The debate which preceded the rollcall on the Cuvillier motion was refnarkably shot , considering that prohibition was involved . Neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nor . Assemblyman Russell G. Dunmore , the floor leader for the Republican forces , took any part in the discussion . Cuvillier Makes Motion . In moving to have the Rules Com= mittee report his bill , Assemblyman Cuvillier declared that a vast majority of the people of the country were opposed to the Eighteenth Amendment and that his proposal asking Congress to call a national constitutional convention was the " orderly " . way to bring about repeal . " I can see no reason why the drys should not vote for this bill , because nothing can happen unless two thirds of the States take the same action , " Mr. Cuvillier said . " Certainly there can be no objection to having this State ask Congress to call a national constitutional convention to repeal the prohibition amendment , because every vote taken in the State in the last few years has shown that the people of the State are opposed to prohibition in its present form . " Assemblyman Richard B. Smith , Syracuse Republican , who has steadfastly , during the last few years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Assemblyman Cuvillier . ? " My record against prohibition is well known , but I am opposed to this proposal because of my great respect ' for the Federal Constitution and because of my fear that the calling of a national convention at this time might be the means of making many . other drastic changes . in the country 's basic law , " said Mr. Smith . Assemblyman Smith insisted that the real and sensible way to bring about the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment was to elect a wet Congress . Assemblyman Burton D. Esmond , Saratoga Republican , . said he was opposed to the Cuvillier bill ' because " it raises the question of whether we want to go back to the old saloon . " " If we repeal the Eighteenth Amendment all the evils of the saloon will be back with us and I dare the wets to deny that , " shouted Assemblyman Esmond . Assemblyman Esmond insisted that if there was to be ' any change in the Eighteenth Amendment the suggestion should come from Congress . Assemblyman James T. Foody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ' taking favorable action on such a " useless " measure as the Cuvillier bill " ought to pass a State enforcement measure : " " The wets Insist that the boys and girls are worse off today-than before we had prohibition ; my answer to that ifs that they ought to aid us in putting an enforcement law on the State 's statute books , " Mr. Foody said . Assemblyman Arthur L. Swartz , Buffalo Republican , who voted to bring the Cuvillier bill out of Rules Committee , said he believed the time had come to " stop making a political football out of prohibition . " " It has almost reached the point today where the only qualification for holding office is whether a man is wet or dry , " said Mr. Swartz . Assemblyman Swartz said that the Cuvillier bill was the " only sensible thing regarding prohibition that ' has been brought before the Legislature . " " The only way the Eighteenth Amendment can ever be repealed Is through a Constitutional convention , and if a majority of the American people say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority should rule , " Mr. Swartz added . Assemblyman Albert D. Sehanzer , Brooklyn Democrat , denied - that the repeal of the prohibition amendment would bring back the saloon . Jenks Warns ' Of Danger . Assemblyman Edmund B. Jenks , dry leader of the Assembly , declared that the calling of a national convention " would lay , open to revision every part of the Constitution . " " Such a convention might endanger the whole fabric of our Constitution , " Mr. Jenks said . " No matter how much we are opposed to prohibition we should not do anything that might imperil the whole Constitution . I am satisfied that not 25 per cent of the State would sanction the repeal of the prohibitiOn ? amendment . We are going to have an election this Fall and again the following Fall , and if you are not satisfied with the way the present members of Congress - have voted on this question elect men who will vote for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , but c:o n't do it this way . " Assemblyman Abbott L. Moffat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuvillier 's motion , said he had confidence enough in the American people not to be afraid to call a constitutional convention to repeal the Eighteenth Amendment . " This is the first , proper step looking toward the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and New York State should not hesitate to take it , " Mr. Moffat said . While the Assembly was registering a vote in favor of a move to repeal the prohibition amendment today , the Senate passed an anti-distillery bill which offended neither wets nor drys . It makes it a felony to operate a still during the course of which some injury results . No objection was offered to the measure , which already had passed the Assembly . It was sponsored by Assemblyman George W. Stewart , Democrat , of Brooklyn , as the result of a still explosion which endangered 400 Brooklyn school children .                     