@@702387

txt Legislation along the lines of the ClarkConnery bills now pending in Congress and designed to eliminate child labor in the United States was urged by the National Association of Mau ( acturers here . In letters to Senator Bennett C. Clark ( D ) of Missouri and Repretentative William P. Connery Jr . ( D ) of Massachusetts , the association voiced approval of the laws proposed to make use of federal powers under the commerce clause of the Constitution to protect the rights of states where products of child labor were barred , and urged that the legislation should apply not only to " goods produced , manufactured or mined " by child labor , but also to goods " processed or extracted " by the same type of labor . The letters made public here were signed by William B. Warner , president of the association , and were regarded as the first specific step on the part of industrial employers to put in effect a policy with respect to child labor which was adopted at the Congress of American Industry list December . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child labor In manufacturing . Mr. Warner emphasized that the association would favor extension of the authority of the Federal Government proposed by Senator Clark and Mr , Connery ' ' to give a larger measure of co-operation by Congress to enforcement of state , law , " and proposed that interstate shipments of goods made through child labor be regulated both with respect to the state of origin as well as the state of destination . The Clark-Connery bill Is viewed here as based upon a recent decision of the United States Supreme Court upholding the authority of the Federal Government to regulate or prevent interstate transportation of prison-made goods where such shipments would enter a state whose laws made illegal the sale of such goods . " We believe that your proposal is sound in law and policy , " Mr. Warner 's letters read . " The Child Labor Act , which was condemned by the Supreme Court . undertook to fix the standards of production for each state by refusing interstate transportation to goods which were not produced in accordance with recognized the right of each state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coma merce power to make the laws of the State effective . " Members of the National Association of Manufacturers always had opposed the employment of child labor , according to Mr. Warner . He urged that Congress make more effective use of the commerce powers in " legitimate aid of the enforcement of state laws restricting or prohibiting child taboo . " Such action on the part of Congress would be followed , Mr. Warner thought , by new and improved legislation in the states themseivez.                     