@@698560

txt In tho capital named in his honor , grateful tribute to the memory of ( ) edge Washington will bo paid by President Hoover on Monday in ceremonies which will signalize IN opening of natlon-wido observances of the bicentennial year of the first President . On that day , at noon , the Chief Executive of to notion which has grown to a stature of 125,000,000 people since Washington first directed its small but courageous beginnings into channels of republican security , will address both Houses of the Congress in joint session , And on ' the sante day , President Hoover will cross the historic Potential into Virginia to pay further tribute at Mount Vernon , the Washington homestead whose cherished traditions reach far beyond the borders of the Old Dominion , On Sunday churches throughout the land will hold services commemorating the first Chief Executive , and other churches will hold special services on Monday as a nine months ' celebration of the bicentennial year formally opens , During the coining weeks in Washington there will be varied ceremonies under the auspices of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will continua through the summer . From the east steps of the Capitol , at the conclusion of the address in the House of Representatives , President Hoover will call upon a chorus of 10,000 , conducted by Mr. Walter Damrosch , to sing " America , " The Army , Navy . and Marine Bands , playing as a unit under the direction of Lieut. - Commander John Philip Sousa , U. S. N. , retired , will join in the event . On Monday night , scenes of the Washingtonian era will be depicted in a colonial costume ball in which representatives of every state will participate . In addition , andel delegations of 10 each from the 13 original states will join , Among outstanding observances scheduled later in the year will be the organized tribute of Masons in America . No less than 300,000 inembars of that fraternal order are expected to congregate at Alexandria , Va. , to pay tribute to the memory of their illustrious brother at the dedication of the National Masonic Memorial Temple to him . Latin Anierica Observance WASHINGTON , Feb. 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ join the United States in appropriate observance of the 200th anniversary of George Washington here Monday . The governing board of the Pan American Union will assemble In special session in the Hall of the Americas at 1 ) . a . In , Monday , Sefior Orestes Ferrero , Cuban Ambassador to the United States , will deliver the g of the occasion . The response for the United States will be made by Mr. Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State .                     