@@697559

txt The storm that has been brewing more than a week over President Hoover 's appointees to the Power Commission broke suddenly this afternoon with a fury that shook and thrilled the capital . Defying the Senate , the President , in a message to that body , bluntly refused its demand to return to it for reconsideration his three nominations for the Power Board , already once confirmed and seated . He then issued a statement to the public in. which he denounced the action of the Senate as " an attempted invasion of authority of the Executive " and as an effort by the Senate to put " a false issue before the country . " Stung to anger , the Democratic Senators and Republican insurgents in the Senate countered the President 's attack by voting 36 to 23 to restore to the calendar for reconsideration the names of Dr. George Otis Smith , Colonel Marcel Garsaud and Claude L. Draper , although Senator Walsh , who offered the motion , declared it would be " entirely futile . " formally to reject the three nominees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Democrat , of I Montana , revealed that the President 's foes had not exhausted their lweapons when he announced that ho would oppose an appropriation for the salaries of the three commissionlet 's when the Senate considered the independent offices bill . Hoover Consults With Mitchell . The day 's events began with a consultation between the President and Attorney General Mitchell . Mr. Hoover had summoned Mr. Mitchell , even before he had officially received the Senate resolution requesting the return of the nominations , for conference on the step he had apparently decided on , on learning through the newspapers of the Senate 's action . The resolution was laid on his desk while the conference was in progress . At the same time the Senate was in session , expectantly awaiting the answer of the President . Assured by the Attorney General that the three commissioners had been properly confirmed and seated and that therefore their nominations could not be reconsidered , the President drafted his message to the Senate and dispatched it . Then the text of the message was made public and the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation wou ' I be made to the public . Attorney General Mitchell remained with the President until both approved the final draft of this statement . George Akerson , secretary to the President , handed the statement to the newspaper correspondents at 4:30 P. M. There was no comment necessary , he said , as he handed out the copies . Message Short and Sharp . The President 's message to the Senate was short and sharply to the point . In flatly and unequivocally refusing to comply with the terms of the resolution , Mr. Hoover emphasized his inability " to admit the power in the Senate to encroach upon the executive functions by removal of a duly appointed executive officer under the guise of reconsideration of his nomination . " The statement for the public , no less uncompromising , threw down the gage of battle for the rights of the Executive and assailed the motive . of the Democratic-Insurgent Republican bloc without mincing words . The Senate resolution , the President said in the statement , might have " the attractive political merit of giving rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mil getweites power interests ' and , inferentially , those who voted against it are ' friends of the power interests . ' The action of the Senate mighl even , added the President , " contain a hope of symbolizing me as the defender of power interests if I refuse to sacrifice three outstanding public servants , or to allow the Senate to dictate to an administrative board the appointment of its subordinates , and if I refuse to allow fundamental encroachment by the Senate upon the constitutional independence of the Executive . Upon these things the people will pass unerring judgment . " Pierces Senate Camouflage . The debate that preceded the vote on the recall resolution indicated plainly , declared the President , that Senators Walsh of Montana , Borah , Norris and other members of the Democratic - Insurgent Republican camp were intent on removing Messrs . Smith , Garsaud and Draper , not because they were unqualified to hold the positions confirmed to them but because the Senate wanted to name the subordinates of the Power Commission despite the fact that under the law that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " concluded the statement , referring to problems involving the restoration of prosperity , " that the government should be absorbed upon such questions as the action of the Power Commission in employment or non-employment of two subordinate officials at a time when the condition of the country requires every constructive energy . " Senate Gets the Message . The Senate was ready to adjourn when the President 's message reached the chamber . Senator Oddie , who was presiding , refused to put the message before the body while it was in legislative session . Senator Wheeler called for a quorum , and the wrangling began with every indication that the controversy with continue with unabated bitterness well into next week . With a quorum in the seats the message was read . As if he knew its tenor and had planned his move in advance , Senator Walsh immediately arose and said in feigned surprise : " I have before me the executive calendar , and I do not observe mention of the nominations of the President for three Commissioners of the Federal Power Commission . " Senator Oddie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the calendar until the papers were returned by the President . Senator Walsh replied : " Such a custom could not possibly obtain , because there is no precedent , as was abundantly demonstrated in the discussion . " Senator Moses of New Hampshire pressed the point that papers must ; be before the Senate for names to i go on the calendar . " I can not see . " insisted Senator Walsh , " why the presence or the absence of the papers has a thing on earth to do with the question of whether these nominations should go i upon the calendar when the action of the Senate in confirming has been reconsidered " " I take the position , " countered Senator Moses . " that we can not deal I with it out of thin air . " Senator Norris observed that reconsideration of the nominations was undertaken without the presence of the papers of confirmation . Walsh Is Insistent . Addressing " those who put so much store by this little paper , " Senator Walsh went on : " We had a message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . gentlemen . That is the paper upon which we proceeded . That paper is still here . So we have , the paper upon which we are pre-pared to proceed . We voted upon that and conferred upon that paper .. That paper still being before us. we voted to reconsider our action . That paper is still here as a foundation for further action by the Senate . " Senator Watson inquired the object of Senator Walsh 's motion and what he expected to obtain . The latter explained : " Let me state my own conviction that a subsequent vote , voting them down , rejecting the nominations , would be entirely futile and so far as I am concerned I do not desire to pursue whet I conceive to be a perfectly futile thing . If there were any proceeding in the law by which the title or these men to the offices which they now . in fact . occupy could be challenged . I would insist upon a vote of their confirmation or rejection . " But there is no such proceeding so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to test in court the right which they assert to thee c offices , it seems to me that the sea:e vent procedure would be futile an e , for myself , I am not desirous of going through a perfectly futile gesture . " Then Senator Wheeler promised to renew the fight on the President 's appointments , serving notice that when the independent offices bill , containing appropriations for Power Commission salaries . was considered . he would " move that no appropriation be permitted for their salaries during the ensuing year . " la this proposal is seen another effort by Senators who want an extra session to force the President 's hand . Vote on the Walsh Motion . The vote on Senator Walsh 's motion to instruct the clerk to reinsert the name of the commissioners on the executive calendar , one of a type pet recalled as ever having been made before , came at 4:45 P. M. , after an hour 's debate . It follows : rOE THE MOTION-3e . Republicans  --  It . Blaine , Borah . Brookhart . Frazier . Howell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peorris , Nye , Pi . Democrats  --  IS . Ashuret , Barkley . Black , Bratton , Caraway , Connally . Copeland , Dill , Fletcher . George , Glass , Harris , Hayden . Heflin , , Morrison , Shephard , Smith , Thomas ( Okla . ) , Walsh ( Mont . ) , Wheeler , Williamson . Farmer-Labor-1 . Ships teed . AGAINST THE MOTION  --  U. Republicans-20 . Bingham , Capper , Davis , Deneen , Fess , Goff , Goldsborough . Gould . Hebert . Jones , Metcalf , Moses , Oddie . Shortridge , Smoot , Stetwer . Townsend , Vandenberg , Walcott , Watson . Democrats  --  S. Broussard , Kendrick , Ransdell . Paired-14 . For the motion  --  Cutting . Republican : Pittman , Bulkley . King , Trammell , Tydings , Stephens . Democrats . Against the motion  --  Phipps . Carey , Hastings . Glenn , Kean , , Robinson ( Ind . ) , Republicans . Wheeler Comments on Statement . No copy of the President 's supplemental statement was available to Senators during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was issued , but Senator Wheeler had heard of some of its chief points and immediatelyater the announcement of the YOU on the Walsh motion he jumped to his feet . " Mr. President , I understand that the President of the United States has issued a statement supplemental to the statement he sent to the Senate , " he said , " and in this statement , given out to the press outlining his position on the power fight , ke asser ti , in substance , that the*Senate was attempting to symbolize Hoover es the defender of tie power trust . " I am at a loss just how the President could come to that conclusion , for the simple reason that most of us , when we called attention to what the effects were in connection with the matter , suggested that as a matter of fact we did not believe the President of the United States knew what the facts were and had he known what the facts were in the case , he would have immediately acted , and insisted that Mr. Russell and Mr. King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem now that by his action today he was attempting to protect those who are fighting in the interest of the power trust on the commission and seeking , if you please , to punish those who have been diligent in fighting in the interest of the people 's rights and for common decency and common honesty up there on the power commission . I do not know how anybody could come to any other conclusion , in view of the facts in the cases . " Shortridge Defends President . Senator Shortridge of California replied that no Senator was justified in reaching such a conclusion , add-ing : " No facts exist that would justify the Senator or any other Senator in saying that the President is in league with or cooperating with any trust in the country . " " Notwithstanding the Senator from California , I still maintain that asrertion , " retorted Mr. Wheeler . " I say that I am much more justified in coming to that conclusion than is the President of the United States in coming to the conclusion which he has stated  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolize Hoover as the defender of the power trust . " . The next move in the fight between administration leaders and Senator Walsh 's forces , who have clearly demonstrated their majority , is considered as being up to Senator Walsh . The issue may lie over indefinitely , but , at the same time , so many Senators are joined with him that it is not improbable that one or another of them will have a mind to discuss the point further at almost any time . Administraton leaders had no comment to make tonight on the President 's course , saying his statement would stand by itself without buttressing from any quarter . Attorney General Mitchell had declined any remarks on leaving the White House . There is no chance of Supreme Court review as to the constitutionality of the President 's position . Senator Walsh made that plain when he stated that his action was taken because there are no other apparent means of reviewing the action by the President . Bonner Reinstatement Favored . WASHINGTON , Jan. 10 ( M. ? President Hoover , even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had one champion today in the Senate . Shortly after the body convened , Senator Blease , Democrat , of South Carolina said he hoped " President Hoover , for once in his life . will prove himself a man and refuse " to send the Power Commission nominations back to the Senate . Although he voted against confirmation of the commissioners in the first place . Mr. Blease contended the Senaet , ' as true sportsmen , had no right to ask the President to return the ball after they had fumbled it to him . " He also argued the President had " no jurisdiction " in the matter now that the men were in office . Three of the five members of the Power Commission went ahead today with routine business . Chairman Smith , after a brief visit to his office ( returned to his home . Garsaud and Draper joined him in declining to comment on the Senate 's action . Russell and King visited commission headquarters today . Neither has relinquished office space during the controversy . Russell said each had applied for reappointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission asking all former employes to take that step . Reclamation Commissioner Mead recommended today and Secretary Wilbur approved the temporary reinstatement in the government service of Frank E. Bonner , former Power Commission secretary , who was dismissed with the other employes when the new commission organized . Bonner had frequently been under attack in the Senate as being prejudiced in favor of power companies . Mr. Mead said Bonner would be appointed for about three months to inspect reservoirs of the Reclamation Bureau which are being filled wiht silt . Jills duties will be of a technical engineering character .                     