@@704367

txt During all her long day of fighting yesterday sixty-two British seamen imprisoned below the decks of the Admiral Graf Spee crouched helplessly as British shells hammered the sides of their prison ship . They were released here today . These men were members of the crews of nine British merchantmen that the Admiral Graf Spee had sunk since she entered the South Atlantic . Most of the vessels were sunk near the African coast . Among the prisoners were at least five captains whose ships had been sunk . They were A. H. Brown of the Huntsman , Charles Pottinger of the Ashlea , J. N. Edwards of the Trevanion , William Stubbs of Ithe Doric Star and Patrick G. Dove of the Africa Shell . The sixty-two men range in age from 15 to 72 . Just at sundown this evening they clambered joyous ' ly down the companionway of the Admiral Graf Spee into a launch that British consular authorities I had taken alongside after negotiating the release of the men through Uruguayan port authorities . Before being released they were forced to sign pledges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German pocket battleship . The men appeared to be in good health and they were in high spirits at their release , but their faces plainly showed the tremendous nervous strain of yesterday 's ordeal . Most of them were dressed in rags . Apparently they had escaped from their sinking vessels only with the clothes they wore . The released prisoners disclosed that the Admiral Graf Spee left Germany before the war started and sank the following nine vessels : Africa Shell , Sept. 15 , off East Africa ; Clement , Sept. 30 , off north coast of Brazil ; Newton Beach , Oct. 5 , off South Africa ; Ashley , Oct. 7 , in South Atlantic ; Huntsman , Oct. 10 , off South Africa ; Trevanion , date not given , off South Africa ; Doric Star and Tairoa , dates not given , off South Africa ; Streonshalh , a week ago , off Argentina . MONTEVIDEO , Uruguay , Dec. 14 UP ) ? Vivid stories of the Admiral Graf Spee 's fight with British cruisers were told tonight by members of a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 11-inch gun turrets while the Graf Spree threw steel at her attackers . Freed of their marine prison ? several after weeks of confinement  --  the seamen described how they counted hits by British guns and cheered for the attacking cruisers , at the same time realizing they were doomed if the Admiral Graf Spee sank because the doors of their steel cells were barred when the action began . One of the best accounts of the first big sea fight of the Buropean war was told by a quiet-mannered officer of the British steamer Doric Star , who was taken prisoner before his ship was sunk by the Admiral Graf Spee off the coast of Africa . The prisoners were awakened at 6 o'clock in the morning , he said , by cannonading . " We knew what that sound meant , " he said , " and we knew it was serious when the guards of our quarters locked and barred the doors and left to go to their battle stations . " As the battle progressed most of us realized that a British victory might mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the attackers . Count 17 Hits in Day " Altogether , we counted seventeen hits by British shells on the Graf Spee in the various encounters that day . " Probably you wo n't believe us , but several men who were shaving when the cannonading began went on and finished the job . " I had a sore throat and was gargling medicine when we had a ' British visitor '  --  a piece of shell that had exploded outside tore its way into our quarters without hurting any one . But I swallowed all the medicine ! " Our confinement area was directly under one of the 11-inch turrets . Every time a shot was fired it seemed as if the whole roof had collapsed over us . " The grandest news we ever had was when an officer came down last night and told us , ' Gentlemen , the war is over for you . We just entered the Montevideo harbor . ' " The Doric Star officer , describing his experiences with the German crew , said most of them were young , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of having to fight another warship . They seemed to think their only job was sinking freighters . That probably is one reason why light cruisers were able to damage the Graf Spee and force her to flee . " The officer said he expected to return again to the sea and that he had a son who probably would do likewise . Captain Patrick G. Dove of the tanker Africa Shell , sunk on Oct. 7 by the Graf Spee in a position which , Mr. Dove said , was within Portuguese waters , described how the commander of the Graf Spee called him to the bridge just before the prisoners were released and told him : " The cruisers made a gallant fight . When people fight like that personal enmity is lost . " Mr. Dove said the first officer of the pocket battleship then wished him good luck , and added : " Those British are hard . " Another in the group of officers who received their freedom said that officers of the Admiral Graf Spee said to him : " You fellows have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if it is our time . " after they landed in Portuguese East Africa . The Admiral Graf Spee , however , could easily be mistaken for either the Admiral Scheer or the Deutschland , as these three pocket battlesiships ars virtually identical . But six weeks before the sinking of the Africa Shell in Mozambique Channel , the Admiral Scheer was said to have been 4,500 miles away in the South Atlantic off Brazil , where the Clement went down , and on Oct. 15 the Deutschland was seen in action as a raider even farther away , when she put a prize crew aboard the United States freighter City of Flint in the North Atlantic . more than a month , and a German raider , " believed to be the Admiral Scheer , " was officially reported on Dec. 4 to have sunk the big refrigerator ship Doric Star in the South Atlantic as she was bound home from Australia and New Zealand . The Liverpool steamer Huntsman , on her way home from India , was not heard from after she called at Capetown and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Likewise the Trevamion , which left Capetown Oct. 17 , and the Newcastle steamer Ashlea , which called at the same South African port on Sept. 28 , were given up for lost by their owners on Dec. 11 . Although London despatches then suggested that these six British vessels , totaling 33,160 tons , were additional victims of the Admiral Scheer , already credited with the sinking of the Booth liner Clement on Sept. 30 in the South Atlantic off Brazil , at least five of the captains were found aboard the battlescarred Admiral Graf Spee when she anchored in Montevideo 's inner harbor . In fact , crew members of the Africa Shell , who were not taken prisoner like their skipper , identified the raider that sank their ship as the Admiral Scheer when a photograph was shown to them Younger Men Gleeful MONTEVIDEO , Uruguay , Dec. 14 ( UP ) ? The British prisoners released from the Admiral Graf Spee were obviously happy over their liberation today , and as they were landed the younger members of the group shouted gleefully to newspaper men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but showed relief that their long imprisonment at sea was ended . They appeared in good health . Many were bronzed by the sun , although most were unshaven and lean . The German naval attache and the Admiral Graf Spee 's commander , both dressed in full naval uniforms , surrendered the men to Uruguayan officials in the headquarters of the naval prefecture . Uruguayan marines rendered the usual honors to the German officials when they landed and also when they returned to the tug . It was noted that the Germans saluted the prisoners and said goodbye when they left . The men were then turned over to British consular and legation officials , who showed a note all the prisoners had signed to die effect that no statement must be made to the press or anybody else until the consul authorized it . There were no demonstrations of any kind when the men landed . " This is something , " shouted one of the men , while another said , " Pal , gim me that paper , " and grabbed it from the newspaper man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the only survivor of his ship , the identity of which was not learned . Retracing the Sinkings When it was learned here yesterday that the masters of five or six British merchant ships were aboard the raiding German pocket battleship Admiral Graf Spee , previous speculation about whether these cargo steamers had been sunk by a pocket battleship or an armed merchantman was laid to rest . Speculation as to the identity of the German sea marauder at large began with the announcement on Nov. 16 that the British tanker Africa Shell had been sunk in Mozambique Channel between Madagascar and Portuguese East Africa . Subsequently the owners of the steamer Newton Beech , which left Capetown at the end of September , abandoned hope for her safety on Nov. 21 , when she was overdue                     