@@703652

txt New Deal control of the House of Representatives will be greatly weakened by the apparent Republican gain of more than 70 House seats . Such an increase in the ranks of the Republican minority will place the " balance of power " in the hands of conservative and independent-voting Democrats with the result that it will tend to slow down future social and economic reform measures coming before the lower . House . It should also bring about an important realignment of committee assignments .. For example a. gain of 70 seats forthe . Republicans would mean increases on im4* ? ant - committees of from - two- to four miembeLk.O.net , correspond-s Mg ' reductions in the number of Democratic members . While these committee gains are not great , they are highly significant For instance , New Dealers had planned to fill vacancies on the important rules committee created by the defeat of Chairman O'Connor . Democrat of New York , and Representative Driver , Democrat of Arkansas . with members more favorable to Administration proposals . However , if the present ratio of committeee representation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seats . increasing their number from four to six while the number of Democrats will be reduced from 10 to eight . Thus , sitting conservative Democrats could easily join with the Republicans to keep Administration measures from reaching the floor of the House . Effects May Be Important In the case of the important ways . and means committee , which handles all tax and tariff legislation and , incidentally , selects the new members of - other committees , the Republican victories in Tuesday 's elections should increase their representation of this committee by at least three members , making a committee division of 15 Democrats to 10 Republicans , as against the present line of 18 Democrats and seven Republicans . Such a change in the committee membership can be of far reaching importance . Last year , President Roosevelt 's proposal to place a penalty tax on closely held corporations was approved by the committee by the margin of one vote . Thus , it is apparent that the Administration in the future may find it more difficult to get controversial proposals through this committee . Similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Dealers Cut On the basis of present returns , the Democratic losses in the House of Representatives appear to have been heaviest among those who were swept into Congress by the previous Democratic landslides and have been among the more faithful of the supporters of New Deal legislation . This indicates that the ratio of conservative and independent-votim Democrats to staunch New Dealers has lean increased substantially . In the past session of Congress , there were more than 100 Democrats who could not be counted upon by the Administration to support all of its proposals .. It was this bloc that delayed the wage and hour bill until the last days of the session , rejected the President 's government reorganization bill and killed the penalty tax on closely held corporations when it came .                     