@@703984

txt Favored by almost perfect weather , the World 's Fair drew a Sunday crowd yesterday that far outnumbered any that had entered its gates since the formal opening two RIV . A bright sun , tempered by a cool breeze that kept the flags of many nations fluttering gayly over the spacious grounds , made the day an ideal one on which to view the sights . Official figures released by the Fair management gave the attendance up to midnight , the night 's final figure , as 306,736 , of which 246,975 was paid and 59,761 was made up of Fair employes , construction workers , press representatives and others who went in on passes . Transportation lines leading to the Fair agreed that they had had exceptionally heavy travel , but had been able to handle it without difficulty . The Long Island Railroad announced that it had transported 55,000 to the Fair up to 6 P. M. , and the City Independent subway had taken 26,991 to the Fair Grounds at that time . Traffic Arteries Crowded The main traffic arteries leading to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fair Boulevard , Queens Boulevard and Grand Central Parkway  --  were filled through most of the afternoon and early evening with endless lines of cars , but the police prevented any serious congestion . Captain Isaac Oppenheimer , who was in command of a detail of 200 traffic patrolmen , fifteen sergeants and two lieutenants , explained that the problem was complicated by the fact that there are six cemeteries in the vicinity of the Fair , and they had unusually large crowds of visitors yesterday because it was Mother 's Day . The heavy traffic outbound for Long Island for a day I in the open was another complicatingfactor . Twenty-two children who had strayed from their parents or guardians were temporarily comforted at the headquarters of the welfare department of the Fair , but all were soon reclaimed . Nurses and doctors at the six first-aid stations treated 205 minor cases of ill-nesF ! , Employe Dies on Grounds The second death since the opening of the Fair occurred during the day . Lewis Sheldon , 40 years old , of 123 Lee Avenue , Rockville Center , L. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fair , collapsed from a heart attack near the League of Nations Building and died in an ambulance on the way to a field station . Outside the more popular exhibits such as the General Motors and Chrysler Buildings the crowd stood two or three abreast in lines stretching 100 yards or more by mid-afternoon , while the entrance to the Perisphere and Helicline resembled the Times Square subway at the rush hour . The House of Jewels was another attraction that had a long line waiting patiently outside its portals . Strolling entertainers proved popular with the throngs who were standing for their turn to enter some of the crowded buildings and with the vast numbers who sank down on shaded benches to rest their tired feet after several hours of wandering over the Fair 's 1,216 acres . From early morning on , the crowds poured into the Fair Grounds in numbers that grew steadily until midafternoon . The two-hour interval between 3 and 5 P. M. alone saw 103,946 enter the Fair Grounds , according to the figures supplied by the management . Crowd Largely a Local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crowd was overwhelmingly a New York one , and it was noticeable that while hot dog and cold drink stands were overwhelmed by importunate customers , neighboring souvenir emporiums were virtually deserted , to the obvious dejection of their proprietors . In this , however , the Fair is only following the expectations of the management , which had been warned by its experts that it could not expect a very large advent of out-of-town visitors before June . One noteworthy exception to the overwhelming preponderance of New Yorkers was provided by a delegation of 200 Californians who were on hand with Mayor Angelo Rossi of San Francisco to whoop things up for the Golden Gate Exposition in true Wild West style . An honor guard of sixty-five California Grays in swanky uniforms looking much like the full dress of the West Point Cadets wandered through the Fair , occasionally startling those in their vicinity with an ear-splitting cheer , while 140 civilians who were with them passed out lucky pieces advertising " the other exposition . " Hundreds of members of Queens posts of the American Legion turned out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a program that occupied most of the day . They formed at the Long Island Railroad gate and marched through to the Court of Peace , where they took part in a program of Fidac , the interallied federation of former combatants , with which the Legion is affiliated . Mother 's Day Is Observed Mother 's Day was marked by a gathering of 2,000 persons in the Court of Peace , where a program of orchestral music and folk dances of many nations were followed by speeches by Grover A. Whalen , president of the Fair ; Mrs. Sidney C. Borg and Dr. Howard W. Haggard of Yale University . Mr. Whalen paid tribute to the part that women had played in the executive and administrative end of the Fair . The real World of Tomorrow " will be built by the mothers of today , " the Rev. Henry J. Gebhard of the staff of Cathedral College said at another Mother 's Day observance , which was held at the Temple of Religion . Rabbi Samuel H. Goldenson of Temple Emanu-El and the Rev. Daniel E. Weeks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke at this service . The traditional friendship between Lithuania and the United States and the anxious desire of that little Baltic nation for peace were stressed by speakers as the Lithuanian Pavilion in the Hall of Nations was formally dedicated in the presence of a crowd of several hundred . Povilas Zadeikis , Lithuanian Minister to the United States , declared that his people had " a will of granite " for independence . Jan Kiepura , Metropolitan Opera tenor , opened a series of Sunday recitals at the Fair with an appearance in the afternoon in the Hall of Music . Grace Moore will be heard in the hall next Sunday afternoon , followed by Marian Anderson a week later . Amusement Area Thronged Undismayed by the washing-out of the grand opening review of the amusement area , which had to be postponed for a week last Saturday night , the concessionnaires in that section wore beaming smiles yesterday as the crowds came in droves toward their attractions . The customers fairly swarmed into the fun-making establishments and plunked down their dimes and quarters in vast numbers . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a rehearsal in the arena of the Cavalcade of Centaurs for the opening of that cowboy and Indian show , which is scheduled to get under way next Thursday . There was no one on the gate , and spectators yesterday swarmed in and got a free preview of the closing spectacle of the show . Tulip Week was officially opened with a program of peasant folk dances and songs , in which 200 members of the Union of Netherlands Societies in the United States took part , attired in Dutch costumes , with wooden shoes and quaint laced headdresses . A. Furnee , Vice Consul of the Netherlands here , recalled that the Holland bulb industry had presented 1,000 , - 000 tulip bulbs to the World 's Fair . Despite the balmy weather , relatively few among yesterday 's visitors to the Fair ate picnic lunches in the open air . The number was markedly less than it had been in the case of a much smaller crowd the previous , unday and apparent-1 ly indicated that the moderatepriced eating places at the Fair are now better able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier . Mr. Whalen issued the following statement last night on the crowds at the Fair : " The great outpouring of people at the Fair today is but another indication of public acclaim , which further convinces us that the exposition already has struck a popular chord and is destined to justify the highest hopes of its organizers and builders . " Exhibitors , concessionnaires , foreign and State participants all have felt the stimulation of the large crowds today and have united in expressions of gratitude to the public for its quick response and its fine support . " It was particularly pleasing for me to observe during a series of inspection trips that traffic was being successfully handled , both outside and inside the grounds . There was more than ample parking space for all automobiles and the transportation lines did themselves proud in expediting service . " Again I say thanks to the police , to the transportation lines and to the public . " Responding to Mayor La Guardia 's remonstrances , the school authori ties have arranged to have more than 5,000 pupils from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of teachers , WPA guides and Boy Scouts . This number is a substantial increase over the total on any day last week , when the Mayor was disappointed at the showing made by the school officials . A group of nine blind children from the home of the New York Guild for the Jewish Blind will visit the Fair also , accompanied by four attendants who have normal vision . Brooklyn Week at the Fair will open today with the observance of Brooklyn Women 's Day , in the course of which Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt will be the guest of honor at a luncheon at Perylon Hall , and Mrs. Roosevelt and Mr. Whalen will greet more than 20,000 Brooklyn women , according to the sponsors of the occasion , from the terrace of the Women 's Advisory Committee Building at 3 P. M. A Child Health Day forum will be held , with addresses by a large number of leading physicians and public health experts , in the Hall of Medical Science in the Medicine and Public Health Building this evening . Heads N. Y. U. Faculty Club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Commerce , Accounts and Finance has been elected president of the university 's Faculty Club at Washington Square for 1939-40 . He will succeed Dr. Ralph E. Pickett . Others elected were Professor Russell D. Niles , vice president ; Elwood C. Kastner , secretary , and Professor John H. Prime , treasurer .                     