@@699078

txt The resignation of James J. Walker as Mayor in protest against the alleged unfairness of Governor ; Roosevelt in conducting the hearings 1 on the charges against him gave io York City a new Mayor yesterday in Joseph V. , who moved up from President of the Board of Aldermen . At the same time Mr. Walker 's announcement of his intention to seek vindication from the people of the city by running for Mayor this Fall threatened grave political and legal complications . There was little opportunity during the day for leaders of the antiTammany elements in the city to determine what course they should take to oppose the election of Mayor Walker . There is little doubt , however , that under Republican leadership they will follow the course already mapped out for the 1933 municipal campaign and nominate a fusion candidate , preferably an independent Democrat , for Mayor . to Stress Economy . Mr. , who took office without fuss or ceremony , announced at once that he would stress economy and that the city budget would be " cut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time when the city is in a position of financial difficulty , and after the warning of Mr. Walker and John J. Curtin , his counsel , at the hearings in Albany , that removal would cause chaos in the city , Mr. 's announcement was intended to gain the confidence of the business interests which have been urging a reduction of city expenditures . The prices of city bonds advanced sharply during the day , with gains from half a point to 2 points . Bankers were reluctant to be quoted directly in explaining the advances as due to the change in Mayors , but belief was expressed that definite moves for economies might be expected from the new Mayor . Ex-Mayor Rests Most of Day . Mr. Walker rested most of the day in his apartment at the Mayfair and refused to see reporters or to answer the telephone . Mr. Walker , who plans to pass the weekend at the Larchmont home of his friend , A. C. Blumenthal , was reported to be in excellent spirits and cheered by many messages approving his resignation . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek vindication at the polls and has no doubt that he would be elected . John F. Curry , leader of Tam many , left town Thursday afternoon , immediately after the conference at which Mr. Walker decided definitely to resign . It was said at Tammany Hall that Mr. Curry was on a motor trip in the Berkshires . Samuel Seabury , whose disclosures during the Hofstadter committee investigation formed the basis of his charges against Mr. Walker , came to the defense of the Governor and attacked Mr. Walker in a statement just before he left for Europe . The sudden resignation of M. Walker caught the local Republican leaders flat-footed . Most of them were out of the city , but an inte.r ? change of ideas over the telephone strengthened belief that there should be a fusion nominee . Republicans mentioned as possibilities included General James G. Harbord , Emory N. Buckner and former Governor Charles S. Whitman . There was the suggestion off Mayor , if he could be in- duced to accept a Republican nomination , and of Controller Charles W. Berry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mayor . There even was the suggestion of former Governor Alfred E. Smith , - without much hope that he would consent to be a candidate . Other Republicans thought that further party advantage might be gained by naming a Democratic supporter of Governor Roosevelt and there was a discussion of the possi1-ility of drafting men like Jesse Isidor Straus or Frank L. Polk . Discussions of all these names were entirely tentative and without consultation with the persons mentioned . The question of the legality of the election of a Mayor this year became one of the greatest interest in view of Mr. Walker 's intention of seeking vindication at the polls . Legal opinions varied as to whether an election could be held this year . Friends of Mr. Walker , although confident that the legality of a Mayoralty election this year would be upheld by the courts , regarded their decision as vitally important to Mr. Walker 's political future . Tammany and its allies are confident that they can elect Mr. Walker Mayor this year . Should Mr. remain in office until Dec. 31 , 1933 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more difficult to be elected Mayor and might even be unable to get the nomination , particularly if Mr. should be a candidate . For that reason Tammany will oppose any attempt to put over the election of Mayor until next year and will resist every attempt in the court to prevent the election this year . Socialists to Fight Walker . ' Leaders of the Socialist party announced their willingness to fight Mr. Walker at the pulls and that the Socialists would name a candidate for Mayor . ' the City Affairs Committee , which a year ago brought charges against Mr. Walker through Rabbi Stephen S. Wise and John Haynes Holmes . also " welcomed the attempt of Walker to vindicate himself at the polls . " The Committee of One Thousand , the chairman of which . William J. Schieffelin , supported the Seabury charges against Walker . and James E. Finegan of Brooklyn , who preferred charges of unfitness , also expressed belief that an election this November would be legal and indicated willingness to join battle . None of the heads of city departments handed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this was not customary except when there was a change in party in a city administration and that there was no precedent whatever in the case of the resignation of a Mayor . All of the commissioners and department heads were " sitting tight , " many of them in the hope and belief that Mr. would be Mayor for only four months and that Mr. Walker would be back in City Hall after Dec. 31 . Reorganization of the city departments within the short term of four months would be virtually impossible , one city official said , particularly if the department heads knew that the Mayor who was trying to reorganize would be in office for that term only . Hold Walker May Not Run . Changes in the administration which Mayor is likely to make or attempt will depend very largely , it was said , on whether the courts decide he is to serve as Mayor until the end of this year or until the end of next year . With a year and four months as Mayor before him . Mayor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drastic changes than he would attempt with only four months to make the changes in . Friends of Mr. expressed belief that there will be no election of a Mayor this year and that , even if the courts decide that there can be an election , Mr. Walker may not run . Another aspect of the local political situation is the way Mr. Curry has bound his political fortunes with those of Mayor Walker . Should Mayor Walker run for election and be defeated , the defeat would be one which would injure Mr. Curry politically and might result in a movement within Tammany to choose another leader . On the other hand , should it be decided that Mr. is Mayor until the end of 1933 , the political power of Secretary of State Edward J. Flynn , Bronx Democratic leader , would be strengthened greatly and the power of Tammany to prevent Mr. 's nomination next Fall might be weakened considerably .                     