@@697411

txt A distinct Administration leaning toward modification of the Sherman anti-trust law is seen here in President Hoover 's recent speech before the American Federation of Labor at Boston . Suggestion is made that some recommendation along this line may go into the next Presidential message to Congress . This should not be interpreted , however , as meaning any relaxation in the enforcement of anti-trust statute . So long as the Sherman law is the national policy declared by Congress , the administrative arm of the government has no choice except to enforce that law as the courts have interpreted it . In a discussion of the troubles of the bituminous coal industry during his Boston speech , Mr. Hoover said it was not the purpose of our competitive system to produce competition which destroys stability in an industry . " If our regulatory laws be at fault they should be revised , " he said . There is no doubt that President Hoover meant this reference to apply to the Sherman Act for it is that act which prevents coal consolidations and blocks any plan looking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The oil industry also ran up against the Sherman Act with its ct.rtailment program soon after Mr. Hoover came into the White House . Expect Anti-Trust Policy Discussion The expectation here is that the President 's speech will arouse a nation-wide discussion of anti-trust policy . It is not improbable that the President had some such aim in mind . Future action may depend to a large extent upon the nature and trend of this discussion . It as not likely government will propose to repeal entirely the laws which give it a control over and a check on monopolies . The result of that in a good many cases might be that the government itself would have to step in to become a fixer of prices , a step toward government ownership . At the same time , not all combinations and cooperative efforts in industry are in opposition to the public interest and in a good many of them there is not the least threat to competition . Frequently such developments might relieve a tense industrial situation to the general public benefit The coal industry to which Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are consolidations prevented in that industry but such plans as establishment of joint selling agencies in certain territories possibly are barred by the provisions of the Sherman Act . The Sherman Act probably is responsible for duplication of plant and facilities and overproduction in some industries . A company working to manufacture a full tine in some field goes to the expense of adding new plant and facilities when existing plants may be working part time . Fear of the Sherman Act prevents the taking over of a part time plant and forces the building of new facilities to compete with it There is on record a proceeding against a company which took over another company which was in receivership . Sherman Act Interpretation Sought The Administration does not believe that its enforcement of the net has been unnecessarily severe . In some cases the effort has been not one of prosecution for law violation , but rather an attempt to get a judicial interpretation of the act . The radio suit is a case of this nature . Wbat reception a proposal for modification of the Sherman law might receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very carefully considered before any major move is attempted . Opening the law to amendment too early might easily bring about developments which would be more destructive to confidence than otherwise . Most observers here entertain little doubt that the opinion of the country as a whole would not be disturbed by a modification to take away any doubt as to the legality of big business combinations and cooperative efforts in industry . The public in general probably recognizes the economies of big producing units and no longer - fears them . However , there is still a considerable element in Congress which finds political capital in shouting " monopoly " and - trust . " Undoubtedly an opening of the subject would give these men a chance to demand even more stringent rules than now obtain . Such a consideration undoubtedly will counsel caution . Labor itself , before which Mr. Hoover suggested modification , probably would not object . Labor unions have been hit by the judicial interpretation of the Sherman law and have been restrained under its provision . Difficulty in Way of Modification Another difficulty in the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draw the line that separates business combinations which are in the public interest from those that are not  --  to determine at what point lack of competition becomes monopilistic in character . More than two years ago . Secretary of Labor Davis made the following statement in his annual report : " Somehow or other I have the belief that it may be possible , in the no : r future , to do away with some of the unnecessary fears of criminal prosecution under anti-trust questions ; and to keep in mind the spirit and intent of anti-trust principles , rather than their technicalities . which carry with them the haunting dread of a court room and its attendant publicity , so abhorrent to honorable American business men . Under such a trend , the government could still reserve the right to dissolve . in civil proceedings , cooperative monopolies in gross restraint of trade , and in contravention to the principles of honorable competition . " General impression was that Mr. Davis was speaking not only for himself but some of his colleagues in the cabinet at that time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            