@@700221

txt With the revolutionary movement in Havana under control following the capture of Atares fortress yesterday afternoon , the government of President Ramon Grau San Martin strove today to stamp out the last vestiges of rebellion while hundreds of ABC members and other revolutionists went into hiding . Soldiers and sailors patrolling the streets carried on several gun battles with snipers . Court-martialing of army men involved in the rebellion was provided for this afternoon at Camp Columbia . Civilian rebels will be placed at the disposition of the judicial authorities , according to a statement issued tonight . A systematic search of the homes of known oppositionists was carried out today by groups of soldiers in an attempt to seize arms and ammunition . Late this afternoon a guard was thrown around the downtown district of the city and all automobiles entering or leaving were searched for arms . A 7 o'clock curfew order cleared the streets of all traffic . Moving picture theatres and other entertainment places were ordered closed until further instructions and while stores were open today no business was carried on because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Street . Five soldiers were killed in Zanja Street in the early hours of the morning by occupants of an autobile that sped by a patrol stationed there . Three soldiers were killed in Belaseoain Street this morning and four marine sergeants were shot down late this afternoon at Neptuno and Callan Streets by snipers , . who , the authorities say , have been shooting from the roof of the commercial department of the Campania Cubana de Electricidad . A policeman was killed in Reina Street . In another fray the brother of a youth who died in Atares fortress yesterday killed two soldiers in revenge before he was I finally shot down . Basilio Lira , a Frenchman , was slain by soldiers as he entered a roof apartment , the soldiers contending they believed him to be a sniper . Several civilians were reported killed or wounded in various sections of the city , but their names so far have not been learned . The death list of the Atares fortTess battle mounted rapidly today toward 200 as more bodies were extricated from the debris caused by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No official list has been issued but present estimates range between 150 and 200 , with more than 200 wounded . The total deaths for the two days ' fighting are believed to exceed 300 , which is the largest revolution toll in the history of the republic . The body of a woman found at Atares was identified today as that of Sofia Blasco , youthful ABC mem- ber . Five women were among the prisoners removed from the fort . A check-up of the prisoners reveals a surprisingly large number of foreign residents of the island , particularly Spaniards . The prisoner lists show two American participants : Wilfredo Alleyn , son of Ned Alleyn , wealthy former resident of Havana , and Carlos Manuel Rodriguez , an employe of the Munson Steamship Line , who was arrested after the evacuation of San Ambrosio military post Wednesday night . With the incident of the killing of officers after the surrender at the National Hotel still fresh in the minds of the public , much alarm was felt by inhabitants today over the safety of some 600 prisoners removed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this correspondent this afternoon that the total number of prisoners now being held in Havana prison and on the Isle of Pines for anti-administration activities and open rebellion against the student-army government was 2,000 . Relatives and friends of missing men searched frantically all last night and today through the morgue and hospitals and besieged military headquarters in attempts to locate those believed to have been in the fortress or captured during the two days ' fighing . So far many dead have not been identified . President Grau indignantly denied that prisoners were being executed without trial . " I am no Murderer , " he said sharply in reply to an inquiry . " There can be no executions without my signature and I have signed no such orders . " Dr. Luciano Lopez Ferrer , Spanish Ambassador and dean of the diplomatic corps , visited the President today to request clemency for the prisoners captured in the revolt , particularly the members of the armed forces who are being subjected to summary court-martial . The Wyoming Due Today . The United States battleship Wyoming will enter Havana Harbor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace the cruiser Richmond , which will sail for an unrevealed destination . The destroyer Claxton entered eke bay at 6:40 o'clock this morning . The American Legion has decided to suspend its annual armistice dinner because of the unsettled situation and the danger of being on the streets after nightfall . President Grau issued a statement to the public early this morning In which he expressed the government 's thanks to the loyal troops and said he would continue to carry out the revolutionary program . The President again threatened local press representatives with court-martial if the anti-government campaign were continued . Three sergeants said to have been under the influence of liquor appeared today at the offices of El Pais Libre and threatened the personnel with dire action if any antiadministration articles were published . The government appeared still to be uneasy over the situation . The departure of a Pan American Airways plane which passed almost directly over the Presidential palace caused a small panic in the palace . Anti-aircraft guns on the roof were quickly unlimbered for action . A representative of Pan American who happened to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Grau to give the palace in the future two hours ' advance notice of plane departures , despite the fact that the company maintains a strict schedule . A rumor circulated through the city today that enemies of the gov- ernment would start killing Americans unless intervention was declared or indicated by 9 o'clock tonight , but it received little credence from American residents . The factions opposing the government declared today that the revolution was not ended and the struggle would go forward to oust the Grau administration . It is said the forces in the interior are slowly gathering strength and the fighting will go on . Little news came from the interior today , but government officials declared the entire island was quiet , although they admitted having dispatched troops to the north coast of Santa Clara Province , where Colonel Carrillo , heading a sizable band of rebels , is reported to have taken possession of several points . The opinion was expressed this afternoon in opposition quarters that the terroristic campaign would be intensified and that the same methods used against former President Machado would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitterness engendered over the killings in the past two days . At present there is little chance of a successful revolution against the present government , which , like former governments , is held in power by the armed forces built up to a high efficiency by Machado . The general public regards United States intervention as the only solution for the political problems , which are becoming more complicated daily .                     