@@703670

txt Replying to the United States demand for Open Door rights in China , Japan denied today that there had been discrimination against Americans . The Japanese note was handed to the United States Ambassador , Joseph C. Grew , by Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita at 6 P. M. after its approval earlier in the day by the Cabinet and Emperor Hirohito . The United States note , presented Oct. 6 , had charged interference with American business men it.t . Tsingtao , Shantung Province port , In the Yangtze Valley and elsewhere in China . In reply today 's note says : " It is far from the thoughts of the Japanese Government to impair the rights and interests of American citizens in China or to discriminate against their enterprises . The Japanese Government , therefore , does not oppose , but heartily welcomes , participation of third powers on the basis of the new situation which has arisen . " " New Order " in East Asia . The " new situation " in China was explained at the end of the note as follows : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of a new order based on genuine international justice throughout East Asia , the attainment of which end is not only an indispensable condition for the very existence of Japan but also constitutes the very foundation of enduring peace and stability in East Asia . " It is the firm conviction of the Japanese Government that in the face of the new situation fast developing in East Asia any attempt to apply to conditions of today and tomorrow inapplicable ideas of the past would neither contribute toward the establishment of real peace in East Asia nor solve immediate issues . " The note said the new regimes that were being formed in China would welcome foreign participation " in the great work of reconstruction in East Asia . " There were no restrictions now on the return of American business men to North China , the note stressed , excepting very special cases where the personal safety of those who return would be endangered . Large numbers of Americans have returned to the Yangtze Valley , the note continued . Press Stresses New Era Japanese newspapers are unanimous in asserting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paragraph stating that an attempt to apply the ideas and principles of the past to today 's and tomorrow 's problems will not contribute to the peace of East Asia or solve immediate problems . Judging from editorial comment In the past fortnight Japan 's reply - was much milder than the press had expected . Asahi says the Japanese note constitutes not only a reply to the United States but also shows the other powers the basic principle for handling the question of third nation 's rights and interests " under present and future critical conditions in the Far East order in the construction of a new order , the foundation of which is permanent tranquillity in East Asia . " The newspaper argues that the Open Door of . equal opportunity is outdated , adding that treaties were intended to stabilize the status quo but that " this equilibrium is moving constantly as years and months elapse and circumstances change . " " It follows , " Asahi continues , " that there has never been and at present there can not be absoluteness or permanence of principles or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be dealt with merely by international law and existing treaties but practical diplomacy also is needed . " Blow to 1922 Pact Seen TOKYO , Nov. 18 UM  --  Authoritative quarters expressed the belief that Japan 's reply to the United States was a virtual declaration that Tokyo considered international agreements reached concerning China after the World War , particularly the Nine-Power Treaty , obsolete . Immediately after the United States protest was made public Oct. 27 , the Japanese press and political leaders emphasized Japan 's insistence on dominance in Asia . Responsible spokesmen indicated that such pacts as the 1922 Nine-Power Treaty , by which Japan , the United States and seven other nations pledged respect for China 's territorial integrity and Independence , no longer would be considered binding on the Japanese Empire . Special to Tam NNW YORK Tnsfgs . WASHINGTON , Nov. 18 . ? The Japanese reply to the American protest of Oct. 6 against her disregard of American rights and the Open Door policy in China was not received by the State Department today in time for Secretary of State Cordell Hull and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close study . For that reason offical comment was withheld . Japanese Trade Published Wireless to THE Thaw YORK TIMES . SHANGHAI , Saturday , Nov. 19 . ? The North China Daily News , a British newspaper , publishes detailed figures of the extensive trading by Japanese ships on the Yangtze , naming the commercial vessels engaging in regular sailings to Kowan , Nanking and Wuhu . The October imports at Kowan were said to have totaled nearly 35 , - 000 packages , including piece goods , sugar , charcoal and kerosene . Kowan 's exports in October were said to have been nearly 60.000 packages , including 38,000 bags of wheat and large cargoes of eggs , cotton , cowhides , medicines and bristles . There are no Japanese troops at Kowan , so this commerce contradicts Japanese assertions that all Yangtze shipments are supplies for the army .                     