@@703766

txt London was informed tonight that Sir Robert Craigie , British Ambassador to Japan , had called at the Foreign Office in Tokyo this afternoon and delivered one of the most firmly worded notes that had passed between the two countries in years . The text of the note , which is said to contain 2,000 words , has not been issued here or in Japan , but it was said in responsible quarters to contain Britain 's declaration that she would not tolerate any unilateral revision of treaties . This refers particularly to Japan 's unilateral modification of the NinePower pact regulating the principle of the Open Door in China , although Britain is understood to be ready to consider constructive suggestions for revision by negotiation . In this direction , therefore , the British policy has been lined up with that already enunciated by the United States . It would appear that the British have at last taken an emphatic stand against the policy , deliberately pursued by Japan since the Chinese War began , of closing China to all trade with the Western World . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood to request the Japanese Government to give a precise and detailed interpretation of Japan 's aims in China as set forth in the statements of Prince Fumimaro Konoye , former Premier , in his speeches before Christmas and Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita 's statement to foreign correspondents in Tokyo about that time . On Nov. 3 Prince Konoye stated that Japan 's aim was the destruction of communism in China , that Japan wished to undertake the construction of a new East Asia and that the nations of the world should recognize the new order in the Orient . On Dec. 22 he said China should make an anti-Communist agreement with Japan and that during the period of the agreement Japanese troops should be stationed at specified points in China as an " anti-Communist measure . " Japan , China and Manchukuo , he added , would be united by the common aim of establishing a new order in East Asia . Mr. Arita outlined Japan 's economic aims in China to the foreign correspondents on Dec. 19 as follows : " It is far from Japan 's thoughts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and American economic activities from East Asia , " but added that the economic activities of the countries outside East Asia " would have to ee regulated . " Against these utterances the British , who are daily receiving reports of fresh restrictions on trading , have formally declared their adherence to the Open Door policy laid down by the Washington NinePower Treaty of 1922 and timed it to come on the eve of the meeting of the League of Nations Council in Geneva . The Chinese delegation at Geneva is expected to submit a resolution embodying the chief points of the British note and of the United States note of Oct. 27 . Though the notes are not identical in terms they are animated by the same principle . Three Features of Note By HUGH RYAS Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . TOKYO , Sunday , Jan. 15 . ? The British Government took a stand alongside the United States in a note that Sir Robert Craigie , the British Ambassador , handed to Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita last night on instructions from London . The details were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been : 1 . Refusal to recognize changes brought about by force . 2 . Adherence to the Nine-Power Treaty and refusal to admit unilateral modification of that pact or the validity of any changes except those effected by negotiation among the signato-ies. 3 . Reservation of all rights by the Nine-Power Treaty and other treaties . The British note , like the American , leaves Japan an opportunity to propose the orderly revision of treaties and offers to consider any constructive proposals Japan may propose . The French Ambassador has not seen Mr. Arita , but diplomatic observers expect France will take an early opportunity to show she also is moving on parallel lines . Japan 's answer to economic pressure from Britain will be the formation of a customs union between Japan , China and Manchukuo , according to the newspaper Hochi . It admits the United States , France and Britain , which still uphold the Nine-Power Treaty , will be unable to recognize such a customs union but justifies it because Britain is contemplating the imposition of prohibitive duties on Japanese goods . Hochi says the customs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructing a self , sustained bloc in East Asia . Japan 's aim , says Hochi , is to obtain from East Asia cotton , iron , salt and other supplies , and a customs union is necessary so East Asia may take Japanese commodities in exchange .                     