@@701267

txt Denials in the diplomatic world are of current use when a situation is delicate and premature publication is believed prejudicial to the success of negotiations . Applying this principle , the chancellories in London , Paris and Rome compete in denying the truth of rumors which fly about concerning new developments between Italy and Ethiopia , and also about British and Egyptian attempts to conclude a new agreement with the Ethiopian Government respecting Lake Tsana , so important for the irrigation of the fertile lands of the British Sudan and Egypt . Now it is known in London as a fact that the French Ambassador in Rome , the Count de Chambrun , arrived in Paris and submitted to Premier Pierre Laval four days ago the points of an agreement alleged to be acceptable to Premier Benito Mussolini for amicable settlement of his quarrel with Ethiopia . These points were : First , that Ethiopia withdraw her complaint to the League of Nations ; second , that Italy suspend military preparations ; third , that Ethiopia admit the Italian claim to the right of constructing without hindrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or strip of territory at least fifteen miles wide , with the right of economic colonization , exploitation of mineral rights and preservation of peace , and fourth , that France intervene immediately at Addis Ababa to persuade Emperor Haile Selassie to accept these terms . Laval Bides His Time in Reply . M. Laval delayed his reply to these suggestions because his newly formed government needed time to look around , but it is known here already that the French Government is strongly disinclined to throw Italy over for Ethiopia . Therefore she is glad to seize the pretext to avoid a fatal crash at Geneva in the Autumn . The British Government is privately aware of the Ambassador 's conversation in Paris , but naturally no move will take place until some proposal is officially communicated . However , it is certain that although the British are firmly entrenched in the League principle , they will not resist a four-power agreement with Ethiopia , France and Italy , offering a chance to escape from a major crisis in the ' League of Nations . Concerning the stories relating to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudanese officials , with the Egyptians , have been considering only the narrow aspects of the problem from the standpoint of local interests . They did move to take advantage of the weakening of the Ethiopian Government under Italian pressure to prepare for negotiations with Emperor Raile Selassie to obtain a long-refused settlement of the question regarding the quantity of water to be taken from Lake Tsana for irrigation . The meeting between the Egyptian and Sudanese officials took place at Cairo , and it is Said that afterward the Egyptian Minister of Finance did inscribe 1100,000 In his budget for a Nana dam . nut it is equally certain that the EriUsti Government is not connected with this move and that London has discouraged it , so that no practical result has followed . The Britian refused to weaken their moral position by laying themselves open to an accusation of profiting from Abyssinian distress .                     