@@700124

txt Organized labor voiced vigorous opposition to currency inflation today and demanded that wages be paid in " honest dollars . " Acting through William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , who opened the fiftythird annual convention this morning , labor asserted that it would " stand unflinchingly against inflation . " In his keynote address Mr. Green attacked proposals for inflation of the currency and pointed out the disastrous effects of inflation on labor in European nations which had resorted to it . Mr. Green 's declaration was further emphasized and heightened by the fact that no reference to inflation appeared in the Executive Council 's report , made public today . The labor chief 's words evoked enthusiastic waves of applause from 1 the delegates . Largest Gathering Since 1917 . Labor 's annual parliament , which is likely to be the most important session ever held by the Federation , opened with an attendance of 535 delegates , whose numbers will be augmented by late arrivals . This is said to be the largest convention since the 1917 meeting in Buffalo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is expected to speak at the unveiling of the memorial to Samuel Gompers Saturday , and among the Cabinet officers scheduled for addresses are Secretary Perkins and Postmaster General Farley . Hugh S. Johnson , the Recovery Administrator , will deliver the address if the state of his health permits . The delegates present at the opening session comprised representatives cf ninety-two international 1 unions , four departments , thirtytwo States and many thousands of local unions , In addition , fraternal delegates were present from the British Trade Union Congress and the Canadian Trades and Labor . Congress . After a rapid survey of the problems that will confront the delegates , Mr. Green said there was ann other subject that was " bothering " / labor considerably . ISays Prices Would Outrun Wages . " It is a question that is now occupying the mind of thinking representatives of labor , " Mr. Green explained . " It disturbs them greatly It is the new movement , this new development , in favor of mare- strained and unregulated inflation of the currency . " Labor knows that this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that when dollars are cheapened commodity prices rise , but wages stand still . Until they can assure labor that we will get more of these cheap dollars for the day 's work we perform , so that it will conform to the increase of commodity prices , it is my judgment that labor will stand unflinchingly against inflation . " The convention broke into applause . " We , " Mr. Green continued , " have not forgotten how our workers in other nations in Europe suffered because it required on some occasions an amount of money that would fill a bushel basket in order to buy just an ordinary commodity . We do not want to go through that , because , as I have said , wages remain , static , stationary , while commodity prices go up . " I do not mean that we will not favor credit expansion , the development of a wise financial policy that will tend to increase the volume of money in circulation so that business can be carried on in a proper and businesslike way . But , my friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be sure that thilt dollar is a real dollar and that it does not represent to him a reduction in buying power . " Pledges Support to the NRA . Again he was interrupted by ap- ' plause , after which lid continued in his presentation of labor 's program . This program , he said , meant that labor would stand behind President Rosevelt , would continue in favor of the " New Deal , " and would work for the success of the National Recovery Act , even though the codes . as yet , do not meet its program with regard to the shortening of maximum hours and the increase of minimum wages . A wave of applause greeted the assertion by Mr. Green that the time had arrived when the success of the National Recovery Act depended upon and required " the complete unionization of all the workers in every trade and in every calling in every city and town of the nation . " The labor chief supported his argument for complete unionization by pointing out that the recovery act , so far as it hnplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by minorities through the application of a program of complete organization of industry . If complete organization of industry is indicated as a goal of the Recovery Act , why , Mr. Green inquired , " should labor not be permitted to organize completely in order to , protect itself against that . unfair competition arising from the minority of non-union workers ? " For ** Day , ** Week . Over the NBC national radio hook-up , Mr. Green expressed the opinion that unemployment would not be overcome until the problem was attacked boldly and uncompromisingly and codes of fair practice established the six-hour day and the five-day week in industry . As a concomitant of the thirtyhour week , he insisted that wage rates for the skilled and unskilled workers must go up so that buying power not only shall keep pace with the increase of commodity prices , but " that it shall outrun and keep ahead and go beyond the increase in living costs . " Mr. Green counseled patience in considering the Recovery Act 's results . Although mistakes had been made in the rapid innovation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great adventure . " " We must have faith . " he said , " faith in the New Deal ; faith in the principles of this act ; faith in those who are honestly and liberally administering it , and most impqrta.nt of all , faith in that great , fearless leader , the President of the United States . " The reference to the President and several references to the New Deal were applauded , the delegates ' demonstrations of approval interrupting Mr. Green every few minutes . Pointing out that labor has been patient all through the depression , he said that this had been due to the discipline of the workers . He spoke of the transition from the previous administration to that of the New Deal as a passing " from the phase of innocuous quietude and inaction to a stage of actionaction  --  and action all the time . " Buying Power Increasing . Although close to 3,000,000 idle have been returned to employment since March , 11,000,000 are still without jobs , Mr. Green continued . The total increase of buying power since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent , taking into account the rise in prices . Buying power in all industries , he added , has increased by about $310 , - 000,000 a month , or $3,720,000,000 for the year . The labor spokesman mentioned with approval the abolaion of child labor provided in the industrial codes and said that it had been a set objective of the federation for more than half a century . He hoped that when all the codes were finally applied child labor would be abolished in every industry . Reiterating the statement in the council 's report that under some of the codes maximum hours were too high and minimum wages too low , Mr. Green asserted that in some codes the hours were placed at such a figure that they would not result in the re-employment of a single individual . Labor was convinced that the eight-hour day , the forty-eight and fifty-fourhour week , were dead , yet some of the codes provided for such hours . In this connection Mr. Green ventured the opinion that unemployment would not be overcome and the 11,000,000 idle restored to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the codes . ' Rising Tide of Unionization . ' " The rising tide " of unionization was a phenomenon that " even the old and tried veterans in our movement never saw before . " " From every city and every town and hamlet , all the way from the Canadian border line to the Gulf and from historic Boston to the Golden Gate , " Mr. Green continued , " the workers are marching . organizing , keeping step , coming with us into the great American Federation of Labor . " ? He denied that organized labor was taking advantage of the Recovery Act , and maintained that labor was swerting its ranks because the workers realized " that there is a new deal and a new day . " The door of opportunity was open and the workers were no longer deterred from joining unions by threats of discharge , or by company unions and " yellow dog " contracts . Mr. Green said the federation was faced with the grave responsibility of educating the 1,500,000 new members . He went on to support the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates and other privileges abolished under the economy program . The convention , he announced , would press for enactment of its social justice program including unemployment insurance , the adoption of the child labor amendment , retirement legislation for government employes , a dismissal wage , protection for the worker beyond forty years of age , and further e* ' tension of child labor legislation by the States and the Federal Government . Jurisdiction and the Amalgamated . Brief addresses mere made today by Senator King , Judge John Barton Payne , chairman of the American Red Cross , and local civic and labor leaders . The work of organizing the convention got under way with the appointment of committees . Hope expressed in some quarters that the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America , an independent union of about 150,000 workers , would enter the federation at this convention was dispelled today when Mr. Green , in reply to questions , said that while the application for a charter had been approved by the Executive Council , it was being held up until the matt er of jurisdiction was straightened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amalgamated tisould " have to be strictly defined because the United Garment Workers , which is a federation affiliate , has jurisdiction in the men 's clothing field . At the same time the Amalgamated Clothing Workers has in its membership some teamsters who drive clothing trucks , as well as machinists and firemen working in clothing plants . The inclusion of these crafts brings up the question of the jurisdiction of the teamsters , machinists and firemen already affiliated with the federation , according to Mr. Green . Another reason why the Amalgamated can not expect to become part of the federation at this convention is said to be the rule requiring full approval of its charter and payment of its per capita tax to the federation at least thirty days before the opening of the annual con.Vention .                     