@@700270

txt Despite the barrage of criticism laid down against the Administration 's monetary policy , it was again reiterated by those close to the President that there is no prospect of an immediate change in his efforts to raise commodity prices and devalue the dollar in terms of foreign currencies . Prospects of immediate stabilization of the dollar consequently are not likely in the near future . BY W. H. GRIMES ltaff Corretpoudeng of Tow WALL Stun= Jot:is:vim WASHINGTON  --  Washington read Alfred E. Smith 's statement on the Roosevelt monetary policy , Friday . and then began to dig up the history of 1896 . In that year , William Jennings Bryan ran for president for the first time on a " free silver " platform . Many conservative Democratic leaders deserted.him . Many of the silver Republicans supported him . Undoubtedly many conservatively minded Democrats , including many of those m Congress , agree for the most part with the attack which Mr. Smith loosed on Friday . Meanwhile , there are scores of Republicans ready to go as far , and even much further , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment . Unless there is a strong and immediate reaction of public sentiment developing from the attack of Mr. Smith , and those which have preceded it , all indications are that the Administration will proceed on its present monetary policy for some time . Policy Held Part of Program High Administration official consider the policy an integral part of the economic program and believe that its withdrawal at this time might upset other important features of that program . Also , President Roosevelt is reliably represented here as having been desirous of adopting the current monetary policy for some time preceding its announcement in a radio speech on October 22 . For instance , it is said the President very reluctantly issued an executive order in the early fall while he was still at Hyde Park providing for purchase of domestic mined gold for consignment on sate . The reason for the reluctance was that he wished at that time to adopt the gold plan now in force . The reason that the President did not move sooner was the advice that the gold purchase policy now in force would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now in disfavor and one man no longer is in official life . Farm Administration Men Found a Way Among those who did find what was regarded as a satisfactory way around the legal difficulties were some employes of the Farm Credit Administration . These men have accompanied their chief , Henry Morgenthau , Jr. , into the Treasury , where they have a sphere of influence wider than at the Farm Credit Administration . All of this information indicates clearly just how strongly the Administration is committed to the existing gold policy and how very determined a campaign will be required to have it either abandoned or modified . Observers here see two possible chances for modification . One would be if the Administration became convinced that the uncertainty created by the present monetary differences was a serious obstacle to economic progress . A second would be the prospect of political opposition raised by the monetary plan hampering the whole of the recovery and reconstruction program . As to the first , the President 's advisers point to rising prices and increased employment as evidence that economic progress has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the second , reliable advises from Warm Springs are to the effect that the President still believes be has the country back of him . Meantime officials here stress the belief that the gold manipulation policy is an essen=I support to other recovery measures . An instance is found in the reports that the declining dollar has resulted in larger export inquiries for American agricultural products , particularly cotton . And while no current figures are available , it is the belief here that cotton exports are being increased . This would be a welcome development to officials who are concerned by the agricultural surpluses . To take care of these surpluses it has been necessary to resort to the old Farm Board practice of making loans to the holders of the surplus products . This admittedly is no part of the Administration 's crop curtailment program ; indeed , if continued , it might seriously hamper that program But unless sonic part of the former export markets are restored , the burden of these surpluses is likely to continue , officials here admit . Gold Policy 's Domestic Status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dollar does not wholly coincide with declarations that the gold policy is a domestic one aimed at lifting the internal price level . Also , they predict that if the export movement assumes sizeable proportions as a result of the devaluation , foreign countries will proceed to erect tariff and exchange barriers against American goods Again , the sponsors of the new gold policy maintain that it is an important although nut the sole instrument for boosting pi ices . It is being implemented and assisted by government relief and recovery expenditures , made both directly and in the form of loans . On. ? form of activity supplements the other The question is raised whether i he expenditure ? , huge as they are , would in themselves he sufficient to boost prices : conversely , whether the dollar manipulation without the assistance of the expenditures would have n stimulating effect French Position Influencing Our folic With these views being thrust for art , the best opinion here is that the President 1. , . ciuld abandon his policy with great reluctance . although no one goes so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under any circumstances . The holding of the gold price at the same level here for the past few days seems to bate a direct connection with the current difficulties in which the French government finds itself and the relation of those difficulties to French finance . Naturally there is no desire to cause the French officials unnecessary embarrassment . None of the monetary advisers here are certain what would be the effect on the gold policy of the French being forced off the gold standard .                     