@@698400

txt The unification of the Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches with the Roman Catholic church under the authority of the papacy was urged by Pope Pius XI in a 7,500-word encyclical issued today . The Pope called for unity in all Christendom that present-day immorality and unbelief might be combated . The Pope also established for the church a new mass  --  the Maternity of Mary  --  as a lasting commemoration of this year 's celebration of the anniversary of Ephesus , It embraces special prayers and responses in honor of the ' Virgin Mother . The encyclical , published in Latin and Italian , and broadcast in Latin from the Vatican City radio station , reasserted Opal supremacy and infallibility , exalted the Virgin Mary , and reaffirmed the doctrine of Man and God in the one divine nature of Jesus Christ . Exalting Mary , the Pope criticized and appealed to modern mothers who violate the duties imposed by children and by the bonds of matri1mony . " It is necessary , " the encyclical said , " that all good men unite in Sated Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the church , with a single uniform and sincere profession oc faith , because everywhere so men try to shake off the light yoke of Christ , reject the light of his doctrine , stamp out the sources of grace , and finally repudiate the divine authority of Him who has become , according to the gospel , ' a sign of contradiction on earth . ' " The encyclical , entitled " Lux Veritatis " ( the light of truth ) , commemorated the 1,500th anniversary of the Council of Ephesus , which condemned the heretic Nestorius , Patriarch of Constantinople , who denied that Mary was the Mother of God . Addressing himself to Protestants and Eastern Christians alike , the Pontiff said : " We are confident that they , becoming convinced by history , life 's teacher , will be able to feel at least a longing for one fold under one shepherd and for a return to that true faith which is jealously conserved , ever secure and inviolate , in the Roman church . " We recall to those who govern flocks separated from us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council of Ephesus is conserved unchanged and is strenuously defended , at present as in the past , by this supreme chair of truth . " The Pope urges the veneration of Mary for every one , especially mothers , and most especially " those mothers of modern times who , annoyed by children and the marriage bonds , have vilified and violated the duties which these impose . " " Such mothers , " he said , " will find it particularly useful to lift their eyes to Mary and seriously consider to what height of dignity she has elevated the very heavy task of mothers . " " Then , " the Pontiff continued , " one can hope that through the grace of the Queen of Heaven they may be induced to blush at the ignominy inflicted on the great sacrament of matrimony , and that they may be inspired to follow with all their strength her admirable virtues . " Then if our desires are fulfilled , If domestic society  --  the principal foundation of all human society  --  is brought back to such a very worthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confront and finally to erect a defense against that frightful mass of evil which weighs us down . " The Pope recommended to the world the words of Pope Leo XIII : " Fathers of families have in Joseph an excellent model of paternal and watchful providence . " In the most holy Virgin , Mother of God , mothers have a worthy model of love , truth , of spontaneous submission and of perfect fidelity . " In Jesus , who was submissive to them , children find a model of obedience worthy of being admired , venerated and imitated . " Appealing to Protestants to venerate the Virgin , Pope Pius said : " Are they , perhaps , ignorant of , or do not they reflect attentively on the fact that nothing can be more acceptable to Jesus Christ , who certainly burns with great love for his mother , than to venerate her according to her merits , to love her deeply , and ' to study ourselves so that through imitating her most holy example we may gain her valuable protection ? " The church , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in great emergencies . " If more difficult days are corning for the church , if faith is injured because charity grows cold , if private and public customs grow worse , if some disaster menaces the Catholic family and civil society , we take refuge in her with prayers that she instantly beseech celestial aid , " the encyclical said . " To her , therefore , let all have recourse with love more ablaze in the present necessities which press upon us. "                     