@@703239

txt The customary preelection shifting of servants of the people from their customary duties to service at political headquarters will reach its full height this week , approximately three weeks before the state and county primaries of April 12 . Because of complaints from taxpayers who felt their money was being diverted in this way from the legally established purposes for which it was collected , THE TranuNE made a casual survey of the situation . Even a superficial inquiry indicated that the use of payrollers to man campaign headquarters will establish a new record this year . Democrats Run Four Headquarters . The only place where there was no evidence of jobholders being borrowed for private work was the headquarters of the Republican county central committee in the Hotel La Salle . No explanation of this fact was necessary . The G. 0 . P. does n't control a single state , county or city pay roll , The Democrats have them all and they are being used to operate four headquarters  --  two in Chicago and two in Springfield . Each of the Democratic machines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nash , whose chief strength in Cook county is bolstered by downstate alliances , and the one headed by Gov . Horner , whose state organization reaches into Chicago where he also has local alliances , maintains a headquarters in Chicago and another at the capital . The chief difference between the two camps in this field is that the Horner main headquarters is in Springfield and the governor also mans and directs his organization in Chicago , while Nash 's personal management is limited to his Chicago headquarters and the Spring field offices are in full charge of his downstate allies . Nash Machine Starts Slowly . Another big difference between the two camps at this time is that or ? ganization work behind the Horner candidates  --  the Lucas  --  Jarecki ticket ? has reached almost full blast , while , except for routine operations , the Nash organization has not really start . ed to work . The boss was in Florida until a few days ago . While he was gone only ordinary functions If the machine were performed and much of the customary campaign preparation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the IgoeCampbell ticket also were slow in starting . Both the Horner headquarters are far ahead of their two rivals in all matters of organization including the setting up of divisions and bureaus . Therefore those headquarters disclose a much larger number of payrollers actively at work than Nash and his allies . The situation at Springfield is unusual in that the rival headquarters are housed in the same hotel , the St. Nicholas . The Horner organization there is almost entirely a state pay roll affair . Smith Is General Manager . The general manager is F. Lynden Smith , state director of public works , but the man officially in charge is Homer Mat Adams , assistant state di . rector of finance , who bears the title of campaign director . In the same office with Adams are Joe Knight , assistant director , who is an employd of the state commerce commission , and Fred Ryan , the office manager , an employe of the sales tax division of the department of finance . The director of the women 's division is Mrs. Blanche Fritz , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' post to which she was appointed after she worked , vigorously in the 1936 campaign . With her is her state house secretary , Miss Pau . " line Ruhle . In the nearby farm division headquarters is B. W. DeBord , assistant director of . the state department of agriculture. , The Veterans ' division is presided over . by John Wakeman , assistant director of the oil inspection division of the state department of finance , who also heads a Homer dominated organization of Demogratic service men . The labor headquarters is in charge of F. W. Markley , assistant engineer for the state commerce commission . Not far away is the " young Democrat " headquarters , which is in charge of Sam Keyes , an employe of the state department of finance . So far the Horner forces have-More publicity men working in the campaign than the opposition and most of them are on the governor 's pay rolls . The head man is Milburn P. ( Pete Akers , . the governor 's own publicity director , who is on the state pay roll with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistant is M. C. Page , assistant in the state division of printing . One member of Akers ' own state staf , Edward Lonergan , is traveling with one of the two groups of candidates in the field , and the other is accompanied by John Killick , until recently a Chicago newspaper man , who is not believed to be on a state pay roll . Three Igoe Publicity Men . The Igoe headquarters have the part time services of three publicity men borrowed from the offices of state officials allied with Nash . The chief among them is Manly Mumford from the office of State Auditor Edward J. Barrett . Associated with Mumford is Fred Endicott from the ( Ace of John Wieland , superintendent of public instruction , who is seeking renomination . Another frequent aid is George Schuppe from the office of Lieut . Gov . John Stelle . In the Igoe headquarters , the women 's division is in charge of Mrs. Beulah Price , an employe in the office of Secretary of State Edward J. Hughes , a Nash man , hut the men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state-pay roll . Thomas P. Sinnctt of Rock Island , former majority leader of the house , is the campaign manager . He is assisted by Peter Rossiter , veteran Springfield Democratic leader . Both are close friends of Michael L. Igoe , candidate for United States senator . They have the frequent advice and cooperation of Lieut . Gov . Stelle , a man of experience in downstate organization building . Typists from Statehouse . In gossip about this headquarters , however , it is said that the staf of secretaries and stenographers , like those in the Horner G. H. Q. , has been moved overifrom the state house . The Horner headquarters in Chicago are at the Hotel Sherman and in the matter of jobholder managers they - ... zsernble the Springfield'offices . They are in charge of Charles K. Schwartz , chairman of the state tax commission . Associated with him , as chairman of the committee on organization and finance , is Martin J. O'Brien , holder of the highly remunerative Horner appointment as public administrator of Cook county . The country towns organization is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superintendent of registration in the state department of regisiration and education , is chairman , and W. F. Walkowiak , chief state inspector of private employment agencies , is secretary . The director of women 's activities is Mrs. Frances Sullivan Cummings , a daughter of the late Roger C. Sullivan . She is paid $4,200. a year as an arbitrator for the state industrial commission . There is a deserted appearance at the Nash headquarters in the Hotel Morrison , even about the year-around offices of the county central committee on the second floor . Garry on " Month 's Vacation . " Ordinarily George F. Ross , a sonin-law of Nash , is in charge of the committee rooms , but he has been with father-in-law in Florida most of the winter , and Thomas D. Garry , an expert in organization matters , has given what orders have been issued . Early last year he was appointed superintendent of the city bureau of sewers . " I 'm on a month 's vacation , " said Garry when he was asked how tie could spend so much time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year and I 'm taking two years ' vacations now- " Oscar E. Hewitt , commissioner of public works , Garry 's department head , corroborated this statement . Such other regular attaches of this headquarters as were known to be on public pay rolls gave similar accounts of themselves . James F. lSpikej Hennessey , superintendent of employment for the Chicago sanitary district-was found to be on a leave of absence from his regular job so that he can handle publicity for the Nash county ticket . William Donne , secretary of the county board , said he had a similar leave from his usual employment . Mrs. Conkey Again nt Work . As in past compaigns for several years , Mrs. Elizabeth A. Conkey , national committeewoman , will have charge of the woman 's division of the Nash headquarters . She is an elected member of the county board and is a candidate for renomination . The deserted look of the rooms on the third and fourth floors assigned to the various state and local candidates is expected to disappear with the customary formal opening expected this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , it is predicted , will he manned by employes in local political offices .                     