@@700658

txt WASHINGTON June ** the homely illustrations have failed to make easily , comprehensible how much is a billion dollars . It is interesting to be told that a thousand million dollar bills , laid end to end , would reach from New York to Calcutta . But the sum is still difficult to envisage in everyday terms . The public has grown so used to Washington dispatches about billion-dollar appropriations that the headlines no. longer startle . Emergency grants ofvast proportions have trod on one another 's heels until it is probable that the official group itself is not clear as to the amounts that are at the President 's disposal . The current plan for a further appropriation of 525 millions for drought relief suggests a summing-up of Congressional grants of this character . Without the 525 millions , the President would have about 3,700 millions of dollars to expend for relief purpose 's alone in the next fiscal year . The slim has been stated by Representative Snell and others as from five to six billions , but that is an exaggeration . This 3,700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an end to CCC or some similar form of indirect relief and applying the money directly ? making a possible relief total of 4,200 millions . Budget Balancing " Out-of-Window . " It would seem to the average observer , as it appears to a large official and Congressional group here , that this gigantic sum , or even 3,700 millions , is sufficient to take care of the drought aid without piling another 525 millions on top of it . But all signs point to the additional appropriation , which would swell the spending powers of the President in the next fiscal year  --  for relief alone  --  to more than 4,700 cannons . Since the present trend is back to heavy spending , talk of balancing the budget in 1936 or even 1937 has gone out of the White House window . " Relief " can be defined in many different ways for spending purposes ' This being a campaign year , the political pressure on the spenders will be stronger than ever . Therefore the taxpayers may view with real concern the proposal for a special drought appropriation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money in hand is likely to be money spent . When John Maynard Keynes was here he said to various people  --  and presumably to the President also  --  that the government should spend about 350 millions a month . This " inflationary disbursement " is one of Mr. Keynes 's formulae for recovery . It has not been accepted by the British Government . But evidences are growing  --  the last one being the proposed drought appropriation  --  that it has been accepted here . Twelve times 350 is 4,200 . That Is what will be in the President 's hands for direct relief if the 525 is voted . And be will have it without terminating CCC or any similar employment device . The Funds for Relief . An examination of the appropriation bills gives the following breakdown of the sum ( stated in millions ) for direct relief that will be in the President 's hands at the beginning of the next fiscal year : Unexpended from the current 950-million-dollar bill 250 Unexpended from the current cattle purchase fund 150 Appropriated in bill passed by House June 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Probable PWA carry-over in June 4 bill 300 Total 3 548 According to the government estimates , RFC commitments of 800 millions and repayments of 500 millions will exist at the end of the fiscal year . This requires the subtraction of 300 millions from the 2,029 listed in the RFC account above and reduces the relief total to 3,248 millions . But expert opinion is that the commitments will probably be only 600 millions and the repayments 800 . Should this be the case , the gain for the table above would be 200 millions , and the relief total then becomes 3,748 millions . Add the drought appropriation of 525 millions and the grand relief total is 4,273 millions , permitting something above an expenditure of 350 millions monthly in the next fiscal year . The President told his press conference today that he preferred the square way of a direct drought appropriation to the use of RFC funds which eventually the Treasury would have to restore . But it would seem that the sum of from 3,200 to 3,700 millions  --  for relief alone ? already in hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far as the RFC repayment argument is concerned , the current Deficiency Appropriation Bill specifically transfers for Presidential use all unexpended sums for the RFC after June 30 . This was done at Mr. Roosevelt 's request , after - he had a talk with Mr. Keynes . Few people seem concerned about the recurrence of the gigantic spending campaign . That may be because few people realize the magnitude of the sum already in the President 's hands for relief purposes without recourse to the new drought appropriation . This sum is aside from what will be spent on PWA and other purely recovery projects . Little is now left of the President 's budget picture as presented to Congress in January . Today he blamed it on Providence for too enthusiastic cooperation with the crop reduction program of AAA . Unless the arrival of recovery changes the outlook , the prophets of direct inflation will soon make themselves heard again .                     