@@698329

txt Dino Grand ! , Italy 's Foreign Minister , pleading the cause of peace again yesterday , declared the world must regard security as a result rather than a condition of disarmament . The coming Geneva conference , he added , will be a great test and the " ' touchstone ' of our degree of civilization . " Signor Grandi , who is to sail for Italy this afternoon aboard the Augustus of the Navigazione Generale Italiana Line , took advantage of a tea tendered in his honor by the Foreign Policy Association at the Waldorf-Astoria yesterday afternoon to deliver his farewell address to the United States , and to review , in the longest speech he has made here , Italy 's efforts toward world conciliation . He presented , as he said , his government 's viewpoint on disarmament and declared that Italy was not only hopeful of an agreement in the negotiations with France and England , which had failed to materialize last March , but was hopeful that the ' coming Geneva conference would stop the " competition of armaments " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Results of Visit . In his last full day in the United States , Signor Grandi was entertained at luncheon , tea and dinner and in addition worked steadily for many hours in studying the results of his visit and dispatching cablegrams to Rome . The Foreign Minister 's address before the Foreign Policy Association yesterday was considered by many his most important utterance since he arrived in this country eleven days ago . That it was considered of great importance by Signor Grandi himself seas indicated by the care with which he personally revised it . Advance copies had been prepared and given to newspapers and press associations early in the day , and at least one association had cabled the complete text or parts of it , to member papers in other countries . A few hours before he went to the Waldorf-Astoria , however , the copies which had already been given out were recalled and several important revisions made . The Italian diplomat faced a visible audience of more than 1,000 persons when he gave his address . Obviously sincere and deeply hopeful that his plea would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his speech with care and clarity and prefaced it and ended it with extemporaneous remarks , which added to its impressiveness . The address was broadcast over a national network of the Columbia Broadcasting Company . Praised as Good-Will Advocate . Signor Grandi was introduced by James G. chairman of the association , who characterized him as " the vigorous advocate of d.sa rmament and international cooperation . " " We Americans owe much to your country , " Mr. told his distinguished guest , as he paid tribute to " Italian genius , courage and vigor . " " When you say . " Mr. continued , " that international i elations no longer are the concern merely of a limited group of bankers and merchants but , on the contrary , are the vital concern of all people , and when you urge that a stable foundation for peace can be built only throug ' the education of the masses , the Foreign Policy Association is heartily in accord with you . " Signor Grandi began by describing disarmament as the " central problem of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , is based on three fundamental points : that " the reduction of armaments has to be considered as a moral as well as a juridical obligation on all governments concerned ; " " we must try to look upon security rather as a result than as a condition of disarmament : " and " financial and ecomonic problems are essentially problems of pacification  --  and political uneasiness is generated chiefly by the mutual fear and distrust arising out of armaments . " " The peace treaties have imposed upon certain nations restrictions and limitations of a military nature , " he said . " Our sense of justice , and our common sense as well , make it inconceivable to us , both from a juridical and from a moral standpoint , that some nations should forever be tied to a status of partial disarmament , while kther nations would continue to enjoy an unrestricted freedom in armaments . " Declaring that we must be guided " by the principles of justice and fairness toward all , " he said . that since the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public mind . " Tells Conditions of Security . For Italy , the Foreign Minister continued , " security is , indeed , an essential element of peace , but we believe it can only be derived from the harmonious development of two facters , the pacific settlement of international controversies and the general reduction of armaments ; that is. from arbitration and disarmament . " Declaring that the " present condition of the world justifies and commands the starting of a process of disarmament , " Signor Grandi , after a historical review of the Italian position on this subject , said that " I , for my part , am still hoping for a final equitable agreement " among Great Britain , France and Italy on naval disarmament . The Geneva conference , convening within less than three months , was viewed as a " great test in which the nations of the world and especially Europe , will show whether or not they will be wise enough to grasp the opportunity for making a great stride toward peaceful progress . " The conference will be the " touchstone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warned , however , that we should not expect " spectacular results " from it . Enough will be achieved if it stops cpmpetition and makes a first step towards reduction . In concluding Signor Grandi pledged all the Italian strength and heart toward the solution of the problem . Works Until 2 A. M. Before and after his address , Signor Grandi spent a busy day . In accordance with his custom of seizing every possible moment freed from engagements to do business of state , the Foreign Minister worked with his secretaries until 2 o'clock yesterday morning and was up again at 8 . After his ' usual Continental breakfast of rolls and coffee , Signor Grandi worked in his hotel suite during the morning , and sent and received many cablegrams to and from Italy . Shortly before 1 o'clock , accompanied by his wife , Donna Antoinetta , he stopped work to ride behind the screeching sirens of a motorcycle escort under the watchful eye of a car full of bomb squad detectives , to the apartment of Mr. and Mrs. Henry P. Fletcher , at 563 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and at his home the Foreign Minister and his wife were entertained privately and informally at a midday Thanksgiving dinner . Turkey with the usual accompanying dishes was on the menu . During the afternoon it had been expected that the Foreign Minister and his wife would be driven out to see the new George Washington Bridge over the Hudson , but the pressure of business of state prevented this , and while Signor Grandi returned to the hotel to work for a few hours before the tea , his wife was entertained by Mrs. Fletcher at the Colony Club . After the tea at the Waldorf-Astoria , Signor Grandi and his party returned to their suites at the RitzCarlton to work again , to rest briefly and to dress for the dinner given for the Foreign Minister last night by the Italian community of New York . The dinner was at the Hotel Commodore and about 1,500 prominent members of New York 's Italian colony and Italo-Americans from other communities gave Signor Grandi an enthusiastic reception . Nobile Giacomo de Martino , Italian Ambassador , presided at the dinner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Departing from the custom which he has usually followed in this country , the Foreign Minister spoke extemporaneously and in Italian , expressing his appreciation of the honor done him and declaring that bonds of ItalianAmerica . n friendship had been and would be strengthened by the efforts of the United States ' Italian-born citizens . Peace formed a large part of the theme of the Foreign Minister 's address . " My brot'ecre of the same rac ! al blood , " he began , " this is my tv , - enty- fourth discourse in my eleven days in America . " Signor Grandi explained his mission by saying that he was " bet a soldier to serve the cause of Italy . " It is for this reason I came to America , for the cause of peace , for the fraternal cooperation of the people of the world ? in those sweet American words , for good-will . ' " Signor Grandi said he was proud of the achievements of Italians in the New World and saw these achievements as another link in Italian-American amity . He advised Italian-Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you are living , and in this way you are good Italians and good Americans . " When he finished the crowd broke into prolonged handclapping and cheering ; bla ck-shirted youths , men in dinner jackets and women in evening gowns raised their hands in the Fascist salute and the band played the Italian royal march . the Fascist hymn . " Giovanezza " and " The StarSpangled Banner . " As some of Signor Grandi 's party entered the Forty-second Street door of the Commodore several persons in the crowd threw bunches of handbills into the air . The blue and white bills , signed by " A. J. Muste. chairman of the International Anti-Fascist Protest , " objected to Grandi 's visit to the United States . Other bills declared that America has no room for murderers and incendiaries " or bore the legend : " Down With Grandi and Mussolini . " Signor Grandi will complete his stay in the United States today b , fulfilling his last engagement ? luncheon as the guest of the editor of THE New Yonic TIMES at th Times Annex at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hi party of ten back to Italy , is sched uled to sail at 3 o'clock .                     