@@701457

txt The clank of ash and garbage cans , as emptied by Sanitation Department employes , is to be muffled , Mayor La Guardia ruled yes ' terday , thus assuring New Yorkers a few more hours of uninterrupted sleep . In an order to Thomas W. Hammond , Sanitation Commissioner , the Mayor decreed that collectors no longer may throw garbage and ash receptacles on the sidewalks with reckless disregard of the clamor that for years has awakened light sleepers in the early morning hours . The order sya , ? issued by the Mayor as an ' ilnportant part of the city 's anti-noise campaign , which will get under way formally on Oct. 1 with a period of " noiseless nights . " " Every crew should be as quiet and careful as the crew that works around the house of the Mayor , " the Mayor informed Mr. Hammond . " If they find it possible to handle ash cans quietly , and they do . I do not see why all crews can not be just as quiet . " Chief Source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have poured into the Mayor 's office since the anti-noise crusade was announced , almost half have objected to the early morning violence of the garbage and ash collectors . Thousands of residents of the city , to judge from the volume I of mail , have had their early morning sleep disturbed . The situation had existed for years . A few years ago a member of the Sanitation Commission , the body of three appointees former Mayor Walker set up to keep the city clean , had an unpleasant personal experience . One morning the commissioner , who lived in Greenwich Village , was awakened at 4 o'clock by the noise of the garbage crew . He stuck his head out the window and pleaded for quiet . The city employes , however , indignant at interference with their play , informed him , interspersing their . comments with profanity , that they would provide a rubber ash can for him . The commissioner , incidentally , never was able to find out just who the workers were . The rumbling of the antiquated Sanitation Department trucks is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been almost as many complaints with regard to them as there have been to the careless ash-can handling . Inflated tires are to be put on the trucks and as soon as possible the city plans to buy new equipment . Mayor 's Letter to Hammond . The Mayor 's letter to Mr. Hammond ordering the drastic curb in Sanitation Department noise was as follows : Dear Commissioner : As you know , we are in the midst of a campaign - against noise , the success of which is vital to the interests of the people of the City of New York . I am sure that your department is doing everything possible to cooperate in this campaign . However , good-will is not sufficient , particularly when the Department of Sanitation is one of the many offenders and must reform . There are still hunareds of complaints coming in . I think it is necessary at this time for you and your deputies to utilize every means of impressing your men that people want and have a right to sleep at night . I know that everything is being done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment you have to work with . I know you are doing a good job with a bad inheritance . But there is one thing that is very impressive about the complaints we receive , and that is the unanimity of grievances against the way ash cans are tossed about . Personal inspection trips might help in convincing your men that this drive is in earnest . Every crew should be as quiet and careful as the crew that works around the house of the Mayor . If they find it possible to handle ash cans quietly and they do , I do not see why all crews can not be just as quiet . There is no reason why ash cans must be flung to the sidewalk . There is no reason why people should get the impression that men of your department try to make as much clamor as possible . Some noise I know , must be inevitable in bandliug ash cans , particularly with some of your old equipment . But some , I know , can be eliminated , and certainly loud arguments accompanying the emptying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If you and your deputies would give this matter immediate attention and bring about some improvement in present conditions , you will be rendering the people of New York a great service . Very truly yours , F. H. LA GUARDIA , Mayor . The Mayor also approved yesterday plans of his committee on noise abatement , made up of representatives of more than a hundred civic , business and professional groups . Henry H. Curran . the Mayor 's unofficial noise abatement commissi'ner , heads the committee . Depir - Police Commissioner Harold I icr is vice chairman and Lester B. : Acme of the Mayor 's secretarial st f is executive secretary . Subcommittees to handle various phases of the anti-noise campaign have been set up . Among the most important are publicity committees that will keep the public informed of the progress of the campaign and will make an intensive effort to enlist public support for the drive .                     