@@703322

txt France obtains a fresh start toward economic and financial reform  --  new impetus in its difficult struggle toward economic recovery  --  with the devaluation and the " practical " stabilization of the French franc . The United States and Great Britain have agreed to the reduction in value of the French currency . Thus the tripartite monetary agreement between the three powers continues . And , as the Financial Editor of The Christian Science Monitor explains , America and Britain have been willing to permit France to enjoy the slight international advantages the new devaluation will give , as a means of aiding the French in the search for domestic financial stability . The Paris correspondent of the Monitor finds a key to the problem in the effort to coax fugitive and hoarded gold back into French financial channels . But he records international and domestic problems still awaiting settlement . The Monitor 's Washington Bureau , in a dispatch to the financial page , outlines the American aspects of France 's third currency devaluation in less than two years . Meanwhile , in London , reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Devaluation of Franc Is Viewed in Paris As New Basis for Recovery By a Staff Correspondent The Christian Science Monitor PARIS , May ** devaluation and de facto stabilization of the franc is viewed here as the basis for a fresh start toward French financial reform and economic recovery . With the agreement and co-operation of the American and British Governments , Premier Edouard Daladier today put into effect the policy he announced to the French nation last night and pegged the franc at 179 to the pound . This is equivalent to 30.02 ' 78 or 35.80 to the dollar , a " rate below which it will never be allowed to descend , " he declared . Finance Minister Paul Marchandeau , in a statement to the press today , emphasized that there is no question of legal stabilization as yet . The franc , he said , has only been pegged . It will not be allowed to fall below the new minimum , but it will be permitted to rise above that level . Influx of Capital Begins The influx of capital has already begun , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a general financial and economic recovery which will be pursued energetically by the Government . Thus for the third time in less than two years France 's currency has been devalued . From nearly seven cents in the summer 1936 it has now fallen to less than three . The most recent devaluation is about 9 per cent of the previous value . In terms of pre-war currency the present franc is worth only about 7 centimes . The gold content of the franc in 1913 was 322.56 milligrams . After the war M. Poincare stabilized it at 65.5 milligrams . Leon Blum depreciated it in September , 1936 to 49 milligrams and Georges Bonnet in July , 1937 to 43 . Its present gold content works out at barely 27 milligrams . So far however , France has not returned to the gold standard . But the Government presumably intends to complete the present de facto stabilization by revaluing its gold reserves at approximately the current rate . As these reserves total about 55,000,000,000 francs at old rate , this will make available to the treasury more than 40 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Back Advances This windfall will be used to wipe out the inflationary advances made by the Bank of France to the Treasury , which total 42,000,000,000 francs . Thus , the Government can start with a clean slate in its efforts to put France 's finances and French currency back on a sound and stable basis . As Premier Daladier declared in his radiocast , confidence is the key to French economic recovery , but to be lasting that confidence must have a solid and stable foundation . " We must therefore begin by fixing our monetary level to correspond to our financial burdens and not subject to the recurrent alterations , " he said . " It must be a level which will finally put the franc out of the reach of the attacks to which it has been subjected for years . " The investing public , M. Daladier asserted , " need no longer fear the further depreciation of our currency . It may rather expect an enhanced value for the franc . We shall thus be able to pursue the task of recovery . " Daladier Explains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causes of this fresh decline of the franc , say- ing : " The truth is that our economic life is in very bad condition ; that legitimate profit is tending to disappear ; that partial unemployment is increasing in every branch of industry ; that our unfavorable trade balance is impoverishing us ; that our production figures constitute a humiliation for all Frenchmen . " The truth is , " he continued , " that in these unsound economic conditions the budget is recurrently and inevitably unbalanced and that the needs of the Treasury exhaust public savings , degrade public credit , dry up private credit and menace monetary confidence . " Concluding with an appeal to the Nation to make the forthcoming defense loan a " plebiscite of French patriotism , " Mr. Daladier declared that the " law of democracy is a law of effort " and that only by develop-I ing production by confident labor could the country be pulled . out of its present difficulties . This latest devaluation and de facto stabilization Is expected to give the necessary impulsion to re- I covery by inspiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hoarded gold can be coaxed back into circulation , the prospects for steady progress toward recovery will be bright . ? many Factors Involved This will depend however on several factors . One is the European situation , which though improving is still beclouded by the Czechoslovakian problem . Another is the French budget , which is still unbalanced despite the new 8 per cent increase in all taxes . The third , and perhaps most important element , is the question of the 40-hour week . If production is to be increased quickly , the general return to a 45-hour week is considered essential and it is doubtful whether organized labor will consent to this retreat . Public opinion has received the new devaluation of the franc with resignation . The press is critical but not hostile , with the exception of the Communist papers which condemn the operation as another triumph for the " 200 families "  --  the French financial oligarchy ; and the Socialist organ Populaire , which claims that M. Blum 's financial program , which included exchange control and a capital levy would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 5 ** John Simon , Chancellor of the Exchequer , today assured the House of Commons that " we are not contemplating any adjustment of the sterling ( pound ) exchange . " It was the first official British statement on the devaluation of the franc . Sir John added : " A lower value for the dollar has been vigorously denied in Washington . " After consultation with the American Government we have reached the conclusion that France 's action should be regarded as not inconsistent with the tripartite agreement and that the agreement continues in full force and effect . " Hoover 's Views on Franc KANSAS CITY , Mo. , May 5 ( IP ) ? Herbert Hoover attributed France 's economic plight to her adoption of " New Deal " policies , in an interview here today . The Former President , who stopped here briefly while en route to a Republican " grass roots " meeting in Oklahoma City , said : " France is the only European state that is not prosperous today . The devaluation of the Franc is only part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago . " While other European nations tightened their belts and balanced their budgets , France went its own way . It did n't balance its budget , it began limiting production , lost its export market , prices increased and consumption dropped . One finds those conditions in France that hold ' true here . "                     