@@701834

txt As is customary in these times of open diplomacy , the conference of the general staffs of Great Britain , France and Belgium , the preliminaries of which have now begun in London , possesses an inner meaning . The conference is officially represented as a sort of consolation prize to reward the French for abstaining from Immediate drastic action against the German lawbreakers . The British Government carefully stipulated that the talks of experts would carry no political commitment . The Germans , therefore , after a spasm of furious anxiety , are now adopting an attitude of condescending detachment . In reality , however , the meeting of staffs was called to discuss an important practical issue , connected with the defense line of the Rhine , which Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin described tersely as the British frontier . The official program does not contain any reference to this definite issue , but the writer will I try to make plain what is in the wind . Aid for France Not Sought The general impression even in well-informed political circles is that France comes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggression . Pacifists and partisans of isolation exclaim against placing British forces at the disposal of the French high command . The truth is entirely different and is well known in the War Office here . General Marie Gustave Gamelin , the designated leader of the French Army in wartime , has let it be known that he does not expect the help of a single British soldier to defend the French frontier . Behind the fortifications of the Maginot line he is confident he can resist any attack by German forces . The only question really interesting him is the measure of cooperation the British need from the French to assure the defense of Belgium , which is considered in Paris primarily the concern of Britain . General Gamelin is quite satisfied if British forces accept the responsibility of assisting the Belgians in the defense of their territory , but considers that this is impossible to achieve without French cooperation . The preliminary AngloFrench talks , which have been proceeding secretly for some time , have made this essential point perfectly clear . Doubt Lunge at Belgium It stands to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to discuss the technical measures apt to strengthen the resistance to a hypothetical case of German aggression , the first duty of the experts is to attempt to obtain a clear picture of the probable nature of this attack . Contrary to the point of view accepted by public opinion , the experts are inclined to doubt that the opening manoeuvre would be an invasion of Belgium . There are two reasons for this opinion , one technical and the other political . The line of French fortifications of the most modern type is now being prolonged to cover the frontier of Luxemburg and the Belgian frontier west to Rocroy . Thus , behind the Belgian fortified zone a second line of resistance is created that is difficult to overcome by a sudden rush . Behind it are several fortresses now in process of modernization , which the high command intends to hold , strongly contrary to the idea adopted in 1914 when Joffre believed the army would be stronger in the open field than behind entrenchments . The German generals , well informed of this state of affairs , May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which an immediate success is problematical and a local advance still leaves the invader far from the vital centers of France . British Opinion Considered The political consideration that may operate to prevent an offensive through Belgium is that the Germans , taught by bitter experience , would hesitate at alarming British public opinion from the outset . When Joachim von Ribbentrop , the German Ambassador at Large , was last here he breakfasted with a prominent politician who warned him against attaching lasting importance to the profession of sympathy for Germany by the BritI ish people . Mr. %Ion Ribbentrop is reported to have replied : " This time we will not go through Belgium . " Whatever importance may be attached to this curious confession , the experts of Paris , witho-Lt entirely rejecting the possitility of an invasion of Belgium , are inclined to expect the brunt of the first furious onslaught near the southern end of the " aginot line . An aerial attack along an axis directed from Lake Constance toward Lyon would promise a chance of destroying a central industrial stronghold of France where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penetration by land forces would bring the enemy close to the very heart of French resistance . In other words , the French general staff does not exclude the possibility , the probability , even the existence in Berlin of a plan approximating the scheme prepared during the World War , but not carried into effect , for an invasion of France through Switzerland . General Gamelin is prepared to meet this form of attack , but all the more desires to know what the British can do to help protect his left flank in Belgium . The point of view of the British War Office coincides with the French point of view to the extent that it is considered here that the defense of Belgium is the primary duty and interest of Britain . Now reasons of a geographical nature make British aid to the Belgians impossible without effective cooperation by the French . Would Use French Ports A British force going to the assistance of the Belgian Army would be obliged to use French ports from Dunkerque to Abbeville as it would be impossible to send transports and supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Belgian coast , like Zeebrugge and Ostend , are inadequate and too near the potential air bases of the enemy . This means that the lines of communication of a British expeditionary force would start in French territory . Again , a British air force intending to give effective support to the Belgian ally and protect London against raiders would be obliged to use French airdromes *and make use as well of the northern sector of the French network of listening posts to detect the approach of invaders . This only roughly summarizes the points on which Anglo-French cooperation must be sought if the British Army merely limits itself to the Belgian sector of defense . As has been said , the official program of the experts ' meeting shows no trace of this issue , which is the only one worth discussing and which the British and the French staff experts now will deal with in private conversations concurrently with the general ' meetings. - The presence of Vice Admiral Jean ICharles Abrial , Assistant Chief of Naval Staff of the French Navy , I indicates that questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be left to the scope of exploration of a hypothetical situation . Thus it will be seen that although the staff conference is entirely concerned with the question of defense against an aggression that may not Come , the Germans have no reason to consider it devoid of importance . Naturally , the probable outcome of this meeting will not be a definite agreement , but this is only because British rearmament and reorganization of the armed forces are , insufficiently advanced yet to permit detailed decisions on certain questions .                     