@@703232

txt The first eleven weeks of unemployment insurance in this State have demonstrated- conclusively that the New ' York law is " administratively unworkable , " Herman A. Gray , chairman of the State Advisory Council on Unemployment Insurance , declared yesterday . Complexities in the law have produced a " complete breakdown " in tho handling of 70,000 disputed claims for benefits and in efforts to check on the continued unemployment of those on the insurance rolls , according to the head of the council appointed by Governor Lehman to guard the interests of employers , employes and the general public . Mr. Gray said that it was impossible to discover exactly where the State stood with respect to payments to the jobless , but made it clear that he held no one personally responsible for the situation . All the existing difficulties sprang from the act itself , he declared , and amendments adopted by the Legislature this week , while likely to result in some immediate improvement , would simply add new confusion and complexities in the long run . " All of these criticisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The division of placement and unemployment insurance of the State Labor Department has done everything in its power to cope with an overwhelming load of applications , but the law is just too complicated and cumbersome for any one to make work successfully . " Ix the belief that " a fundamental recasting of the whole benefit structure " was necessary to make the act effective , Mr. Gray announced that he would call together a panel of employers , employes and disinterested students of social security " to seek a formula that will be equitable and can be administered simply . " Mr. Gray , who is Professor of Constitutional Law at New York University , said he hoped such a plan would be devised for submission to the Legislature when it reconvenes next January . Provision for more adequate benefits for persons in the lowest income group would be a major objective of the new law . The involved procedures for computing benefits in the present statute tend to promote unwarranted drains on the insurance fund in some cases and lead to delay or injustice in others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any law that makes it necessary for a man to earn eighteen times his weekly benefit rate and that limits - his total benefits to one-sixth of his earnings in the base year involves insuperable administrative problems , " Mr. Gray continued . " To determine the benefit rate , the division must tabulate the highest wage in each of four quarters , then strike out the highest and lowest , obtain the average of the two remaining and divide the end result by two . This . is bound to result not only in delay but in discrepancies that result in disputed claims . " With nearly 70,000 persons claiming that their earnings have been incorrectly recorded , it will require a vast army of examiners to go into disputed claims and this . process will be both lengthy and terribly costly . At present , the procedure for passing on disputed claims has broken down aItegether . " What to do about appeals from employe " whose employers have notified the State that they were discharged for cause or whose joblessness sprang from a labor dispute is another source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been appointed to handle such cases throughout the State , he declared . " The division does not have a definite check as to unemployment insurance-and unemployment insurance benefits , other than the weekly card which the eligible applicant sends to Albany as an earnest of his continued unemployment , " Mr. Gray went on . " The State Advisory Council some time ago insisted that the unemployed be required to come into the local offices of the division at least once a week as a check-up , and the Social Security Board has also demanded that this be do nt . A committee has been set up by Industrial Commissioner Elmer F. Andrews to devise a plan for making such a check . " In moving for a basic recasting of the act , Mr. Gray expressed certainty that employers were as anxious as employes to " make a go " of unemployment insurance . A similar point of view was set forth last night by Abraham Epstein , veteran executive secretary of the American Association for Social Security , who said : " The latest amendments to the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor were adopted in the hope that they would ease the present administrative burden . It is time , however , for the administrators to face the fact that the systems is impossible to administer . " Any administrative relief derived from the amendments would be obtained " at the expense of the workers , since the amendments tend to restrict benefits and involve important changes in social policy , " Mr. Epstein warned . He criticized the attempt to " doctor unworkable laws " and repeated his insistence that the . " crying need " in unemployment insurance ? was " for simplicity , for relating benefits to need , for an integration between the insurance and relief . programs and for governmental sharing in the cost of the system . "                     