@@703258

txt The French Popular Front cabinet last night appeared to have signed and sealed its political death warrant by proposing a daring financial program designed to make 20,000. - 000,000 francs available to the government by various inflationary maneuvers . While political observers believed the Chamber of Deputies might pass the government 's new bill by a small majority , a Senate veto seemed inevitable . A cabinet crisis by Thursday was predicted . The program proposed by Socialist Premier Blum relies on inflationary measures to raise funds for the hard-pressed Treasury . At the same time , it contains various deflationary aspects , apparently designed partially as a counter-poise to the inflation and partially to appease certain political elements . One of the most remarkable financial programs ever to be seriously sponsored by any government , the Blum plan piovides in brief : 1 . Revalorization of the gold reserve of the Bank of France to the present level of the franc , estimated to increase the paper value of the reserve by 24,000,000,000 francs . This " profit " would be . used to support the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probable stricter control of prices , regulation of cartels and monopolies . 3 . A form of exchange control , officially termed " concentration of exchange transactions in the Bank of France . 4 . Broad credit inflation based : First , on permitting government contractors to draw bills of credit on various state agencies ( these bills would be discountable and rediscountable ) : second , allowing privately-owned banks to obtain credit at the Bank of France for purchase of Treasury bills against foreign currency deposits . These two steps are estimated to yield between 11,000,000,000 and 13,000,000,000 francs . 6 . Direct monetary inflation up to a. maximum of 10,000,000,000 francs through direct advances to the government by the Bank of France . 11 . Suspension for two years of the sinking fund for government obligations , making 2 , - 000,000,000 francs a year available for other purposes . 7 . General development of s. medium term credit system by a series of complicated government decrees , coupled with enforcement of a cheap money policy . 8 . Public offering of a series of Treasury and National Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 12 month maturities . Steps of a definitely deflationary nature ) n the program include : 1 . A general graduated capital levy on all holdings over 150.000 francs . 2 . A new super-tax on profits from national defense expenditures . Financial markets were calm in the face of the announcement This reflected the growing conviction in financial quarters that even if Blum succeeds in getting his plan approved by the Chamber of Deputies , which begins discussion today , he will never get it passed by the Senate which , it is hoped , will consider the bill on Thursday . The day closed with the belief strengthened that publication of the plan makes constitution of a government of national union in one form or another more inevitable than ever . Measures Indicated Indispensable In making his demands yesterday . Premier Blum indicated that he judged the measures which he seeks as being indispensable to meet the necessities of national defense , protection of the gold reserve and restoration of finances and economy , but he plans to carry out the program within the framework of a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his demands . Justifying demands for such drastic action , the government in brief argues that without economic revival in France it is hopeless to keep the state solvent and equally as hopeless to finance the armaments which are made necessary by the political eituation in Europe . This revival , the government holds , can be started by massive expenditures upon armaments , the effects of which will gradually extend to all industries . Would Centralize Exchange Operations It has been demonstrated that it is impossible for the government to borrow sufficiently to meet the armament requirements . Hence . credit and monetary inflation must make this financing of armaments possible . Since inflation threatens depreciation of the currency and since the currency can no longer be defended with the gold reserves of the Bank of France , which is down to the minimum compatible with national safety , therefore foreign exchange operations must be centralized at the Bank of France which will grant applications only upon justification . Incidental steps to this process are to be revaluation of the gold reserves of the Bank of France at the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise and prices ; and probably a stricter control of prices ; in addition to regulation of cartels and de facto monopolies . Extension of working hours in the armament factories is admitted but elsewhere it is made a distant eventuality dependent on absorption of unemployment and modernization of equipmentOn the other hand , a system of pensions for aged workers and extension of family allowances is promised . The text of the bill shows that the proposal for a capital levy will affect all persons resident in France and imposition will be based on regulations governing inheritance taxes . It starts with fortunes of 150,000 francs with the rate of 4% rising to 17% for portions of fortunes exceeding 50% . Inflationary Proposals Outstanding among the new inflationary proposals is the demand that public contractors be allowed to draw bills on public administrations which can be discounted . In other words , a contractor operating on a government contract , instead of being paid directly by the public body placing the order , can merely draw a bill on that body , payment for which he will receive by discounting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of France . Short Term Baby Bonds Proposed Sale of short term baby bonds will be authorized as a method of raising more cash for the government , again increasing the public debt . Possibility that the government may benefit from the lower Interest rates in the cheap money policy is excluded by definite undertaking that there will be no compulsory debt conversion at lower interest levels . In attempt to bolster the government credit , the government will thus be forced to continue paying high interest rates on its expanding debt . The tariff itself will be used as an inflationary weapon . The plan provides for adjustment of tariffs to increases in the price level and centralization of sales and purchases of raw materials . This removes possibility that high prices in France may be countered by importatoin of foreign goods . Gold Reserves Revaluation Planned What is most distasteful to financial Paris , however , are the monetary provisions of the plan . This provides for the revaluation of the gold reserves of the Bank of France in accordance wale the present level of the franc , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is the third revaluation of the gold reserves in the past year and a half . At the same time , the first step is to be taken , according to the plan , to the much dreaded and opposed exchange control . The foreign exchange market is to be centralized in the Bank of France , where exchange will be made available only to those having a definite commercial need  --  and a need which can be proved . The government was quick to deny that exchange restrictions , such as those in effect in Germany , were planned , and that it would be merely necessary for would-be purchasers of foreign exchange to prove commercial needs . Fact that the control is centralized in the Bank of France , however , contrasts sharply with the informal control exercised in past periods of strain when the commercial banks themselves agreed to check speculation . The new plan , it is feared , is merely exchange control in disguise . The unpopular coupon tax is to be reduced from 24% to 18% . This reduction , however , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bearer securities have been more popular in France than registered , because bearer securities made more easy evasion of the coupon tax . Other tax changes are to include small reductions in favor of artisans and a cut in production taxes .                     