@@697437

txt THE READER WRITES To the Editor of The New York Times : PADEREWSKI will reach his seventieth birthday on Nov. 6 , 1930 : May I not , through the medium of your paper , call the attention of Paderewski 's countless admirers to this unique opportunity for paying homage to the eminent artist ? Padere  --  ski 's fame and achievements are the pride of every musician , and just tribute should be paid to him by all on the occasion of this important celebration . OSSIP GABRILOW1TSCH . Detroit , Mich. , Oct. 19 , 1930 . Many suggestions have been made , and extensive undertakings proposed , to honor fittingly Mr. Paderewski on the occasion of his anniversary . Mr. Paderewski , however , with an earnestness evidently equaled by his appreciation of sentiments that have reached him from all parts of the world , has begged that there should be no public ceremonies in his behalf , especially as the exigencies of an extensive concert tour make heavy demands upon his time and strength . Those near him have reluctantly acceded to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career of the St. Louis Orchestra , which has been the subject of chronicle and comment in these columns and concerning which William Walter took issue with THE TIMES of last Sunday , is now further illuminated by a communication from Waldo S. Pratt , the admirable musicologist , historian and editor of the American Supplement of Grove 's Dictionary of Music and Musicians . Mr. Pratt writes as follows : To the Editor of The New York Times : I observe that in the Sunday TIMES you had a note about symphony music in St. Louis in reply to a criticism , in which you refer to the American Supplement to Grove . May I add a further note ? When the Supplement appeared in 1920 I was unable to state more than I did then . But when the revised edition was issued in 1928 I had had access to Krohn 's valuable monograph and on the strength of that inserted a sentence on Page 433 as to the St. Louis Orchestra as follows : " While the present organiza- tion dates from 1907 , it grew out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1927-28 is counted as the forty-eighth . " This does not quite meet the whole of the statement of your critic , but it does somewhat relieve the Supplement of all his blame . ' WALDO S. PRATT . Hartford , Conn. , Oct. 29 , 1930 . MORE ON INTERPRETATION . To the Editor of The New York Times : I feel that I too must say a word regarding Mr. Olin Downes 's article " On Interpretation " in THE TIMES of Oct. 19 . After reading it I felt somewhat of an itch to say something about it , but managed to restrain myself until I read Mr. Leon Vallas 's letter the following Sunday . Mr. de Schloezer , whose ideas Mr. Downes discusses , points his critical finger here and says : " This Is true art and everything else Is bad . " Mr. Vallas says that you ca n't do that ; great art is likely to emanate from any or all points of the artistic compass . Mr. de Schloezer is at one extreme and Mr. Vallas at the other ; extremes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is rather hazy by now , but I do remember that the central idea of the great Hellenists was temperance ; and Plato in particular enunciated the principle that in all things one must keep to a middle path between the two extremes : on either side is danger . That idea has always struck me as being rich in what is commonly called " horsesense " : it is applicable everywhere , in art as in morals , and even criti-. cism . It seems to me that the consummate artist is he who so performs that the listener is not conscious of the interpreter at all . We are conscious only of the music , whether it is a symphony or a song , good or bad , " subjective " or " objective . " If the former predominates , the interpreter is likely to become vulgar and the music thus distorted . If the performer becomes too " objective " the music is cold and dull . In either case the artist obscures the music . But I have n't time or the desire to prove anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My only reason for writing this was a desire to get off my chest an idea which has . been disturbing me for some time . GEORGE A. NEWTON Jr . New York , Oct. 27 , 1930 . A VOTE FOR KLEIBER . TO roe Ertitor of The New York Times : Erich Kleiber deserves a vote of thanks from admirers of Strauss who wonder why the " Alpensinfonie " is so rarely performed . Perhaps , if it were heard more often , it would gain the popularity that other tone poems of the Bavarian Richard have achieved . The impression that the " Alpensinfonie " made upon the writer at a Stadium concert under the direction of Fritz Reiner several years ago has caused him to question the wisdom of program makers in neglecting this tone poem which contains so many pages of sublime eloquence and grandeur . Has that same type of prejudice been responsible for the flagrantly unjust treatment of Bruckner and Mahler ? It was pointed out In The Telegram ( Aug. 22 , 1930 ) that Klemperer , who gave several performances of Bruckner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Billow , who repeated the first performance of Brahms 's C minor on the same evening to impress an apathetic audience . That there are evidences of a growing interest in these Austrian composers was shown here during the past Summer . Let us hope that Kleiber , who has so ably demonstrated his thorough musicianship , who has shown such admirable catholicity in his tastes , who apparently has sufficient courage to translate into action his idea ? that new music should be heard  --  will upon his return do justice to these Austrian composers so highly thought of in Europe and so utterly neglected here . Let us hope also that he will show the same ' courage of his convictions that has characterized him since he mounted the platform of Carnegie Hall , and give ' Brucknerites and Mahlerites the opportunity of an occasional hearing of music that is too rarely played . ROBERT G. GREY . New York , Oct. 28 , 1930.                     