@@700544

txt The revolt against John F. Curry , leader of Tammany Hall , came out into the open yesterday when district leaders with eleven and twothirds votes out of the twenty-five in the executive committee met in conference at the Hotel Astor and appointed a committee to try to bring other district leaders into the movement to depose him . As a result of the strength shown by the anti-Curry faction at the conference , only one vote needs to be obtained to depose Mr. Curry , assuming that each district leader present will stand by his pledge to vote to oust Mr. Curry . Sponsors of the revolt expressed confidence that many more than the one needed vote would be obtained . ? Those attending the conference had not intended to have it become public . Originally scheduled to be held at the office of County Clerk Albert Marinelli , it was shifted to the Hotel Astor , where Alderman William Solomon engaged a room under the name of his insurance firm , William Solomon &; Co . It was said that the change of the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those Who Attended : Those attending were : Sheriff Daniel E. Finn , Alderman David A. Mahoney , First Assembly District ; County Clerk Albert Marinelli , Representative Christopher D. Sullivan , Second District ; Charles W. Culkin , William L. Kavanagh , Charles H. Hussey , Third District ; Edward J. Ahearn , Fourth District ; James Dooling , Michael J. Kennedy Jr. , Fifth District ; Marshall Ingram , Seventh District ; Andrew B. Keating , Thirteenth District ; Under-Sheriff Michael T. McCarron , Fourteenth District ; Alderman William Solomon , Seventeenth District ; Clarence H. Neal Jr. , Twentieth District ; John J. Kelly , Twenty-second District ; James H. Torrens , Twenty-third District , Nathan Burkan of the Seventeenth District was prevented from attending by a case in Supreme Court . He is known definitely to be against Mr. Curry . Next Move Planned . Messrs . Culkin , Solomon , Kelly , Dooling , Ahearn and Marinelli were appointed to talk with other district leaders and urge them to join the movement to depose Mr. Curry . If a definite majority against Mr. Curry can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to William P. Kenneally of the Twelfth district , chairman of the executive committee , to call a meeting for the purpose of deposing Mr. Curry . Until this is accomplished a meeting of the anti-Curry group will be held at least once a week . The attendance at the conference disclosed the presence of leaders who hitherto had not been known definitely as against Mr. Curry . Among these were Mr. Keating , Mr. McCarron , Mr. Kelly and Mr. Torrens . The presence of Mr. Dooling and Mr. Kennedy , each a comparatively new leader , confirmed reports that Mr. Curry had lost the support of his associate leaders In his home district , the Fifth . The adherence of Messrs . Keating and Kelly to the anti-Curry group also confirmed reports that James J. Hines , the politically powerful leader of the Eleventh district , had decided to cast his own vote for the retention of Mr. Curry because of past benefits received , but had released those leaders with whom he is believed to have influence . The presence of Keating and Kelly was taken to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only Mr. Hines continuing to support Mr. Curry . Mr. Hines , who is at Hot Springs , Ark. , is reported to be skeptical of the ability of Mr. Curry to retain his leadership , but will stand by him . After Two Leaders . The committee named to bring other district leaders into the revolt has strong hope of winning David Lazarus of the Sixth district and Solomon Goldenkranz of the Eighth district , whose districts are south of Fourteenth Street and who in some degree depend on support from the leaders of the adjoining districts , all of whom are antiCurry . Under the executive committee rules , each of the twenty-three Assembly districts in Manhattan has one vote . There is an equal number of women leaders but these usually vote with the men leaders of their districts . The support of Mr. Lazarus and Mr. Goldenkranz is important as each has one full vote . In the discussion at the conference , Mr. Curry 's leadership was criticized as inept and unsuccessful . The criticism was of the kind voiced frequently in Tammany clubhouses since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alderman Mahoney in his letter calling on Mr. Curry to resign . There has been no agreement upon a successor to Mr. Curry , assuming that it is possible to oust him . Because of the difficulty in agreeing on a candidate , the creation of a triumvirate or larger committee to take temporary charge of the organization has become increasingly probable .                     