@@697336

txt The prediction that the Republican State Convention would adopt a declaration favoring the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment was made yesterday by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler in a statement issued at his Summer home in Southampton , L. I. Dr. Butler estimated that from 60 to 70 per cent of the delegates would favor a repeal declaration and expressed belief that with a similar declaration by the Democratic State Convention the prohibition issue would be taken out of the field of political party controversy in the State campaign . Dr. Butler , who is expected to lead the fight for the adoption of a repeal plank , both as a delegate and as a member of the convention 's committee on resolutions , estimated that the vote for an independent dry candidate for Governor would not be much in excess of 100,000 , or less than half the vote received by Franklin W. Cristman as an independent dry Republican candidate for United States Senator in 1926 . That the drys will name an independent candidate for Governor if the Republican State convention should adopt a repeal plank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Declaring that the bell had rung for the pussy-footer , the time-server and the hypocrite , Dr. Butler asserted that every public man and every candidate for public office must declare for or against repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , and indicated that those who did not declare openly for repeal would be classed as against it . Dr. Butler 's statement follows : " From the best information now obtainable , it seems certain that a leclaration in favor of the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment will be approved and adopted by the coming Republican State Convention at Mbany . Probably 60 per cent of the membership of the convention will favor such a declaration , and by the time September comes this figure may increase to as much as 70 per ) ent . With this action taken by the Republican State Convention and like Iction by the Democratic State Conlention immediately thereafter , this iuestion will be lifted , as it should ) e lifted , out of the State campaign Ind out of the field of political party : ontroversy . For Fundamental Principles . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kmerican form of government are natters as to which both great parlea may properly join forces and to vhich all the energies of both may veil be given . That is the short and ure path to the repeal of the . mendment and to putting the several itates once more in position effecively to deal with the problems of he liquor traffic as their public pinion will require and support . In Lo other way can the cause of ternierance be equally advanced by Ifficial public action . " If there be those who are so conerned with the preservation of the eighteenth Amendment that they till not support the candidates of a party which favors its repeal , then they are not Republicans but Prohibitionists . They belong in a separate political party and , both logically and ethically , they should go there and conduct their appeal to the public from the platform of such a party . " So far as the State of New York is concerned it must not be forgotten that when this issue was last clearly joined in 1926 the total vote cast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner , reached nearly 2,600,000 . The vote cast for Mr. Cristman , whose candidacy was for the avowed purpose of defeating the Republican candidate despite the fact that his views on this question and those of the Democratic candidate who opposed him were Identical , was only 232,000 . So rapidly has the tide of prohibition ebbed that in 1930 that number would probably fall to not much more than 100,000 . " On this great fundamental ques ? tion of constitutional law and public morals the bell has now rung for the pussy-footer , the time-server , and the hypocrite . Every public man and every candidate for public office must now stand up and declare himself for or against the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . If he is not openly for this repeal , he must not be disappointed if he is classed as against it . " It can not be too often repeated , as I have taken occasion to say In public addresses delivered in more than thirty States during ten years past , that the fundamental question here involved has nothing whatever to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Following the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , those States which desire to retain ort , their statute books prohibitory laws may continue to do so until themselves convinced of their folly . The government of the United States will to the extent of its power protect them in their prohibitory legislation . " Laws for this purpose are already upon the statute book and would immediately become effective were the Eighteenth Amendment repealed . Other States , among which I class New York , would , I am sure , be ready and able quickly to adopt a system of State liquor control , taking advantage of the enlightening experience of the Scandinavian countries and of the Dominion of Canada , under which the private traffic in intoxicating liquors would be abolished , the saloon whether open or concealed put out of existence r .. nd the cause of temperance mightily promoted , while the historic civil liberties of the people would be preserved . " It ought to be clear by this time that men can not be clubbed or fined or imprisoned into temperance . They must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                