@@703687

txt The re-engagement of workers who went on strike Wednesday was begun in most private industries of France today after examination of each man 's case personally . In the Renault automobile works re-employment will begin Monday . At the Farman works today 705 men were taken back , and the same restarting of work has been going on all over the country . This is in accord with Premier Edouard Daladier 's instructions to Prefects that they should see to it that work is restarted as soon as possible in every industry . The Premier added in a statement to the press that while by striking on Wednesday some workers had broken their individual contracts , that did not have the effect of modification or suspension of collective contracts . Furthermore , he said , no change should be made in the salaries or other advantages of workers . This attitude of the government is in contrast to the violent wording of a resolution of the Socialist group in the Chamber of Deputies and a letter sent to the Premier by Leon Jouhaux , leader of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's action in using an economy axe on strikers as " repression " and protested " with keen emotion " against punishments in effect or prepared . They allege that private employers are getting ready to employ foreign labor . M. Jouhaux in his letter goes even farther , accusing the Premier of " ferocious " repression of the workers . He informed the Premier that he had already decided to resign from all posts held as a representative of labor on the board of the Bank of France and other committees when he learned from the newspapers that he had been relieved of these posts and emoluments . He threatened that labor representatives would cease all collaboration with the government and stated that " despite all the abject and abominable campaigns " against him he was conscious of having always served his country nationally ' and internationally with complete disinterestedness . C. J. Gignoux , president of the Employers Confederation , in a radio talk this evening , declared that employers had no intention of using the decrees or the excuse of the strike to take any " revenge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike , he said . Victory could come only when the national conscience had restored financial and economic prosperity to the country . Daladier Warns Employers PARIS , Dec. 2 ** prevent employers from taking undue advantage of his victory over organized labor In Wednesday 's general strike , Premier Edouard Daladier warned them to handle their workers with care . Through his Labor Minister , Charles Pomaret , M. Daladier advised employers to take back all workers who had merely obeyed union orders in heeding the call to strike in protest against the Daladier economic program . Thousands had been thrown out of work at least temporarily . The government 's advice carried a tacit warning that refusal to take back most of the strikers would bring grave trouble . Socialist Deputies estimated 80,000 workers had been discharged but the General Confederation of French Employers declared there was no " question of a mass lockout or discharges taking the form of reprisals . " More than 20,000 workers were still on strike and there were minor disorders today . The government announced last night after a conference of Ministers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ missions and mandates some of them hold from public authorities and in various organizations are withdrawn . " This stripped Leon Jouhaux , head . of the General Confederation of Labor , of his regency in the Bank of France , which paid him 10,000 francs a year attending board meetings . Lesser known labor leaders were removed from the board of directors of the French Railway Company and positions in other public services . New strikes broke out in protest against the discharge of workers who led the one-day walk-out . Near Denain a group of several hundred strikers refused to move when Mobile Guards ordered them to clear a road and permit other employes to return to work . The road was opened only after a score of persons , including several guardsmen , had been injured by paving stones and blows from gun butts . At Toulouse a dozen were injured before guardsmen restored order before a nationalized airplane factory where 2,000 strikers demonstrated . A general strike at Saint Nazaire , which included calls to 11,000 metal and shipyard workers , started this morning . Thousands refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metal factories in defiance of the government 's threats of layoffs and withdrawal of vacation and seniority rights . At Havre , 12,000 textile employes were called out and smaller strikes were ordered elsewhere . Saint Nazaire bristled with Mobile Guards . Many major plants were crippled . In one big shipyard only eighty of a total personnel of 1,500 reported for work ; only one-third of the workers of another appeared . The plant of the National Aeronautical Construction Company of the West remained closed . Ten thousand metal workers remained on strike in Northern France .                     