@@703956

txt An insistent demand for tax revision to encourage recovery , in which organized business and organized labor joined today , was met with a warning from Senator Byrd of Virginia that no substantial changes could be expected , except upward , in Federal levies so long as government spending continues at its present level . The tax-revision demand was made by half a dozen business leaders participating in the convention of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , and by Matthew Woll , vice president of the American Federation of Labor , a guest speaker at one of the day 's sessions . It was at the same meeting that Senator Byrd made his remarks , in which he charged that the present government in Washington was the " most wasteful and autocratic bureaucracy that this or any other country has ever been inflicted with . " Economy the Rey , Says Byrd " No downward tax revision can come until there is retrenchment and economy in government , " declared the Virginia Senator , a leader of the Democratic economy forces in the Senate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long-range tax plan , so it will know four or five years in advance what the burden is to be , " he said . " But that is impossible so long as the Federal Government continues to spend two dollars for every dollar collected . Changes in the tax laws may bring a small amount of temporary relief , but you will not get any fundamental relief until there is a fundamental move toward retrenchment . " The Senator added that debt-pay. ment by taxes was the only alternative to repudiation or inflation . Mr. Byrd 's assertions , although applauded loudly by delegates at the round-table on " Tax Deterrents to Business Progress , " had an apparently sobering effect upon members of the Chamber 's high command . Some of the national Chamber officers knew full well the trouble encountered by the Congressional economy forces in standing out against the importunities of local Chambers of Commerce when curtailments become so specific as to touch home-town projects . Some of them realized , too , that some representatives of constituent bodies gathered for the convention were using part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would aggregate many millions more in Federal expenditures . Complaints Shift to New Da The tax discussion took place at one of the several luncheon meetings at which the business leaders and their guests sought the " key to . recovery . " Complaints against New Deal policies predominated at most of the day 's discussions . At the opening session yesterday the fear of a European war was listed foremost r.mong the causes for the continuing drag on American business . Other group meetings considered the problems of transportation , Agriculture and industrial production and distribution , and the par ' ticular problems of the Chamber as an organization . Still another , studying the question of industry 's preparation for national defense , heard Colonel J. H. Burns of the War Department tell of a proposal to establish a sort of Federal economic control agency in case of war . Colonel Burns , who is executive officer to Louis Johnson , Assistant Secretary of War , said that a study is being made for the War Department by the Brookings Institution . It covers price control , " with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He listed salaries , wages , taxes , prices and profits among the things that might conceivably be regulated by central authority should this country become involved as a military participant in international conflict . ? The second day of the chamber convention wound up with three dinners , under the auspices of the American Trade Association executives , the National Association of Commercial Organization Secretaries and the American Chambers of Commerce abroad . Guests at the organization secretaries ' dinner heard Representative Bruce Barton warn business leaders to be prepared to take over a new role after 1940 . Unless there is a war overshadowing all domestio issues , he said , " the result of the 1940 election is already determined . " " I do not know what feelings this announcement may inspire in you , " - Mr. Barton continued . " To me it Is not so much a cause for ' rejoicing as for a heart-searching re-examination of our qualifications , our patriotism and our ideals . We who call ourselves leaders in American business life are to be released from the dog-house and allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs . " He told the business executives that their promises to expand the nation 's economy and reduce unemployment " are about to be put to the test . " The chief emphasis in the day 's sessions was on the question of taxes . In his address at the opening of the general meeting this morning , George H. Davis of Kansas City , president of the chamber , demanded a sharp reduction in Federal levies in the interest of fuller recovery . Davis Cites Basic Handicaps New jobs are made possible by the creation of new enterprises or expansion of old ones , Mr. Davis pointed out . " But there are certain basic handicaps which are preventing most business firms from expanding or starting new enterprises , " he continued . " Starting new enterprises requires what might be called ' venture money . ' We must change tax laws in a way that will encourage people who have money to invest . " Mr. Woll , in his capacity as vice president of the American Federation of Labor , agreed with the business representatives that taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go forward . He urged a complete revision of the Federal tax statutes , and suggested a conference of labor and capital " to formulate plans for the definition of problems involved , to undertake such further research as may be required and finally determine a program of education and action that will result in concrete steps toward a nation-wide analysis and correction of governmental costs , and a corresponding lessening , of excessive and burdensome taxes . " Dr. Harold G. Moulton , president of the Brookings Institution , not only criticized in detail the present ' corporation tax structure but pre-1 dicted that persistent Treasury deficits may destroy private investment in the United States . He said that the deterrents to industrial financing now inherent in the tax system would be even more restrictive once general confidence is restored and the way opened for business expansion . " In order to promote equity financing it is essential that there be a substantial reduction in the surtax rates in the upper brackets , as well as a modification in the existing system of computing capital gains and losses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MEETING J. Stanley , president of the Chamber of S. Clay Williams , chairman of the Times Wide World Commerce of Canada . Tobacco Co . R. J. Reynolds said . " It would seem to be desirable also to abolish tax exemptions so far as future issues are concerned . " Senator Byrd told the business leaders that they must prepare to endure still heavier taxes if present high-speed spending is continued . The Senator referred to his differences with Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the Federal Reserve System . " Nine years of deficits , very largely financed by bank credits , " he said , " should shake even Mr.                     