@@697186

txt The price movement developed a stalemate in a comparatively dull and featureless session . Quotations rewarded before selling pressure at various intervals throughout the day , but , in many instances , particularly ' , among the recognized leaders such as Steel and American Can , there was a rather easy recovery from the low points . The uninteresting course of the tape was punctuated at tunes by flashes of strength in numerous specialties , with Radio , Radio-Keith . Diamond Match . Houston Oil and others breaking sway into higher territory . It was accentuated at other periods by weakness in a number of other stocks which declined to new low levels . This phase of the day 's activities was featured by further declines in Union Carbide . Gillette , United Aircraft and several leading motor issues . In the latter group there were heavy offerings of General Motors and Packard. carrying prices below former resistance levels to the lowest points on the movement . An un- settling factor on sentiment was a dreier .. in Studebaker to its lowest levels of 1929. anticipating a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directors . The sideways movement of prices during the peat few sessions undoubtedly has accomplished important technical correction in the markers internal condition . It has uncovered some evidence of a temporarily oversold condition in scene groups . Apparently this was the condition in the copper shares when announcement of a. cut in the dividend rate on Chile from $3.50 to $3 had little appreciable effect on the shares . Oil shares were reactionary under profit-taking and yielded their active positions to the public utility issues . A large volume of trading occurred in this latter group , but price changes were confined to a narrow range and without particular significance . Call money was in liberal supply . opening at 4% and declining to Trade reviews were conservatively optimistic . The Federal Reserve Board 's review of conditions showed trade conditions working into a more favorable situation during the early part of April . It was pointed out that during the first quarter , business failed to follow the seasonal trend toward improvement . However , factory employment and payrolls in March showed little change at levels considerably smaller than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lumber was considered a promising indicator . The board noted some decline in money rates during the first three weeks In March , with a firmer tone subsequently . It was also stated that bond yields after declining during most of March increased the early part of April . ? ? ? Butte advices were to the effect that Anaconda had reduced wages 25 cents a day at that center . The moderate amount of the cut at this time was interpreted to mean that prominent copper interests hope that the 14-cent level for copper can be maintained . Settlement of the controversy over control of National Air Transport by United Aircraft should clear up some of the friction which developed among prominent factors in the aeronautical industry over this contest . The decision which gives United control of National Air Transport was in the nature of a compromise since it calls for exchange of stock on the basis of three shares of National for one share of United . Originally the offer by United was on basis of four shares for one , which later was reduced to shares. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airmail between San Francisco and New York . as well as the basis for an all-air passenger service across the Continent . - Explanation of the recent strength in General Foods was contained in the purchase by the Bancamerica Blair Corp. , of , a substantial block of stock in the company . General Foods is a consolidation distributing upward of 60 trademarked food products including such famous articles as Walter Baker Chocolate . Hellmann 's Mayonnaise , Calumet Baking Powder , Maxwell House Coffee , Postum , etc . The transaction again calls attention to the favor in which the food company stocks are held by investors by reason of their stabilized earning power even under adverse trade conditions . The National Biscuit Co. ' s earnings statement for the first quarter is a case in point , showing profits for 1930 at 64.665.616 , or 70 cents a share against $4,709.495 , or 71 cents a share in the corresponding period of 1929 . ? Air Reduction was up sharply on an earnings report for the first quarter which showed a gain of 23r over the like period last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declines being reported by most industrials . The showing is after an increase of 19r , in the company 's depreciation reserves . Charges for this purpose were larger last quarter than for any similar period in the company 's history . Earnings again demonstrate the company 's strength during depression and the showing during the current business uncertainty is similar to its record in 1921 when it was one of the few industrials to earn and pay its regular dividends . Activity in Shubert is based partly on merger rumors. one story being that Warner Bros. has been negotiating for the company . It can be stated definitely there are no negotiations under way between these two companies . ? Foreign buying of securities in the New York market which was a feature of the early stages of the recovery from the autumn panic has been of normal proportions in recent weeks . There are no indications that any substantial amount of the securities taken cut of the market for foreign account has returned for profit-taking purposes . One house doing a large business with London and the Continent states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparent . There is , of course , some flow of buying orders , but it is stated that these represent the ordinary investment demand . Action of the foreign exchanges over the past few days would not bear out the belief of unusually heavy foreign buying . An irregular tone has prevailed , but on the whole the trend has been upward If security buying had assumed heavy proportions , exchanges would have been affected adversely . Sterling has been weak . but this has been due principally to movement of funds to Amsterdam and Paris from London . It is understood negotiations between Columbia Graphopohone and Radio Corp . ' s subsidiary , the Gramaphone , Ltd , have not advanced appreciably . Ultimately , it is probable the merger will be consummated . In the meanwhile , the Street is conjecturing at terms which have not been concluded and the latest guess is twothirds of a Radio share for each Columbia Graphophone . When and if the exchange goes through . it may be done in an entirely different . way than by issuing Radio shares for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listed in London , and this might mean an exchange of additional Grarnaphone , Ltd. , shares for Columbia .                     