@@697974

txt Crime prevention and correction are sought in a number of bills recently passed by the Illinois General Assembly and some of which were signed today by Gov . Louis L. Emmerson . A crime commission , made up of Mr. Fred E. Sterling , President of the Senate , and eight other members of the Legislature has been approved by the Governor and will leave July 16 to study prisons and penal methods In England , Germany , France , Holland and Czechoslovakia . The Roberts machine-gun measure , also signed and in effect , prohibits the sale , possession and transportation of machine guns , but exempts branches of the Federal War Department and peace oMcers . Two state departments are authorized to organize systems of crime detection . The Department of Public Works and Buildings is authorized to establish one or more radio broadcasting stations to be used only for police purposes . The Department of Public Welfare has been authorized to create a bureau of criminal identification and inveltigallon . The bureau will gather records of persons convicted of felonies and others arrested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or bombs are found . Upon acquittal and upon release without a conviction photographs , records and finger prints are to be returned to the person charged with crime . The Judicial Advisory Council at Cook County is made a permanent institution for Chicago by an act of the Legislature and approval of the Governor . The Governor 's emergency revenue committee , which is to draft tax relief legislation to be considered at a special session of the Legislature , has taken under advisement the proposal of the Chicago Real Estate Board for a funding of the IRO assessment over a period of 20 years , and a consequent cancellation of the tax bills . At the third meeting of the group yesterday , it was evident , however , that the funding proposal would not have a smooth course . Even if the committee were to agree on the advisability of such a plan , the legal snags will probably be many , and general opposition not lacking .                     