@@704098

txt In contrast with a back-towork trend in numerous localities stimulated by President Roosevelt 's ban on WPA strikes , troubb flashed up again in Minneapolis and other places . Renewed rioting which claimed a second fatality led Mayor George E. Leach to declare the city unable to protect IVPA workers , and to wire Attorney General Frank W. Murphy urging Federal intervention to restore law and order . WPA projects with few exceptions were ordered shut down . At Washington some members of Congress favoring restoration of the " prevailing wage " reported that the strikes were operating against their chance of getting this through . The American Federation of Labor and the United States Conference of Mayors brought increased pressure on the Administration to ease the new Relief Act 's regulations , but there was no sign of yielding , although an A. F. of L. delegation said it had received assurances from President Roosevelt that he would " explore " the possibilities of its suggestions . Strikers dismissed because of staying away from work longer than the time limit of five days were estimated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ July 15 ( . Pi -- Following last night 's riot here between WPA strikers and police , Mayor George E. Leach , telegraphing Attorney General Murphy today , declared that " certain labor elements . . . have openly revolted against the Federal Government in its WPA Administration " and " nothing short of Federal intervention can restore Jaw and order .... " Saying civil authorities have done and " will do everything to keep and maintain order , " the Mayor asked the " co-operation of the Government as we would of any other employer in a labor dispute , " Meantime , another telegram vas sent to Mr. Murphy by a group of labor leaders representing the Building Trades Council , who demanded to know whether the Federal Bureau of Investigation in its inquiry here was " involved in a conspiracy of falsification and intimidation against the striking WPA workers and the Minneapolis Moor movement as a whole to deprive it of constitutional rights to organize , strike and picket . " The labor group asserted that unless its demands were " sustained " ( closure of all projects ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are conducting strikebreaking activities .... " WPA operations were shut down in strike-scarred Minneapolis today after a battle between police and demonstrators last night in which one man was slain and 17 persons gassed or injured . Blazing riot guns and clouds of tear gas sent several hundred WPA strikers and 2,000 or more onlookers scurrying for cover as police threw a protective cordon about 115 women sewing project workers when they left their quarters at 7 p. m. , and were followed by a menacing mob . Shouts and screams of the ! pickets , the reportsof guns and showers of rocks made bedlam in the downtown district along Second Street North , where the sewing quarters are located in a three-story brick building . Riot guns barked from armored police cars and gunfire spattered down from a near-by building top , where a yelling , rock-throwing group of men stood . The fatality yesterday was the second this week in a series of riots centering at the sewing project , which has operated in defiance of the strikers , who are protesting lengthening of their work month by Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a radio announcement , disclaimed further responsibility for protecting the workers , saying it was a Federal problem . Linus Glotzbach , State WPA Administrator , followed with an announcement that all projects here , with a few exceptions , Would not reopen Monday . WPA Pickets Guilty MOORHEAD , Minn. , July 15 ( M ) ? A flying squad of WPA pickets , seeking to stop work on projects in this area , found itself under arrest Friday on charges of unlawful assembly . Nine pleaded guilty and receives suspended sentences of 90 days in jail or fines of $90 and costs , while the other 10 pleaded innocent and were remanded to jail in lieu of bail for trial Julj , 24.                     