@@703802

txt Whatever doubt there ever was as to the prospects for the Administration 's emergency national defense program  --  and there never was very much ? is pretty thoroughly eliminated by an almost blanket approval given the program by the Republican con-Terence of the House of Representatives . The Republicans are n't altogether sure that they believe in developing the defenses of the Island of Guam which was conquered for the United States from Spain when their Party was in power . And they favor spreading the new Ai my ahcz aft procurement program out over a period of three or four years . But with these reservations they are pie-pared to go along with the Administration on about every detail of the prom am . Their action was taken at a Party conference at which a iepoi t from a special , Policy Committee of eleven was lead , debated and finally approved . Republican Report High lights of the report follow : " We believe that the item of appropriation which if adopted , would go far toward perfecting our Panama defenses , is sound . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational orders by the War Department is equally sound . In fact , we believe that a state of reasonable industrial preparedness , while not as dramatic , is fully as important as preparedness in the purely military sense . " Again , we find ourselves in agreement with the proposals contained in pending legislation looking toward the addition and strengthening of naval aviation and submarine bases In the Atlantic , as well as the addition of similar bases in the vast Pacific area bounded roughly on the west by the 180th meridian . " Favors Air Increase The Committee favored the authorization incorporated in the May bill  --  the legislative version of the Administration 's program  --  to increase the size of the Army air strength to 5,500 planes , Present authorized Army air strength is 2,320 . The Navy 's top strength is to be retained at 3,000 , thus projecting a total combined Army and Navy air strength of 8,500 planes . But the conference wants the increase to be achieved gradually over a three or four year period . Besides taking these positions on specific items in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general statement of foreign and defense policy intended to provide a philosophical founda6 lines deleted " The United Sts , tes may from time to time adapt ; new attitudes seri p ? . irsue new policies relating ' CO other rr.atters in this ever-changing world but there cars be no lessening of its devotion to the Monroe Doctrine because this , more than any other single avert of policy . Involves the safety of the nation and its vital interests , Philippine issue " Especially is this true now that by an act , of Congress we are withdrawing from the Philippines and shall not be expected to defend those ' islands . ' " If we control the sea and the air over a wide radius from the Canal it will not be easy for an enemy to reach it from the sea . " Likewise if , when the need arises . we take Instant measures to prevent the establishment of hostile bases in Central or South America , we shall have gone a long way toward closing the door . " With our defense system made effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Atlantic . with hostile military infiltration promptly prevented , and with the Canal itself fortified to the utmost degree of effectiveness , ue shall be secure in the Western World . Such should be our military policy ; such must be our defense . " Secrecy Order Modified WASHINGTON , Feb , 10 sari  --  The Senate Military Affairs Committee agreed today to permit members to make public all information they obtain in future closed sessions , except military secrets . It voted down , however , a motion to hold open hearings on the Admin. istratlyn 's current defense program and defeated by an 8 to 8 tie vote , a motion by Senator Warren R. Austin al ) of Vermont to hold open hearings on future bills . It postponed until Monday action on . a motion by Senator Bennett Champ Clark ID ) of Missouri to make public the record of its investigations of the proposed sale of the latest type of military planes to France . Senator Austin said he interpreted today 's action to mean that Committee members would be free to discuss with newspaper men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed sessions except matters involving . military secrets .                     