@@701189

txt A pledge of House leaders to stand by President Roosevelt in his planning for the future of the NRA followed quickly today the action of the Senate Finance Committee yesterday in overriding his wishes by reporting the Clark Resolution , extending the Recovery Act until April 1 , 1936 . Speaker Byrns and his lieutenants found no particular fault with the Senate Committee 's action , but they bided their time to see what the President would ask . " The main thing is to get the Senate to act in some manner on the question , " said the Speaker , and he proceeded with the promise that the House would finally deliver to the White House whatever the President wanted in the way of NRA legislation , regardless of what the Senate might do . The Clark resolution was reported formally today , by a vote of 13 to 4 , in the form in which it was introduced late yesterday . It provides a ten months ' extension , with exclusion of all intrastate businesses from operation of codes , and definite outlawry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a show of hands . Amendments Beaten Down . Efforts were made just before the committee vote was taken today to write in a prohibition against production control and to provide code control for intrastate industries that might seriously and obviously effect interstate commerce . Both were voted down by decided divisions . The thirteen voting ' to report the resolution were Chairman Harrison and Senators George ( proxy ) , Walsh , Bailey , Clark , Lonergan , Gerry , Guffey , Democrats ; Couzens , Keyes , Metcalf ( proxy ) , Hastings and Capper , Republicans . Those opposing the resolution were Senators Barkley , Costigan and Black , Democrats , and La Follette , Progressive . Senators King , Connally and Gore were present but did not vote . Opposition to the committee 's plan was quick in developing . Senator Walsh , although voting to report the resolution , issued a statement declaring that the clause removing intrastate business altogether from code regulation would deal a death blow to the whole NRA . He announced that he would join with Senator Barkley in pressing an amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If this provision Is retained it will break up the administration of the NRA more quickly and more completely than anything I can conceive of , " Mr. Walsh said . " It would be far better to repeal the whole law . Blow to Industry Seen . " The insertion of these provisions would set up all over the country industries confining their outlet to purely intrastate channels without any regulation as to wages or hours of employment , in competition with those industries whose business extends into different States and who , thereby , would be subject to wages and hours of employment and other conditions fixed by the codes . " Such a condition , of course , would result in chaos and would penalize severely every so-called interstate code-regulated business . " Senator Wagner , one of the sponsors of the original National Industrial Recovery Act and now counted upon to support a more permanent extension than recommended by the committee , has received this telegram from the Industry and Business Committee for NRA Extension , an organization with headquarters at 10 East Fortieth Street , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extension of emasculated NRA would be utterly disastrous to business and industry . This is conclusion of our committee , representing sixty groups of industry and business operating under codes with over 300,000 units employing several million workers , doing annual business of over $10,000,000,000 . " Our committee stanchly supports passage of Harrison bill with necessary changes and prompt action to end serious present business unrest and uncertainty . " WARD CHENEY , Chairman . " Regardless of the opposition , Senator Harrison expressed the view that the Clark resolution was an admirable solution to the present NRA problem , and believed it could be put through the Senate with the minimum of delay . He plans to call it up soon after the bonus bill , now pending , has been disposed of . The executive council of the American Federation of Labor will call on President Roosevelt tomorrow to tender him its support in his program for a two-year extension of the Recovery Act . The council will oppose restricting the new law solely to industries directly engaged in interstate commerce on the ground that industries affected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes . These would be without minimum wage and maximum-hour protection in the event the pending NRA resolution was adopted . The child labor provision would also be removed from this large group in that event .                     