@@702371

txt The press conference at which President Roosevelt divulged his startling plan to reorganize the courts was one of the most unusual on record to be compared with the hour-and-a-half conferenct at which he made his famous " horseand-buggy " comment . Reporters arrived for the customary conference at 10:30 and noted that members of the Cabinet were leaving . Next Item of significance was the departure of Senator Henry F. Ashurst ( D ) of Arizona and Representative Hatton Summers ( D ) of Texas , chairman of the respective Judiciary Committees of Senate and House . For a long half hour reporters cooled their heels in the anteroom of the President 's office and shifted nit , easily before the big white door , wondering what momentous event could be causing the delay . " I have some Important news for you , " the President said , when the group of 100 or so were all in , stand -- Ing in semi-circle before his desk . Excitement . was whetted by the elaborate preliminary to his comment . The President told reporters that they must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization , until the message was read to Congress , and were not to leave his office until he was concluded . Mr. Roosevelt carefully refrained from making any direct comments as to the Supreme Court , but an undercurrent of raillery ran through his entire remarks . As he mentioned the court he frequently paused to let his point sink in . Reporters immediately caught the sig- nificance of his remarks and gasped . There was frank laughter as he continued , in which he joined . Under the guise of a move to speed up justice , It was quickly obvious that Mr. Roosevelt was attacking the immediate problem of the New Deal in relation to the high court . Mr , Roosevelt went through the report of the Attorney General , " hitting , " as he said , " the high spots , " then his message ; finally , a batch of statistics on judicial delays . The President made a pretense of casual inclusion of the Supreme Court with the other courts in his explanation , but toward the close Joined in the startled amusement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for a direct attack , every gesture and emphasis which he gave emphasized the significance of what he said . Referring to the early habit of Supreme Court judges to ride circuit on horseback , he laughingly called this " a prelude to the horse and buggy era , ' adding , soto voce , ' That 's not In the message . " When he reached the crux of his message to declare that " even at the present time the Supreme Court is laboring under a heavy burdh , " he read forward with an expressionless face , while the white House secretariat Who stood in the rear , and who apparently had been coached on the matter , looked blankly into the air , or , like Marvin , kept his mouth hidden in his hand . The President read out with a firm voice ? " Thls brings forward the question of aged and infirm judges  --  a subject of delicacy and yet one which requires frank discussion  --  and when the audience gasped and laughed , looked up and joined in the merriment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to make an attack on the eligible-to-retire Supremo Court judges : " They seem to be tenacious of the ? appearance of adequacy . " Smilingly Mr. Roosevelt looked up to declare that what he had just read was a quotation , and not his own words . " I leave to you , " he said , " to find out the distinguished jurist who wrote those words . " Another parenthetical remark came a minute later when he quoted ' the attorneys general who were in office 1513.1916 ? as having made a recommendatlop to Congress for an additional judge when septugenarlan judges failed to retire . This , in. substance , is Mr. Roosevelt 's own present recommendation : " I 'll end the suspense and say the attorneys general who made that recommendation were ItIcReynolds and Gregory . " This , of course , referred to Mr. Justice , Wilson 's attorney general , and later , named to the high tribunal , who Ihis taken the negative side in every one of the 12 major New Deal cases so far decided by the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own ends . When he came to the first of his four recommendations , Mr. Roosevelt raised his Voice emphatically , much as he did when he took the oath of office from the chief justice on the rainy portico of the Capitol , repeating his determination to " protect and defend the Constitetion . " ? No constitutional change is involved in the proposed bill , Mr. Roosevelt said . " Some of you will now realize what I. meant in my annual message of Jan. 5 , " he added , with reference to his recent declaration that he believed judicial " Cooperation ' ' could be worked out without constitutional change . A little later he declared also that the proposed bill was " not taking away seny right " of the courts , ' He paused , unsmiling , after reading the extract from the proposed bill ihniting proposed judicial increases tp not " more than 15 members of the Supreme Court of the United States . " Though the astonishment of the correspondents expressed itself In laughter , this was merely the release of emotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an undercurrent of solemnity in the scene . Mr. Roosevelt made no continent that could be quoted as a direct attack on the court , whatever inference might be drawn , He preserved a studied comprehensiveness in his comments whereby the Supreme court was always Included with other federal courts in the need for " speedier justice . "                     