@@697844

txt Business today is in a traffic jam , with competent leaders at the wheels of high-powered , well-equipped Indus-tiles impatient to go fo  --  wald  --  but no one to turn on the green light , says Dr. William T. Foster , Pollak Foundation for Economic Research . Dr. Foster summed up his views of present industrial conditions before labor leaflets ( tom all over the country and Canada attending the eighteenth annual convention of govei n-mental officials in industry , today , at the Hotel Stotler . Accol ding to Dr. Fostet 's analysis , inability to give the " go signal " to industry does not spring ( tom a lack of knowledge of the mechanics involved , but rather from confusion as to the angle of attack In tins connection he pointed out that steps to bung about /chef must focus on the monetary aspect of the problem , the only essential in industry which can be absolutely controlled Management , machinei y , mate ' la Is , production and money he cited as the essentials of business One oi the ( ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foi the depression . He settled on money because , with 95 pet cent of business clone by bank et edit , there had been a reduction of 45 per cent in the use of bank ci edit during the last No yea 's " The flow of money to consumers is one of the maior points of attack , " Dr Fostet declined . " It is the cent , ' al theme of research wok Thole Is no unwillingness to work equipment is thoroughly adequate , the wafehouses ale bulging with materials . We must proceed to use all our available e-sources , and of major importance , we must increase the consumer 's purchasing power . " A plan of procedure similar in several aspects to Dr. Foster 's was drawn by Edwin S. Smith of William Filene 's Sons Company . In brief , he advocated more autocratic control of credit , a scheme which was taking shape partially in the moposed ft:it/nation of a National Planning Board . How far business was prepared to go toward controlling credit , Mr. Smith could not say but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against expanding indebtedness . While Russia 's challenge to capitalism was considered too autocratic by Mr. Smith , he believed that its system of controlled production and collective profits conveyed a worthwhile lesson to industry . It was his opinion that emotive action , while international in scope , must necessarily focus on " setting the individual house in order " All must share a common burden , he declined , but the pressure of external depression he insisted must be minimized first by an adjustment of internal conditions . Neither Dr. E. B. Patton , presiding officer , and Director of the Bureau of Statistics of New York . nor Mary Van Kleeck , Director of Industrial Studies of the Russell Sage Foundation , agreed wholly with Dr. Foster , that the monetary aspect was the main avenue of approach to the prevention of business depressions . Money policies do have a pertinent effect upon the purchasing power of the people , Miss Kleeck declared , but she pointed to other factors she considered of equal importance . She especially stressed the value of statistics in averting future depressions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a permanent statistical bureau to cooperate with the federal bureau of statistics in compiling facts on unemployment and furnish the background for a monetary policy which will stand the test of time . Standards of living , which would be constantly under surveillance , are the measurements by which governmental officials can ascertain the balance between production and consumption , she declared . Statistics are guides to the development of a program for stabilizing employment , Miss Kleeck added . In conclusion she warned against the temptation to misinterpret statistics to gain political advantages .                     