@@702065

txt The roles played in recovery by American " deficit financing , " the British banking policy and German and Japanese arming are analyzed in the League of Nation 's current year book on " Money and Banking , " just out . The book forms part of a comprehensive and searching study of economic effects of monetary changes prefacing its detailed study of money and banking developments in each of the principal countries , Which it illuminatingly compares with various policies of monetary expansion and contraction . While explaining the gold bloc 's business stagnation can not be attributed entirely to its monetary policy , the report says : " It must be recorded as a matter of historical fact that , in those few countries which did not either depreciate their currency or use the protection afforded by exchange control to pursue an expansionist monetary policy , no considerable measure of economic improvement had taken place by the end of 1935 . " New Function Seen Here " The principal function of the American commercial banking system has become financing government deficits , " says the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After pointing out that more than half the assets of American banks are government securities , it notes : " This proportion is not , indeed , very much higher than in the United Kingdom ; " but it is held ' to represent an important innovation in American banking practice . Contrasting the two , the report I says : " Cheap money in the United Kingdom was the result of banking policy , while in the United States it was achieved at the cost of a heavy addition to the national debt . Increase in production in the United Kingdom took place without any considerable rise in prices , while 1 in the United States prices rose much more sharply . ? ? ? " The essential monetary difference between the two countries lies in differences in rapidity of circulation of the monetary medium . " The report brings out that the United States , although borrowing twice as much as France , is able to do . so at a lower interest rate . This , it says , explains why American deficits had an inflationary effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the possibility of the Federal Reserve System 's seek mg to meet the danger from a huge excess of cash reserves by raising member banks ' reserve requirements ? a step taken while the report was being printed ? it says : " Although member banks as a whole had reserve balances twice as large as those legally required , a large number of individual member banks held only modest bal- antes above legal requirements . A very considerable increase in reserve requirements would risk putting certain banks in a. deficitary reserve position , forcing them to borrow from reserve banks and to contract their credit . " The report finds that these excess . reserves , " although they constitute a danger of inflation in the United States , at the same time represent an important element of sound banking . " " They are largely due , " it continues , " to the inflow of foreign funds , ' bad money , ' which may be withdrawn at a moment 's notice . The fact that the funds which have sought refuge in the United States in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit structure provides assurance that their repatriation can be effected with a minimum of disturbance in the United States . " " The economic arid monetary situation in Germany since the beginning of 1933 , " continues the report , " has been dominated by the expenditure of large sums , by or with the guarantee of the State , for rearmament , public works , &c."; It cites German documents to show that , in addition to borrowing , Germany raised for these " public investments " between April , 1935 , and March , 1936 , 7,000,000,000 reichsmarks through increased yield on taxation and reduction of unemployment benefits . It finds the rise in German industrial production " almost entirely due to an increase in the output of industries directly benefiting from State orders , " while " real hourly wages have fallen " since 1933 . The report paints a somewhat similar picture of Japanese recovery , noting that " the very sharp rise in the output of investment goods is due in part to the fact that heavy industries producing armaments , &c.,; are included under this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Manchuria after 1932 . " It finds , as with Germany and the United States , " very little sign of a marked revival in the market for new private capital issues . " The report , which is the work of the League 's financial section , is a mine of statistics and other data , filling two volumes this year instead of one . JOHNS-MANVILLE DIVIDEND $1.75 a Share Declared on Preferred , With Extra on Common . At a meeting of the board of directors of the Johns-Manville Corporation yesterday a regular quarterly dividend of $1.75 a share was declared on the cumulative 7 per cent preferred stock , payable on Oct. 1 to holders of stock of record at the close of business on Sept. 17 . In addition , a quarterly dividend of 50 cents a share , plus an extra dividend of 50 cents , was declared on the common stock , payable on Sept. 24 to stockholders of record on Sept. 10 . OTHER DIVIDEND ACTIONS St. Lawrence Flour Mills The directors of the St. Lawrence Flour Mills declared yesterday an extra dividend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation has declared a special dividend of TA ' cents and the regular quarterly dividend of 15 cents on the common stock . Allen Industries The directors of Allen Industries , Inc. , declared yesterday an extra dividend of 25 cents and the regular quarterly dividend of 25 cents on the common stock . Bushmill Wine and Products The Bushmill Wine and Products Company , Inc. , of Scranton , Pa. , has declared a special stock dividend of 6 per cent on both the Class A and B stocks .                     