@@697523

txt Although progress is slow , it is asserted here by those who worked with Aristide Briand last Spring and Sum . mer on his European federation plan that appreciable gains have been made in the propagation of the idea since its seeming check in Geneva last September . They believe that when the discussion is resumed next month it will be discovered that the attitude of many European governments is far more favorable than it was even four months ago . The urgency of economic union is especially influencing the various governments . They are discovering again that Europe Is in many respects an economic as well as a geographic entity and that if there is to be strength there must be cooperation . In that development one of the most interesting features has been the scheme for a reciprocal trade agreement , which is being urged between Germany and her eastern agricultural neighbors . In that movement the Rumanian Government is taking the- foremost part , for Rumania is today in the position of the Middle West of the United States . All reports from there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have proved disastrous . The country is gorged with unsold wheat and foodstuffs , while it badly needs agricultural machinery and manufactured articles . Rumania Seeks Wheat Accord . The Rumanian Government has naturally turned toward Germany as its nearest manufacturing neighbor and is seeking a reciprocal trade agreement in which would be included not only these two countries but the whole of Eastern and Central Europe . Propaganda work and negotiations have been going on for some time , and it is believed that the plan will soon find full support iri Germany . The Rumanian need to find an outlet for the wheat crop has become sp urgent that , while former Premier Julius Maniu has been urging the reciprocity plan for Central Europe , a special trade commissioner , Ion Luculescu , has been visiting other countries seeking not only to establish new - markets but to explain the idea of his government . Here M. Luculescu has been urging that the plan fits in perfectly with M. Briand 's federation scheme for the prosperity of Europe because the whole depends on the prosperity of its component parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interview , " to declare that a reciprocal treaty such as we are suggesting among the Eastern and Central States of Europe would injure the interests of the wheat exporters of America or the manufacturing interests of Western Europe or America . They all are much worse injured by the present situation , which prevents us from selling to or buying from any one . " The whole business of this world is a chain , and for the moment the links seem badly disconnected . If we in Eastern Europe can sell our wheat to Germany and buy in exchange from her the machinery which we need , the final result as it affects other countries will be simply that both we and Germany will be better off and better able to meet our obligations and to do other trade with other countries . " It does not do anybody any good that we can not sell our crops and that Germany can not find a market for her machinery , whereas it would do good all around if we could get business started . Power Cooperation Favored . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TIMES . GENEVA , Dec. ** cooperation on the transmission and transit of hydroelectric power Is strongly urged by Belgium , which favors placing it on the agenda of the commission for the study of the European Union , in a note released by the Secretariat of the League of Nations today . ? I The statement is the first answer given out to the recent query sent to all European governments at to what they believed should be considered by the Commission , which meets here on Jan. 16 . The commission was established in September to study Foreign Minister Briand 's European federation project . The note from Belgium begins by declaring it advisable to list the matters which the League already has taken up , and which might usefully be made the subject for a special European study . The difficulties which have delayed the solution on a world basis of some of these subjects , it holds , might be overcome by limiting the questions to a European aspect . Another Suggestion Made . Aside from electric power , it suggests that a study be made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n and the extension to other fields of the procedure adopted in the tariff truce by which the signatories notify others of changes in their national laws . Stressing the recent technical developments in electricity , and how the neighboring European countries are becoming more and more closely linked by hightension lines , Belgium says : " V e must already look forward to the time when these exChanges can no longer be limited to two neighboring countries , but- when they will have to extend to the whole continent , which will have to be covered by an immense network of power distribution . Important national legislation should not stand in the way of such a program , and a definite statute should be established to enable it to be carried into effect . " the note points out that the League already has drawn up two conventions on this subject , one on the development of hydraulic power and the other on the transmission of power , but both were drawn up on a world scale and have had no real effect . For similar reasons , Belgium draws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more liberal treatment of foreigners , pointing out that the world conference in 1929 on this subject led to no results , save stimulating certain European countries to begin negotiations for an agreement among themselves . Belgium proposes to inform the commission as soon as these negotiations lead to results . International Action Urged . " The essential object of the European Union , of which it is proposed to lay the foundations , is to establish a system of constant cooperation among the peoples of Europe , " the note states , adding that this implies that each European nation- should refrain from taking steps liable to injure other European countries . It continues : " Action taken on the grounds of national interest tends as a rule to be somewhat neglectful of the interests of other nations . This is particularly true in economic matters during a period of crisis . Faced by serious difficulties , the authorities of every country act in isolation by a kind of reflex insthact of selfpreservation . Thinking only of the internal position , they consequently find themselves injuring the interests of neighbors. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They not only fail to cure the trouble but very likely aggravate it . " As a partial remedy , Belgium mentions the tariff truce 's provision for notification and redress when a tariff is raised , suggesting it be extended to cover the exchange of goods , the circulation of capital , the treatment of persons and a system of aomMunicatimua and tramp:lit                     