@@700065

txt The Cuban ciisis 1 CN am ping America 's interest in the Caribbean . It is Acing the American people to irking Who at e these neighbors living within a few shalt days ' sail . iff trie Florida coast ? Why are the cover tries of particular importance to ine United States ? And why should the American Government devote especial attention to their problems ' ) Get out a map of the Western Hemisphere and examine the Cazibbean area . Draw a line nearly south from the tip end of Florida and find Cuba the same island that Columbus placed upon the atlas United States , and from which pave problems have arisen , 441 years later Some $1,000,000,000 of American money is invested in this Islani Continue along a line due east to Haiti and the Dominican Republic . In both nations the American Government has used its good offices to restore older , straighten financial and economic conditions , and rebuild a sadly dilapidated political stiucturc . Like Cuba , the islands have held to customs centuries old , and have slumbered more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coming of American capital with its mixture of happy and doubtful blessings . Turn southward and swing gradually west , touching Panama , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala and Mexico Countries luxuriant with tropical vegetation and political flare-ups , deep jungles and economic morasses. and vast regions of potential riches : countries where the United States has large vested interests . Study the map closer . Find this Caribbean area to be the gateway to the Panama Canal and the Mississippi Valley Realize that it furnishes raw materials for the menulactui ed productions of the north Know that it fin niches foodstuffs for the Amei lean vat kets Anpremte that should the European nations dominate its politics , commerce might well be diverted from American ports and naval defenses jeopardized . A wonderfully valuable region this ON land Cox Christian Science Monitor Caribbean . And an unusually contraiy country the United States , walung for fears bet ? . e strengthening Iiiendly contacts Europe for a long while outweighed Latin America The World War came along and when it ended Europe had no money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flowed south , literally deluging the Caribbean region and the South American republics But money did not mean friendships . Time passed and Latin America went bankrupt , too Then was it that America discovered it had to revamp its whole southern trade policy . In other words , it had to look before it leaped again . American manufacturers and vested interests began reviewing American enterprises of the south ; and studied ways for more conservative commercial approaches . The idea was that a less i eckless expenditure of money should Ole way to reciprocal trade agreement mutually beneficial . America came to learn that Washington instead of furtheling. friendly contacts had persisted in trying to impress upon the Caribbean nations , in particular , the irnpoi tanoe of the democratic fundamentals of American government . And it further discovered that Washington , when such impressions failed to register , had sent marines to the Caribbean countries where troubles threatened northern interests , or Interfered with stability of tropical governments Naturally , the Caribbean countries had resented such treatment But apparently the United States did rr t care . Generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its writhern neighbors , although nest-Cent Coolidge , sending a future Sccretary of State Into Nicaragua , did try and patch up a political row between the small republic and a poaerful revolutionist . However , for the most part , America seemed not to care what the southern nations thought and so the nickname ' Yankee imperialist " remained tacked on to es ery United States citizen Roosevelt Enters Drama The American attitude of indiffel cure might has e continued indefinitely had not Latin America gone bankrupt , and , more especially , had not another Rowe , . elt included himself in the interesting drama and coming doan-stage , taken the spotlight and declared for the new deal . The scene ' went over big . " Tire American people caught the spit It of the thing Before long they vegan to believe the United States ' attitude toss its Caribbean neighbors a as unfair . It sat back and aarted for what the President would do President Roosevelt surveyed the situation intensively , with the aid of a new corps of experts . Most of his career @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation required diplomacy . It necessitated winning persons over to cooperative reasoning The Caribbean job tuts a difficult one . Roosevelt knee that he must deal with a temperament unlike America 's But he sits not feezed . He realized the value of this tropical region His former job as Assistant Secretary of the Nary had carried lum into the Caribbean waters , Like Theodore Roosevelt , he knew the need for inter - American ix rend-ships He knew that such ties would help to make the canal safe for the United States , and he knew that could he win the cooperation of the Caribbean republics mutually profitable commercial relations would result , in the long run . And so he went to work . Declares Against Intervention His first act was to declare against further marine intervention in the tropics Next he promised to withdraw all American marines from Haiti during 1934 . Finally , he urged the Latin-American countries to help him adjust the Cuban crisis The first thing he knew , the United States loomed across the Caribbean as the prodigal son of the western hemisphere . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the Caribbean countries a wealthy friend , ready to assist and waiting only the invitation to cross the threshold and sit beside a conference table . Exactly chat is to happen time must show The main point today is , America and the Caribbean are entering inta closer commercial relations , and , perhaps for the first time in American tropical contacts , the United States is looking around to see chat it can give in return for the commercial favors it seeks . Events are tremendously interesting , for the handwriting on the wall emphasizes that goods must be bought and sold if the Caribbean trade is to reman an American possession European nations are waiting to snap it up                     