@@702323

txt Announcement that a new " empire trade agreement " between Canada and Great Britain had been reached in principle was die most important item in the speech from the throne as the Dominion Parliament opened today . The agreement was reached only yesterday after a long delay , the chief reason for which was not so much Canada 's trade relations with the United . Kingdom as those with the United States . Because of the one-sided bargain made with Britain in 1932 by the Prime Minister at that time , R. B. Bennett , it had been expected by his Liberal successors that Britain would exact equally hard terms for renewal for another five years of concessions which in the past four years have given Canada a favorable balance of trade with the mother country amounting to nearly $700,000,000 . Britain , however , was disposed to be lenient . This is indicated by the fact that the additional concessions she has exacted will give her only another $50,000,000 to $75,000,000 slice of the Canadian market for her iron , steel and textile products . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister Mackenzie King 's unwillingness to " freeze " the preferences he was giving Britain as his predecessor had frozen them in the 1932 agreements . Mr. King advanced as a reason for his unwillingness the fact that he had frequently put himself on record against binding the hands of future Parliaments . His particular motive , however , is well understood to have been . his unwillingness to antagonize that American opinion which believes in mostfavored-nation treatment rather than exclusive pacts , and which , personified in Secretary Hull , now dominates the tariff policy of the United States . Mr. ' King had already departed from consistency by concluding with Germany a straight barter agreement which Germany is expected to make use of in negotiating a treaty with the United States . He did not wish by now , making an iron clad pact with Britain , to bar the way to possible extension of the Canadian-American treaty or to prejudice America 's chances of herself making a satisfactory new treaty with Britain , but the British negotiators put on pressure and it is understood that he has reluctantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throne , read by Governor General Lord Tweedsmuir , was revision of the capital structure of the Stateowned Canadian National Railways to write off $1,000,000,000 of old debts inherited from its constituents , the former privately owned Canadian Northern , Grand Trunk and Intercolonial Railways . Another bill will give the existing Dominion Railway Commisson power to coordinate and regulate all transportation activities in Canada except truck traffic . For Cross-Country Air Line There will be legislation for the establishment of a trans-Canada air service to be opened July 1 . The government will provide airports , beacons , radio and weather reports at a cost of $8,000,000 , and the service will be operated by a semi-private corporation owned by the two Canadian railways and existing aviation concerns . Jurisdiction over combinations is to be restored to the Dominion Department of Labor , and if the British Privy Council finds valid Mr. Bennett 's " New Deal " legislation permitting cartels and combinations to prevent wasteful competition , it will be enforced . The happy international relations on the American Continent and President Roosevelt 's visit to Quebec , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " were noted in the speech . Not noted but certain to be a feature is a coming attack on the government 's handling of the recent monarchical crisis . When King Edward abdicated , the Canadian Government requested the British Parliament to pass the necessary act on its behalf . Both the Conservative and Progressive Opposition factions will contend that Parliament should have been summoned and that the Dominion government alone had no authority to take the action it did .                     