@@701706

txt State aid to localities for various purposes which under the budget bills now before the Legislature would aggregate $135,307,000 during the next fiscal year should be continued at the present level , the Commission on State Aid to Municipal Sub . . Divisions recommends in a report to be filed with the Senate and Assembly tomorrow evening . On the other hand , the commission recommends that the localities no longer should receive a share of several taxes , including the corporation tax , the personal income tax and the alcoholic beverage tax , now divided with them by the State . As an offset to this loss it is recommended in the report that the cities and . villages , but not the towns , while continuing to share in the proceeds from the motor vehicle license tax , should receive a larger share in the tax on gasoline and virtually all the proceeds from the two emergency taxes of 1 cent per gallon each on motor vehicle fuel which the State now fails to divide with the localities . The report recommends that the proceeds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be made available for use on streets and highways exclusively instead of being " fed " into the State budget to be used to cover expenditures of any kind as at present . The Republicans in the Legislature for the last two years past have been insisting that money derived from the regular and emergency taxes on gasoline , aggregating 4 cents a gallon , which are collected by the State , should be used wholly for highway construction and maintenance purposes . In recommending continued State aid to localities at the present level , the commission has upheld the present huge contribution made by the State to the common schools . The amount included in the budget for the next fiscal year to cover this item is $122,139,819 , with a prospect that the amount would move automatically higher under the terms of the so-called Friedsam act another year , or by the time the next budget comes before another Legislature . The commission , however , recom- mends a " stand-still " at the present figure , pending the results of a survey of the State educational system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on by a subcommittee of the State Board of Regents , of which Owen D. Young is chairman . A report from this subcommittee is not expected until 1938 at the earliest . The enormous growth in the amount of State aid to local units of government in recent years , as well as the amount of tax proceeds the State has been returning to localities during the same period , has been a matter of unfavorable comment by Governor Lehman and some of his predecessors in the Governor 's office in their budget messages and other communications to the Legislature on fiscal matters . State aid to localities in 1933 , according to the report , was seventeen times as large as it was in 1919 . The amount of shared tax money was nine times as large in 1930 as it had been in 1919 . The depression cut the shared tax money in half , but the commission points out that by this time contributions from the State again have hit the up-grade . Governor Lehman was so concerned that he appointed the special commission to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other members are Ralph Jonas , George , Charles A. Miller , former Governor Nathan L. Miller , John C. Traphagen and George S. Van Schaick . The commission has been at work since last May . The proposal for State aid , the report points out , originated in a desire to insure the maintenance of local governmental service which might have been curtailed if dependent for financing on local revenues and at the same time open possibilities for relieving somewhat the burden of taxation on real estate from which practically all local revenue is derived . The commission finds that on the whole these purposes have been attained , even though , perhaps , in some instances the fullest measure of local service that might have been attained with the contributions from the State has not resulted and in certain areas State aid has stimulated wasteful expenditure of local money , reflected in an upward curve of the local tax rate . The commission indicates its belief that permitting State aid to grow would be fraught with financial danger for both the State and the localities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to grow out of localities spending " other people 's money . One of the complaints by fiscal officers of the State has been that under the system now in vogue the State retains no control over its contributions to localities once the money has left the State treasury . The commission does not take kindly to the suggestion that a State board to control local expenditures financed out of such contributions might serve as a preventive against waste . Mr. Miller suggests in a memorandum attached to the report that if the State could take over from the localities certain functions , such as education , public health and highways , for instance , it might meet the situation . Fully cognizant of the drawbacks to State aid , the commission recommended its continuance largely because of the straitened finances of most of the municipalities throughout the State , resulting , in part , from the calls for relief purposes on municipal treasuries . The Board 's Recommendations . There were twenty-three specific recommendations in the commission 's report , as follows : 1 . Sharing of ail State-collected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicle license and motor fuel taxes , to be abandoned . 2 . Cities and villages , but not towns , to be compensated for the revenue lost because of the discontinuance of shared taxes by a share in the motor fuel tax . 3 . Cities and villages to share with counties in the motor license fee distribution , in proportion to collections . 4 . The State Board of Regents to be directed to set up a special organization to prepare a comprehensive plan for the reorganization of school districts within the State and improvement in the educational offering ; moreover , the $425 minimum should be abandoned in such districts . Plans for Transportation Aid . 10 . Transportation aid to be made to comprise reimbursement for 50 per cent of " approved expenditure " only , with a reasonable standard for essential costs . 11 . Payment dates for school aid to be revised to one-fourth Sept. 15 , one-fourth Dee . 15 and balance March 15. 12 . Town roads to be transferred to the counties , since the town as a highway unit is too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the town highway system the present system of highway aid would be abolished , and if further aid seems necessary the county share of motor fuel taxes would be increased . 14 . The " Lowman " aid for county road construction to be discontinued . 15 . Cities and villages to share in the distribution of motor vehicle license taxes . 16 . Present basis of distributing motor fuel tax to be continued , with the modification that mileage used as basis be essential mileage . 17 . Closer State supervision over highway aid expenditures under State Department of Public Works . 18 . State to assume responsibility for snow removal on State highways . 19 . State to purchase rights of way for State highways . 20 . Cities and villages to share in the distributions of the motor fuel tax and motor vehicle license tax ; special consideration be given to the cost of constructing and maintaining through highways within city limits where by-pass roads are not the indicated solution . 21 . The basis for distributing motor vehicle license money to . cities to be collections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cities and villages to be population . 23 . Administration of veterans ' relief to be combined with the administration of home relief under the local home-relief organizations Instead of separately under the local veterans ' organizations . to promulgate such plan when prepared ; and a suitable appropriation to be made to finance the task . 5 . Pending the completion of the survey of the educational system of the State recently inaugurated by the State Board of Regents , the total of State aid for schools shall not be increased above the figure in the executive budget for the fiscal year 1936-37 . If this limitation results in a decrease in State aid , as calculated for the equalization quota , the adjustment shall be made by increasing the local contribution to the $1,500 and $1,900 minima from .6 mill to whatever amount is necessary to reduce State aid by the required amount . 6 . For the present no changes to be made in the form of the State equalization aid to districts other than one-teacher districts , except that the condition that these districts spend a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned and the $425 minimum be abandoned . 7 . Building and " double " aids for central rural schools to be suspended for consolidations not yet effectuated. 8 . Aid for consolidated districts on the pre-equalization basis to be abolished . 9 . Aid to one-teacher districts to be continued in its present form until reorganization can be effected ; but the State Department of Education should receive authority to withhold all State aid where the children in any district can be transported reasonably to another district with a saving in costs or                     