@@703685

txt Mail-Bag Excerpts Brief Comment by Readers On Various Subjects ARMAMENT : Too Much War Talk In proposing enormous expenditures for armament  --  what is it all for ? Whom do we expect to have to fight ? Are we not attempting to cross bridges that have not yet been built and may never be built ? Let 's stop talking and frightening people about wars and attend to our own business and troubles at home , for we have plenty of them at present . Let 's attend to the work of putting our own house in order and forget the matter of war. ? FRANK A. HARDEN , New York . LABOR : Vision Needed Second in importance only to the question of war and peace are the relations of capital and labor to each other and to the country as a whole . How democracies succeed in solving their internal problems is likely to have a decided bearing on international policies and developments . Many ' of those who have watched with eager hope the growing strength of labor are distressed and alarmed by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Organized labor 's efforts enlisted the earnest support of large numbers who had no direct interest but hoped that labor would lead the way in a just regard for the interests of the community as a whole. ? R. L. WEISSMAN , New York . CONSTITUTION : Pledge of Freedom The people of the United States should realize the priceless heritage of political wisdom they have received in the Constitution of the United States . This knowledge would give them an abhorrence for the naive attempts to shatter the foundations of our independence , political , social and economical . Freedom is such an inestimable prerogative that never should it be abrogated. ? The Rev. ) J. J. O'RIORDAN , St. Petersburg Fla HAMLET : Grave Located Concerning your editorial about a " Museum for Hamlet " : A few miles from Kronborg Castle is Hamlet 's grave . At the insistence of American tourists , the Danes , years ago , erected a beautiful tombstone to mark Hamlet 's burial place . It saves long explanations when visitors ask the citizens of Elsinore where Hamlet is buried. ? WILLIAM FE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After reading many explanations of the Nov. 8 counter-landslide , I conclude the chief factor producing it was the desire of the constructive , self-reliant majority to have government quit competing with its citizens in private business , and get back to its constitutional function as umpire and policeman. ? FRA NK PUTNAM , Houston , Texas . WORDS : Language Paralysis Years of debate and argument have evoked a paralysis of language itself , so that , in our sincerest efforts , we become haunted by the ring of our own words and find our objectives blurred by the ambiguity of our terms of reference . The condition is not novel . It is characteristic of all nervous states , both human and politic , and it is not hard to believe that such a malady has plagued Europe for decades only to resolve itself finally into the present lapse of reason . We must seek to understand ourselves or else face an unabated Babel of ideas , unintelligible , scattered and useless to our common DU /MOB ? ARTII UR NESBITT . New York BREECHES : With or Without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also are " without breeches . " That does not prevent our wearing pantaloons , pants , trousers  --  call them what you will ; which , I take it , was the case with the " sans-culottes , " The French Revolutionists may have been half-naked , but it was from raggedness , not from shedding their nether garments.  - -  EowARD PEALE , New York . CONDEMNED : Aid to Japan The United States is said to be at the top of the list in selling scrap iron to Japan . To all who profess to call themselves good Americans this is a black spot on neutrality and the nation . The powers that be at Washington should preach less and put more action In stopping this state of affairs. - GEORGE SCHIFF , East Orange , N. J. LIGHTS : For Pedestrians A letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES calling attention to danger to pedestrians on the road after dark provokes this suggestion : Two reflecting disks , similar to the rear reflector on an automobile , can be connected by tapes , put on over the head and worn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ossining , N. Y. FARLEY : Public Servant Your editorial , " Author Farley , " deserves a word of commendation . Those who know Farley like him for his sincerity and honesty , qualities too often lacking in many of our so-called public servants . Notable is the fact he ranks high in the opinion of the Democratic voters , as witness his continuous high standing in the various Gallup polls , which show their preferences should Roosevelt not run again.  - -  - Joux sox New York . DEMOCRACIES : Blind to Danger There is one bone I have to pick with democracies : they do not awaken to danger until it is almost at their very door . The damage done over a period of years by nations who thrive by means of propaganda is not easy to undo in a short time . Democracy has to be fought for and it is worth fighting for . ? EVA WILLIAMS BEOD ' : 13'Il.                     