@@701973

txt Definite indication that the New York Stock Exchange will give close study and discussion to the ideas of the Securities and Exchange Commission on broker-dealer segregation , as contained in last week 's report to Congress . with members being given opportunity to express their views on the subject , is contained in a letter sent to members yesterday by Charles R. Gay , exchange president . Following the semi-monthly meeting of the governing board , It was announced that the Law Committee had authorized the appointment of a special committee to study the contents of the report and to consult with exchange members to obtain their comment and advice . Personnel of the committee probably will be announced today . The membership will be asked to meet with the committee at dates to be announced later . Months In Preparation Calling attention to the fact that the SEC report on the " Feasibility and Advisability of Complete Segregation of the Functions of Dealer and Broker " as many months in preparation , Mr. Gay said that he would not comment at this time either upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the subject matter of the report and its implications are fully appreciated , he declared in his letter . The contents of the SEC report were discussed by the Exchange 's Law Committee at a meeting Tuesday and again Wednesday , and at the governing board meeting yesterday . Mr. Gay in his letter stated that opinion may be divided as to the conditions incident to maintenance of an adequate liquid market The Commission 's report to Congress maintained that volume itself , a good part of which is speculative , was not necessary to maintain liquidity of security markets . Letter to Members Mr. Gay 's letter to members follows : " As soon as available , I shall send to each member of the Exchange a copy of the Securities and Exchange Commission ' ' Report on the Feasibility and Advisability of the Complete Segregation of the Functions of Dealer and Broker . ' This report has been in preparation for many months . Because of its length and the importance of the subjects discussed , it is impossible to make adequate comment at this time either upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commission . The seriousness of the subject matter of the report and its implications are fully appreciated . " There is , I believe , no difference of opinion between the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission as to the necessity of doing everything possible to protect the public . Opinion , however , may be divined as to the conditions under which the Exchange may best function in order to provide an adequate , free and liquid market . " In my opinion , many months of careful study and frequent conferences with the Commission wil be necessary to solve the problems presented by this report . In order to ascertain the feelings of the members and to obtain their advice and comment , the Law Committee has appointed a Special Committee to study the questions and to consult with members . You will be advised of the meeting dates of this Committee . "                     