@@699533

txt Signs of a ' evolution are missing in Cuba No unusual restlessness is indicated In this city or in the outlying towns and country . Similar reports come in from the enthe island . What is going on beneath tile surface may be a different matter , for in Havana , at least , President Machado is not a popular man . Cuba 's main problem is a business one , as an 80 per cent decrease in trade during 1932 , compared with 1931 , and a 400 per cent decrease In living expenses show . Added to this trade upset , a ceaseless round of political intrigues has successfully blocked any concerted attempt to set the house in order . What Cuba needs most is the chance to forget politics for economics . At the moment , the Machado Administration is also faced with an overburdensome national loan plus floating debts made up of back salaries to government employees and claims against the treasury . Could some form of temporary relief be forthcoming to enable the Government to meet its international obligations and pay its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed breathing spell . The eyes of the Cuban business men are centered upon the incoming Democratic President at Washington . There is hope and , in sonicquarters , belief that President-Elect Roosevelt will extend relief to one of America 's potential best custom-et s . It is known that lie will be urged to lower the United States tariff barriers that trade may be festered between the two countries The argument will be advanced that Cuba desiring to grow and market its natural commodities has no de-sue to compete in the automobile , radio , refrigerator or in any of the other impedimenta of the technocrats . The request , viewing it from a Cuban angle , seems fair enough but there is an unfortunate obstacle the t may stand in the way of America 's favorable reaction  --  the political tiniest that students and professors of the ' University of Havana , and that many professional men here have aroused because of their towering resentment of President Machado 's policies . This animosity has led to unwise propaganda causing many Americans to believe that Cuba is on the verge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a secret clan known as the A. B. C. and a series of outbreaks and murders by that group America may require less political turmoil before it considers trade agteements . And further , there is the harmful influence that repeated charges against the Cuban President are bringing to bear upon Cuban exiles anxious to see their nation recovered and happy . Nearly every conceivable thing has been charged against the man until Cuba has become a place decidedly unsafe for travelers . The large falling off of tourists is one proof . President Machado for example , has been , and is , accused of : 1 . Establishing a dictatorship and planning to name his successor in office 2 . Causing assassinations and political exile . 3 Substituting military tribunals for civil courts . 4 . Suppressing freedom of speech , freedom of the press and pieventing public criticism of his administration . The Piesident once upon a time , answeted these charges and de-I dared that he would rule Cuba in whatever manner his opponents compelled him to govern it , in other words by force or cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration that whatever he said brought forth fresh denunciations . Today he has little to say about political opposition and has remained more and more inside the presidential palace or upon the broad acres of his hacienda near Havana . Knows He 's Marked Man Some people say he fears to be seen in public . His friends say otherwise , and his military record would seem to substantiate their claim . President Machado believes that he is better qualified than his many opponents to guide the Cuban ship of state during the next two years . He is willing that the world should pass judgment upon him when he has finished the job Even if a small amount of the hoped-for , world-wide economic recovery conies to Cuba and puts Its people to work , the President is certain that the bitter criticism of the last two years will vanish . Perhaps he is right , but during the last two years there has been a revolution followed by wholesale murders . Piesident Machado is marked for assassination by the A B C. secret organization . lie knows this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic and terroristic storms spreading across the island . Besides he believes that Cuba is some distance from a financial collapse . He further believes that conditions will improve and that the troublesome international and internal debts will be paid . The settlement of these obligations he considers a matter of honor . Talk with the man and it is easy to gather his supreme confidence . Not even the reports circulated outside the island that Cuba is starving daunt him . Nor the fact that something of that sort is admitted in a recent article printed by the Cuban Tourist National Commission and entitled " Cuba 's Back to the Wall . " Has lie Skipped a Chapter ? It may be that he has not read the story that in Chba today wealthy families are reduced to poverty , middle-class fan-lilies to penury and the working classes to literal starvation . The assertion is a wide one , although in Havana much of it is true for many of the beautiful houses in the fashionable residential sections are closed , hundreds of houses belonging to the middle class are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , members double up and economize on expenses and finally a large portion of the laboring class have taken to begging . Outside of Havana , however , and in the farming sections such misery is not general Cuba , during the Last two years , has turned to a diversification of crops , especially crops that provide food , and while the variety may not be considerable , usually there is enough food to live on . Wages Not as Low as Reported In many villages and back-country farms are well-nourished families and cattle as well-conditioned as can be found in the United States . It is wise to recall , when considering a tropical or semitropical country , that beans , bananas and corn will not allow anyone to go hungry , much less starve . To these products Cuba has added potatoes It may be that the stating idea is only a form of zitibtle propaganda to interest a generous American public , or it may be that the idea took root in the information that on certain sugar plantations laborers are offered the small sum of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is true enough , but 45 cents is nearer the average , although on one plantation employing some 5000 men the daily wages are $125 . This is accounted for by the shipment of sugar to the company 's sugar mills to be used in the making of candy . There is no doubt that in the United States a 45-cent daily remuneration would be placing a man upon a starvation level if he had to earn his living as a laborer . And there is no doubt that such wages have had a bad effect on other lines of business in Cuba . - The inability to make sales is reflected in the 80 per cent decrease in trade already referred to . Everywhere oh the island there is the call for increased sugar prices , lower American tariffs , that Cubans shall be contented . Sugar today costs about 1 76 cents a pound to produce , has a 2-cent tax added to the cost when it enters the American market , and sells for less than 1 cent No wonder wages are small and Cuba wants a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business slump The toutist trade has shown a falling off of some 25 per cent compared with last season Havana hotels have ? ot done what they anticipated . Restaurants all over the city have been hard hit . Store windows and counters are filled with articles marked down to tempting prices . Soft Pedaling War Talk Because of this business recession , Havana has had time to become a political hotbed for sensational and questionable prqpaganda . Muoh of the news going out to the States . President Machado has attempted to temper , for he has appreciated that foreign capital can not be attracted to Cuban apiculture and Cuban cattle raising unless it is assured a better measure of protection that might be expected after listening  --  to revolutionary talk . Much of Cuba 's wealth is potential , and no one realizes this better than the Cuban President . Recently there has been considerable talk about American inteivention . IfAmerica comes in , it will have to take over the Government . The President could hardly favor such a step when he believes that Cuba 's problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially since to help settle these problems he has offered to the opposition a chance to return , set up a coalition government with him remaining at the head until 1935 when he would not seek reelection . His opponents have refused to believe that he is sincere and do not believe they would be safe on Cuban territory . They can hardly be justly criticized , Cuba , True to Form Cuban politics are no different in many ways than the political maneuverings of other Latin-American republics . Generally the opposition wants what the Government is unwilling to give up . In Cuba , President Machado is declared to have been illegally elected in 1928 . On the other hand , he labels his opponents as illegal representatives of a national policy for Cuba 's welfare . But he has a strong group opposing him , whatever he calls them . Listed are former President Juan Mario Menocal , living in Florida ; Col. Carlos Mendieta , of the Union Nacionalista Party ; Sefior Cosine De Latorriente , living in Havana , and Senor Miguel Mariano Gomez , former Mayor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this group is its Inability to agree upon one leader for the Cuban people to rally round . Many persons declare that President Machado is better fitted than his political opponents to pull the island from its economic and financial slough . They figure that the experience of the last seven years would stand him in good stead .                     