@@701286

txt City bred cowboys on their gasoline fed " iron steeds " staged an impromptu rodeo on a stretch of the Indianapolis boulevard near the Indiana  --  linois state line yesterday afternoon when a little brown filly threw her rider and decided to go home . Matt Egan , 21 years old , started the chain of events which resulted in the modernized wild west show , when he rented a horse from a livery stable which is conducted in connection with the Roby lnii , at 108th street and Indianapolis boulevard , near the Roby speedway , two blocks south of the state line . With another young man , Egan started off for a canter along the bridle path which runs through woodlands to the west of the highway . Home in a Hurry . At the end of an hour 's ride , the horsemen turned back , Egan 's mount started out at a fast clip to get back to her stable and a bag of oats and Egan bounced off , the fall knocking him unconscious . Ills friend stopped to help him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rider , swung cast to the highway at a gallop . Heedless or the heavy Saturday afternoon trade , the filly darted out on the boulevard . Brakes screeched as motorists sought the safety of the roadside . But the little brown filly kept up her pace . running in and out among the cars , her mind set on the feed bag . Several of the automobilists decided te take matters into their own hands . About ten of them sped up alongside of the flying horse , and like the jockys in a race , attempted to box her in , but she was too wily . Two Cars Block Hood . Slipping out from this " box " she galloped on , neck out , as the Roby Inn came into view . By this time scores of automobiles were parked along the roadside . Two in front of the inn blocked off the road . John Cooper , 1214 151st street , East Chicago , in the vanguard of the pursuing automobiles , by this time had brought his car up even with the gal . loping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand , he opened the car door , and stood on the running board . With his left hand he reached out and seized the reins of the bridle while M. C. Izadoriac , 1219 East 151st street , East Chicago , sitting in the front seat of the car , edged over in the driver 's position , and gradually slowed the machine down - to a halt in front of the inn . With a tight grip on the reins , Cooper also pulled ' the horse down to a stop . A short while later Egan arrived , shaken , but little the , worse for his experience .                     