@@697577

txt A huge mass of rock broke away from the crest of Niagara Falls on . the American side early today and plunged to the base of the waterfall , where it piled up at least 100 feet high . The break left a great ? U-shaped dent in the contour of the American falls , which make up that portion of Niagara lying between the mainland at Prospect Point and Luna Island , near Goat Island . The distance from Prospect Point to the Luna Island shore is 1,000 feet . The break occurred at about three-fourths the distance from the American shore to the island . The greater part of the fallen rock seems to have plunged from the south side of the new depression , not very far from a V-shaped indentation formed years ago nearer Luna Island . Flow of Stream Affected . The gap caused by the break has the effect of sucking the water of the upper river into its maw and away from Goat Island , leaving the flow of the stream heavier toward the mainland . Thousands of people were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Traffic on the State reservation was in a jam all afternoon . The best view of the mass of fallen rock was obtainable from Victoria Park , on the Canadian side . There the magnitude of the break was plainly visible . The rock began breaking away about 2 o'clock this morning and continued at intervals until about 5 o'clock , according to various persons who said they heard the rumbling . The fall of rock today is comparable to the breaking away of the old tablerock section on the Canadian side in 1850 . Other notable breaks are recorded as having taken place in July , 1818 , and in December , 1828 , when three immense sections of the horseshoe gave way with a shock like an I earthquake . Some persons here said they felt the earth tremble as the rocks fell today . Rumblings Heard in Night . NIAGARA FALLS , N. Y. , Jan. 18 ( JP ) . ? The Niagara rock slide today was due to the erosion of water . The resulting. , indentation in the brink is estimated by observers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide and beginning about 300 feet from the bank of Luna Island . Ac ! curate estimate of the extent of the erosion will not be possible until aerial photos have been compared with the previous contour . The crest of the American Falls is 1,030 feet wide , with an average depth of 15 ' feet of water . Nature 's changing of one of its greatest scenic wonders was not witnessed by anyone on the American ' side so far as could be ascertained . Reservation officials reported that several rumbling noises were heard between 10 o'clock Saturday night and 6 o'clock this morning , while customs and immigration officers on Falls View Bridge reported they I heard a rumbling crash at 5:30 I The new contour of the cataract , despite its wide divergence from the old crest line , would not be noticed by the casual observer . To the expelrienced eye , however , the change is apparent at once . The Ti-shaped Iindentation first was noticed by an unidentified mar. in the morning and news of it spread among residents of Niagara Falls . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 2:30 P. M. Shortly afterward the news was broadcast by radio . The average erosion of the American Falls is estimated at one inch a year , but the process is carried on at a rapid rate , by the Canadian Horseshoe Falls , where a heavier volume of water cuts . away the rock at the rate of from two to five feet a year . Great Blocks Piled High . The Cave of the Winds , known to practically every tourist who has visited Niagara Falls , does not extend out as far as the gouged-out part of the cliff and was not damaged . The most noticeable scenic aspect resulting from the break is the addition to the rock debris at the base of the American Falls . At the point of the latest erosion , gigantic rocks , some of them larger than houses , are piled up . It is problematical whether there will be another crash of rock from the cliff at the same point in the near future . Before today 's exceptional erosion , there was a small V in the contour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observation place on Luna Island . The erosive action chiseled out a portion of the crest beyond the V leaving a large section of rock jutting out at an angle between the V and the new U indentation . The appearance of the water rushing over the brink at that point seems to indicate that cracks are running back from both the V and U to meet , thus giving the area be . ween both indentations the semblance of a spearhead . It was said today that there had peen a minor Ian of rock at approximately the same place as today 's crash last year during January . The crash , however , was not large enough to attract general attention . Remedial Measures Pending . Remedial measures to minimize erosion , preserve the beauty , of the falls and to provide a greater use of water for power purposes have been held up for two years because of the failure of the United State Senate to ratify a treaty drawn up by the International Niagara Board , composed of engineering representatives of the American and Canadian governments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The plan , the estimated cost of which was $1,750,000 , was ratified by the Canadian Parliament May 20 , 11929 . However , the protocol never was reported out of committee by the United States Senate . Under the terms of the treaty the Niagara Falls Power Company has to pay half of the cost of the remedial work , and the other half was to be paid by the hydroelectric commission of Ontario and the Canadian Power Company . The additional diversion , which would provide 135,000 more horsepower , was to be for a period of seven years , under the terms of the treaty . It was the plan of the engineers to divert the great mass of water from the centre of the Horseshoe Falls by scooping out underwater canals in the form of a " Y. " This plan . so the engineers reported , would draw the water from the centre and throw it out over the edges of the river . One Eye-Witness Reported . NIAGARA FALLS , Ont. , Jan. 18 ( Canadian Press ) . ? Apparently only one man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was standing on the Canadian side looking at the American falls when he saw a great cloud of spray , followed by three rumbling crashes , and as he watched a veritable mountain of rock took form in front of the great cloud of spray . The new mountain , when ice and snow have done their work , probably will tower higher than the Falls themselves . Instead of the straight brink effect of the American Falls there is now a wedge looking as if it had been cut out with a giant tool . Age Set at 40,000 Years . BUFFALO , N. Y. , Jan. 18 UP ) . ? The cave-in of rock at the crest of Niagara Falls today was described by Dr. Reginald H. Pegrum , Professor of Geology at University of Buffalo , as part of the normal process of erosion which gradually will carry the falls back to within a few miles of the Tonawandas . And there the waterfall is expected ultimately to disappear or become transformed into a long , swift series of rapids , " This , of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Scientists vary in their estimates of the age of the falls . They are believed to have existed 40,000 to 100 , - 000 years , and to have had an average annual recession , due to erosion , of several inches . Ice Bridge Forms Below Falls . NIAGARA FALLS , Ont. , Jan. 18 ( Canadian Press ) . ? The first ice bridge of the season has formed below the falls six weeks later than usual . Large numbers of tourists and others journeyed down the scenic tunnel on both the Canadian and United States sides to view it , and authorities are keeping a strict watch to prevent any venturesome person from starting out to explore it .                     