@@704124

txt Planned Spending Urged Basic Rules Are Proposed for Program of Government Work To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE TIMES of Aug. 1 contained an item of great though indirect significance to this country . It was a report from London that under the impact of the rearmament program in Britain unemployment , chronic since 1919. was approaching the minimum limit of " unemployables . " . The experience of Germany in recent years and that of the United States and other countries during the World War had , of course , already proved that government expenditure on a sufficient scale for war materials could produce full employment . But that is a fact which needs again to be emphasized in these days , when the utility of government expenditure as a means of increasing employment is a central political issue . The question that many persons have asked of Germany , the question that the British experience will raise in the minds of many readers , is this : Why should expenditures on rearmament. have such a decisive effect on the economy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have failed to achieve full employment ? The answer lies in the fact that armament expenditure directly touches the heavy industries , whose stagnation defines our present dilemma , While the type of recovery expenditure pursued since 1933 in the United States relies heavily on the indirect effects of increased incomes on private confidence , private investment . Almost every economist ? of the right or the left  --  would agree . that the failure of the United States to achieve full employment can he traced to the failure of private investment to increase in anything like a proper proportion to government , expenditure . The lesson of this experience is not that this country should undertake a full program of wartime rearmament ; it is not that government expenditure financed by loans should be abandoned , for it is the inescapable conclusion of the years since 1929 that a measure of government investment will hereafter he required to attain full employment in every industrial nation . The lesson is rather that the program of government investment . in the United States should be planned and regularized , An effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole , and more particularly by private industrialists and investors , as a permanent part of our economy , and one not essentially antagonistic to their interests . The recovery of 1935-37 proves that it was not . Four basic rules of a successful program of government expenditure are these : 1 . Public works should be planned in advance with a maximum of technical efficiency . 2 . Public works should be carefully graded as to their relative social and economic value . Projects  --  like housing ? which promise in part at least a direct return should receive precedence . 3 . Private industry should know in advance the extent and the direction of government investment . 4 . On both sides  --  that of government and private industry  --  such a program must he regarded as a strictly economic activity . A civil service department , in close collaboration with private industry , would constitute the ideal agency . It is clear now that any Administration that comes to Washington in 1940 will not be able to dispense with government loan - financed expenditure . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create the confidence that has always come so easily when the government was spending its loans on guns . The much-talked-of Problem of Democracy might almost he defined as the problem of doing as good a job on government expenditure under peaceful conditions as we have always done under the stress of war . W. W. ROSTOW . New-York , Aug. 1 , 1939 . Pensions and Economics Fallacies Seen in National System of Old-Age Payments To THE EDITOR OF TIrE NEw YORK TIMES : Elbert Eastman discloses in his short letter a deal of current fallacious economic doctrine . I do not believe that it is now conceded by most thinking men that a national old-age pension is the solution to the unemployment and business stagnation problems . Any thinking person , it seems to me , would understand that a successful national old-age pension could only he possible if we already had such a prosperous economic system that its surplus of produced goods and services could furnish sustenance for that . large portion of its population beyond 60 or 65 years of age . A private individual can enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal production enough to furnish the basis of the pension , and because he has set up contracts with other individuals for later repayment to him of the reserves which they have employed productively in the meantime . These employers of his reserves then share currently with him their present production of goods and services according to the contracts . But a national old-age pension system rests upon an entirely different basis . It does not depend upon earlier setting aside of reserves out of individual production . The claim to the pension derives simply from having attained a certain age . The payment must come out of current production , exactly as it does with a private pension . But the private pensioner shares because of contractual obligations , while the national pensioner would share because of legislative enactments . No private pensioner could enjoy a pension unless those who share with him under contract are actually producing in excess of their own minimum needs . But this does not hold true of the national pension . The taxing power allows the government to compel every one to share part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his hands reserves for productive uses . From this it follows that unless our present total production is permitted to rise very much higher , the imposition of a national old-age pension system will lower the ' . present average standard of living . instead of the reputed , one-third ill-clothed , ill-housed , ill-fed , there will he one-half or more of our population in that . condition . A glimpse of the ? truth is shown in the fact that the latest changes in the Social Security Act are destroying the pretense of a contractual relation between the government , acting for the people , and the payers of the Social Security taxes , and are moving away from the idea of awarding individual pensions on the basis of amounts of Social Security taxes paid by the to-he pensioners . RoDERT S. POsMONTIER . New York , Aug. 1 , 1939 . Salaries for School Board Present System Regarded as Unfair and Against City 's Interests To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Mr. Olpp 's letter suggesting full-time salaried jobs for members of the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workings of our school system during more than . forty years , I have come to the same conclusion as Mr. Olpp , that if is utterly impossible to expect men and women who have their own professions to follow to devote too much of their time to educational problems . Few of our citizens realize the enormous amount of detail connected with the Department of Education . It controls nearly 650 schools in all of our five . boroughs , with a staff of 40,000 employes . Its annual budget is close to 152 million dollars , besides 40 to 50 millions to be spent annually on sites and new buildings . The total school population is 1,096,906 . According to the by-laws of the hoard , the Commissioners must pass on every item of expenditures and activities . This is the only controlling hoard of a city department working without compensation . This is due to an old tradition that membership on the Board of Education is an honor to he valued more highly than dollars . Experience should have /slight us long ago that this does not work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paid hoard for many years , but the usual answer was that these appointments would he coveted by our ' political parties . The same charge would he applicable to Commissioner 's of other depart ments . Besides , until the administration of . Mr. La Guardia they had always been political appointments anyway -- some good ones and sonic had ones . We may not agree with Mr. Olpp 's suggested method of selection of Commissioners by votes of local school hoards , but let us stick to the main issue -- volunteer or salaried Commissioners . Gia ? : Gorry Wrassrsusi . Brooklyn , Aug. 1 , 1939 . Danger to Bridges Seen TO THE EDITOR OF Tile NEW YORK TIMES : The letter you published today opposing the Brooklyn-Battery Bridge decision of the War . Department is like all of them in that it fails to take into account . the real menace to the bridge . There is nothing to prevent . the pro.posed Brooklyn-Battery Bridge , the present Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges front being bombed just . as Wall Street was years ago . There are enough fanatics in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridge . In fact , it is quite possible to bomb all three at the same time . Obviously the Brooklyn Navy Yard would he " bottled up . " Brooklyn , July 28 , 1939. 1-1Evi.TN DIRK BENSON . Faulty Traffic Lights To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am a great believer in traffic lights , hut it seems to me that it should he some one 's duty to ascertain whether the lights already installed can be ohserved by motorists . If one drives south on the westerly lane of the Grand Concourse , it is impossible on most occasions to sight the traffic lights through the foliage of the trees which line the divisions betwee3 the lanes . Park Avenue , from 116th to Ninetysixth Street is a very dangerous thoroughfare because of the congested market and shopping area and the tunnels under the railroad tracks . 3 . PRIEDWALD . Tuckahoe , N. Y. , July 31 , 1939 , Post-Graduate Debutantes To THE EDITOR OF Tun NEW YORK . TIMES : I think every debutante , after her " coming out " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should be made to spend at least six months in the employ of some efficient business organization . The reasons are obvious ? it would develop in her a sense of proportion and . give her some idea of what her future husband has to do in these extraordinary times to provide a home for his wife and offspring . She would know something of the responsibilities that . have to be shouldered : bring about a better understanding , and thus go a long way toward promoting happiness and preventing marital disagreements , quarrels , etc. , which might . otherwise arise . CHARLES F. JACOBS . Brooklyn , Aug. 1 , 1939 . For Trans-Atlantic Alliance To THE EDITOR OF THE NEw YORK . TIMES : We have everything to gain and nothing to lose by outright alliance with England and France , but everything to lose and nothing to gain by refusing such an alliance . We know that Germany is out to conquer the world and will destroy us as soon as she has destroyed England and France . Alliance will make our conquest improbable whereas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Schenectady , July 25 , MT                     