@@704178

txt Mr. Welles on Oil Some Factors in Secretary 's Statement Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The first impression that one gets from the statement of Acting Secretary of State Sumner Welles which . appeared Aug. 15 , relating to the Mexican oil seizures , is one of strength and courage . The pronouncement that the United States expects adequate , effective and prompt payment for the expropriated oil properties  --  a pronouncement which would have sounded much better in March , 1938 , than August , 1939 ? would seem to put teeth into Mr. Welles 's declaration . There are two factors , however , which render his statement neither strong nor courageous . In the first place , every one even only slightly familiar with the Mexican situation knows that there has never been the slightest chance of Mexico paying a fraction of the value of the expropriated properties to the American owners in any predictable period . The Mexican Government has repeatedly admitted its inability to make any such payments . Futile Expectations Our State Department has been just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of compensation and in spite of the fact that the return of the properties was the only way in which its citizens could be protected has not , during the period of nearly one year and a half , made any such demand . On the contrary , they have compelled the American owners to confer with the Mexican officials under circumstances where there was really nothing to confer about at all . Seizure of properties where there is no possibility of complying with the requirements of compensation is obviously illegal ab initio , and for the lawful owners to be required to seek a compromise with those interests perpetrating this illegal act prior to its rectification constitutes an abject surrender to the unwarranted use of force . Therefore a statement by our Administration ? which still plays with the idea of the possibility of compensation short of return of the properties is misleading , discouraging to the American owners , and calculated to encourage the Mexicans to continue to hold the properties . Secondly , the statement of Mr. Welles constitutes a practical command to the American owners to compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official pronouncement can not but result in the continuance in Mexico of the same dilatory tactics which have been followed for the past sixteen months . Our Relations Affected There is no conceivable compromise arrangement which will accomplish anything but to reduce the extent of the confiscation now existing . The sacrifice which the American owners will be called upon to make is only a very minor part of a much greater problem . The devastating effect upon our relations with the rest of Latin America of submission by the American owners to a compromise arrangement under compulsion of our State Department is incalculable . Every country in the world has , some unscrupulous politicians . The LatinAmerican countries have their share . These politicians are carefully watching the effect of the Mexican negotiations . If it appears that the only consequence of seizing American properties without the intention or ability of paying there-. for is to be invited to a conference table with the owners , there will be little to deter a rapidly increasing series of seizures throughout Latin America . If one were justified in requesting the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like to ask them to refrain from any compromise , even though their own immediate position in Mexico might seem to be bettered . The ultimate beneficial effect on the important relations between the United States and Latin America from a purely patriotic point of view would justify this action on their part . Under the circumstances it would seem much better for the individual and national American interests had Mr. Welles continued to keep silent until such time as a realistic and firm policy could be agreed upon and carried out by our State Department . GEORGE S. MONTGOMERY JR . New York , Sept. 1 , 1939.                     