@@704273

txt Germany declared war against England last night but carefully refrained from doing so against France . This is the central meaning of the speech , by Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop , which is regarded by observers as . marking the official German entrance into the war on the West . The last tiny crack in the door of peace prospects , so far as England and Germany are concerned , appears closed by the speech and it remains now to be seen when and by what means and with what weapons Germany will implement its challenge to England . That war will now begin in earnest is fully expected by observers here . The actual moment for commencement of serious hostilities obviously is a matter ' of military secrecy , depending on military considerations , some of which are probably not yet settled . The von Ribbentrop speech , translated into military terms , would mean delivering the main attack against England and perhaps refraining entirely from attacking France . Such a character for military operations is by no means im possible . Germany can attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on strategic objectives in England such as factories , communication and transportation centers , naval bases , and also against shipping . Sea ' attack would be directed against British naval and merchant shipping for the purpose of reducing British naval superiority and cutting essential food supplies . Doubtful Thesis As in the World War Belgian Channel ports could play an important part in such attacks on England . Some military observers believe that the German Army might drive due east to the Belgian coastal ports without making any turn south into France but this is predicted on the highly doubtful thesis that France would stand quietly by in case of an attack on The Netherlands . It is considered significant among foreign observers that so far no British troop transports have been attacked successfully in the English Channel . German control of the Belgian Coast ports would probably be necessary for any successful submarine activities of this character . Further , control of Belgium would bring the German Air Force into more effective range , both for attacks on England itself and English shipping . Air Arm One Way A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air raids on merchant shipping . The logical answer to the English blockade is the German attempt to cut Britain 's overseas food supplies . While the submarine is the method used in the last war , subsequent development of aviation indicates it possesses potentialities to this end and might easily supplement the submarine as a major German weapon against Britain 's food supply . Both can be used without a major land opera , tion but it is inherent in the military situation that control of the Belgian Coast ports and landing ' fields would immeasurably enhance the effectiveness of both weapons . Keen Army Idle ? Of course , Germany could attack England by sea and air alone avoiding any major land drive into Belgium or the Netherlands , but it seems Incredible to observers that the Reich military leaders would be psychologically capable of holding Germany 's highly mobilized land Army in idleness and depend exclusively on the air and sea arms . Unless the Army is used to gain Channel ports , the only alternative to idleness would be an attack on.the Maginot Line which is always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the major German effort from England to France therefore departing from the military implications of the von Ribbentrop speech . Senate Still a Factor While it still is improbable that major military operations will commence - before the United States Senate votes on the arms embargo , this factor is declining in importance in Europe due to the increasing probability it will be lifted . In other words , Congressional action is now being discounted in advance although both sides apparently find it convenient to defer any action which might affect the vote . Once the vote is taken and that deterrent effect removed , military operations , are expected as soon as the weather and other military factors are suitable . The deep significance of the von Ribbentrop speech is felt here . Germany listened in silence well appreciating the meaning . Towards midnight a gilt bust of the Vihrer backed by a laurel wreath watched the scene in a hotel lobby here . Scattered small groups talked in lowered voices , then the orchestra began softly playing that beautiful old German lullaby ? " Good Night and Good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     