@@698265

txt Recognition of medical economic necessity for revision of war debts in the near future overrode theoretical objections in the discussions of the Institute of Current International Problems of the United States today at the University Club . Both speakers at the morning session , Representative Louis T. ( R ) of Pennsylvania , chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency , and Mr. Nicholas E. Peterson , economist of the First National Bank of Boston , expressed opposition in theory to revision . Both likewise admitted that the force of circumstances may effect revision : in the not distant future . Representative was em ? phatic in his assertion that war debts and reparations . have no logical connection . The effort to give them connection has marked European policy to date , he said . This position underlies the statement that any reduction in German reparations must be accompanied by a corresponding revision downward of allied debts to the United States.1 While revision of the debts may come , he said , it will be a free act of the American taxpayer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a duty following reduction in reparations . The representative 's position on reparations was that they were unjustly large , and were forced upon Germany after the capitulation in violation of treaty law . The Versailles Treaty , he said , departed from the accepted rule that final peace papers should keep demands upon the vanquished nation within the scope of the original terms of capitulation . Repot ations finally imposed upon Germany were far in excess of the $8,000,000,000 mentioned at the time of surrender , he added . " The burden Mil imposed upon Germany at once introduced serious financial problems into the affairs of other nations as well , " Representative continued . From the start , certain European spokesmen sought to commercialire the reparations through bond issues to be sold in the United States . This would in effect make American investors responsible for collecting the reparations . " Until recently , such efforts felled . But there are at present such reparations bonds on the American market . They represent an attempt to make American investors the creditors of Germany for reparations unjustly imposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theoretical objections of Representative to revision of war debts , but expressed his opinion that revision would conic as a matter of necessity . The questions of reparations and war debts are so inextricably involved in the thinking of European statesmen and the public there , that their separation is virtually impossible , he said .                     