@@702208

txt an atmosphere typical of the tension prevailing in many strike paralyzed American ports violence flared on the ' water front today when a revolver and a knife were drawn during a . brief scuffle between striking seamen and nonstrikers at pier 66 at the foot of Franklin street . The steamship Madison is tied up at that pier by a " sitdown . " Cooler heads prevailed , however , and order was quickly restored . Nevertheless . the entire waterfront was under heavy police guard . Meanwhile the crucial phase of the struggle between the seamen 's defense committee , conducting the strike , and the International Seamen 's union , which has denounced it , appeared in the offing as the nation-wide strike of some 50,000 maritime workers entered its fifth day . Tie Up Nearly All U. S. Ports . The strike has spread to nearly every major American port . It held in its grip all American west coast ships , tied up export movements in Boston harbor , - and brought many vessels to a standstill on the Atlantic and gulf coast . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the west coast , and more than a hundred men were arrested ? in New Orleans by police under instructions to clean up picket lines . Joseph Curran , chairman of the committee conducting the strike here , reported that forty-nine ships were tied up in New York harbor and 178 in the Atlantic and gulf ports . Hiring Hall Established . Seamen 's union officers here challenged insurgent strikers by establishing a union-controled hiring hall to provide men to replace strikers . Special Prosecutor Thomas E. Dewey was asked by John M. Franklin , president of the United States lines , to study the New York waterfront situation . Franklin declared " we have proof of men having been cruelly beaten . " He charged that racketeers are threatening married seamen with reprisals against their families . John E. Lamiell of the postoffice department said in Washington , D. C. , that " considerable difficulty " was being encountered in getting mail off for foreign ports . In San Francisco , Cal. , hopes for peace in the still spreading strike reached a new low level . San Francisco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Peace efforts were at a standstill and prospects of new violence lurked in the tense areas . Alaska Vailroad Shut Down . Even faraway Honolulu was taking Precautions against possible violence . Police Chief William A. Gabrielson there said members of the Hawaii National Guard and the American Legion would be asked to volunteer for duty in the event of strike violence . He said the police were well equipped with tear gas and masks , " but we are keeping away-from guns . " The mayor of Anchorage , Alaska , reported that city had . food enough to last only 30 days .. Its supply channel was closed by:the ship strike and resultant . shutdown of the railroad from Seward . to Anchorage . Scattered ' acts of violence occurred in Seattle , ? Wash . Waterfront employers there charged pickets were stopping watchmen assigned to strike bound ships and ' asked Chief of Police William a . Sears for " protection . " Longshoremen Yield . In Philadelphia 10,000 longshoremen ended a strike . " in. sympathy " - with seamen and went hack to work . Leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last ditch . Acuteness of the general situation was heightened when the commerce department cited a maritime law which prohibits carrying of passengers between United States ports by foreign vessels . They said the law would prevent foreign - owned ships from substituting for ' strike bound American craft in carrying passen'gers between , the mainland and insular possessions of the United States . A fine of $200 may be imposed on a foreign shipping company for each such passenger carried . Such fines have been levied in the past , corn . tierce officials said .                     