@@703643

txt 10 lines missing employment of older workers , and was contained in a report submitted recently to the Governing Body of the International Labor Office , at its regular quarterly meeting in London , " The essence of the matter , " . declares the report , " seems to be that the older worker is preferable on the very iinporant condition that he has retained sufficient physical ability for his job , to the performance of which he can bring experience and reliability . He may be particularly valuable where quality , rather than quantity , is required . Preference , on the contrary , will be given to the younger worker ' when physical strength , rapidity of work , and adaptation to new methods are called for . " Hence it concludes that " a ratlonat hiring policy would consist in classifying jobs according to the capacity of the Individual . " Prepared by the International Labor Office at the request of Government , Employers ' and Workers ' representatives on the Governing Body , the report finds reason to believe that older workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones ; but that once having lost his job it is more difficult for an older worker to find fresh employment . Quick Adjustment Required " A certain amount of deterioration in skill , " it explains , " is often involved in long spells of unemployment , which becomes a definite handicap in obtaining fresh employment , especially in the case of skilled workers . " And it suggests that the present disproportion of unemployment among older workers " Is probably due in part to the fact that , when recovery came , the younger woi kers generally , who were able to adjust themselves with greater readiness to recent technological changes in industry , and also the more adaptable of the older Workers , succeeded in obtaining employment , while the less efficient remained unemployed . " Examining , possible causes of discrimination against elderly workers , the report finds that while , on the one hand , - mechanization has favored them by doing away with Much heavy labor ; on the other hand it has aggravated their position by creating new forms of work , the increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers can not stand the strain . Some employers , the report points out , prefer older workers on these grounds : They are more experienced and efficient and have better Judgment ; they are best fitted for certain jobs , especially where quality is important ; they are more reliable and reduce labor turn-over . The report admits that opportunities of employment for older workers may be restricted by the desire of employers to prevent an increase in insurance contributions . But the belief sometimes expressed by American employers that older workers are a more expensive accident risk , is held by the report to be unfounded " as regards industry generally , though not perhaps for each Industry separately . " in this connection , it points out that while the proportion of accidents resulting in permanent incapacity or fatalities is greater among older workers , they are less liable to accidents than younger men . Hence , says the report , the greater cost of benefits to older workers is balanced by the lower ' frequency of the ' accidents they experience . After enumerating the various remedies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of the older worker , the report examines in some detail the effect of probable population changes on this problem . The gradual ageing of the population , which has been in process since the beginning of the present century , it says , will no doubt result in decreasing the proportion of younger workers while increasing the proportion of older workers . Consequently , it says , it is not impossible that in the distant future a time may come when industry may be obliged by the scarcity of younger labor to have recourse to older workers and that the problem may thus generate its own remedy .                     