@@700736

txt Bewildered by continuous hammer blows of fate , Germany today mourned the death of President von Hindenburg as the passing of a man who was to her a father , hero , guide and counselor and above all her own conscience incarnate . With President von - Iindenburg has passed not only Germany 's most heroic figure but also the last tie that still bound Chancellor Hitler 's Third Reich to the Reich of Bismarck . An epoch has come to an end . At a critical moment in her history Germany has lost another pilot . Cut adrift from the moorings of the past she is like a ship in brown setting out on a turbulent sea under the command of a man with a strong , arbitrary will . Already she is being buffeted by whirlwinds of world hostility and her crew and passengers are frightened by the prospect . The death of the President , coming on top of all that has passed within the last month , was therefore an even greater shock than it would have been in normal times . Although no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathless for the moment . When the wheels of everyday life resumed their rotation they seemed to move at reduced speed . Death Announced on Radio , The first news of the passing of its greatest son was given to the nation over all radio stations by Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels , Propaganda Minister , acting as spokesman of the government . The message announcing that the President had died reached Berlin at 9:25 this morning . Immediately all broadcasting stations silenced their programs but the news was kept secret until a national hookup had been arranged . At 9:45 Dr. Goebbels 's voice rang out to the listening millions , He said : " Reich President Field Marshal von Hindenburg passed into eternity at 9 o'clock this morning . " Almost at the same moment the Presidential flag rose above the Presidential Palace in Wilhelmstrasse and stopped at half staff . The news spread swiftly through the city and through the nation . Work paused in every home and shop . On every public and on almost every private building and from the windows of many homes flags appeared , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All foreign embassies and legations in the diplomatic district flew the flags of their nations at halfstaff . Within a short time Wilhelmstrasse and the square before the Chancellery was crowded with expectant men and women . Before the Presidential Palace the military guard continued to pace in solemn dignity and passersby doffed their hats in reverential respect . Everywhere little groups formed to discuss ' the event and its possible consequences . On every face grief was mingled with anxiety . Soon the first extra editions of the newspapers appeared on the streets , proclaiming their sad news by heavy black borders framing their front pages . They gave the details of the last hours of the President as well as numerous governmental measures prepared ? Irt advance last night which , after another half hour of silence , were proclaimed by Dr. Goebbels over the radio stations . Before having had time to collect its thoughts , the nation learned that Chancellor Hitler had been made by a decree of his own Cabinet President of the Reich and commander-in-chief of the army ; that the army and navy would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mourn its illustrious dead fourteen days and that the President would have a State funeral . At the same time the radio stations broadcast a proclamation by General Werner von Blomberg to the army and navy , emphasizing . Marshal von Hindenburg 's life as an illustrious example to follow and also calling on them to devote their lives to the " new Germany , " to . which " the Field Marshal himself opened the gate , and to have all confidence in Adolf Hitler , Fiiehrer ( leader of the German Reich and its people . " Similar proclamations were issued by Rudolf Hess , deputy leader of the National Socialist party ; Viktor Lutze , chief of staff of ' the Storm Troops , and Heinrich Himmler , leader of the Hitler Guards , praising the great Field Marshalstatesman. and - his life in war and peace , but also impressing on all that " Hindenburg 's living legacy for Germany is the Fiihrer the leader , Hitler . " Late tonight additional proclamations were issued in which Chancellor Hitler , while defending the le , gality of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the title and in effect abolished it . - But he also found it advisable " as every authority proceeds from the people " to submit the new order to a national plebiscite . The result of this plebiscite may be looked for with considerable interest . Immediately after news of the President 's death had arrived at his Berlin palace , Dr. Otto Meissner , tor many years chief of the Presidential Office and now entrusted anew with these functions by Chancellor Hitler , assembled the officials and employes in the Executive offices for a short memorial service , in which he paid tribute to his chief and President and also to the man whose kindliness had personally endeared him to all with whom he came in contact . Then the President 's office was draped in black and a laurel wreath was placed around a . Hindenburg bust . Shortly afterward the diplomats of all nations began to arrive to leave their cards and to sign the condolence books at the President 's residence and the Foreign ' Office . The Papal Nuncio was the first to call at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador , was accompanied by Joseph Flack , first secretary , when he delivered condolences at the Foreign Office . The many condolences brought home to the German people what they have lost in the death of President von Hindenburg . They broke through the wall ' of enmity surrounding Nazi Germany and for the first time in many months the German people felt the warming touch of human kinship . Perhaps they also realized that the world has nothing against them except the excesses of their present rulers . Among . the first condolences to the Hindenburg family to be published were those from Chancellor Hitler , Air-Minister Goering , King George and former Kaiser Wilhelm . The latter appointed the former Crown Prince to represent him at the funeral . All church bells tolled tonight while inside the faithful prayed . For fourteen Ndays all Music will be istilled in all public places in Germany ; radio programs will be attuned to the solemnity of the occasion . Army , navy and Nazi organizations will wear mourning bands around their sleeves . Three regiments which Marshal , von Hindenburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for four weeks .                     