@@700862

txt Waning popularity of the New Deal , brought out into the open by the Literary Digest poll , seems likely to speed the transition begun in the past summer from use of hastily conceived emergency measures to a long range program of recovery necessarily more conservative because designed to be permanent . First reaction of Administration leaders here was that while the poll probably would result in changes In plans , it would not alter the Administration 's ultimate objective . Whether phrased as the more abundant life , rediscovery of the forgotten man , or recovery on a basis of cooperation supplanting tooth and nail competition , this objective , it is felt , is not debatable . Definite indications of a turning point are seen in : Reorganization of NRA without General Johnson . Silencing of brain truster Rexford G. Tugwell for the duration of the fall campaign by exporting him to Europe Multiple reassurances to business , including advocacy of a labor truce to end strikes and a more realistic approach to the problem of hourly versus annual wages . Clear indication that President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flat statement by the President that governmental spending must be kept within limits fixed by due regard for the good credit of the United States . There are hints of further modifications of plans to come . Outstanding among them is the tendency toward relaxation of agricultural regimentation , signalized by Secretary Wallace 's statement that " a multitude of judgments is perhaps best on the long run . " Even in the most radical sectors of the Administration front it is now conceded that the country wo n't tolerate government subsidized factories operating in competition with privately owned plants . While there has been no official announcement along this line , this particular type of " Uptonia " has been abandoned by its best friends . Relief must go on until business recovery absorbs the unemployed , but the Administration is seeking to rehabilitate state and municipal finances so that these units can take over what it regards as their proper responsibility . In the interim , work relief will be the keystone for federal outlay . This envisions avoiding waste of human energy , as opposed to merely keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still an open question . The Literary Digest states that it is unable to say whether any relief recipients are among the 65,000 persons reached by its latest poll . The Democratic National Committee is even now sounding its workers on relief sentiment . An " Un-American " Proposal The President vigorously opposes any attempt to ilisenfrcuiLhise persons on relief . Questioned recently as to whether some states ' laws which bar paupers from voting should be applied to recipients of relief , he declared that under no possible decent conception could a person out of work , who wanted to work , be regarded as a pauper . Anyone who suggests it is suggesting a thoroughly un-American procedure . He added . In its bearing on the Administration 's labor policy , the Digest Poll is likely to result in more dependence on mediation than ever . Mediation obviates the necessity for settling problems right away , lets the disputants cool off before any decision io reached , and makes it unnecessary for the Administration to take any stand in highly controversial matters . Collective bargaining is here to stay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cushioned by the President 's own assertion that proportional representation versus majority rule depends on the industry . While some phases of the government 's monetary policy , notably stabilization , are unlikely to be defined until the international situation is clearer , certain facts seem inescapable , once the necessity for maintaining the government 's credit is granted . There is a growing recognition in the cabinet that any nation which depends on income taxes for its pi incipal revenues must have profitable private business . Secretary Roper 's view is that there never really has been any choice since the country shifted from customs duties to income taxes two decades ago . Addressing the veterans at Roanoke , Virginia , Friday , President Roosevelt brought the budget back into the official limelight , with his declaration that : It must remain our constant objective to eliminate the causes of depression and the drags on prosperity . It will cost money to do this . In the spending of this money we must have due regard for the good credit of the government of the United States That means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year all that we could usefully spend . The clear inference is that some New Deal spending must be postponed until the country can better afford it . In this category the President placed the veterans ' bonne , declaring : We must do first things first . . . It has been amply demonstrated that the veterans of the World War , today in the prime of lite , are better off from the point of view of employment and of annual income than the average of any other great group of our citizens . Republicans were quick to seize upon the Digest Poll as political ammunition . " The New Deal , as was expected , is sinking fast , " Henery P. Fletcher , chairman of the Republican National Committee , declared . " In spite of crack-down threats , of the Tammanyized use of government funds to aid its political candidates , public sentiment is running strongly against the New Deal . " This is the information contained in the latest poll of the Literary Digce.M . It shows 17 states voting a majority opposed to President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . .. " The Literary Digest Poll shows that the people are fed up with ballyhoo . They want results . . .. " The Administration must find little solace in the results , especially in view of the fact that the New Dealers placed so much faith In the Literary Digest Poll of 1932 . " Harry Hopkins , federal emergency relief administrator , retorted : " I am not impressed . "                     