@@703959

txt Without solicitation , 5,000 homes have already been offered for German child refugees to be admitted to the United States if Congress passes the Wagner-Rogers bill , Clarence Pickett , Director of the American Friends Service Committee , told the Women 's International League for Peace and Freedom at its annual meeting here . Mr. Pickett urged W. I. L. mem bers to work in behalf of the child ! refugee measure and to sign afli- ; davits making themselves respon- ; sible for adult refugees admitted under the German quota . The Friends ' Service director denied that proponents of the bill are " baby snatchers , " describing the unwholesome home conditions which Jewish children in Germany must now endure . He likewise refuted the argument that refugee immigration would add to unemployment . citing the organization of a new tooled-leather industry in the United States by 35 skilled craftsmen , exiled from Vienna . Placement Centers " It is ' a curious illusion to say I that there is any relation between density of population and unemployment . " he told the women . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fh varioas sections of the country where refugees may improve their knowledge of English and locate jobs were described by Mi . Pickett . The purpose . he explained , is to keep immigrants " from piling up in the cities . " He described the refugee issue as part of a larger problem of planned mass migration which the world must face during the present generation or next . Surveys of British Guiana . Alaska . Africa , and San Domingo as refugee havens . he said , have produced " no very optimistic outlook " thus ; far . I Britain has already taken in 3,000 German child refugees , The Netherlands 1,700. and Belgium 500 , Mr. Pickett reported . Smaller numbers , he said , have escaped to Switzerland and France . Peace in South America The recent Reichstag speech of Chancellor Adolph Hitler contained a ray of hope for world Peace and a challenge to President Roosevelt to call a world congress of nations , Mrs. Lola Maverick Lloyd reported to the meeting . Mrs. Lloyd , one of the leaders of the 1915 Ford peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt 's inclination to single out certain nations for assistance . The only real hope for world peace , she held , lies in a real federation of nations . She urged that any international peace conference called by the President have such a federation as an aim . Recent achievements in organizing South American groups of the W. I. L. were outlined by Miss Heloise Brainerd , who has just returned Srom a seven-month trip to the Southern Hemisphere . Urging the women to study the inter-American peace system , to support a movement to hasten settlement of boundary questions , and to encourage exchange of cultural information with Latin America , Miss Brainerd declared , " Our governments have signed treaties which renounce war and insist on the peaceful solution of all controversies , but to make these effective , our peoples must consciously cultivate international friendship and co-operation . " Reported among W. I. L. activities of the last year were : Study of the problem of the conscientious objector in wartime , described as " no longer academic " ; circulation of an antiwar toy exhibit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where many German of packets suggesting ways and means of helping refugees . Norman Thomas , Socialist leader , and Clark Eichelberger , of the League of Nations Association , were speakers at a foreign policy symposium presided over by Mrs. Helen Taft Manning , Dean of Bryn Mawr College . The women will close their meeting today with a tea at the White House and a banquet at which Nora Waln , author of " Reaching for the Stars " will be the principal speaker .                     