@@704200

txt Apparently following the theory that " sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof , " the British Government showed every indication today of refusing to recognize Russian sovereignty over occupied Polish territory and letting it go at that , at least for the present . Great Britain 's government and people were revolted and indignant at what they regarded as a second betrayal by Joseph Stalin , but there seemed to be few practical alternatives to adoption of the American State Department 's policy under Secretary Henry L. Stimson toward Japan 's conquest of Manchuria . Certainly the Russian move , which was not entirely a surprise here , will make no difference in the Allies ' determination to fight the war to a finish . The Ministry of Information issued the following statement : " The British Government have considered the situation created by the attack upon Poland ordered by the Soviet Government . This attack made upon their His Majesty 's government 's own ally at a moment when she is prostrate in the face of overwhelming forces brought against her by Germany can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be justified by the arguments put forward by the Soviet Government . " The full implication of these events is not yet apparent , but His Majesty 's government take the opportunity of stating that nothing that has occurred has made any difference to the determination of His Majesty 's government , with the full support of the country , to fulfill their obligations to Poland and to prosecute the war with all energy until their object has been achieved . " " While there is no doubt that the Red Army 's occupation of the Ukrainian and White Russian areas of Poland has caused grave concern , not only in military circles but among diplomats here as well , comment thereon is sparse and guarded . It is pointed out that in a matter so vitally affecting Allied interests , fuller information is desirable and consultation with France essential before any statement can be made of official British policy . However , on Wednesday , when Prime Minister Chamberlain reports to the House of Commons on the progress of the war for the past week , the whole subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed . The Labor Opposition reportedly is planning a series of , questions regarding not only Russia 's malevolent neutrality , but also the reasons why Britain has failed to render more effective material assistance to Poland after guaranteeing her independence and integrity last Spring . German non-aggression treaty.pro4 vided that any hostile move by Germany toward Turkey would be taken by Russia as justification for nullification of the whole compact . While Britain keeps a watchful eye on the Russian Bear , now disporting himself in a land laid low by the Germans , hope persists that the traditional enmity of Muscovite and Teuton will reassert itself , now that the collapse of the buffer State has brought them into propinquity again . In an editorial today The Times , London , suggests Mr. Stalin 's move is less like that of " a bold and masterful strategist than of an overanxious conspirator , ? distrustful of his accomplice , but compelled by one false step to continue along a dubious path . " It is suggested thato.while Poland as a sovereign State has collapsed , her army is disintegrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she will continue to be regarded as a nation here . The Polish Ambassador to London is expected to continue to represent his government , which , following the precedent of Belgium in 1914 , probably will reassemble on Allied soil in France or on friendly territory in the Near East . In France there is a large Polish colony from which a Polish Legion might be recruited to be hurled against the Germans on the Western front . International law forbids refugee Polish leaders to continue to function as a government on the neutral soil of Rumania . Poles Avoid Aggression Charge Meanwhile , as the Ministers formulate their statement of the government 's position , it is regarded as significant that the Polish Government , through its Ambassador here , contented itself with branding Russia as a treaty violator rather than as an aggressor with ade of Germany and her cooperaGermany . The latter would have entitled the stricken ' country to call on her allies for help . Had she done so , it is unlikely that it would have made any difference , as the British reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said here that Britain already is giving her best - toward Polish salvation through her blocktion with the French on the Western front . The best way of helping Poland , according to the British view , is to concentrate every ounce of effort toward defeating Germany and ending Hitlerism . Taking on another enemy like powerful Soviet Russia with its great air force and large submarine fleet , it is pointed out , could scarcely contribute toward the quick and decisive victory for which the British continue to hope while planning for a long war . The Russian entry into Poland is being closely watched for its effect on the Balkan neutrals as well as on the Western front in France , where it is expected a large part of the German Army formerly engaged in the " lightning " Polish campaign will soon be concentrated . Opinion in semi-official circles is that Russian intervention will tend to freeze Rumanian neutrality , since it is expected that the Red Army will occupy territory forming a screen between the Germans and Rumania , which recently has been subjected to strong German pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrality . Despite rumors from German sources that Turkey is being wooed away from her Western allies , the British feel secure in their belief that that country can be depended on to remain steadfast . It was said authoritatively that one of the secret clauses of the Russo                     