@@700306

txt Eight companies producing 25 per cent of the alcohol in the United States made public yesterday copies of telegrams sent to President Roosevelt and other administration officials protesting the marketing agreement for the distilled-spirits industry approved by Secretary of Agriculture Wallace . The signers were the du Pont Company , the Carbide and Chemicals Company , Publicker Commercial Alcohol Company , Empire Distilling Corporation , Puerto Rico Distilling Corporation , Continental Distilling Corporation and the Syrup Products Corporation . They charge that " backstage lobbying and political considerations , " involving promises to grain farmers , were behind the situation , and that although the price of corn fell from 55 cents to 40 cents the grain distillers increased the price of grain alcohol from 351/2 cents a wine gallon to $1.14 . The charge was also made that " grain distillers were favored with advance information . " It was said the price of liquor to the consumers was involved in the controversy , for the marketing agreement would prevent liquor being sold cheap at retail . " Whisky Trust " Is Seen . A move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here as a flood of liquor was on its way to New York from Canada and Europe . With prices remaining high , liquor wholesalers appealed to Federal authorities for an investigation of an alleged " whisky trust " on the ground that distillers were violating their NRA code . The State Liquor Control Board remained open yesterday in an effort to expedite the issuance of licenses . A lower Federal tax , said brewers , would bring back the nickel glass of beer . Rudolph Spreckels , chairman of the Board of the Syrup Products Company , 82 Wall Street , in the telegram to President Roosevelt , declared the marketing agreement Iapproved by Secretary Wallace vio- lated fundamental principles in the Agricultural Adjustment Act and the Industrial Recovery Act . He asked President Roosevelt personally , to hear the arguments of those protesting the marketing agreement . Telegram to President . The telegram to the President was as follows : President Franklin D. Roosevelt , The White House , Washington , D. C. ? I am informed that Secretary Wallace has approved a marketing agreement for the spirits industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that industry who produce spirits from products other than grain . It would violate certain fundamental principles set forth in the Agricultural Adjustment Act and in the Industrial Recovery Act and existing laws which give our branch of the industry the right to produce and sell spirits for any lawful purpose . We are willing to pay the same processing tax as grain distillers . Therefore grain farmers would receive the same benefits whether spirits are produced from grain or other products . I believe importation of foreign grain and/or beverage spirits permitted under the proposed agreement would deprive our farmers of a market for their grain far in excess of quantity we would displace by the use of other products . Besides , molasses is a farm product , derived from sugar cane grown within the United Statds , and should not be discriminated against . I respectfully request that you will personally hear our arguments before final determination of that issue . With great respect , faithfully yours , RUDOLPH SPRECKELS , 82 Wail Street , New York City . Protest to Wallace . A telegram was sent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the marketing agreement that George N. Peek , Agricultural Adjustment Administrator , said had been approved by Mr. Wallace discriminated against manufacturers of spirits from materials other than grains . Violation of the constitutional rights of the companies was charged in the telegram . " The undersigned are opposed to its adoption the marketing agreement , representing well in excess of 25 per cent of the industry , " the telegram read . " At a meeting held at the Willard Hotel we learned that those approving of the agree-. ment are confined to those concerns having interests in the manufacture of spirits from grain materials . We are confident that you , upon reviewing the situation , will allow us to continue our present legal status which permits us to sell our pure alcohol for any lawful purpose . " The manner in which the whole situation has been handled , which we are confident you are not aware of , proml-ts us to urgently request you to review the whole situation and grant us the privilege of conferring with you on the matter before any final action is taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge was made that the companies were being deprived of their legal rights " and are being placed at the mercy of the whisky interests . " Mr. Peek was told that there were indications that the representatives of the grain distillers were favored with advance information in the drafting of the marketing agreement and " we feel that your request that we attend the meeting on Dec. 9 is an empty gesture and contrary to the New Deal principles for which President Roosevelt stands . " It was said last night that the first notice of the marketing agreement , as approved by Secretary Wallace , came Dec. 6 from the chairman of the distilled spirts committee , which contained the statement that an amendment had been proposed by the President 's committee . The use of other than grain products is limited to 10 per cent , irrespective of the existence of a grain alcohol shortage , such right to be given by permit upon application if the production of grain alcohol is insufficient to meet demands , with the specification that such " allocation to be among concerns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It was said that Puerto Rico may now send to England pure spirits made from molasses for the production of gin and that this gin will be shipped into the United States , but that Puerto Rico may not use its molasses spirits for making gin in the United States . FORD SHOW VIEWED BY SUNDAY THRONG Attendance for Two Days Exceeds Estimates  --  Boy , 9 , Is Winner of First Car . Throngs continued to view the hundreds of automotive exhibits yesterday at the Ford Exposition of Progress in Commerce Hall of the Port Authority Building . ? Attendance for the first two days of the show , which will run until Dec. 22 , was said to have surpassed the expectations of the management and exhibitors , which comprise more than 150 firms that contribute to the making of motor cars . Up to 7 o'clock last night , 69,203 persons were said to have been checked entering the exposition . The total was expected to exceed the 101,000 reached on opening day . Bobby Harris , 9-year-old son of Dr. and Mrs. I. R. Harris of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winner of the first car given away at the show . Testing devices abound at the exposition . One instrument , a fadeometer , determines the fastness of colored fabrics . Another measures the wearing qualities of automobile upholstery material . In a spectacular test a machine exerting a pulling power of 20,000 pounds to the square inch strains bars of steel until they break .                     