@@699793

txt President Roosevelt 's message and Chancellor Hitler 's statement have changed the character of the much-postponed disarmament conference meeting , which is now scheduled for tomorrow afternoon . When it was originally called for Monday the idea was to end the deadlock on effectives , materials and procedure by isolating Germany in public debate on the whole disarmament problem at the risk , if this failed , of a breakdown of the conference . Now that corner has been turned , and instead of a fighting type of debate , what looms is an explanatory negotiating type . In Another " Finaliihase . " All sides are waiting for further views on the Roosevelt and Hitler declarations and for the French and British reactions to judge better what they mean and to measure exactly how the deadlocked situation has been affected . This conference , which moves by crisis and gains ground only when it seems to be breaking down , has lurched . in short , out of another mire into another new " final phase . " Credit for this is being given more and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " gave Hitler a way out " The plans for tomorrow 's program were still very indefinite late tonight . Arthur Henderson , president of the conference , wants first to consult both Norman H. Davis of the United States and Rudolf Nadolny of Germany , who are expected to arrive here in the morning , to ascertain whether they wish him to lay before the conference the two statements or whether they prefer to speak , each for his own chief . Indications point to Herr Nadolny 's taking the floor first , and to Mr. Davis 's making a short declaration , but postponing until late next week detailed announcements regarding the consultation , neutrality and non-aggression pact , about which every one is waiting to hear from him . Many delegations aye anxious to ascertain whether Chancellor Hitler 's speech represents a genuine change of policy or merely a timegaining manoeuvre . One of the first tests will be to see whether his statements on the Reichswehr , Brown Shirts ' and materials are really as negotiable as they appear to be . - The Reichswehr reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked of here behind the scenes for synchronizing better the change of the professional army into militia with a reduction of materials . Similarly , possibilities are seen for trading Brown Shirts against trained reserves , as Chancellor Hitler seems to desire . French and Others Skeptical . The French and other interested delegations remain very skeptical that the German change is more than skin deep , and some talk of the need of " grilling " Herr Nadolny . More impartial circles admit it is hard to believe in Herr Hitler 's pacifist denunciation of war while Colonel von Papen remains Vice Chancellor of Germany , and while all German pacifists remain in jail or exile . But they balance this with the assertion that Herr Hitler is the first German Chancellor who has dared to speak of the Poles in the conciliatory terms he has used and that he is the only man likely to succeed in swinging Germany to these and the other peaceful conceptions he has expressed . These neutrals desire more proof that Germany really wants to negotiate a disarmament treaty , but they also desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty . They foresee no difficulty in compromising the effectives and materials problems now if both want a treaty . The Germans and all others want to know from the Americans what President Roosevelt 's third point paeans . This point asks that the nations agree not to increase their armaments above the limitations of treaty obligations while the Geneva disarmament program is being carried out . Others want to be assured that its wording really means that Germany shall not increase her armaments beyond the Versailles Treaty level during the transition while her neighbors are reducing to that level . The Germans are extremely anxious to hear that it does not mean Germany Will be put back legally on the Versailles basis during the transition , and the Germans are likely to balk very hard if it does . They give the impression of being much readier to accept a ban on re-armament if it is handled throughout as was the ' war aviation ban in the British draft , so that its juridical authority derives entirely from a new treaty and not from the Versailles Treaty . If so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now turned on the French for their long-delayed disarmament figures , they are also turned on the British to see what all the recent London talk means in terms of security . Agree on Aggressor Definition . The subcommittee dealing with security reached an agreement today on the definition of an- agdressor , which it had been considering in connection with the procedure for ascertaining facts of mutual assistance . The definition is based on the one that Foreign Commissar Litvinoff of Soviet Russia proposed , but with Russia 's long-lost criteria eliminated with her consent and given in a separate protocol as examples of aggression . The British member , however , was absent today , and the United States , as usual , did not participate , although it has been appointed to this body . When the committee adlourned the members were astonished to see Rumania 's Foreign Minister , Nicolas Titulescu , enter and ask to be introduced to Valerian Dovgalevsky of the Soviet Union , to whom the Rumanian official ostentatiously expressed hearty approval of the Soviet definition and said that if he had been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments which were forced on Russia . Since it was M. Titulescu who , because Of the Bessarabian question , did his utmost to prevent - the Franco-Soviet rapprochement , this friendly , demonstration is significant . Like Moscow 's announcement today to Sir Eric Drummond , Secretary General of the League of Nations , that the Soviet reply to President Roosevelt means Russia has definitely dropped the idea of not cooperating with the League , this appears to be one of the unexpected proofs of the Roosevelt non-aggression proposal .                     