@@698954

txt Whether united dry forces will throw their weight behind President Hoover in the coming elections is to depend entirely on his future attitude toward the prohibition question , It was learned unofficially today . After a five-hour sessionof the I National Prohibition Board of Strategy it was intimated that a decision had been reached to lay President Hoover 's record before dry voters of the country and allow them to draw their own conclusions . The position Mr. Hoover will take in his acceptance address will be analyzed by the dry strategists as will also be any subsequent statement he may make . Official confirmation of this action was withheld for the time being , but it was said authoritatively that the decision was reached after a determined attempt on the part of Dr. Oliver W. Stewart , president of the Flying Squadron Foundation , and others to secure indorsement of President Hoover had been defeated . Nothing in the final declaration of the National Board of Strategy policy , however , will prevent member organizations from openly indorsing Mr. Hoover 's candidacy as several have already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Cannon Reported Opposed The live-hour session of the board resulted from the effort of Dr. Oliver W. Stewart , president of the Flying Squadron , to substitute a straight Hoover indorsement for the " yardstick " policy originally incorporated in the declaration by the drafting sub-committee and subsequently adopted by the entire group . Bishop James Cannon , Jr. , chairman of the board of temperance and social service of the Methodist Episcopal Church , South , and Dr. Clarence True Wilson . head of the corresponding organization of the Methodist Episcopal Church , North , were credited with leading the fight against outright indorsement on the ground that such action should be deferred until the ' President has made his position clear . Another provision of the policy statement , also officially withheld was understood to provide for a conciliatory policy toward dry candidates for other political offices who are willing to support resubmission . The task of drafting a oeclaration of policy on which all drys might unite was intrusted yesterday to a subcommittee of the board of stratee after a seoret all-day session duriijg which the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken by their respective organizations . Whether united drys should specifically indorse President Hoover and whether they would give their support and encouragement to candidates for Congress who favor resubmission of the Eighteenth Amendment were the two major questions considered by the board yesterday . Although there was a wide difference of opinion on both questions , cooperation and mutual toleration promised well for harmonious action in the coming struggle for preservation of the amendment . Southern Leaders Oppose Dr. Ernest H. Cherrington and other members expressed the conviction that united support would be found behind whatever action is finally taken and that no internal dissension will weaken the concerted power of dry forces when the battle begins . " Undoubtedly the various national temperance organizations will be in harmony with and be guided by the decision of this group , " Dr. Cherrington said . Immediate indorsement of President Hoover as the only possible candidate for the drys was strongly urged by several , including Dr. Oliver W. Stewart , president of the Flying Squadron . Col. Raymond Robins and Dr. Edwin C. Dinwiddie were also understood to have taken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against any such course of ' action , at least until Mr. Hoover has made his position clear in his official acceptance address . On the question of indorsement of dry candidates who have decided to support resubmission a similar divergence of opinion developed , the so-called progressive drys tending to insist that a vote for resubmission is also a vote for repeal and that all advocates of resubmission should be rejected . Old-line drys , however . those who have been in the prohibition fight since its early days , inclined to a much more conciliatory view , holding that they should support candidates who are dry by conviction regardless of whether they feel it their constitutional duty to favor resubmission . According to Dr. Cherrington " the great objective for the viewpoint of the prohibition forces is to keep the Eighteenth Amendment as a great standard of government in regard to a traffic which is a recognized social evil . " In connection with the Board of Strategy , the National Conference of Associations Supporting the Eighteenth Amendment held a single session last night at which opinions were expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Leigh Colvin , chairman of the Prohibition National Committee , called on Senator ' William E. Borah ( R. ) , of Idaho , today , and geed him to head a third dry party . Senator Borah after the conference said that he felt the time was not appropriate for the third party , but indicated , he had not entirely closed the door on Mr. Colvin 's request .                     