@@701126

txt C. Wetten , Republican nominee for Mayor in last Tuesday 's election , crawled out from under the avalanche on which Mayor Kelly and the Democratic party had ridden to victory , he said . " the Republican party is completely disintegrated ? there is no local Republican party . " He had polled little better than one , fifth of his Democratic opponent 's vote . The local Republican party may not accept Mr. Wetten as its valedictorian , but it faces ' considerable difficulty in an effort to assert its existence as a going concern . The dimensions of the Kelly triumph were a surprise to many citizens . Democratic success was obviously certain for weeks in advance , but that very fact induced the belief that the vote would be light . There are some who now shake their heads suspiciously , remembering the disclosures of widespread frauds in recent elections , and refleeting on the fact that the Democratic administration , for certain reasons pertinent to its relations with Washington , eagerly desired an overwhelming demonstration of strength . Party Organization Stronger . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization . Watchers for the Republicans and the third party were conspicuously lacking at the polls . The Democrats , on the contrary , amply financed , had from eight to a dozen workers in every precinct . The opportunity was there . Unquestionably the Kelly victory will immensely strengthen the Chicago party organization in its dealings with Washington , in its influence over State politics and in its position as a factor in the 1936 national campaign . Cook County casts more than half the vote of Illinois . Democratic control of Illinois seems assured for at least four years more . But Governor Horner , if he desires renomination , will have to go along with Mayor Kelly . He can get it only by grace of Chicago . The desperate plight of Chicago Republicanism has stimulated activity on the part of two politicians who date from the " Big Bill " Thompson regime . They have been watchers on the side lines , while other strategists attempted to reorganize the party of which " Big Bill " was once the local idol . Now , they say , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is offering himself as agent of recovery . Crowe Wants Club . One is Robert Emmet Crowe , not long since read out of the party by the new management . Mr. Crowe , former State 's Attorney , announces that he will organize a Cook County Republican Club , Nobody supposes he has a social club in mind . As yet neither does anybody , however , except Mr. Crowe , take the proposal seriously . Simultaneously Fred Lundin , maker of " Big Bill " ? who later disowned his maker  --  shrewd and able and a quiet worker , offers a plan for Republican rehabilitation . His idea , in its surface aspect , contemplates the drafting of a set of principles and policies , and the gathering , precinct by precinct , of a group of voters who are willing to subscribe to them . Each precinct group would choose its representative ; these would name ward leaders , and thus from the ground up there would be built a new party organization . Nobody can guess what Mr. Lundin may have beneath the surface of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile under Mayor Kelly , for the first time chosen to office by the people , Chicago faces a program that includes as a major item the solution of its contentious traction problem , unification of its surface and elevated systems and the writing of a new franchise ordinance . Airport development , building of elevated highways , a filtration plant for the city 's water supply , new sewers , renovated streets , a municipal convention and exhibit hall and a municipal lake front amusement park are other concerns with which the Mayor proposes to occupy the next four years . He expects his big vote to help him get a full share of the Federal $4,000,000,000 for these enterprises .                     