@@703994

txt The utility division of the Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting a broad survey of the depreciation reserves of large utility systems to determine whether they are adequate , it was learned last night . In addition . in individual cases . the SEC is exerting pressure on companies whose depreciation policies or reserves and expenditures for maintenance and repairs it regards as inadequate . The commission is following two methods in pursuance of this policy . One is to attempt to persuade a utility appearing before it in connection with a proposed security offering to write an " adequate " depreciation and maintenance policy into the indenture of securities . A second is to condition the approval of the proposed issue on the company concerned maintaining and following a depreciation and maintenance policy which the commission regards as adequate . An avowed purpose of these moves by the commission is to make companies whose depreciation and maintenance policies fall below what the SEC views as a standard of safety to maintain " depreciation regardless of the payment of dividends . " In connection with its survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the utility division stated it wants to know what shape these reserves are in before the companies come before the SEC in connection with a security offering , integration proposal or other matters . Utility systems with which the commission has had or expects to have considerable dealings are being studied . The utility division stated it is concerned in general with those systems " which are most often in here . " An example of the limitation of dividends is the recent order entered by the commission in the Northern States Power Co . ( Wisconsin ) case . The Wisconsin company sought exemption from the Utility Holding Company Act of the sale of 517,500,000 bonds . of 25.327 shares of common stocic and the assumption of S1 , - 703.000 bonds of the Chippewa Power Co . The SEC conditioned its order approving exemption from the act on the non-payment of dividends unless the amount expended for mainten/lame and repairs plus provisions for depreciation from March 1 , 1939 to the date of the proposed dividend payment . plus earned surplus accumulated during the period remaining after the payment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deductions . In the recent case in which Southern Utah Power Co. filed an application regarding the sale of 599,000 bonds , the commission allowed the declaration to become effective on several conditions . one of which was that as long as any of the bonds issued under that indenture were outstanding the company must , each year . expend for maintenance and repairs not less than 171i% of total gross operating revenues after certain deductions.                     