@@699493

txt Billions of dollars ' worth of tax exempt bonds issued by federal , state and local governments constitute a real . and growing peril to America 's system of graduated income taxes , in the consensus of senatorial and Treasury Department spokesmen here . Introduction by Senator Cordell Hull ( D. ) of Tennessee of a proposed constitutional amendment banning such exemptions has thrown the question squarely into the center of legislative discussion , with the possibility that enough driving force will be mobilized behind the Tennesseean to eliminate this type of security from the country 's fiscal system . However , discussion in official circles thus far indicates that the so-called " menace " of tax-exempt securities lies more in the future than in the present . The view is taken that no constitutional amendment can be passed which will be retroactive , or that will bring the $30,000,000,000 of outstanding tax-exempt securities under taxation . Senator Hull 's own resolution does not provide for retroactive taxation of these securities . Neither does that Introduced by Senator Henry F. 4shurst ( D. ) of New Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process of " unexempting " exempt bonds will tap a source of revenue that will be immediately available . Plan Hinders Income Tax High officials of the Treasury , familiar with the attitude of Mr Ogden L. Mills declared the chief objection to tax-exempt securities lees in their " unfairness " and to their future , rather than present possibilities of interference with the income tax system . Under present federal income tax rates individuals with incomes over $100,000 receive a return of from 9 to 11 per cent on a 4 per cent tax exempt bond , it is estimated , depending on the sire of their incomes , and ft lettun lunging front 11 to 131 : : per cent on a 5 per cent tax exempt bond . Exempt securities ale now issued not only by federal and state governments , but by municipalities , towns and school dish icts These bonds normally canny low interest rates because of their exemption privilege and are issued ft equently below par , so that , in effect , the Goveinment may save as much or not e hn Intel est @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stressed at the Treasury Depot tment today , as in answer to those who declare the Government is " losing " millions of aollats in taxes by making securities lax exempt . But although high Treasury heads question the validity of this particular argument , they do nevertheless oppose the whole exemption system for its unfairness , and more particularly bemuse of its potential threat to future extension of the graduated income tax system . Considered Evasion Source Up to the pi esent , Treasury studies indicate , men of great wealth have not bought tax exempt securities to amounts where Wholesale evasion has developed . Such securities have apparently gone chiefly into the hands of bonding and surety corporations , charitable institutions and insurance companies . But with the present economic slump , the greater security offered by government bonds , the prospect that income taxes will be boosted , the possibility of future evasion has been greatly increased , it is believed . The feeling in the Treasury is that such securities must some day be eliminated , and that the sooner the process begins , the better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be eliminated by a stroke of a pen , the Treasury believes , even by a constitutional amendment . On Dec , 31 , 1930 , there were outstanding $32 , - 803,000,000 in issues of federal , state , and local bonds wholly or partially tax-exempt . These bonds would run for a period of years , even after a ban was placed on further issues . On the other hand , refunding operations on a large scale are now being proposed . A total of approximately $10,000,000,000 In Libel ty and similar federal bonds , bearing tax exemption , become due shortly , and these are likely to be refunded soon at lower rates of interest . These bonds are issued in competition with tax-exempt state and local bonds , and the Treasury would be extremely reluctant to forego the privilege unless a constitutional amendment ended the ptactice . Tax exemption means little to men of small or moderate income , It is pointed out , but hi the higher brackets it defeats the purpose of a graduated income tax . The individual in the highest income brackets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal taxation , and ? if he lives in New York State , for example ? an additional 6 per cent or more In state taxes , or a total of 69 per cent . The prospect is that the income tax base will be greatly broadened if the present times continue , increasing the demand for tax-exempt securities . In 1930 only 2 , - 000,000 people paid income taxes , or per cent of the whole population , contrasted to 5 per cent paying income taxes in Great Britain .                     