@@700642

txt President Roosevelt , under powers granted in the National Recovery Act , has imposed heavy fees in addition to the duties provided by existing law on imports of cotton rugs and exporters of such rugs from Japan have " indicated to the United States " that they will sharply limit exports to this country , the United States Tariff Commission announced today . The commission 's statement attracted wide attention , r.s this is the first case involving a basic American industry in connection with which it has made such a pronouncement . It was distinctly favorable to the American producers , and some saw in it an indication of what the administration might be able to accomplish if vested with authority now sought from Congress to negotiate reciprocal tariff agreements with foreign nations . The free hand with which the President exercised his authority is shown by the fact that on chenille rugs , one of the most important products of the American industry , he imposed an additional fee of 15 cents a square yard , 150 per cent of the present tariff duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on present values . The understanding with exporters of the rugs from Japan limited shipments to 650,000 square yards a year . Imports into the United States were 472,000 square yards in 1932 , but jumped to 1,074,000 yards in 1933 . It is understood that the export quota negotiations were carried on by the State Department . Imports Held Danger to Code . The President , on recommendation of the National Recovery Administration , had asked the Tariff Commission to determine whether cotton rugs of various types were being imported in such quantily and on such terms as to render faeffective or seriously endanger the maintenance of the code under which the American industry operated . This the commission found to be the case and so reported to the President . The commission 's announcement read as follows : " The President has decided to impose the following fees in addition to the duties provided by existing law in each case : " ( 1 ) On chenille rugs , wholly or in chief value of cotton . 15 cents per square yard . " ( 2 ) On imitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 23 cents per square yard . " ( 3 ) On rugs , wholly or in chief value of cotton ( except grass or rice-straw ) , other than chenille , imitation Oriental and rag rugs of the type commonly known as hit-andmiss , 20 per cent ad valorem , but not less than 5 cents per square yard . " The fee on cotton imitation Oriental rugs will be made effective on June 10 , 1934 . The fees on chenille rugs and the other rugs , will be made effective on the same date . unless , during the period May 11 to May 31 , 1934 , the exports of cotton chenille rugs from Japan to the United States should exceed 90,000 square yards , in which case they will be made effective as soon after May 31 as possible . Limits Are Specified . " In addition , the exporters of cotton rugs from Japan to the United States have indicated that . with a view to cooperating with the National Industrial Recovery movement in the United States , they will , on and after June @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as follows : " ( 1 ) On chenille rugs , wholly or in chief value of cotton , to 650,000 square yards per annum , provided that if the exports from Japan to the United States between May 11 and May 31 , 1934 , exceed 90,000 square yards the excess shall be deducted from this annual quantity . " ( 2 ) On hit-and-miss rag rugs , wholly or in chief value of cotton , to 3,250,000 square yards per annum. " ( 3 ) On rugs wholly or in chief value of cotton ( except grass and rice-straw ) , other than chenille , imitation Oriental , and rag rugs of the type commonly known as hitand-miss , to 40,070,000 square yards per annum . " Under Section 3 ( e ) of the Recovery Act the President 's powers are broader and more effective than under the flexible provision of the Tariff Act , which limits increases or decreases in tariff rates to 50 per cent and bases such action on investigation of production costs at home and abroad . Cotton Men Hail Move . The NRA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any action taken . It provides , roughly , that where it is determined that an American industry whose costs are increased under NRA codes is endangered by foreign shipments the President may impose such additional import fees as he believes warranted . Legislation which the President has asked for the negotiating of tariff agreements would permit him to raise or increase tariff rates , with certain exceptions , by not more than 50 per cent without making necessary investigation and recommendation by the Tariff Commission . 0 . Max Gardner , counsel for the Cotton Textile Institute , who made the fight before the Tariff Commission for the fee gn cotton rugs , said that , " coming at a time when tariff bargaining is in the forefront of national thought , this decision is reassuring and heartening , not only to the textile industry but to industry in general . " " The decision will be interpreted by the industry as showing that the President is fully conscious of the peril to American labor and American industry resulting from uncontrolled importation from countries whose standards of living are lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without limitation of hours or minimum wages , " he said . Other Cases Considered . The first case considered under the provision of Section 3(e) had to do with lead pencils , also a Japanese product . It is understood that the commission was prepared to recommend action , but this was made unnecessary by the imposition of an additional assessment on such imports voted in the Revenue Act of 1934 . Imports of matches , also involving Japan , have been the basis of negotiations for restriction of exports to the country . In some quarters it was felt that today 's announcement demonstrated the administration attitude toward the protection of American industries against dangers which might arise from the program of industrial and foreign trade expansion upon which Japan has entered .                     