@@703585

txt President Roosevelt is optimistic ovef the business and industrial outlook and feels there will be a steady recovery it sensible price levels are maintained and if cooperation replaces labor and industrial saber rattling . That representation of the President 's views on the current economic situation was made public . while he is sojourning at his home here . Concerning the economic situation . Mr. Roosevelt was represented as feeling that prices of wheat and cotton are too low and should be raised in order to provide a profit for producers . Cheered Over Employment Situation But he was represented as being cheered ; over the employment situation because it was j up more than seasonally , with the maximum effects of the government 's lending-spending pro- ' gram not yet felt . His general attitude may be summed up as follows . 1 . That labor should cease its bickering and atop calling names . 2 . Industrial sword rattling should stop so that the country can have industrial peace instead of war between industry and the government . S. A cessation of extravagant statements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of overdark pictures and the setting up of bogies before the eyes of business and industry . In the latter connection stories were cited which it was alleged attempted to make it appear that the Federal Government planned to put TVA 's all over the United States ; that it was impossible for private industry to raise money for new power plants ; that the government tax burden was far higher than a year ago , or three years or five years ago ; as well as many obvious attacks on the government for partisan purposes . Moreover . it was said that the President felt the crisis in Europe had an analogy in the in- dustrial and economic problems of the United States  --  that the saberrattling and the mobilization of armies , the artificial creation of a crises between nations over there , has a parallel over here in attacks on the Administration He was said to feel that industry could learn the lesson learned by world governments in the last two weeks  --  that if they stopped calling names and rattling the sword , peace could be achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also should take the hint and stop using epithets in dealing with its factions and with industry . Further , Mr. Roosevelt was represented as believing that the sooner government . industry and labor sat around the table , the better it would be as a step toward industrial tranquility He was said to consider that business generally is definitely on the upturn ; that merchandise shelves are in sore need of replenishing ; and that demand by consumers , while oft from a year ago , is not as low as some reports would lead the average person to believe . Coupled with the pump-priming activities of the Federal Government , it was asserted that all these things tended to convince him that a very definite increase in business of all kinds is ahead , provided that sensible price levels were maintained .                     