@@702133

txt The Spanish Situation TOLEDO  --  Although the southwest tower of the Alcazar was shattered by a blast of TNT , the Rebel garrison drove back Loyalists . Artillery was again turned on the fortress and a threat was made to set off two other mines . Casualties from the blast were estimated at more than 800 . Rebel relief column advanced to Within ten miles of Toledo . GIBRALTAR ? The battleship Queen Elizabeth was sent to Malaga , where government forces on land and in the navy were clashing over the desire of some to surrender . THE NORTHERN FRONT  --  Rebel forces captured the first line of defense of the Bilbao army , advancing fifteen miles from San Sebastian . MADRID  --  Syndicalists demanded the conscription of all ablebodied men and a sweeping reorganization of the government to give the workers a larger share in it . Alcazar Defenders Fight On wrrerese co a TOLEDO , Spain , Sept. 18 . ? After sixty-three days of desperate , heroic resistance , half of the garrison of the Alcazar fortress was believed to have been annihilated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by government militia . Some of the defenders , however , are still alive in the ruins tonight , fighting to the bitter end . A storming party which scrambled over the debris to the central courtyard this morning met with bursts of machine gun fire from the eastern wing of the building and was driven back to cover . The attackers were able to rescue several women and children who had been trapped in the ancient fortress more than two months . Survivors Total Unlmown It is not known how many defenders survived the explosion . At the beginning of the siege they numbered 1,300 cadets , soldiers and volunteers and 400 women and children . Although the Republican flag was hoisted over part of the ruins today , the government is not yet master of the Alcazar . Artillery bombardment , which has been going on sporadically for weeks , was resumed tonight , as if to admit the explosion was only partly successful . The mines had been laid and ready since yesterday after many days of work during which the starving defenders could hear the sound of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have told them the end was coming . Of all their number only oneLieuteziant Barrientos  --  fled on the pretext of capturing a large reserve of wheat in a near-by building . As soon as he neared the government lines he threw down his arms and surrendered , but his men ran back to their positions in the doomed citadel . Civilians Leave Toledo Late last night all the civilians in Toledo were evacuated by orde. of the besiegers and encamped in a bitter wind in the fields outside the city . At seven o'clock this morning a government engineer made the electrical contact to fire the charge under the building . Two of three mines exploded with a blast that shook the countryside for miles around . Great blocks of stone were hurled into the air and a cloud of dust and smoke mushroomed over the city . The southwest tower of the Alcazar toppled over with a roar of falling masonry . Motor trucks standing near the fortress were hurled several hundred feet as the Alcazar tumbled in ruins and panes of glass throughout the city were shattered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of militiamen , some of whom were injured by bits of masonry flying through-'the air , stood by ready with rifles and bombs to advance to the attack . As the pall cleared away they rushed forward and planted the flag of the republic on a pile of debris , but a spattering of machine-gun fire drove them back . The Toledo Committee of Defense is confident that the fortress , which has resisted so long , soon will be wholly in its hands . The Rebel Army on the Talavera de la Reina front is still thirty miles away and , according to a government communique tonight , was rushed back a mile near Santa Olalla , the point closest to Coledo . All attempts to advance to the relief of Toledo since the offensive began in the valley of the Tagus more than a fortnight ago have been checked . Socialists Renew Fire Copyright , 1936 , by The Associated Press . TOLEDO , Saturday , Sept. 19 . ? Socialist shells crunched viciously into the blood-spattered Alcazar today . Government gunners sought to demolish fragments of the Fascist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death by explosion . Four government cannon rained steel into the battered fortress throughout the night and early morning as militia commanders awaited arrival of new supplies of ammunition in preparation for an infantry assault over the heaps of crushed masonry . Militiamen who charged into the gaping wreck which once was a royal palace declared 1,200 of the 1,700 Fascists  --  men , women and children  --  who voluntarily imprisoned themselves inside the Alcazar died yesterday when two mines were touched off . " We , of course , have no exact figures , " explained Jorge Cabrera , one of the assaulting militiamen , " and the figure 1,200 may seem high , but a truly ghostly sight faced us when we went over the top . " Through stumps of masonry and wrecked cellarheads spattered with blood we had to trample over torn limbs and hideously broken human remains . " The staccato blast of Fascist machine guns beat a deadly tattoo from the torn fortress , where nests of insurgent gunners concentrated their fire on Government soldiers from behind jagged wall segments . Fascist bullets claimed more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mowed down the advancing lines , which quickly followed the explosions . yesterday . Most of the Govern- ' meat militiamen suffered leg wounds from the Fascist streams of steel . White beams from Government spotlights illuminated the scene of devastation during the night-long barrage , but government officers I waited in vain for the appearance of an insurgent white ' flag to signal surrender . All survivors except the defending machine gunners among the self-imprisoned Fascists were believed to have fled to the underground cellars . Finds Large Food Stores Only twenty women and children were rescued by the Socialist assailants . Militiamen who took part in the attack brought back graphic descriptions of the situation inside the wrecked fortress. - Emilio Vargas , another militiaman , said he jumped out of the way of a Fascist hand bomb so quickly he fell through a manhole into the underground food storeroom of the self-made prisoners . " They had piles and piles of rich foods there , " Vargas asserted . " There were wines and liqueurs , too . " So I broke open a package of biscuits and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then , with the help of some other government soldiers , we carried the entire store out a door where fortunately the Rebel ( Fascist ) fire could n't reach us . " Magtaz Mubru Beramar , the only Moor known to be fighting with the government forces , declared he found a quantity of laundry left to dry in one of the cellars later was half wrecked by shells . " The Fascists must have run out of soap , " he asserted , " for the linen was still very dirty . " The constant reverberations of Government shell fire brought broken tiles and window panes crashing into the streets throughout the barrage . Total damage to Toledo since the civil war began was estimated by City Councilor Perez Chicano in the neighborhood of 50,000,000 pesetas " not including wreckage of the Alcazar . " Thousands of residents of Toledo stumbled along rock-strewn streets and alleys to see the freak result of the blast  --  a five-ton truck which was blown from the Alcazar courtyard to fall upside down in the patio of a house a quarter of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Fascists and at the same time regret over the " terrible decision " which they made before they ordered the tons of TNT touched off . " Now we are really moving along , " remarked General Jose Asensio , commander of all Government forces in Central Spain . " We may wipe out the Fascists tomorrow or the next day or in a week 's time , but we certainly shall wipe them out . " General Asensio , after a conference with Lieut . Col. Luis Barcelo , Toledo military commander , was reported to have abandoned temporarily plans for further dynamiting of the fortress , relying instead , on the artillery fire to prepare the , way for an infantry charge . I Colonel Barcelo was himself wounded in the leg by an insurgent machine-gun bullet .                     