@@701943

txt Landon should be nominated because Landon can be elected . lie can beat Roosevelt . Some people think that the playboy of the White House can not be defeated , that four years more of the darling of the gods are inevitable no matter how you read the cards . Landon says it is not so . With Landon the Republican party can say it is not so . The people who merely hate Roosevelt can not defeat him . People who hold free America close in their affections can do so . Mr. Roosevelt can not be beaten on a question of personal dislike . That merely turns in his favor . He can be beaten by a better man , a man of sounder principles and better intentions . Gov . Landon is that man . In a wide open search for a candi ? date he is the man who has come to the top . Frequently the machinery of federal burocracy turns out the candidate , Frequently he is not the best candidate the party could present and the Republican voters turn away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been destroyed by defeat in the last four years , Lan . don was not discovered by wire pullers . He was found by the people of the Republican party . There probably never was before so spontaneous a greeting given the arrival of a new national figure . A year ago it could not have been pre . dieted . A year ago many well known and distinguished men were hoping with a natural and creditable ambition that if Republican prospects bright ened one of them might be lucky enough to become destiny 's child , to be touched by the wand and be the one to open a new page in American his tory with the feeling that as long as the republic existed he would ' be known as the man who came to the rescue while time for rescue still re mained . The party could not exist and the country could not continue if boa could not rely upon such ambitions to actuate men . From among those who offer themselves or are regarded as available the party has the righ ' and the duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improbable that the Republicans would turn to Kansas , where a modest man of simple habit : and good faith had restored the confidence of his people in his party in th4 state and was turning out a good job in difficult times . He had no powertu interests to push him forward , His reputation for good character and goo ( works spread by word of mouth , almost as it were from neighbor to neigh bor . Skeptical people received the reports of a Kansas possibility with smile . and thought this prospect would quickly fade out . Gradually they change ( their minds . Something credible or incredible was happening . The peoph were responding to the attraction of a coming event . They sensed the tae that they had their man . No other candidate however vigorously presente ( had caught on . Every other wire was dead . No other one was charged . Mr. Roosevelt will be a hard man to beat if the opposing candidate a man who aroused no enthusiasm while he was campaigning for the nomi nation . If he could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. in days of adversity , how could he win back the votes necessary to victory ' Republicans can not ask the impossible of next November . If they wit they 'll have to begin now by deserving to win . The future of the countr ; demands that they do . The republic has no friends in the governing coon sel of the Democratic party . It has many in the party but none in the higl command , A communistic group controls the management , has directe ( the legislation , and asks only a vote of approval to unfold the plans fo another four years . If this Republican convention acts unwisely , refusito the opportunity offered it , there may never be another assemblage of part : delegates granted the privilege of contributing to the continuance of free representative American government . The party of NRA , AAA , and TVA , arid administration by governmen corporations , destruction of private property , and regulation of each ind vidual will want commissars but not representatives , either in conventim or in congress chosen by the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventim deny that ? . Can it , reject the keystone of its arch ? Not and expect it t stand . If it falls , more than the ticket and the party falls . Roosevelt can be beaten by a man in whom the majority of American recognize the characteristics they like to think they at their best Posses themselves . Roosevelt can be beaten by an American . If he is n't , ther will not be many left .                     