@@704122

txt Out of a confused situation centering around the Rules Committee in the House of Representatives came today arrangements for a conference tomorrow between both factions of organized labor and representatives of American business to see if a compromise could not be reached on amendments to the Wages and Hours Act . This conference was called as a by-product of the attempts of Representative Rayburn , majority leader , to clear the decks in the House for consideration of the $800,000 , - 000 Housing Expansion Bill and the $2,490,000,000 lending bill  --  measures which hold the key to adjournment . Pending the results of this laborbusiness conference , the Rules Committee took no action today on the Barden wages and hours amendments . Plans proceeded , nevertheless , for a caucus of House Democrats Friday night in accordance with a petition of fifty-one New Dealers who are seeking to bind the party to favorable action this session on the housing and lending bills and the proposed restoration of the WPA prevailing wage . Situation in House Peculiar The situation in the Rules Committee and in the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the last few years . It was , substantially , as follows : The key figure in the situation was Representative Cox , Democrat , of Georgia , ranking member of the Rules Committee , to whom a personal appeal had been made by his friend Mr. Rayburn to use his influence to permit a rule by which the housing and lending bills could be brought to the floor . Mr. Cox , however , wants above all else to get the Barden wages and hours amendments considered this session . In using his influence at the behest of Mr. Rayburn to push the housing and lending measures through the Rules Committee , he was reported to have met with opposition from Republican members of the coalition , of which he is an important member . It was said that the Republicans on the Rules Committee had threatened to withhold their necessary votes to report out the wages and hours amendments unless Mr. Cox ceased his efforts to get the two Administration-desired measures to the floor . Fate of Three Measures in Doubt The outcome of all three measures is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hours amendments was considered only an effort on the part of the Rules Committee to play for time , since few observers , if any , expect a compromise on highly controversial wages and hours legislation from groups represented by John L. Lewis , president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations ; William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor ; the National Association of Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . The Rules Committee members did not try even to hide their smiles as they suggested this conference to Representative Mary T. Norton , Democrat , of New Jersey , . chairman of the Labor Committee . Mrs. Norton called her committee to meet tomorrow morning , and she summoned the representatives of labor and business . Mr. Lewis is to be the first witness . It was not known whether Mr. Green would appear personally , but it was said that he would have a representative there if he did not come himself . The calling of a caucus of House Democrats did nothing to clarify the situation . It was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought to have been on the verge of success in getting his program set . Caucus Attendance Uncertain Conservative Democrats were noncommittal today on whether they would attend the caucus meeting . They recalled that last year they avoided a caucus called by the New Deal faction to bind the party on the Wages and Hours Bill and that lack of a quorum resulted in no meeting . Should the conservative Democrats attend in large numbers , it was said that embarrassment might result to the Administration 's program , since many are.Known to be opposed to the lending and housing bills and to be in favor of the Barden amendments to the Wages and Hours Act . The caucus move sprang more from .. desire of the New Dealers to restore the prevailing wage scale for skilled WPA workers than for the other legislation . They were told that it was almost hopeless to get the WPA , revailing wage scale restored , since the legislation would have to be considered first by the House Appropriations Committee , which wrote practically all the provisions of the 1940 Relief Act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . WASHINGTON , July 26 . ? When a badly split House Rules Committee decided today to defer any attempt to force House consideration of proposed changes in the Wages and Hours Law until after an unusual conference of the act 's friends and foes tomorrow , Representative Cox , leader of a group supporting amendments by Representative Barden , denounced the proposed conference as " just a stall , " and at first attempted to force an immediate vote on the issue . He was induced to agree to the delay , however . " We did n't want to make a tactical blunder , " Mr. Cox explained , " but we have the votes to do what we want at any time . " Dissension in the Rules Committee over the wages and hours question , evident at numerous points during two days of hearings , flared into the open at the close of this morning 's session when Mr. Cox accused Chairman Sabath of " stalling . " Mr. Sabath flushed , banged his gavel on the table and shouted : " All right , if I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Then he added : " I 'm getting fed up on some of the remarks you 've been making . I 've got a better record than you have in reporting legislation to the floor . I 've never held up a single bill . " " My record must be a poor one if it 's worse than yours , " Mr. Cox retorted .                     