@@702808

txt That the so-called " unemployment census " will be a spectacular affair , if not of much value in determining the actual number of jobless in the United States , seemed assured today . A one day regis tration of the idle , conducted on the order of a national elect ion , with the use of the voting machinery and the lei " D. Biggers. rural free delivery service , has been suggested to President nooseyelt , it was learned . Every man without a job or only partially employed would be requested to go to a polling place on a designated day , probably next January , and fill out a registration card , giving details of his unemployment , tinder the plan . in scantily settled regions the country postman would be employed to distribute and gather the cards . Biggers May Direct Job . John D. Biggers , president of Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass company of Toledo , who has been tendered the position of director of unemployment registration , conferred today with the President . Mr. Biggers refused to discuss plans for the registration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His decision will be announced in Washington next week , ' he said . " I think the registration cart be of real value if handled properly , " was all Mr. Biggers would say . But it was learned that Mr. Roosevelt , who is given all power under the recent bill passed by congress to determine the method of listing the " numbers , classes , and geographical distribution of persons in the United States partially employed or unemployed , " looks with favor upon the one day plan . Mr. Roosevelt , who has a genuine : flair for eye-filling spectacles , opproved with gusto the picture presented to him of long lines of the unemployed standing before polling places , waiting to be signed up as members of the army of jobless . Saturday May Be Selected . The registration would , of course , be voluntary just as voting is volun ' tary , under the tentative program . But preliminary weeks would be spent in spreading the word through the administration 's vast publicity machine that those failing to register might be slighted when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected as the best day of the week for the registration . The results could quickly be assembled and announced the follow . ing Monday . The registrants would be given cards as a reward for registering . The program also calls for each registrant to swear under oath that his answers to queries are true . It is hoped that this requirement would weed out the employed who might seek to gain some benefit by register . ing . Each registrant would be required give his name , age , address , trade , number of dependents and the date and place of his last employment , in addition to such other data as may . he specified by the director and the President . See Dangers in Plan . There are dangers in this plan , it was admitted . One was that local officials , ' who would be in charge of the registration , would be tempted to pad the lists to make it appear that the community was more in need of WPA or other government funds than actually was the case . There would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also was conceded , inasmuch as all WPA workers would come under the classification of unemployed . The fact that the " census " will almost certainly not provide an accurate accounting of the unemployed does not , in the minds of administration officials , detract from the fact that it will offer some statistics to the nation that can be talked about .                     