@@702757

txt Working frantically with ropes , sledge-hammers and pickaxes after two young girls had fallen five floors from the roof of a tenement into a narrow shaft at 1,413 York Avenue , police and firemen succeeded in freeing the victims yesterday after efforts that included the battering down of an%eight-inch brick wall . Both children were so badly injured by the fall , however , that they died later in New York Hospital , to which they were rushed in a desperate continuation of the effort to save them . Policeman Makes Descent One , Lorraine Chinchar , 10 years old , of the York Avenue address , succumbed in the late afternoon , a few hours after her fall . She was rescued first when Patrolman William Gossman of Policeman Emergency Squad 3 dropped into the shaft at the end of a rope held by comrades , and groped in the dark ' ness until he found her . With the child in his arms the patrolman was then hoisted to the roof , The other girl , Marilyn Murphy , 9 , of 1,311 York Avenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plunge downward had left her lying ' in a cranny from which she could be extricated only by breaking the wall beside her . While policemen and firemen worked , Dr. Phillip Zoller of Flower-Fifth Avenue descended on a rope to a point near the child , gave her first aid and shouted directions to the rescuers who were battering through the wall s to reach them . Once freed , the child was found to be suffering from fractures of both legs and possible spinal injuries . She died at 10:35 o'clock last night . Both girls had been playing on the roof when they stepped into the shaft , which separates the tenement at 1,413 York Avenue from the house next door . Thousands Watch Rescue Several thousand men and women gathered around the building where the police worked at the wall and those nearest , after the first small hole was . broken in the brickwork , could plainly hear the sobbing of the frightened child imprisoned in the shaft . From time to time she moaned that her back hurt and that she wanted her mother . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed in and handed to her through the opening in the wall . Dr. Zoller , his white uniform limp from the heat of his long wait in the narrow shaft and stained with dirt from the walls of the buildings , rode with her to the hospital in the interior of the ambulance , after she had clung to his hand and seemed reluctant to let him go . I The two girls fell into the shaft when they tried to cross from the roof of 1,413 York Avenue to that of a chair factory at 1,425 . A wire and tar-paper roof over the shaft , which they believed would hold their weight , gave way under them . An 11-year-old playmate , Carmella Demino , saw them fall and ran screaming to her mother , Mrs. Katherine Demino , who has a candy shop near by . Inspector Charles F. Neidig took charge after two emergency crews had arrived , and Grossman , with a rope around him , was lowered into the cranny . Two feet wide at the top , the shaft narrows to less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay , and the policeman risked being trapped with them . The Chinchar girl he found lying free , and he was hoisted up with her to the roof . He reported that he had been unable to move the Murphy child . Doctor Lowered to Side Dr. Zoller decided to descend to see what he could do , though the police at first were reluctant to allow him to take the risk . Once at the bottom of the shaft , he found the child too seriously injured to be hoisted to the roof , even had he been able to extricate her . He gave her a sedative and then directed the attack on the wall of 1,425 York Avenue . The rescuers worked fast , fearing the trapped girl might die before they could reach her , but the almost total darkness down in the shaft where the doctor stood to direct them and the position of the child handicapped their efforts . A first hole begun in the wall at floor level showed the wall too strong to be broken through without serious danger of injuring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a place where an old bricked-up window made the wall weaker . The first break in the wall was made more than half an hour after the policemen had arrived and Dr. Zoller ordered it enlarged to about three feet so that the girl could be lifted out with her body as rigid as possible , in case she had a spine injury . Outside , a rude plank stretcher was constructed and splints were prepared for her legs . Forty-five minutes after the first sledge hammer had been swung against the wall she was hoisted out . The young ambulance surgeon climbed out after her- and worked over her on the floor of the factory ior a few minutes before she was taken to the hospital , where the Chinchar child had preceded her . There were a few cheers from the crowd as the ambulance drove away . Mrs. Demino said that children of the neighborhood frequently played on the roof of 1,413 and that the tar-paper covered cranny had been there for some time . There is a small parapet between the building and 1,425 but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . Some years ago , she said , a dog fell into the pit and a part of the wall was broken down to rescue the animal . The police could not confirm the story . Dr. Zoller , returning to Flower Hospital was congratulated for his work by David Q. Hammond , the superintendent . Discussing the rescue , the doctor said he was compelled at one time to dangle from the end of a rope over the girl 's body to reach her more easily . His work was particularly difficult because he is , six feet tall and weighs 180 pounds . He is a former New York University football player .                     