@@701128

txt Edltoria1Uorrespondence , TEE NEW YORE TIMES . OMAHA , April ** campaign for signatures to 1935 corn-hog limited production contracts closed this week with evidence to support a supposition that some of the signing was done under the principle of needs must when the devil drives . The devil in this case is represented by the hangover from the 1934 drought . Preliminary estimates of the number of signers indicate that participation will be close to what it was last year but with some shifts of area and personnel . Signing has been relatively heavier where the drought was most severe , as in Nebraska and Southern Iowa . There was a falling off in Central and Northern Iowa , where timely rains pulled through virtually a normal crop . Sentiment changes easily with local conditions . Last Fall , before farmers had had time to estimate the consequences of the drought either in terms of crops or crop failures , Iowa voted heavily for continuance of the corn-hog program . Its total participation will show a slight reduction . Nebraska split fifty-fifty in its vote and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They Signed . Two strong motives impelled many farmers aside from any convictions they may have as to the efficacy of the general principles of AAA crop control . They need the money available in loans offered on condition of signing and they dare not risk the chance of another drought and crop failure without the insurance represented in land rentals and hog benefits . The same thing is seen in the variation of personnel . There has been a considerable recruitment of new signers offset by the desertion of many 1935 signers . One group apparently feels that it is now able to walk without the use of the Federal crutch , while the other , at first reluctant to employ it , finds itself under the compulsion of necessity to seek help . A Liberal Contract . Despite the strong feeling that exists on both sides of the AAA question , the corn-hog campaigns have been conducted with a notable absence of the disorder which has so often marked efforts to organize farmers for united action . AAA representatives have made a strong canvass in behalf of the program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coercion , inspired by zeal , such as has marked the effort to force farmers into milk-marketing agreements and such as produced night riding in the effort to organize tobacco growers some years ago . The only compulsion felt is that of farmers who believe all or most of the processing tax is reflected in a lower hog price . The contracts offered this year were extremely liberal and attractive . They carried with them eligibility to participate in immediate government seed loans and removed from the rented land all restrictions as to use save that of planting corn . This provision is undoubtedly responsible for the fact that while the number of contracts is somewhat below last year 's , the acreage withheld from corn will be about the same .                     