@@700182

txt The influence of the Roosevelt new deal in public utilities regulation became fully manifest in Illinois yesterday when the state commerce cornmission. for the first time in its history , instituted a hearing on its own motion for reduction of an electricity rate . The commission , which under past administrations had confined itself to arbitrating rate differences between the utilities and the communities they serve , assumed the initiative for lowrates over the protest of James Simpson , chairman of the three utilities serving the Chicago area . The rate at issue is that of the Public Service company of Northern Illinois , which provides electricity in 315 communities of Cook county and adjacent counties . Simpson Pleads for Delay . Refraining from any direct challenge of the commission 's right to Institute the hearing . Mr. Simpson at the opening session in the commission 's office . 1 North La Salle street . merely asked a postponement until such time as the policies of tile national new deal become more clarified . He pleaded for consideration not alone of utility consumers . but of utility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now shouldering an extraordinary tax burden , be preserved . Enunciating the policies of the commission 's new deal , Chairman-Benjamin F. Lindheimar. ; . ovezruled Mr. Simpson 's plea . In a statement , buttressed with quotations from President Roosevelt and Gov . Horner , be sought to reconcile the seeming conflict between the President 's primary policy of - restoring commodity price levels and the necondary policy of cutting utility rases . Lintibehner Overrules Plea . " The commission is , of course , cognizant of general economic conditions , the current discussion regarding price levels and the purposes of the national recovery administration , " Mr. Lindheimer said . " These movements have originated with President Roosevelt . who at the same time has stated the necessity tor a reduction in electric rates . We do not feel . therefore . that an action to reduce electric rates , . where they can be shown to be excessive , in any way conflicts with the national . program . " Going further on this trend , Chair- , man Lindheimer took another leaf from the books of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employ a new method of computing rates , which method may result in permanently lower . Income for the utilities . Whereas in the Past the commission computed rates on the reproduction cost of utility plants , henceforth , he intimatefl , the computation will be on what be termed " historical costs " ? namely : the amount of money actually invested in a plant . Face Reality , Simpson Urges . In all of the chairman 's statement there was no reference to the principal point in Mr. Simpson 's argument against a lower rate . The burden of that argument was that the utilities he heads , confronted on the one hand by reduced gross income and on the other by a mounting tax burden , had already experienced a net Income cut which necessitated the halving of dividends or their entire elimination . " Economic realities must be faced , " said Mr. Simpson . " Any further rate reductions or increases in taxes are impossible at this time ' without seriously affecting these companies . This community , embracing the city of Chicago and the surrounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosperity and growth upon these three companies . Any injury to them affecting their credit or their . serviee Inevitably means great damage to the commliiiti , at large . Any reduction is rates at this time ' is unthinkable . " Commission Has New Attorney . Having overruled Mr. Simpson 's request for a delay , Chairman Lindhelmet* directed the commission 's new attorney-to proceed'with his case . The attorney is Harry A. Booth , protege of David E. Lilienthal , former chairman of . the Wiscpnein public service commission and now a director of the Tennessee Valley authority . This is the same Mr. Booth whose attacks on the Insult utilities management and . the rillileti cbtarnerce commrnission of the old EepOlictui regime used to in spire the a &Missiciii; to wrath . Afet , Booth , who , once came near beingo11024 .. practice before the old commission , went blithely to work . His first witness was Mark Wolff . Mr. Wolff identified himself as a consulting utility analyst of Chicago and Rev , York , who at various times has been employed as an analyst by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first exhibit , a comparative table of electricity costs per kilowatt hour by ten utility companies in ten communities in Illinois . Table of Camparative Rates . The table showed that of all these rates , those of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois were the highest . Communities served by and paying the Public Service rate are Waukegan . Lake Forest , Highland ? ark , Glencoe , Kenilworth , Wilmette . Evanston , Oak Park , River Forest , La Grange , Blue Island , Harvey , Chicago Heights . and Kankakee . The domestic rate in these and other towns of the system , using 25 kilowatt hours in a five room house for a base , is 51.95. according to Mr. Wolff . Rates of the other nine companies on the same basis , according to Mr. Wolff 's table , are as follows : Anne Lt. a Power , Allan 91.43 Central Eke. a Gas . Rockford 1.63 Cortical Ill . Light , Peoria 1.50 Central Service . Quincy 1.911 Commonwealth Edimm . Chicago 1.55 paws 84 . Louis L a P. East ID . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pow . Co. , Moline a Rork Island 1.75 Western United G. &; E .. Aurora &; Elgin 1.98 Mr. Wolff had no more than begun to read the figures into the record when the Public Service company 's attorney , Harry J. Dunbaugh , was on his feet with an objection . The commission , he contended , should not admit the figures until the company had been given a chance to examine their authenticity . Dunbaugh Assails Figures . " These figures do not prove anything , " Dunbaugh said . " The rate of our company is uniform for all communities we serve . The rates for these other companies vary in different communities . All this witness has done is to select , hose rates which were most favorable for his case . " Attorney Booth replied . The commission , he contended , had a right to consider any evidence bearing on the case , subject to the company 's right to challenge the accuracy of the figures and its further right to crossexamine the witness supplying them . Thereupon , with the stipulation that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Wolff 's tables were admitted to the record . Mr. Wolff was on the stand for the remainder of the morning session . submitting other exhibits of the same character , all tending to show that the Public Service company 's rates should be reduced . He was followed in the afternoon by his colleague , Dr. William A. Dittmer . Develops a New Basis . It was Dr. Dittmer who developed the difference between the " reproduction basis " of computing rates . and the " historical cost " basis , which the commission indicated it will adopt . On the reproduction basis , Dr. Dittmer maintained , Public Service has been earning an average of 8.82 per cent on its invested capital over the last ten years . On the historical cost basis , he found , the rate of return would have amounted to 9.57 per cent . On a historical cost basis , be maintained , the company bad earned $29 , - 171,917 in excess of a fair rate of return over the ten years , taking 6 per cent as a fair return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excess was $25,165,000 . " Tide sounds too good to be true , " remarked Attorney Dunbaugh , smiling . " I did n't know it was possible that we could make so much money . " " is it too good , or too bad ? " queried Chairman Lindheimer . Mr. Dunbaugh shrugged and said no more . ILINDHEIMER 'S STATEMENT I Chairman Lindheimer 's statement made at the opening of yesterday 's hearing , follows : " On April 13 , 1933 , the commission cited the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois , along with the other electric companies of the state , to show cause why their rates should not be reduced . " Following these citations , in order to avoid as far as possible the delay and expense of formal rate proceedings , the commission met with these electric companies in informal conferences in the hope that the agreements might be reached which would give the consum erg of the state immediate and substantial relief wherever warranted . " As a result of these conferences a number of companies have made substantial rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the commission 's staff on the basis of its preliminary investigation , and as much as-the commission might expect to obtain in a contested rate case . Chicago Companies Refuse . " Other companies , especially those serving Chicago and the surrounding territory and including the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois , stated that they were unable to make any reduction , except to assume the 3 per cent federal tax and to reduce rates to some extent for the larger power users . " During the legislative session earlier this year , in accordance with the announced policy of the governor , section 36 of the public utilities act was amended . By this amendment the commission is empowered to reduce rates by temporary order if , after an investigation of the books and records of a utility , it finds that its net Income , after reasonable deductions for depreciation and other reserves , is in excess of the amount required for a reasonable return upon the value of its property . The commission , therefore , proceeded to have investigations made by its staff of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning , naturally with those v.hose rates seemed to be relatively high . " One of these was the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois , and the results of the investigation , as reported to the commission , seemed to warrant the institution of a formal rate proceeding looking toward a reduction of the rates . This hearing has , therefore , been set for the purpose of determining , on the basis of coil . dence to be submitted by both the commission and the company , whether the commission shall enter an order reducing the electric rates of the Public Service company . " The commission is , of course , cognizant of general economic conditions , the current discussion regarding price levels , and the purpose of the National Recovery Act . These movements have originated with President Roosevelt , who has stated the necessity for a reduction in electric rates in the country . We do not feel , therefore , that an action to reduce electric rates where they can be shown to be excessive in any way conflicts with the national program . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt to the effect that commodity prices in this country are to be raised and if necessary pegged by some device such as that of a managed currency , it becomes more and more necessary for commissions to adopt , as a basis of physical property valuations , a device which is not subjected to the vagaries of changing economic conditions . " It is highly desirable that some way be found for establishing fair and reasonable rates which will avoid the delay and large expense incident to the usual procedure in connection with valuations on the basis of reproduction cost . Actual Cost Basis . " It may be necessary in the future to rely more and more upon actual investment in used and useful property as the bails for determining fair and reasonable rates . The commission looks with favor upon what appears to be a tendency to depart from the reproduction cost principle as the dominant element In valuation , as indicated by the recent decision of the United States Supreme court in the Los Angeles Gas and Electric case . " It is our feeling that rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect the investor and the consumer . The commission recognizes a duty to both classes , but according to the law its clear duty is to make investigations in order to determine , to its own sett -- faction , whether or not rates are fair and reasonable . Fair Play Promised . " The commission 's policy of fair treatment to the companies , the investors , and the consumers is not being departed from by the institution of these formal rate proceedings . " It is unfair to place any part of the blame for the present unhappy situation of the security holders of certain utilities upon the commission , because of Its efforts to determine the real facts na to their operating expenses and the fairness of their rates . " The commission has no intention of exercising , in an arbitrary manner , the broad powers conferred upon it by the recently enacted amendments to the public utilities law . " Utility companies will in every case be given a reasonable opportunity to present the facts from their point of view , but the commission will , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the utility companies to give consumers of trio state the lowest Possible rates for utility service consistent with fair treatment ' of the utility companies . " The commission is an administrative and fact finding body with cets Lain very definite duties imposed upon It by the laws of this state and we propose to carry out these duties "                     