@@702651

txt The Administration 's threeway program for further reform of corporate practice received three-way congressional attention yesterday . Commissioner Douglas of the SEC presented to a Senate Banking and Currency Subcommittee wide revisions of the Barkley bond Indenture regulation bill , arrived at in conferences between the SEC and American Bankers ' Association representatives . Federal Judge Knox , before the House Judiciary Committee , suggested changes In the Chandler Bill revising the bankruptcy law . Max Lowenthal , counsel for the Wheeler Rail Investigating Committee , defended the Lea Bill extending jurisdiction of the SEC over protective committees in testimony before the House Interstate Commerce Committee . Banking authorities who conferred with the SEC on the Barkley bill , indicated complete satisfaction with it as revised . One of them said the banking group had received all that it hoped for out of the conferences . Commissioner Douglas . the witness before the Senate banking subcommittee at both morning and afternoon sessions , in arguing the need for the Barkley bill to supplement existing securities and exchange regulation laws , said that too commonly in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the express duties and responsibilities of trustees have been cut down over a period of years to a point where they are now practically nonexistent . He thought that the bill , as modified as a result of conferences between SEC and banking interests , contained full protection for bondholders through establishment of qualifications and standards for trustees and corporate trust indentures . The bill is based both on the commerce power and the mail power under the Constitution as the authority for federal regulation of corporate issues . A detailed analysis of the bill . known as the Trust Indenture Act of 1937 , was submitted to the subcommittee . Exemptions Provided The measure exempts from its provisions all the securities exempted from registration under the Securities Act with but two exceptions . The exceptions are securities issued in exchange for other securities of the same issuer and securities issued under a plan approved by a court . " It may be reasonable to suppose , " Commissioner Douglas said , " for the purpose of exemption from the disclosure requirements of the securities act , that one who already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for new securities is reasonably familiar with Its affairs . but there is no reason why the indenture , under which the new security is issued . should not conform to the highest standards prescribed by this act . " Judge Knox recommended : 1 . That the provision making the appointment of trustees mandatory in all cases be revamped to permit the courts to determine when such appointments should be made . 2 . That the removal of a debtor management from control of a corporation in reorganization be left to the discretion of the courts . He told the committee that the section making it mandatory for the court to appoint trustees in all cases would be " the sweetest little bit of patronage anybody can imagine " Might Force Liquidation He contended that this provision would cause large and unnecessary expenditures and in some cases might force the liquidation of a corporation . Tudge Knox , opposing mandatory removal of debtor management , itestified , " I have had rather favorable experience in allowing debtors to continue as management . " However , he added that in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provision giving the SEC authority to become a party in interest in all cases involving 35.000,000 or more . The SEC , he said , will not only be helpful to the courts but can protect the interest of large groups of bondholders . He said that the courts should be given authority to impound stock and bondholder lists to prevent them from being used by " fraudulent " stock and bond houses . Mr. Lowenthal said ordinary court machinery is not adequate for administration of reorganizations . He backed sections of the Lea bill which empower the SEC to intervene as an arbiter between any declarant and security holders He said it would be helpful for trustees in bankruptcy to have the assistance of a government agency .                     