@@702265

txt Midland Steel Products workmen yesterday accepted the company 's peace plan , ending the strike . Settlement of this labor dispute will enable the Chrysler Corp . divisions and Lincoln-Zephyr soon to resume full-scale operations . With this incident no longer a deterrent to production , the automobile industry will resume manufacture and be at substantial capacity by at least the middle of next week , and continue at full speed for several weeks to come . Midland Steel workers will return to their jobs Monday , as will also several thousand Chrysler , Zephyr and Briggs Manufacturing workmen , who have been laid off part of this week because shortage of Midland frames held up assemblies . Other parts and accessory suppliers to Chrysler. who have had their releases seduced , will be called upon to start again full flow of materials . The week-long Midland strike reduced Chrysler 's production by close to 20,000 units , with corresponding reductions to the company 's sources of materials . Terms of Agreement Under term of the agreement , approved unanimously by strikers at a meeting late yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour , or 10 ' , on piece work , until such time as this method of work shall be abolished for straight hourly work . Working hours will be eight a day and five on Saturdays . a total of 45 , with time and a halt paid for overtime or holidays . The Union is recognized as the bargaining agency for its members , seniority is granted and no discrimination will be shown the striking workmen . A supply of frames already manufactured will enable Chrysler to resume production Monday , although some divisions may be held back a day or two . Ford trucks appeared at the Midland plant yesterday afternoon and loade ? to_the ? stock of completed Zephyr frames and carted them away to their body builder , so that Zephyr assemblies can be resumed probably Monday , With settlement of the Midland strike the labor picture clears to some extent , although the glass situation is still very unsettled . Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. closed now for more than five weeks , has been unable to supply Chrysler , its principal customer , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glass Co. threatens to spread to this company 's principal operations at Toledo , where it makes glass for General Motors and other automobile units . Higher Auto Prices Suggested - The suggestion made by Libbey-Owens-Ford workers that automobile prices should be increased , a proposal that has been made by other labor : eaders , attracted some anonymous comment from automobile people . The industry 's prosperity depends in large measure , they feel , in its ability to produce a large volume of cars at low cost . Without the low selling prices , as compared with a few years ago , large-scale demand would not exist , and it is only through catering to a large demand with low prices that volume can be sustained at high levels . The industry recalls an experiment by Chevrolet two years ago when an attempt . was made to raise prices slightly , commensurate with increased costs imposed by NRA . Not followed by competitors , the Chevrolet advance brought an immediate slackening in sales , and it was not until the advance was rescinded that sales regained their former relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the industry may be forced by rising material and labor costs , but the industry will refrain as long as possible from marking their prices up . The theory and record show that price increases simply reduce the number of potential car buyers , the consequences being that the smaller resulting business cancels the theoretical advantage to be gained by a price increase .                     