@@700534

txt While Mayor LaGuardia , in cooperation with other city officials and members of the Regional Labor Board , continued efforts yesterday to settle the strike of taxicab drivers , two investigations into the conduct of the city administration and the police in the strike were begun . One inquiry , begun by the grand jury on the initiative of District Attorney William C. Dodge , is seeking to determine whether the city administration and the police did their full duty under the law toward the riots and violence that have marked the strike . The other is a general inquiry by a committee of the Board of Aldermen , of which Alderman Walter R. Hart , Brooklyn Recovery Democrat , is chairman . The committee was set up more than a month ago through a resolution authorizing investigation of city departments with a view to recommending improvements . Police Commissioner O'Ryan , Chief Inspector Lewis J. Valentine , and Inspector John J. Seery appeared before the committee yesterday , behind closed doors , and were questioned on the police handling of taxicab strike disorders , Mr. Hart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held soon , possibly this week . Only three of the nine members of the committee are supporters of the Mayor . Union Leaders Sign . In the morning , Mayor LaGuardia summoned before him the leaders of the strike and after a protracted conference obtained their signatures to ansagreement obligating the Taxicab Drivers Union , the strike organization , to submit to a modified plan for a vote of the 12 , - 000 drivers immediately affected by the strike . These are drivers employed by the Parmelee , Terminal and Radio cab companies . Representing the union at the conference were Samuel Orner , president of the Manhattan local ; Samuel Smith , president of the Bronx local ; Hyman Goldstein , president of the Brooklyn local , ' and Joseph Gilbert , organizer . Attending the conference were also Aldermanic President Deutsch ; Kenneth Dayton , his assistant ; Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , acting chairman of the Regional Labor Board , and Ben Golden , executive secretary of the board . In the afternoon , De Lancey Nicoll , counsel for the Parmelee and Terminal Cab Companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Present at the conferences were also Irving Robbins , president of the Drivers Brotherhood , and Gerald Kamm , head of the Terminal Drivers Association , both characterized as company unions . Mr. Nicoll and the company union heads declined , for the present , at least , to sign the agreement with which the strike leaders consented to comply . Instead , Mr. Nicoll and his colleagues told Mr. Golden they would have to consider the matter and indicated they might have a counter proposal to present when they return to City Hall this morning . It was learned last night that Mr. Nicoll intended to present the whole situation to Alfred P. Sloan Jr. , president of the General Motors1 Corporation , which controls some of the cab companies , and members of the corporation 's executive board . It was reported that the company representatives might return today with the proposal that the same principles applied by President Roosevelt in the settlement of the threatened automobile strike be applied here . Under that settlement both company unions and independent organizations received recognition in collective bargaining . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not appear optimistic . He spoke of the " stubbornness of both sides , " and said " it will require a lot of patience and a firm hand " to bring about a tettlement . " Plans for the vote will go ahead if both sides will sign on the dotted line , " the Mayor said . Mrs. Herrick and Mr. Golden issued a joint statement in which they charged the companies , the striking organization and the company unions with " greed " and lack of interest in the public . " The attitude of the fleet owners , company union members , and Imembers of the Taxicab Drivers Union is a shocking revelation of selfish greed and an expos ? of the extent to which public interest is ignored by all three parties , " the statement declared . " The labor board has worked out plans which would allow that freedom of choice as to representatives for collective bargaining which is assured to workers under Section 7A of the Recovery Act . The charge that the labor board is coercing workers to join a union they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that the ballot that had been prepared offered the workers three choices , the Taxicab Drivers Union , the company union or any other group they wished to have represent them . " If owners , company union officials and leaders of the Taxicab Drivers Union think they can coerce the labor board , either by paid advertisements or exhibitions of violence , into violating the letter or intent of the law which the labor board is obligated to enforce , they are greatly mistaken , " Mrs. Herrick said . " We are satisfied that election rules absolutely fair to the three parties in this dispute were worked out by the board and would not allow any group to dictate rules for the conduct of the election . " The actions of all three are such as to disgust the public and reflect unfavorably on those who thus obstruct justice and law enforcement . No sane or right-thinking person can sympathize with owners , company unions or the taxicab union in the present situation . The workers and the public are unfortunately the innocent victims of a wholly indefensible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between three selfish groups struggling for power . " Dodge Starts Inquiry . The grand jury 's investigation , into the strike became known when , at the request of District Attorney Dodge , Tammany Democrat , Judge John T. Freschi of General Sessions read to its members the law governing rioting and the responsibilities devolving upon the Mayor and the police in quelling public disorders . Judge Freschi read from the section entitled " Consequences of Neglect and Refusal to Act . " He prefaced his reading of the law by saying that Mr. Dodge had officially called to his attention the injury to person and property growing out of the taxicab , strike and that this was a matter affecting the safety and security of the public . Mr. Dodge was in the court room . Among the points made by the court was that in the event of rioting it is the duty of the Mayor or Sheriff to go to the place of disorderly assembly and command the dispersal of those assembled . Judge Freschi also called the grand jurors ' attention to the provision that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place of assemblage and arrest those who were guilty of rioting the officers were guilty of a misdemeanor . Judge Freschi said he thought it was his duty in the light of the request of the District Attorney to call these provisions to the attention of the grand jury . It was also pointed out that in this county the Sheriff is a civil officer and is not charged with suppressing riots . The grand jury has subpoenaed ten witnesses at Mr. Dodge 's re , quest , most of them drivers who have been attacked by strikers . I Harold W. Hastings , assistant district attorney , will present evidence to the grand jury . The witnesses are expected to appear today . Asked whether Mayor LaGuardia would also be summoned , Mr. Dodge replied , " Not tomorrow . " It was learned that some of those to be called for questioning would be asked to waive immunity . When informed of the action of the District Attorney and the instruction given to the grand jurors by Judge Freschi , Mayor LaGuardia at City Hall leaned back in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is expected that Police Commissioner O'Ryan , who appeared before the grand jury informally last week , will probably be called as a witness . Explaining his action , in launching the grand jury inquiry , District Attorney Dodge said that while no direct complaints were received by him , he was compelled under the law to ask for grand jury investigation cn evidence that had come to his knowledge . This is understood to be motion pictures and pictures in newspapers showing attacks on taxicabs by strikers . One such picture shows a policeman walking away while strikers were overturning a taxicab . " Exaggerated , " Says Mayor . Mayor LaGuardia declared that the reports of the strike violence had been " exaggerated " and insisted that the police had the situation well in hand . He did not appear to ' be worried about the investigations and spoke of " politicians " who were trying to use the strike for political advantage . The Mayor pointed out that about 100 arrests had been made by the police and that forty of those arrested had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest them , but we can not hold them , " the Mayor said . He declared that reports had reached him of one company deliberately placing its cabs in front of the strikers ' meeting halls and said that it had been charged that " guerrillas " employed by companies had been instructed to mingle with the strikers in the streets and incite violence . Pointing out that he was being attacked alike by the companies and the strikers , the Mayor suggested that this was evidence of his impartiality . Amplifying on the joint statement issued by Mrs. Herrick and Mr. Golden , the Mayor said : " I told the strikers we can not tolerate or countenance violence . Nobody can but politicians who are making capital of it . The drivers take exception to me . They hold me responsible for police brutality . I am blamed by all sides , the owners , the unions and the politicians . I came out of a sick bed to be on the job today and I 'm going to stay on the job . The police have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blame . The companies are paying starvation wages and there is no question about that . The companies themselves admitted to me that conditions are terrible , and they are terrible . " Mayor LaGuardia revealed that the American Federation of Labor was willing to help as soon as it felt that there was a group of workers it could take over . While the Drivers Brotherhood , through Mr. Robbins , again asserted that it expected to receive a charter from the A. F. of L. , it was learned Ion good authority that the federation had no intention of recognizing the brotherhood , regarding it as a company union . It was said that the strike organization might receive a charter If it showed itself worthy of one . The Mayor conferred yesterday for a few minutes with Michael Cashal , vice president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and Chauffeurs , affiliated with the A. F. of L. When asked why he had conferred with the Mayor , Mr. Cashal said : " They just sent for me . " Close to 2,000 of the strikers crowded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear Mr. Orner report on the plebiscite plan to which the union leaders had given their consent . The members of the union approved the proposals . Mr. Orner emphasized the necessity of orderliness at the balloting to be held under the plebiscite , which he said would probably take place on Thursday or Friday . In the meantime he urged the men to continue picketing the company garages . He said that Mayor LaGuardia had now finally come to the conclusion that he must recognize the union . " We will be the first organization in history to lick General Motors , " the strike leader declared . Following the meeting , the men dispersed quietly for their homes . Proposed Plebiscite Plan . The agreement , which can not be put into effect without the consent of the companies and other workers involved , read as follows : " We , the undersigned , representing the operating companies indicated under our names and the unions likewise indicated , do hereby publicly agree to participate in a plebiscite , without interference or the use of coercion , either by forcing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refrain from voting , and do hereby further agree that we will abide by the result of such a plebiscite , to the extent that on one side it will determine the repI resentatives of the drivers to be I recognized by the operating companies and will thereby provide the means for the permanent adjustment of all existing differences . " The conditions of the plebiscite shall be : " 1 . Men who worked as drivers on Jan. 27 , 30 and 31 , and they only , shall be permitted to vote . " 2 . The plebiscite shall be limited to employes of the Parmelee , Terminal and Radio Fleet Associations . " 3 . The vote shall be taken separately for each group above named , under the supervision and control of the Regional Labor Board and the city . " 4 . Each group above named shall vote separately at one neutral place located in Manhattan . " 5 . Each polling place may have one watcher from each union . " While acts of violence against non-striking drivers were reported in single instances from various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of violence on the previous wholesale scale . Elaborate police arrangements were continued in force . There was mass picketing by strikers at company garages 