@@703126

txt One of the grestest ice jams in the history of the Niagara River heaved relentlessly all day today against the Falls View International Bridge , a quarter of a mile below Niagara Falls , and tonight it threatened for a time to sweep the structure away . In the impact of huge moving cakes of ice , clogging at the bases of the high steel bridge from which thousands of honeymooners have watched the falls , steel gave way to ice with a crunching and cracking as the bridge was twisted out of alignment . Fears were expressed that unless a sharp freeze stopped the flow of ice the bridge would collapse into the gorge over which it connects the United States with Canada . In the hope of saving the bridge , twenty workers were lowered on ropes to the base of the supporting girders in the ice jam below , and set up huge timbers against the girders to relieve the pressure . In the glare of floodlights from above they worked quickly , aware that if till bridge collapsed it would fall on them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight there was little change in conditions . On the American side men were working about the abutments , putting in timber to support steel work torn away . Indications were that the bridge would hold through the night unless the flood of ice over the Horseshoe increased in volume . Earlier in the day several girders at the bases of the bridge , which rises 190 feet above the river and extends 1,260 feet from cliff to cliff , were reported by Witnesses to have snapped with sounds like pistol shots . The great pressure of the Ice caused the main span to buckle over midstream , opening a five-inch gap between the bridgehead and shore on the Canadian side . Farther upstream and a short distance below the falls rising water in the gorge flooded twenty feet over the generators of the Ontario power station , causing the operating force to abandon the plant . The water carried cakes of ice up into a drydock where the twin ships , Maid of the Mist , which carry visitors near the falls , are stored , and moved the boats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A frame house on the Canadian 100 Feet Deep in the Gorge , Crunches Against Piles , Twists Steel Out of Line // Times Wide World side was tipped over by ice the. piled twenty feet on the shore . . k workshop was moved off its fou dations . All last night , grinding masses ? ice moved down the river fro Lake Erie , where high wind had loosened the ice on the la yesterday . The steadily flowing lc accelerated its movement as it a proached the falls and plunged int the gorge , where it jammed t thicknesses as high as 100 feet ire the narrow canyon of the rive below the falls . Early this morning the ice cakes began to pile up against the bliscS of the bridge and it was closed t traffic at 9 A. M. With pressure i creasing from the force of the fall the frozen mass crunched against the steel girders of the abutments : and twisted them out of shape . Officials of the International Rai way Company , which owns th bridge , expressed confidence that i would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to dynamite the ice this afternoon but aban* doned their efforts through fear that explosives might further weaken the bridge . At 2 P. they said that the water level was 40 feet above normal , or 15 feet above the previous record rise of the Niagara in 1909 . Hundreds of persons stood watching on each side of the shore as the destructive forces of nature moved against the work of men . Officials of the power plant above the bridge were helpless . " The water is at the highest point it has ever been , " one of th3m said . " Our load has been cut from 100,000 to 5,000 horsepower . We ca n't do anything about it . Relief will come only when the ice jam in the lower Niagara is released . " Above the falls the river became impassable and ferry service was stopped between Buffalo and Fort Erie . A railway bridge and a lower arch bridge a mile below the falls were not seriously affected by the ice jam . eavy pleasure ) ) e lee has is be sturdis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DOVER , N. J. , Jan. 26 . ? Dynamiters broke an ice jam that flooded the town tonight . They also blew out plate-glass windows in fifty stores and dozens of homes . Mayor John Roach had called out all the town 's 120 volunteer firemen when Rolling Mill Pond , fed by the Rockaway River overflowed , inundating several blocks of the business district with six inches of water , filling many cellars . Some one threw a sack filled with dynamite with a t ( me fuse into the pond and the blast broke the ice jam at the dam where the river enters . The water began to recede and the firemen and civilian volunteers who had been building sandbag floodwalls quit .                     