@@701395

txt The clearing of ground for the formal three-power conference to save Ethiopia from the disasters of a war with Italy and the League of Nations from a dilemma that is likely to wreck it as a vital institution , whichever horn it may choose , began here today when Premier Pierre Laval received the British delegates at the Quai d'Orsay . Conversations were held between Anthony Eden , British Minister for League of Nations Affairs , and Mr. Laval . British and French experts on African questions got together later to put into form various technical questions regarding past treaties , which later may play an important part in the negotiations : The French part , it became clearer than ever today , is to be that of mediator ? an honest broker who wants nothing mush for himself except good-will and such a quid pro quo as may voluntarily be vouchsafed him in return for reconciling the two opposing parties . Today Mr. Laval heard the British argument . Tomorrow he will listen to the Italian views when Baron Pompeo Aloisi arrives . The Ethiopian aspect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tecle Hawariate , the Emperor 's Minister to Paris . That , however , as is quite clearly established , will count for very little . Ethiopia is expected to do what the greater powers decide is best for her . Also she probably will , the only alternative being her utter extinction . Italy 's Stand Awaited . It was said tonight in British quarters that " some progress , in fact all that could be expected from a. mere preliminary meeting , " had been made today . This probably covers the facts that little had been expected and little was accomplished because both the British and the French are merely waiting to hear what the Italians say tomorrow before any definite proposals are advanced . Mr. Eden pointed out to Mr. Laval that both Britain and France were deeply concerned in the Ethiopian matter because it involved not only peace in Africa , where both have extensive colonies , but probably European peace as well and certainly the League 's future influence . Beyond this , however , it is understood , the conversations proceeded along the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the part that may be played in such a settlement by the old tri-partite treaty of 1906 , the -Italo-Ethiopian Arbitration Treaty ? of 1928 and the exchange of notes between Italy and Britain in 1925 . Concrete proposals were not the time for them not having arrived . It is believed , however , that one point in these old treaties was definitely discussed . The Treaty of 1906 not only explicitly safeguards the independence of Ethiopia but provides also that none of the signatory powers shall interfere in her territory except in agreement with the two others . Since Italy signed this treaty and interference without the consent of her co-signatories is definitely what Premier Mussolini is now planning , the British feel that this consideration should carry great weight in the conversations . It is reported that the prospect of appeasing Italy by setting up in Ethiopia some sort of collective in dependent mandate under they League was touched upon by Mr. Eden . This suggestion has been made in Britain with the corollaryl that it might be arranged in such a way as to give Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mussolini is believed to be unwilling to accept League supervision even indirectly in any Ethiopian matter . Moreover , economic advantages alone would not solve the Italian problem , since they would give Italy no outlet for her surplus population . Capitulations Proposed . For this reason the suggestion is gaining ground of setting up in Ethiopia a system of capitulations such as prevailed in Turkey before the war , or extraterritoriality such as China now permits . Under such a system each participating power would have the right to facilitate the government of its nationals in Ethiopian territory and retain jurisdiction over them while there . They would retain their original nationality and remain subject to the laws of their own land . Since Britain and France have declared that they desire no further concessions from Ethiopia , capitulations signed by them jointly with Italy would operate in practice to the ' advantage of Italy alone . If Ethiopia declined to accept this it could be pointed out to her that she is already subject to the essential features of such a system because Britain , France , Italy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , now have consular jurisdiction within her borders . None of these ideas , however , has yet advanced beyond the suggestion stage and they were not the subject of deeper exploration in the conversations between Mr. Eden and Mr. Laval today . Any concrete proposals must wait until the Italians have been heard from tomorrow . The actual three-party conference will not begin until Friday . British Position Not Clear . There is a disposition in some French quarters tonight to complain that the British case is far from clear and that the British seem to have come here without adequate preparation . Before they arrived the French were uncertain as to what the British were driving . at and what they had to propose . After this first interview that situation is said to be very little clearer . The French are rather tired of generalities and wish to get down to cases . They wish to know what the British want and how far they expect ' rance to go in helping them to get it . So far , it is understood , Mr. Eden has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so at this stage . However , for that matter the French themselves are equally noncommittal . Before they promise anything to the British they wish to know what the Italians want . The Italian aims have never yet been frankly stated and Italy 's policy at Geneva seems to have been actuated by a desire to avoid stating them . One outstanding fact and one alone is recognized and accepted by all sides . It is that this is the last chance before the League Council meets again on Sept. 4 to arrange a peaceable solution of a situation that involves far more than the fate of a small African country hitherto of no importance in world affairs . Unless it succeeds , the whole matter must be ventilated at Geneva next month and the League must take decisive action , with such consequences as no one would now dare to predict . The Council 's four conciliators will meet here on Friday morning and elect Nicolas Politis , Greek Minister to Paris , as their colleague and chairman , thereby becoming arbitrators in the matter of the frontier clash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commission will find the Ethiopians to blame in that incident , thereby strengthening the Italian case and making it easier to bring pressure to bear on Ethiopia . However , Ethiopia counts for less and less as this negotiation proceeds . She has become the subject of an international inquest that involves decisions as to what will be done with the corpse ,                     