@@698443

txt On the eve of the national Anti-Saloon League convention opening here tonight , Dr. Edwin C. Dinwiddle , executive director of the National Prohibition Board of Strategy , charged wet leaders with deliberately misredresenting the position of the American Bar Association on prohibition Dr. Dinwiddle directed his statement at an article in a current magazine signed by Mr. Alfred E. Smith , in which the latter says the bar association , among other organizations . has " denounced the Eighteenth Amendment and has called for its repeal . " " The fact Is , " Dr. Dlnwiddle 's statement reads , " that the American Bar Association has never taken action for or against the Eighteenth Amendment . On the contrary the association expressly avoided taking any action at its annual convention in Atlantic City , N. J. , last September 17 . The secretary at that convention read a report of a referendum among members . Of approximately 26,500 members , 13,779 , or about one-half ti.vored repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . This report merely was read to the convention . " The press reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steered clear of even any discussion of the report . No action whatever was taken by the convention on the report . Both officers and delegates avoided Winging the issue to a head for formal action and the association stands uncommitted . The policy of ' hands off ' was understood and prevailed . " Therefore , Smith and Raskob have incorrectly reported the American Bar Association as favoring repeal or that it has taken any position whatsoever upon prohibition . " Thg executive board meeting yesterday had under consideration the course which the league will adopt toward the Bingham.bills to legalize 4 per cent beer and for a national referendum on prohibition . That they will decide to oppose both measures is considered a foregone conclusion , although a full hearing has been promised to anyone who feels the dry cause would be furthered by acceptance of either or both of these two measures . It Is pointed out that some drys believe a clear-cut national vote upholding the Eighteenth Amendment would silence wet , agitation . They therefore favor submitting the question to a national referendum .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         