@@702527

txt Flurries this week over the prospects of a change in the price of gold , which were set temporarily at rest by President Roosevelt 's statement yesterday , have nevertheless had an important indirect effect They were mainly responsible , it appears , for an appreciable lowering of the exchange value of the franc . Should the i. and also begin to slip in terms of the dollar . observers might suspect that the tripartite monetary agreement was at work . in effect correcting what is regarded as an under-valuation of the dollar by this decline in other currencies . The purpose of a change in the price of gold or the valuation at the dollar is not technical , but important to all Americans . It is an essential means of checking inflation or excessive expansion . And that means more stable prices , which in turn means a fuller market basket for the housewife , better business conditions for the industrialist , and more healthy recovery all around . There are three possible ways to exercise this currency check on inflation . One is by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done in January . 1934 . That method , however , would require legislation . Power to Devalue Dollar The Gold Reserve Act of 1934. subsequently extended , authorizes the President to cut the gold content of the dollar to from 50 per cent to 60 pet cent of its former content . But it sets the top limit of 60 per cent , above which he is not to elevate the dollar . Since the dollar is now only a small fraction below 60 per cent of its old value , the President could not correct an undervaluation adequately without seeking new legislation from Congress . To go to Congress might open up again a politico-economic argument with the old inflationist group , unsettling world monetary conditions even further . But the President can ? as u as rumored he would do this week  --  alter the price of gold . This is not so permanent nor perhaps so desirable a step as a precise change in valuation of the dollar , but it has a similar effect . However , the repeated denials of Mr. Roosevelt I and Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken at their face value by observers here . They have concluded that the threat of runaway inflation , of over-booming recovery , has not yet reached the point  --  except in durable goods industries ? where the Administration feels it desirous to take positive action . Direct Effect on Dollar The third method , of tacitly cooperating in declines of the franc and pound , is a generally quiet and long-range approach to the same goal . For the importance of the price of gold lies mainly in the field of international monetary exchanges . Therefore , a decline in the value of franc and pound in terms of dollars is the same thing as a boost in the direct valuation of the dollar . The pound , over a period of months , has now declined several points . The franc only yesterday dropped away nine points . under conditions suggesting that the French Exchange Stabilization Committee was not opposing the decline . A permanent re-establishment of pound and franc on a lower level would have a direct retarding influence on United States overexpansion , in so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As Marriner S. Eccles. chairman of the Federal Reserve Board , said in a recent article : " Lowering the price of gold , or a relative fall in other currencies , might offer a possible means of checking excessive expansion at home . " It is interesting that Mr. Eccles referred specifically to the fall of other currencies as a means , in effect , of revaluing the dollar .                     