@@699201

txt Starting forth on the second crucial trip of his campaign for redlection , President Hoover today was bound for Cleveland . determined to hammer home the Administration 's case for a second term with the same vigor and aggressiveness which he displayed in his Des Moines speech last week . At brief stops in small towns in West Virginia , Maryland and Pennsylvania along the way . croa cis giceted the visiting President and cheered bins as he came out on the rear platform to acknowledge their salutations Once again tonight the whole nation will be blanketed with the radio-cast of his speech , which will be the third major address since the campaign started . The document was not complete early today , and the prospect is that it will be finished only a little before Mr. Hoover delivers it . The speech will probably deal with those industrial problems which are now uppermost in the thoughts of the politically important states around Ohio . The speech is addressed primarily to the wavering Republican voters in Ohio , Indiana . Michigan and Illinois , which states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncertain in their allegiance . With a total of 88 electoral votes involved in this block of central states , a victory in all four of them by Republicans would probably swing the election , particularly if Mr. Hoover can count on carrying the eastern seaboard from Bangor to Baltimore . Slaps Along the Way At Mai tinsburg , W. Va . a crowd greeted the President and Mrs. Hoover . " My friends in Martinsburg. it is always a pleasure to be here , " Mr. Hoover said . " I always get a particular pleasure in crossing this State . This promise that you are going to participate in this campaign is encouraging and heartening and I thank you for it , " At Cumberland . Md . Mr. Hoover defended the tariff system , which he said originally began in Maryland . " The Democratic Party : he said . " opposed the protective tariff . Eton if no other reminder were needed . the mills of Cumberland would e-call the importance of the protective tariff . If it were not for that Republican policy , these ceiancse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people of Maryland had a large part in the passage of the first protective tariff in our country . On April Ii , 1789 , a gioup of manufacturing workers and others of Baltimore joined in a petition to President Washington and the first session of the first Congress . It was , indeed , the first petition filed with the Congress . " They prayed that the new Government would render the country independent in fact as well as in name and give early attention to the encouragement and protection of American manufacturers and woik - men by Invoking upon all foreien articles which can he mad , ? in America such duties as wild ( ' giv , just and decided Keret-cm ? Is 111 labors and thereby discontinue tin ' trade which tended to so ma'cria ' : - injure them . " President Washington responded to the netition and the first piece of legislation passed by the Congre:s and signed by the Fuss President was a nenteetivn tnriff Depends on Tariff ' " From that day to this the State of Maryland'has had this independence which its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only ale the industries of Maryland today dependent on pi otective tariff . but a large part of her agriculture as well . Your dairy products , truck products , wheat , corn , livestock are so near the seaboard that the countries of cheap production could penetrate your markets and do great injury to your farming Industry " You will find that today practically every farm article produced in the State of Maryland could be imported for less than the present price , depressed as those prices may be . ' The Democratic Party is opposed to a protective tariff . It proposed to reduce these tariffs . In its platform in lieu* a protective tariff it proposes a competitive tariff for ' revenue . It denounces the present tariffs as exhorbitant . Their candidate. ; and supporting orators demand reduction in the face of depreciating currencies in iforeign countries during the last 12 months which have resulted in still further reduction of their living standards . " Indeed the ' increase In Imports into our country of certain lines ol manufacture by virtue of this depreciation is already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would submit to the thoughtful citizens of Maryland that your first interest lies in sustaining the party whose policies and whose candidates alone-can be relied upon to maintain protection to your jobs , your farms , and your industries from destruction through imports of cheap goods and the products of cheap land . " The Hoover address 14 scheduled at 8:30 and the prospect now is that most of the United States will either be at . its own radio , or over at the neighbor 's , to hear the speech . Mr. Hoover has undoubtedly had a good press for his first two talks . To many observers the prospect of the candidate offers something politically unique , for he has made only one speech to his opponent 's three , and yet has unquestionably commanded popular attention equal to or greater than that of Governor Roosevelt . Republican spokesmen assert that the Des Moines speech " turned the tide , " and while this statement may be ascribed to political optimism , it has become evident that national interest . centers on the series of carefully prepared and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Republican victory is attained-it will be Indeed because of their effectiveness . Mr. Hoover will leave Cleveland almost at once tonight after delivering his speech , and will be back again in Washington to take up once more . his heavy task of doing the nation 's business early Sunday morning . In ? ifosille ' . Territory Just as Mr. Hoover boldly penetrated a supposedly hostile farm area when he went to Des Moines , so he is now going to an industrial city which would be judged from various straw ballots this year to he in the Democratic ranks . Mr. Hoover at the Des Moines Auditorium got one of the biggest receptions in his life , and campaign managers hope that the same result will 101 , low in Cleveland when the President puts sentiment to a personal test . Ohio is one of the major prizes in ' any presidential election . Only twice since 1806 has it gone , Democratic and then both times for President Wilson , but this party regularity has not extended to local and state officers , and in particular the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toni Johnson , and now of Mr. Newton D. Baker , is supposed to be distinctly insurgent in tend : ency . Cleveland went for La Follette in 1924 , when the Progressive was run ' ning against former President Coolidge and Mr. John W , Davis , his Democratic opponent , and business conditions were comparatively good . Industrial stagnation has enhanced the insurgency of the area , so that Mr. Hoover 's trip today is an invasion of the very heart of Ohio discontent , and can be set down as a bold political move . As for Governor Roosevelt . he starts on his second extended tour next Tuesday . and his route will cross part of the territory Mr. Hoover is traveling today . Governor Roosevelt will travel through the border states as far west as St. Lout ' and go as far south as Atlanta . The wind-up of his campaign will be it the East . Vast Clcvelaiid Crowd To Heat . Hoover Speech CLEVELAND , Ohio , Oct. 15 ( Xi ? A rousing welcom : will be extended President Hoover when he arrives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his campaign for reelection . Elaborate preparations were completed today for the reception , and Republican workers said 28.000 persons will be present when his speech is delivered at 8:30 p. m. ( eastern standard time ) in the Cleveland public hall . Mr. John D. Marshall , chairman of the committee on arrangements , said seating reservations had been requested for 55,000 persons , the largest demand for a Republican gathering since the 1924 national convention . Only the 28,000 can be accommodated , however , and that only by opening three annexes to the main auditorium . The main hall will scat 10,200 , with 350 party leaders and a band , on the speakers ' platform . Mr. Marshall planned to put 10,000 of the crowd in the main annex . 500 In the basement , and 3000 in the music hall . The President 's speech will he carried to them through amplifiers . The address also will be broadcast by national radio chains .                     