@@698252

txt WHAT OF THE ORGANIST ?  - -  BRUCKNER 'S MASS How would it do to start a commotion In your music section by asking this question : " Are organists human beings ? " What brought this question to mind Is my asking an organist the other evening , " Who played the organ part in Weinberger 's ' Passacaglia ' ? " Then- . the vitriolic monologue started . " You had to look in the small type of the program to find out . The organist was listed merely with the rest of the organization . Other virtuosi get their names in big print . Does the organist ? No . " And what happened Thursday evening . The piece was written ' for orchestra and organ . ' That would indicate that the organist was to be a person of some importance in the rendition . Did Mr. Kleiber think so ? He did not . He bowed and bowed and bowed at the conclusion . But he never looked toward the poor organist . He lifted the orchestra to accept the applause , but still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sidled out on the stage just when the musicians were streaming off . " And did Mr. Downes mention the organist in his review ? He did not . He said the performance was brilliant . which means that the organist must have been good . But all the mention the organ gets in an ambitious piece , dedicated to Mr. Kleiber. which is written distinctly for ' orchestra and organ , ' is that ' the organ roars . ' " That is what one organist had to say about Mr. Kleiber 's treatment of his organist . The impression given me was that it was " snooty . " Needless to say , I am merely a transmitter of an irate point of view . " Are organists human beings ? " H. K. T. New York , Oct. 26 , 1931 . To the Editor of The New York Times : Last Sunday I attended the performance of Bruckner 's F minor Mass given by the Society of the Friends of Music . To them , surely , is due not only recognition of the fineness of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so pure , so truly and sincerely reverent , combining ephemeral grace with steadfast spiritual strength . Bruckner was not content with mere beauty of sound . In the F minor Mass he created the means of bringing people closer to God ? of guiding their thoughts aloft to more profound channels . In other words , the Mass tends to uplift and brings to the troubled soul peace . Surety we can not overlook the im- portance of this composer nor hit music , both choral and symphonic I heartily disagree with Mr. Downes ' : criticism of the Mass . I look forward to the time when Bruckner may fill the niche that he truly merits among the masters recognized in our country . MARGARET RUTH ENDEL . New York , Oet. 27 , 1981.                     