@@700856

txt The electrical activity of gray matter , the thinking apparatus of the human brain and seat of intelligence , was demonstrated at the Harvard Medical School today before the Clinical Congress of the American College of Surgeons . The demonstration showed that there is a constant electrical activity going on in the living- brain , and that rhythmic electrical Changes are going on constantly in the brain cortex , the upper brain , even in the absence of any sense stimulation . In experiments on animals it was further demonstrated that the brain discharges electrical currents even in the unconscious state under anaesthesia . The experiments are being carried on in the physiology department of the Harvard Medical School , under Professor Walter B. Cannon , one of the world 's leading physiologists , by Professor Hallowell Davis , Dr. M. H. Lurie and Dr. H. A. Derbyshire . The gray matter of the brain keeps sending out electrical currents , the demonstration showed , as long as the blood supply to the cortex is not cut off . As soon as the ' blood circulation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made on a living conscious human being in complete repose in a dark room . Two metal electrodes were attached to the top and the back of the skull . These electrodes were in turn connected to very delicate high amplification apparatus in another part of the building . This amplifier magnified the current 1,000,000 times . Electrical Surges Are Held . Attached to an audiometer these amplified electrical brain surges could be heard distinctly in rhythmic clicks . The brain dynamo was made audible . In addition to being heard the brain currents also were made to write their own record on a photo- graphic apparatus , after they were first made visible on the flourescent screen . The same experiments were conducted on anethetized cats after the top and back parts of the skull had been removed . Here the electrodes were attached directly to the brain itself . In this case only a tenth of the amplification was necessary to record the electrical activity of the gray matter on the visual and audible apparatus . The experiments are at present mainly conducted to determine the part played by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearing , in the hope of finding means of restoring their hearing power to 10,000,000 in the United States alone who now can not hear . When the human subject lay quietly with his eyes closed , the apparatus recorded ten to fifteen electrical brain oscillations per second . When the eyes were suddenly opened , and a visual stimulus was thus provided to the brain , the regular signals were either modified or interrupted entirely . A flashlight brought in front of the eyes caused a definite alteration in the automatically recorded pattern of the electrical brain signals . The range in frequency of the electrical iscillations , Dr. Davis said , runs from one to forty per second . Whether or not these facts may be interpreted to mean that the process of thinking and consciousness is purely the result of this electrical activity of the gray matter of the brain , would at the present stage of experimentation be pure speculation , the Harvard scientist stated . The experiments , however , Professor Cannon said , have demonstrated the electrical activity of the brain on a much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity has been suspected for the past few years . Sense of Hearing Traced . What the Harvard experimenters are particularly engaged in is not the electrical activity of the brain as a whole , but to trace the specific activities of the various sense organs as they transmit their messages to their various localized areas in the brain . At present they are largely interested in the electrical brain apparatus that has to do with hearing . The human ear is a very complicated and highly sensitized organ . Leading from the ear-drum are bony structures known as ossicles , which vibrate mechanically to the sound waves that enter from without . These mechanical sound waves , however , are transformed into electric action currents in the inner ear known as the cochlea , which contains the part known as the organ of corti . From this organ of porti the electrical currents travel , in a manner similar to that of a telephone wire , along what is known as the eighth nerve , consisting of a twisted band of delicate fibres , to the mid-brain , where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve impulses created by the original sound waves radiate by paths which are spread out , fan shape , into the higher areas or cortex of the brain . When this takes place the individual becomes conscious of the sounds from the outer world ; the mechanism involved in hearing is completed . When any vital parts of the ear are diseased or injured , the mechanical sound waves can not be transformed into electricity , and consequently no electrical impulses can reach the hearing part of the brain . It is here that the scientists hope to find a means whereby electrical currents could be made to stimulate the brain directly by artificial means even when the ear itself does not possess the power to do so . The Harvard experiments have carried further the pioneer work in this field begun at Princeton University by Weyer and Bray . Dr. D. C. Balfour Elected . Dr. Donald C. Balfour of the Mayo Clinic , Rochester , Minn . WAS chosen president-elect of the Ainerican College of Surgeons , to take office a year from now at the next clinical congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Greenough of Boston , who took office at the opening of the congress Monday night . Dr. Arthur W. Allen of Boston and Dr. John A. Gunn of Winnipeg , Canada , were chosen first and second vice presidents , respectively . Dr. J. Bentley Squier of New York , a past president of the college , was re-elected to the board of regents for a term of three years . Others re-elected as regents are Dr. Charles H. Mayo of Rochester , Minn. , and Dr. Allen B. Kanavel of Chicago , also a past president . New members elected to the board are Dr. Samuel C. T-Tprvey of New Haven , and Dr. Alexander R. Munroe of Edmonton , Alberta .                     