@@698630

txt The League of Nations commission of inquiry into the Sino-Japanese dispute arrived here on the President Adams from Japan yesterday and was welcomed by a large crowd , including officials . Chinese newspapers joined the chorus of welcome to the League visitors , generally , declaring that China is content to believe that the commission will examine the facts of the case and base their findings upon it . The Sinwanpao , leading conservative newspaper , states that China has unreservedly placed its case in the hands of the League , and that vindication of the League Covenant , the Kellogg-Briand pact and the Nine Power treaty rest on the shoulders of the commission . Japan is accused of an attempt to cover up its acts of military aggression in Manchuria by the establishing of a puppet Government in Manchuria . The Journal criticizes Japanese tactics in the Shanghai area and declares that its subsequent action violates international peace agreements and flouts civilized methods of warfare . The Shunpao welcomes the commission , stating that China is ready to accept and abide by the verdict of international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove the strongest champion of international law and justice . Lord Lytton , leader of the expedition , declined to make a statement , but declared that the commission was ready to cooperate with the local peace movement , if invited . Japanese Reported To Be Still Landing Forces Near Shanghai Special from Monitor Ihireau WASHINGTON , March 15 ? While the Japanese military proclaims its peaceful intentions in China and is urging the Chinese to resume vocations in the war zones , Japanese reinforcements are being disembarked almost daily , and military supplies and equipment in large quantities are being landed at Shanghai , it is learned in authoritative sources here . It is further learned that during the last week rumors of peace have absorbed public attention in Shanghai , almost to the exclusion of everything else , yet there are no indications that the Japanese intend to withdraw . Coincident with this information comes the report of Mr. Edwin S. Cunningham , American Consul-General in Shanghai , to the effect that the Japanese have sympathetically considered practically every request recently presented by the American Consulate-General for assistance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Passes and protection have been , given and accorded . Even the golf I course which is a little west of tli , Klangwan battlefield was open I Match 12 for play . The Public Works Department , which : had susepnded duties for military defense work , has practically returned to its regular duties , says Mr. Cunningham . And , although the municipality has not complete control of Hongkew and Yangtsepu , these sections are approaching normal conditions with less interference . Electric lighting is reappearing , and foreigners can move there with practical lreedom . Trade and industry in China and Manchuria are resuming activities , according to Mr. Julean Arnold , commercial attache at Shanghai . Manchurian trade and Industry are gradually recovering , but unemployed in Mukden are still estimated at about 100,000 persons . The Japanese are going ahead with extensive industrial developments , and the entire public utilities and communications systems , especially the railways , are undergoing elaborate readjustments under Japanese supervision , which will place the purchases of material under Japanese auspices . Many firms were unable to meet their obligations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Japanese boycott , the latter of which has been estimated to have been 50 per cent effective in North China , 65 per cent in the Yangtze Valley region , and 85 per cent effective in South China , It is stated . Tokyo Minister Resigns TOKYO , March 15 ** Tokugoro Nakahashi , Home Minister in the Japanese Cabinet , resigned today . The Home Minister , as head of the police , was severely criticized because he continued in office after the explosion of A bomb near the carriage of Emperor Hirohito on Jan. 8.                     