@@697544

txt " To the thoughtful citizen who " has lived through several industrial " depressions it is disheartening to " realize how little we seem to retain " of the experience of one crisis to " help us attack the next . " Thus writes Miss COLCORD in her foreword to the report on " Community Plan " ping in Unemployment Emergen " cies , " published today by the Russell Sage Foundation . The crisis comes . The bread lines form . Men 's hearts are filled with sympathy for the plight of their fellows . Too Often the purse-strings are attached directly to the heart-strings , without the intervention of intelligence . A cry goes up for relief free from " red tape ; " when the right kind of red tape  --  planning , control , investigation , discrimination between family men and single men , between those who are willing to work and those who are not , between men and women who can find other means of tiding them over the emergency and those who must have outside help , between residents and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the relief count . The pamphlet has the merit of being focused on a single objective : what a community can do to mitigate the evils of a nation-wide industrial depression as they affect that community . Here are the pitfalls , here the paths to relief . On many points , the author declares , those who have been through this ugly business before are now agreed . It is more desirable to strengthen and expand old relief agencies than to set up new ones . Preference for residents places the responsibility where it belongs , " each community taking care of its own . " In the case of the ablebodied , registration for employment should always be a prerequisite to the granting of public aid . Relief should be decentralized . Centralized and over-advertised measures not only tend to " weaken the moral fiber of the people , " as JOSEPHINE SHAW LOWELL pointed out many years ago , but result in " a most serious drying up of the " richer and more valuable sources " latent in the good-will and help " fulness of family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbor " hood . " Our legislators and politicians would do well to read what Miss COLCORD has to say on this subject , as on the mistake of relying too much on vast programs of public works . Planning , however , must be centralized  --  and done in time . When the actual crisis arrives , we have not lacked leadership , as the work of the Prosser committee in this city proved . Such coordinating and directing agencies are needed in every community . However , it must think not alone in terms of the emergency of unemployment but of its " end products " : Homes will be lost in the buying ; money will be borrowed on disastrous terms ; ' household effects gathered slowly will be scattered ; occupants of separate homes will move into furnished rooms ; dwellers in decent neighborhoods will be driven into meaner streets ; a lower moral tone will follow upon the loss of privacy ; lodgers will be taken in who are unfit companions for small children ; large families will be insufficiently fed on the two days in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken from school prematurely . The community can not carry the whole burden of unemployment , but it can , if it puts its shoulder to the task , prevent some of these social losses and mitigate much of the misery that would otherwise overwhelm it .                     