@@704089

txt Britain 's measures to curb arms profits have focused attention here on the activities of makers and merchants of war weapons and have aroused renewed indignation of at least a considerable section of public opinion at the extent to which democracies are supplying dictators with sinews of wan Figures essentially similar to those first published in The Christian Science Monitor on June 27 showing that the United States , the British Empire , France and the Netherlands supply Japan with 86 per cent of its war material imports have been publicized here from several different sources in the past few days . An organization called wthe Union of Democratic Control has published a pamphlet analyzing Japan 's imports of strategic war materials showing that the democracies have enabled Japan to carry on the Chinese war and pointing out that the Soviet , although possessing an abundance of war materials , sold none to Japan in 1937 and 1938 . A meeting of members of Parliament was recently addressed by the Liberal publicist , Mr. H. J. Timperley , who summarized carefully the documents in a bulletin issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Economic Research , giving similar figures of war supplies to Japan . Mr. Timperley , who subsequently published letters on the subject in the press , also stressed the extent of democratic purchases of Japanese manufacturers , which was the only way in which Japan could buy foreign currency to pay for its armament purchases . The Labor and Liberal parties are both seeking a practical formula for the " deplorable " state of affairs in which , as the News Chronicle describes it , " Japan lacks nearly all raw materials essential for carrying on a modern war . They are supplied by countries whose Nationals she insults and whose interests she destroys . " An analysis published by the Union of Democratic Control shows the United States is the biggest exporter of armaments to Japan , supplying 56 per cent of Japan 's imports in 1938 ; the British Empire is second with 20.69 per cent : the Dutch East Indies third with 8.62 , and Germany fourth with 7.68 . Tax on Arms Profits Meanwhile the new A. P. D. , Arms Profiteering Duty , provides for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an armament turner of ? 200,000 or more , with normal profits calculated on an average for 1936 and 1937 . A. P. D. is complementary to the already existing N. D. C. , National Defense Contribution , a tax whereby all industry and business already shares the burden of rearmament , and to the Government 's elaborate system of supervision and costing . Even if the new measure does not seem to cover a very wide field or suggest a big return to the Exchequer , it is felt , at all events , the public can be assured that the net is being more closely gathered round arms profiteers . Fuller details of the A. P. D. show that the Minister of Supply will specify cet tain materials used in armaments to be excluded from duty . Coal , iron ore , and rubber are expected to be named . With regard to holding companies , profits of operating companies will be assessed separately and provision made to prevent evasion by division into smaller concerns below the ? 200,000 exemption line . Exceptional depreciation will be allowed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jan. 1 , 1937 . After the re-armament period , retrospective allowance will be made for redundant plant . , Duties on Armaments Armaments for other countries arc subject to duty . In computation of profit , it is provided that no deduction will be made for any transaction appearing artificially to reduce profits . For the purposes of A. P. D. loan and debenture interest and income from investments are excluded from profits . Capital is computed by cost of assets less depreciation less borrowed money and debts . Both company and tax gatherers may appeal to a board of referees if they believe they are being unfairly treated . In case of a dispute over whether a contract is an armament one , the Minister of Supply will decide . There are criticisms that the new tax is not drastic enough , that concerns with a turnover of less than ? 200,000 will escape , and that in any case a selective tax such as this is unfair . Since the border line between peacetime and wartime has lately become somewhat confused , there are some who would sooner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Profits Duty levied on all industry during the World War , introduced . But this , it is recognized , would necessitate putting the whole life of the nation on a war basis . Fixed Interest Urged A plan to prevent excess profits and inflated wages in munition ' work , was outlined recently by Mr. Austin Hopkinson , Independent National M. P. for Lancashire , at a gathering here of the Industrial Co-partnership Association . He urged that instead of allowing profits to be based on the cost of production there should be a fixed interest allowed on capital . He has conducted many experiments in industrial organization as an engineering employer , and quoted the system of his own company . While all its preference shares are available to the public , the ordinary shares can only be held by the works trust , which has complete voting power and whose income comes from those shares . In this way , he claimed , it would be possible jo limit the profits of those munition firms whose only customer was the Government . Mr. Hopkinson declared there were loopholes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting ? 4 to ? 5 a week in excess of normal wages . He claimed this proved that profits depended on cost of production .                     