@@704036

txt In the last few weeks various schemes have been coming out of Washington for a new spending-lending program . These latest proposals , sponsored by Assistant Secretary of State Berle , Senator Mead , Chairman Frank of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Chairman Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board , center around the idea of the Government making or guaranteeing loans to " small business . " Foremost among these proposals is the Mead bill , endorsed by all these spokesmen . This bill would authorize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to insure up to 90 per cent individual loans up to sums of $1,000,000 which would run for periods of one to ten years . In determining the need for or the effect of such a measure , there are several questions that ought not to be confused . One is the need of small business for ordinary bank credit compared with capital or " intermediate " loans . The length of time set for the loans indicates that it is clearly the capital type of Ioar that the sponsors of the Mead bill have in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is either a shortage of ordinary bank funds ? there is , in fact , an unparalleled surplus  --  or a shortage of capital for investment . If idle private capital is not being invested it is not because it does not exist but because the opportunities for profit do not seem sufficiently inviting compared with the risks of loss . The Federal Government could do much to change this situation by removing obstacles to private business expansion . Nothing is to be gained by having the taxpayers , through a Government agency , make loans too unsound for private capital to want to make . There are perhaps some changes in machinery that could make it easier for small businesses to get new capital . Capital-credit corporations have been suggested , for example , that would purchase small capital issues and sell their own obligations in the investment market . But private corporations could undertake this function adequately . Meanwhile the gains to be expected from the Mead bill hardly seem likely to compensate for its unsound elements . If private banks are still to take the first 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the volume of Increased loans because of the bill is likely to be disappointingly small . There may then be an agitation for Government agencies to take over the business altogether . But to get a large volume of new loans of this sort the prudent standards by which bankers asually weigh risks may have to be thrown overboard . In that case we Should find the Government gambling the taxpayers ' money in unsound busiiess ventures . It is true that many Government agencies are already making or guaranteeing , in whole or in part , loans to ? rivate persons or corporations . But it s time that the Government began to ; xtricate itself from this sort of bustxess  --  entered into on the plea of emergency " ? rather than get into it ieeper . All these plans are merely nore schemes for pump-priming , for arger deficits , for an increase in the lirect or contingent Government debt . Instead of removing barriers , helping ) rivate enterprise to stand on its own ' eet and creating conditions under which bankers would take less risk in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make , private business still more dependent on Government grace . They would carry us away from a , free economy and toward a regimented one .                     