@@700353

txt A new stereoscopic device which will I show the results -- of -- a collision be1 tween " an irresistible force and an immovable body " will be put on display at Memorial Hall here at the opening tomorrow of the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . The sessions will be held at Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The device , which will enable scientists to view for the first time a three-dimensional image of the debris of the heart of an atom after being struck by a cosmic ray , is being brought here from Pasadena by airplane by Dr. Robert A. Milliken of the California Institute of Technology . This " atom stereopticon " was developed there by Dr. Milliken and his assistants , and the first news of the apparatus was received here today in a telegraphic communication from him . Many other recent scientific advances will be shown at an unusually large scientific exhibit . The science of yesterday , today and tomorrow , represented in many working models , will turn staid old Memorial Hall , with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Veritable wonderland of modern scientific progress . " Scientific Carousel " Is Shown . Among the new exhibits is a super-centrifuge developed at the Princeton University biological laboratories by Professor E. Newton Harvey and Alfred Loomis of Tuxedo Park , N. Y. It may be described as a " microbial merrygo-round , " or a " scientific carousel , " which enables scientists to study living things whirled at the terrific speed of 24,000 revolutions per minute . By means of this " super-carousel " artificial triplets and quadruplets I have been developed from the eggs of the sea urchin , and a new form 1 of genesis was discovered in nature when it was observed that parts of the eggs which contained no female nucleus were still capable of developing into living species after fertilization by the male . This form of birth is the opposite of what is known as parthenogenesis , in which the female nu1 cleus in the egg does not need male fertilization to give birth to young . The new form of genesis was named " ephebogenesis , " meaning birth when only the male @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than a butter plate . It is lifted and whirled on a cushion of compressed air like a ball dancing on a fountain . Dr. Harvey and Mr. Loomis have also developed a stroboscopic lighting effect which causes the object whirled to look as if it were standing still . A specially developed micro-mo- tion picture camera takes pictures of the microbial passengers as they are revolving through space 24,000 times each minute , and records the effects the whirligig produces on the object it whirls . An instrument by which a person may " park his voice " in much the ' same manner as he now parks his car is among the exhibits of the Bell Telephone Laboratories . With this device any person may speak into a microphone , wait a little while , and then experience the rather terrifying sensation of hearing his own words spoken to him through a loud-speaker . No one ever really hears his voice as others hear it , and one hearing himself for the first time is not a little startled , sometimes unpleasantly . The " voice parker " consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight at about one foot a second . Unlike any other form of recording speech , it is not necessary to process the ribbon or treat it in any way . The voice is impressed upon it directly by two small magnets , which produce a varying magnetization of the steel tape corresponding to the sound waves in one 's speech . Any time the " parked ' words are wanted for transmission the ribbon is run through a second set of magnets and the speech is reproduced in the form of an electric currentPhone Messages Are Recorded . The practical value of this method lies in the automatic taking of telephone messages , which is now brought an important step nearer commercial application . A person returning home or to his office may reproduce any message left for him on the telephone in his absence . He may similarly leave a message on any telephone when there is no one on the other side to answer it . by sound waves . will be demonstrated if atmospheric conditions permit , by Professor G. W. Kendrick of Tufts College , Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the heavens by radio waves , complementing the process of plumbing the depths of the ocean By this method it is hoped to develop a means for determining the height of the Kennelly-heaviside layer , a stratum of ionized particles which is known to reflect shortwave radio signals . The height of this layer , the existence of which makes transatlantic telephony and broadcasting possible . is known to vary from day to night and year to year . Accurate measurements of the variations may lead to new knowledge of the behavior of radio waves and other electric phenomena of the upper atmosphere . A practical method for hastening the condensation of steam , a process of great importance to power plants , steamships and various industrial operations , will be shown for the first time in the exhibit of Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The process which has just been developed by T. B. Drew and W. N. Nagle uses oleic acid , common in many soaps , as a coating for the metal condensing surfaces . The " Servo-Mechanism , " an automatic machine tender recently developed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a photo-electric cell , can be made to follow a line like a hound with its nose to a trail , will also be shown in the M. I. T. exhibit . This exhibit includes the latest instruments in meteorological research . Among them is the new Bjerknes barograph device , to be carried into the stratosphere by pilot balloons . The exhibit will also show models of textile fibres and a miniature wind tunnel used in studies of airplane design . Mechanical models which faithfully reproduce the human heart as revealed under the fluoroscope , developed by Dr. George Levene of Boston University School of Medicine , will be shown by Evans Memorial Hospital . The models illustrate the changes brought about in the action of the human heart by specific forms of heart disease , and are expected to be a great aid in the teaching of medical students . Diet Brings Fur Sheen . The effect of a balanced diet on the quality of fox fur is shown in an exhibit by the Pease Laboratories of New York . By including in the fox 's diet proper amounts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minerals the rusty color of the animal 's covering was changed to a brilliant black sheen . The diet comprised oysters and meats , taken from all the organs and tissues , in balanced amounts . The oysters were given to supply melanin , a pigment which furnishes the blue-black sheen of the fur . The quality of the skin , it was observed , depended not only on the elements of the diet , but also on the freshness of the foods . Meat exposed even for a short time to the open air begins to deteriorate by the action of oxygen , and may prove harmful to the animal if fed on it regularly . In some cases stomach ulcers were produced in foxes . To avoid this the meat must be given to the fox immediately after killing , or be quickly frozen at a temperature of 20 degrees fahrenheit . Odors Are Classed by Numbers . A method for analyzing odors is shown by Arthur D. Little , Inc. , of Cambridge , marking an advance in the attempt of chemists to solve the mystery of odor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds , have four components , named by him as fragrant , acid , burnt and " caprylic " ( goatish ) . Thus they can be classified by numbers in accordance with the proportions of each of the four elements they contain , he says . For example , to a rose may be given the number 6523 . This means that it has a fragrant element of a numerical value of six ; its acid part has the value of five and the burnt smell has the value of two , while its " caprylic " part may be represented , proportionately , by three . The term " caprylic " is derived from the Latin for goat and represents the evil smelling part present even in a rose . Dr. Little believes that a rose even entirely deprived of a name , and , like a convict , having only a number , would still smell as sweet . He holds , however , that by arranging the numbers always in the same order any given odor may be precisely classified . A girl from the Perkins Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible for the blind to read ordinary books , letters or diagrams by touch . A scanning device such as is used in television translates the light reflected from a printed page into electrical energy . This prints upon metal foil , under the fingers of the blind reader , raised letters in Braille . Color Combinations Shown . How the colors on the artist 's pallette are built up from a small group serving as building blocks for the wide range of colors , shades and tints used by the artist in his work will be illustrated by Dr. Herbert E. Ives , color expert of the Bell Telephone laboratories . A gauge sensitive to measurements of two-millionths of an inch will be shown by the Bureau of Standards , whose exhibit will also include demonstrations of the effect of automobile body design upon wind resistance , a method for testing fatigue of an airplane propeller and metallurgical specimens . Some magnetic alloys of unusual characteristics and a group of synthetic compounds will be shown by the General Electric Company . Among the outstanding historical exhibits will be a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he was a These include a mine bottle frictional electrical machine which he made in 1864 , at the age of 11 , his first electrical machine . Another early Thomson model , made in 1875 , is a circuit-tuning apparatus for the study of phenomena of high-frequency waves . The device involved the first tuning of circuits , the combination of two high-frequency waves in opposite phases so as to neutralize each other when combined .                     