@@700845

txt Delegates to the convention of the American Federation of Labor ' tonight completed the split among the building trade unions and took a step that may result in the formation of two building trades departments contending for the favor of the building craftsmen . This action is regarded in building circles as almost calamitous and one which may have an important reaction on the nation 's housing program and the future of jurisdicr tonal disputes . It may be followed within forty-five days by the withdrawal of the twelve unions , now controlling the building trades department , by their formation of another department outside , and by the victorious entrance of the " triple alliance " of carpenters , bricklayers and electrical workers into control of the official building trades department . As soon as the convention adjourns and the leading factors in the dispute go to Washington , President William Green , important union leaders and prominent men in the building trades and in the National Recovery Administration will attack the task of seeking to bring about a harmonious settlement of the dispute without the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The contest between the two groups was for control of the machinery set up by the planning board of the Construction Code Authority for the settlement of jurisdictional disputes . Tonight the delegates voted to adopt the report of the committee on adjustment , which announced that it upheld the executive council . The council sided with the " triple alliance , " holding that it had been illegally ousted by the building department two weeks ago . The vote was 19,398 in favor of the committee 's report and 3,326 against it . Each vote stands for 100 members . The executive council , whose report , made last week , was sustained by the committee on adjustment and the delegates , ordered the building trade department to take withi- its fold within forty-five days the former dissident unions , which were ousted a fortnight ago after they had paid their tax and obtained credentials . Presentation of the report was followed by a bitter debate , in which the unions now in the building department asserted that the " triple alliance " was seeking to obtain control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board of the Construction Code Authority . Reconsideration Rejected . An appeal to the delegates to take less drastic action and to refer the entire matter back to the executive council , so that it could use its good offices to obtain a harmonious settlement of the dispute , was rejected by the convention . This lastminute proposal was made by a member of the committee on adjustment who had not taken part in preparing the report and who felt that a settlement might be possible within a reasonable time , but not if the convention made it mandatory on President Green to supervise the reorganization of the building trades department . This futile appeal was supported by the unions within the department who complained that the forty-five-day limit for successful negotiations , contained in the report of the executive council , was " like a gun held up to our beads . " Debate on the report of the committee on adjustment , which upheld the executive council 's declaration last week in support of the " triple alliance " of bricklayers , carpenters and electrical workers , was long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the building trades department had illegally ousted the three unions and that this action could not be recognized by the federation . The report also provided that if the council was unable to settle the dispute within forty-five days President Green would call another convention of the building trades department in order to transact business legally . Those who opposed the committee 's report as well as that of the executive council maintained that the department was a voluntary organization and that the federation could not " hold a gun " at the department 's head and compel it to include certain unions which had for years refused to cooperate with the department . It was charged that the carpenters , bricklayers and electrical workers were trying to seize control of the department , elect their own president , and thus play a decisive role in controlling the machinery for the settlement of jurisdictional disputes set up by the Planning Board of the NRA Construction Code Authority . This group , representing those in control of the building department , pleaded that the entire matter should be referred back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harmonious settlement rather than to take the drastic action of calling another convention within forty-five days . A substitute motion was made to this effect . The case for the building department was presented by M. J. , president ; W. J. of the lathers ' union ; P. J. Morrin , president of the iron workers ; Joseph Franklin . boiler makers , and L. P. Lindelof of the painters . Upholding the committee report were W. J. Moran of the bricklayers ; E. J. Bieretz of the electrical workers and G. E. Warren of the carpenters . Bitter attacks were made during the day on the National Recovery Administration 's compliance machinery , which was charged with failing to obtain compliance with Section ' TA , and on Donald R. Richberg and General Johnson 's interpretation of that section . Although delegates voiced skepticism as to the effect on labor of the present reorganization of the NRA and expressed the belief that labor could win its rights to collective bargaining only through its own economic strength , they voted approval of the executive council 's program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the convention on Oct. 1 , provides for the followirig : Reopening of codes to bring about 1re-employment and increased wages . Reopening codes on the petition of labor as well as upon the initia- I tive of industry or the administration . Compliance machinery be divorced more completely from the NRA administration . Every resource of the govern-I ment be used for the enforcement of code provisions and the decisions of the labor boards . Collective bargaining between bona fide unions should be encour-i aged and company unions destroyed . Labor must be made an active partner " in the supposed partnership of government , industry and labor . " Service industries should be included under the codes . The NRA should be extended to protect agricultural workers . Prior to the enactment of the program , discussion on the floor indicated that organized labor was of the opinion that mainly through a more militant policy would its rights under Section 7a be achieved . Mr. Richberg 's most recent interpretation of Section 7a was regarded as one that would invalidate closed-shop agreems won by the unions through their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Section 7a continued to be flouted , the delegates asserted , labor had no remedy other than to resort to the strike weapon . One suggestion was that if Section 7a did not cover the right of collective bargaining as labor wished this provision should be rewritten and then re-enacted by Congress at the next session , " in order to cover an adequate answer to Mr. Richberg and General Johnson . " Matthew Well , chairman of the committee on resolutions , indicated that the way to approach the problem of refusal by corporations to live up to Section 7a was to have the government cancel their charters of incorporation . He feared that , with the expiration of the Recovery Act in June industry would continue to combine , free from the restraints of the antitrust laws , while labor 's right to organize would be crippled . Those who spoke on NRA reorganization and compliance included Charles P. Howard , president of the International Typographical Union ; Andrew Furuseth of the International Seamen 's Union , Harvey Fremming of the Oil and Refinery Workers Union , R. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wills of the Chicago Federation of Labor . Emphasis was placed by the speakers on the long delays encountered by workers when they presented their cases to the national and regional labor boards . By the time that a decision was obtained from the National Labor Board , they said , strikebreakers had been hired by the employer who then insisted that these new employes receive the right to vote in elections of representatives for collective bargaining . Such a procedure , the delegates argued , was unfair and Mr. Furuseth urged that strikebreakers should not be permitted to participate in elections , as they would always vote for the company union . Today 's ' session was opened by President William Green with a warm greeting to the delegates present from the mass production industries , rubber , automobiles , cement , radio , electrical manufacturing and furniture . To this large group Mr. Green extended a cordial invitation to align its strength with that of the federation for mutual help . Mr. Green 's remarks were made as Francis J. Gorman of the United Textile Workers sought to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday by Daniel J. Tobin of the teamsters in characterizing some of the new unionists . Mr. Green did not offer the motion to the convention as Mr. Tobin was not in the hall .                     