@@703018

txt Adoption of the city 's new Administrative Code by the Assembly at Albany tomorrow is seriously jeopardized by the threatened refusal of a group of Democratic Assemblymen from New York City to vote for the code until they are convinced that it will not displace Tammany jobholders in the county offices , it was learned last night . Although Mayor La Guardia received assurances from both Democratic and Republican leaders of the Legislature that they would support the code , revolt has been growing among the Democratic Assemblymen for the last three days . Tammany district leaders , fearful that their supporters will be thrown out of county jobs when the new code is adopted , have put it squarely up to their Assemblymen to protect those jobs . The Assemblymen lack direct personal knowledge of the code 's contents and they are not prepared to accept the Mayor 's assurances that the code does not even mention county offices . Leader Fears " Jokers " " How can we be sure that this code is n't full of jokers ? " one Tammany leader was quoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn by La Guardia and he 's no friend of ours . We know he tried to knock the county jobs out of the budget , and this looks - like another attempt to get rid of them . " While that is the strategy behind the scenes , the Democrats are not expected to come out into the open with the real reasons for their opposition when the Legislature considers the code tomorrow . Rather , they are expected to demur at immediate action on the code on the ground that it Is so long and involved that further study of it is required . The code in printed form has been sent to Albany . It consists of 3,350 pages in three volumes with a combined weight of twenty-one pounds . It consists merely of a reclassification and codification of existing law governing the city , with no material added and none of the essential Iaw omitted , according to the Mayor . Mayor La Guardia obtained a special session of the Legislature from Governor Lehman on the plea that the new administrative code should be in operation on Jan. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Since one supplements the other , administration of the city would be unwieldy and productive of litigation unless both the charter and the code were in effect simultaneously . Code Adopted by Board The Board of Statutory Consolidation which has worked on the code for the last two years met yesterday and formally adopted it prior to its submission to the Legislature . Members of the board have tried to convince the recalcitrant Assemblymen that the interests of Democrats were fully protected through the fact that Controller Frank J. Taylor , a Democrat , is a Member of the . Board of Statutory Consolidation . Nevertheless , the legislators refuse to be convinced and hold to the position that they must examine the document carefully them- selves to be sure that it contains no I jokers adverse to their interests . When the Legislature convenes at , noon tomorrow the code is expected to be introduced first in the Sen. ate . Reuben A. Lazarus , counsel to the Board of Statutory Consolidation , will be prepared to answer questions about it on the floor of the Senate , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delay there . They look for real trouble in the lower house , and a delay of only a few weeks would hamstring the Mayor 's plan for having the code in effect on the first of January . While the city officials backing the code believed at first that the expiring Legislature would not ex. pose itself to attack by blocking the document , they have developed a real ' fear in the last few days that their objective may be destroyed if the Democrats demur . Sponsors of the code feel that they need 100 votes in the Assembly for adoption , and the Republican mem1 bers number seventy-three . The Democrats are of about equal strength provided that all the legist lators appear for the special ses1 Sion.                     