@@704349

txt A gradual but orderly price rise is the expectation not only of economists but ' purchasing agents in the coming year , G. A. Renard , Executive Secretary of the National Association of Purchasing Agents , told the Monopoly Committee today . Members of ' the Committee who have been given the task by President Roosevelt of a " close surveillance " over prices , were keenly interested in this testimony which was elicited apart from Mr , Renard 's prepared statement . Mr. Renard also , warned against a possible shortage of skilled mechanics causing a " bottleneck " in the face of foreigh demand " that would blow up the price level of finished materials and induce maladjustments with dangerous results . " This comment elicited the statement from Clarence Avildsen , member of the Committee , who is President of the United Tool and Drill Company of Chicago , that already his company finds it can not get its orders for machine tools filled in less than a year . Witness corroborated this situation as a potential " bottleneck " caused by belligerents ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to aircraft and machine tools , he said Prices Now . Flattening , me jump in prices that appeared with the start of the war is now flattening out or declining , Mr. Renard said , and speculative purchasing . is turning into more orderly acquisition of ? inventories . The condition . which Mr. Renard deicribed is of tremendous long-range significance to American economy . The New Deal is seeking to avert a price inflation followed by a subsequent slump . Mr. Renard seemed to give whole-hearted support to the move but emphasized that procurement procedure of the Government itself had been faulty . The Government will play major part in prices in its coming preparedness program . He charged that the . recent ? douhling in the price of hemp had been due to unprecedented Government requests for the article . . Mr. ' Renard forecast a further European currency depreciation as the war continues . As a means for avoiding inflationary , price advances he urged widespread lac : - tual information on inventories . Copper was cited as an industry which is at present resisting a pro- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Renard said , at the same time its leaders refuse to give out information on inventories . This was a " cock-eyed " situation , he affirmed . The great war nations of the world have now put purchasing and prices under unitary control , he continued . " This changed relationship brings to government a responsibility for prices not only when they result in unemployment and sick industries but during the preceding periods which create those conditions . " Conditions More Satisfactory Speaking for the purchasing agencies of the country , Mr. Renard said price behavior of the past few months had in general " been very satisfactory . " lie felt that the Government should assume some responsibility for future price controls , ? to the end that advances which occurred should be gradual and orderly . The Committee takes the position that dangerous price inflations are possible unless checked by supervision and possible Federal control . " The . situation is inflammable and war conditions scatter more sparks than normal times , " Dr. Willard L. Thorp , special assistant to the Secretary of Commerce , told the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ potential ability to underwrite an upward price boom . " Dr. Thorp said price difficulties generally occur in wartimes , and these , he continued , " are greatly accentuated if short-sighted policies permit acute price movements to occur . The present situation is quite different from that of the World War , yet many of the same dangers are present . " The Situation " As Is " Summarizing the business situation , Dr. Thorp , who commands considerable attention as associate of Dunn &; Bradstreet , and the Commerce Department , made the following points : At the outbreak of the new war there was " a temporary boomlet " followed by a return to more normal conditions . Great Britain has increased exports from 20 to 40 per cent , and has substituted taxation for borrowing to a considerable degree directly affecting American trade . Purchases by belligerents for any prolonged period can not reach the World War levels without credit extension once more . Latin American business opportunities for the United States to replace Germany , hinge on its willingness to buy goods in return from Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources for a number of raw materials , offering possible pressure from the outside I on the domestic price structure . Few Industries Near Capacity Current business stimulation arises in large part from desire to have larger inventories as a kind of war risk insurance , and from speculation . " There are , " he said , " a number Of reasons for questioning if the higher profits now being recorded will be rapidly translated into capital expansion . Few industries except steel are near capacity , and current production rates exceed consumption . " In the face of huge stocks of agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs , of unemployment , of considerable unused plant capacity , and of fairly large inventories , it is difficult to see any immediate general demand to expand plant and equipment , although some industries will undoubtedly find it desirable to do so . In the longer run , it is quite possible that a prolonged upswing will disclose various bot tlenecks in present capacity and make expansion necessary . " One factor in the cost-price re . lationship must be recognized . Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that any price movement will be more quickly translated into wage adjustments than before . This may tend to hold down the level of profits , which were so important a factor in the World War =pan-. sion. "                     