@@700038

txt The fair-competition code for the automobile manufacturing industry was sent to President Roosevelt at Hyde Park House late today by Recovery Administrator Hugh S. Johnson . The President 's decision on the new " constitution " for this " ' Big Five " industry is expected to be announced at the Summer White House tomorrow . In submitting the automobile code General Johnson also turned over to the President responsibility for final action in the labor-capital controversy over the collective bargaining sections , brought about by the insistence of the industry to include provisions for continuing its policy of selecting , discharging and advancing employes on the basis of individual merit . Reservation by Labor Group . The automobile agreement was formally approved in the main by the NRA Labor Advisory Board late in the day . But this approval carried with it the reservation that the qualified collective bargaining language should not be accepted as a precedent for any other industrial code . The code in its final form was taken by special plane to Hyde Park in the custody of Miss Frances Robinson , private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were transmitted to the President later by wire . The automobile manufacturers insisted on defining in the code their rights to hire , discharge , promote or reduce their employes  --  in rank on the basis of merit without regard to labor unions . The revised code for the industry , submitted yesterday , contained language to that effect . The NRA Labor Advisory Board , which had fought against qualifying the collective bargaining sections of the Recovery Act , made its recommendation tonight to General Johnson . Labor Board 's Decision . Inasmuch as the Labor Advisory Board made no bitter-end fight on the new automobile code provision , it was anticipated that General Johnson would have but little trouble . The labor body 's recommen- ' dations on the proposal were expressed in the following paragraph : " The Labor Advisory Board gives its approval to the Industrial Code for Fair Practice for the Automobile Industry with the understanding that no section or sentence contained therein modifies , qualifies or changes Section VII ( a ) of the National Recovery Act ( on collective bargaining guarantees ) and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Section VII ( a ) does not establish a precedent to be followed in the preparation or acceptance of any other code . " The sentence referred to contains the qualifying language in the code . Regardless of the declaration in the last clause of the Labor Board 's statement , a similar provision to that proposed by the automobile manufacturers has been written into at least nine other codes by their sponsors . Industries which have proposed such qualifying language either in original drafts or by amendments include air transport , periodical publishers , copper and brass mill , commercial refrigeration , agricultural implement , typesetting , boiler manufacturers , cast steel foundry and gray iron foundry . Final action on the automobile code , particularly its labor sections , was expected to spur the completion of a " constitution " for the soft coal industry . While there are other obstacles in the path of agreement the question of labor provisions in NRA codes , as raised by the automobile manufacturers , had served to hold the coal agreement in abeyance all day . Labor leaders asserted the section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry had devised to state its traditional " open shop " policy without using the forbidden terms . General Johnson was understood to favor the section . He regarded the language as being in accord with the act , inasmuch as it containek an expressed disclaimer of any intention to circumvent or qualify its labor provisions . Attending the 1 , abor Board meeting were William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor ; John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers of America ; the Rev. Francis J. Haas of the Catholic Welfare Council ; John P. Frey , head of the Metal Trades Division of the Federation of Labor , and Miss Rose Sehneideman , president of the Women 's Trade Union League , all members of the Labor Advisory Board , and General Johnson , Donald R. Richberg , counsel for the Recovery Administration , and Assistant Secretary of Labor Edward F. , who is Assistant NRA Administrator for Labor . General Johnson pressed for a ' solution of the remaining difficulties in the two codes in preparation for the nation-wide drive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the President 's re-employment movement . He had still another problem ' on his hands in the proposed code for the retail drug trade on which Deputy Administrator A. D. Whiteside and others worked all day in an effort to make it acceptable to the Recovery Administration . There was also a growing storm over the -- yet unsettled price fixing provisions of the oil code . which already was blowing up charges and counter-charges of the petroleum industry 's leaders and government officials over the efficacy of such a policy . 30,000,000 Cards in Post Offices . Thirty million consumer cooperation cards and an equal number of NRA consumer stickers were placed during the week in the hands of postmasters throughout the nation in final preparation for the - intensive " Buy NRA " drive which will open Monday . They swelled the number that have been sent out since the President 's " blanket code " was announced to nearly 500,000,000 . The drive which starts Monday is designed to " sign up " every consumer of goods in the country in a mass agreement to patronize those merchandising establishments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . The card which every consumer will be asked to sign says : " I will ' cooperate in reemployment by supporting and patronizing employers and workers who are members of the NRA . " A member of the NRA is a person who has signed the President 's voluntary wage and hour agreement . Sticker : will b. given the signers of consumer cards to display on their windows or automobile windshields as evidence of their cooperation . The cards and stickers are to be distributed by 1,500,000 volunteer workers who are to make a doorto-door canvass . The entire campaign is to be carried on ty unpaid workers while the expense of printing and organization is to be borne largely by th Federal Government . The radio , fnotion pictures , newspapers , magazines and all other means of communication swill be employed . An imposing list of speakers has been made up . General Johnson will lead the campaign from Washington and will personally go into the field Wednesday when at Boston he will speak at a meeting of 1,000 recovery committeemen from all parts of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ga. , was making a dash to be the first city to enlist 100 per cent . They made public a telegram from Will A. Patton , chairman of the committee at Rome , reading as follows : " Every retail merchant , real estate , insurance , gasoline and oil , auto dealer , laundry , bakery , barber shop and public utility  --  in fact , every business concern in the city , with the exception of two gr three mercantile establishments ? has signed an agreement or a code . " Every one of the sixty-five pits in the county listed as industries , including textile , rayon , lumber , soil pipe and brick , garment manufacturers , marble , &c.,; has signed without exception . " Women conducting the consumer canvass have returned approximately 3,000 statements of cooperation signed by the housewife or head of the family , representing approximately 15,000 buyers . " By Saturday , when this work is completed , we expect to have every person of Rome 's 21,000 inhabitants , with a possible exception of less than 100 persons , signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been added by 271 firms . while our industries have added approximately 2,500 employes . The increase in payrolls is estimated at between $50,000 and $60,000 weekly . " In answer to requests from all parts of the country and to restate the scope and pur , poses of the purposes of the President 's re-employment campaign , recovery headquarters , at the direction of General Johnson , today issued a new statement setting forth what they hoped to attain . The purpose , it was said , specifically was to " bridge time " and bring the nation out of the depression more rapidly than could be expected by individual codes exclusively . The aim is to induce American employers to absorb 5,000,000 to 6.000,000 of the unemployed by shortening work hours and providing compensatory higher wages , and to mobilize behind those employers the purchasing power of the country .                     