@@701428

txt The fury of a tropical storm beat across the Florida Keys tonight , and as it whirled northwestward the entire southern tip of the peninsula . was warned of possible hurricane winds on both coasts . Citizens of Key West breathed a sigh of relief as the storm centre moved to the northward of the island city , but those in mainland cities and towns all the way around the coast from West Palm Beach to Punta Gorda on the Gulf hastily took precautions . An advisory bulletin at 10 P. M. placed the centre of the disturbance near Matacumbe Key , about fifty miles north of Key West and seventy-five Miles southwest of Miami . A lighthouse keeper at Alligator Key , seventy-five miles northeast of Key West , ' reported a sustained wind of eighty miles an hour was sweeping the keys in that vicinity around 9 P. M. Expected to Strike During Night . Though the storm was expected to strike before morning , dndications about midnioht were that neither Miami nor Key West would feel the full force of the blow , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hurricane intensity . The wind here reached a maximum of forty-five miles an hour about 11:0 P. M. and forty-two miles at Key West . Northeast storm warnings were ordered from West Palm Beach northward to Titusville on the Atlantic coast and from Punta Gorda to Carrabelle on the west . Within the area are Miami , Fort Lauderdale , Palm Beach , Everglades , Naples , Fort Myers , Punta 1Gorda , Sarasota , Venice , Hollywood , Homestead and other localities which form the bulk of Southern Florida 's resort centres . Weather Bureau officials said the present storm could not be compared with the great hurricanes of 1926 and 1928 because its area was much smaller and the winds were of far less velocity . In 1926 a hurricane hit the Miami-Fort Lauderdale area with devastating effect , taking upward of 500 lives , while about 2,000 were estimated to have died on the shores of Lake Okeechobee when the 1928 storm ravaged West Palm Beach and tore across the unprotected lakeside towns of the interior . Only minor damage reports have been received from the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a special railway train went late today to remove 700 veterans engaged on a Federal bridge and highway project . The dispatcher 's office was inclined to believe that the train had reached its destination , but was halted there by the storm . Railway telegraph and telephone lines were down south of Homestead . Traffic confusion caused several automobile collisions in Miami and a five-story construction elevator was blown over at Miami Beach without damage to adjacent property . Hugh O'Neal , 50 , was taken to a hospital here when he suffered cuts from a wind blown plank . Some residents of Everglades , on the West Coast , left for Fort Myers until the passage of the storm . Braving great waves , the marine ambulance Philcris tonight rescued Don and Harold Summers , 14 and 15 years old , from precarious holds to palm trees on a small Biscayne Bay island . Marooned there by motor failure on their powered sailboat , they were forced to the trees by waves breaking over the islet . They attracted attention ashore by tying their shirts to upper fronds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were exhausted , but unhurt . In Key West , site of a milliondollar FERA " rescue " of a population stranded by economic storms , communications were badly affected . Telephone connection with the mainland went out early tonight . Telegraph and railway cables kept the island city in touch with the outside world . Electric light facilities were safeguarded , homes and stores were boarded up and virtually everything movable lashed fast in the probable storm area . " Key West is boarded up so tight you ca n't recognise it , " said M. E. Gilfond , Administrator of the Emergeney Relief 's rehabilitation program here , who directed emergency crews in making the city secure as possible . The Florida East Coast Railway dispatcher at Miami tonight said that the Havana Special , Key Westto-New York train , would be held here pending developments . The train , due to leave at 5:45 P. M. , would have several high viaducts of the overseas railway to cross on its run to the mainland . With an eye , to possible suspension of train service during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West 's stores contained sufficient stocks to feed the inhabitants for a " week or ten days . " The Marine Hospital 's lockers held considerable stores of medical supplies , and the Coast Guard at Miami was prepared to fly additional cargoes if required . Key West last was battered by a hurricane in 1919 . More than a million dollars ' damage was done to property , but residents today were unable to recall loss of a single life in the island city itself . The protective measures taken at Key West were similarly followed in the chain of keys curving northward to the Florida mainland , about 100 miles away . Residents retired to their stanch homes after boarding .                     