@@698371

txt The Federal Parole Board has revoked the parole of Harry L. Goldhurst , convicted member of a . New York stock brokerage firm which handled an account for Bishop James Cannon Jr. , following the discovery of evidence that he had attempted to bribe a woman assistant in the United States Attorney 's office at New York and that he had been Indicted for using the , malls to defraud a second Hale while ' ' iiitlitirrfOr similar offense . At the same time , the hoard found no basis for a complaint that Bishop Cannon sought the Goldhurst parole , which was granted last June to become effective on April 15 next year . Goldhurst was indicted in the Southern District of New York in May , 1928 , for use of the mails to defraud . On Oct. 16 , 1929 , he entered a plea of guilty and was sentenced to five years in the Atlanta prison . He became eligible for a parole on June 15 this year and received a parole four days later . The effective date of the parole , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goldhurst would have served two and a half years . Miss Failor Cleared . Miss Ella Mary Failor , Assistant United States Attorney under Charles H. Tuttle , who was in office at the time of Goldhurst 's conviction , was specifically cleared of any connection with the bribery , the Parole Board stating that " there is no ground whatever for questioning the integrity " either of Miss Failor or of two other officials , one a postal inspector and one another Assistant United States Attorney . The report said that after he was sentenced , Goldhurst made a statement , which was recorded by Charles H. Manley , another Assistant United States Attorney , that he had paid a young woman $5,000 and given her valuable pieces of jewelry and that she had represented to Goldhurst that the money and jewelry was going to Miss Failor , one of the other Assistant United States Attorneys and a postal inspector . The young woman involved , whose identity was not divulged , was re- moved from the service and required to resign as a member of the bar , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being known to the court , may have caused the severity of the sentence . This young woman was not a regular assistant to the United States Attorney but she occupied that position with a compensatiqn of one dollar a year . According to the parole board 's report . information was given to Mr. Tuttle in August . 1929. that Goldhurst had been attempting to bribe an assistant . Tuttle 's Investigation . " After the sentence , " the report continued , - " the District Attorney continued his inquiry and in November , 1929 , Goldhurst made a statement , which was recorded by former Assistant S. Attorney Manley , in which Goldhurst stated that he had paid to this young woman various sums of money , aggregating nearly $5,000 , and had given her valuable pieces of jewelry , and that the roung woman referred to had represented to Goldhurst that she was getting the money and jewelry for Miss Pallor and one of the other Assistant U. S. Attorneys and one of the postal inspectors who had to do with the case . " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Failor or the two other officials : " The former United States Attorney 's reasons for not prosecuting the young woman involved by Goldhurst in these transactions were that she had denied the charges , that little corroboration of Goldhurst 's statement appeared to he available and that the young woman had some time previously been married and had recently given birth or was about to give birth to a child and that the best way to dispose of the matter was to remove her from the service and as a member of the bar . " Attorney General Mitchell sent a letter today to Senator Glass , who raised the question of irregularities in Goldhurst 's parole , transmitting the report of the Parole Board , which was signed by Arthur D. Wood . chairman , and Irvin B. Tucker and Amy N. Stannard . Acted on Glass Complaint . Following the complaint by Senator Glass , Attorney General Mitchell ordered an investigation of the case and it developed that the Parole Board was not in possession of information relative to the bribery charge or the second indictment against Goldhurst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was on bail awaiting disposition of the first case . The board fixed no blame for the failure ti3 call attention to these facts , but stated that Charles H. Tuttle was Federal Attorney and Charles H. Manley Assistant Attorney when Goldhurst was prosecuted and that they had the information . " There was no information before the Parole Board at that time as to the nature of services said to have been rendered by Goldhurst in the matters pending in the United States Attorney 's office , " the report stated . " The Parole Board was not then informed of the facts referred to respecting the attempts of Goldhurst to bribe an Assistant United States Attorney . " Investigation disclosed that Bishop Cannon had interested himself in the case and shortly before the plea of guilty had asked the United States Attorney to postpone it on the ground that the Bishop expected to be absent for a time and desired to be present when the case was reached as it might involve him in publicity , but this request was refused . " There was nothing in the files @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever been interested in the case or was then interested in it , nor did it appear then , nor does it appear now , that Goldhurst pleaded guilty on any assurance or promise of parole . Trial Judge Urged Parole . " The proposal for parole seems to have been initiated by the trial judge ( Judge Coleman ) after the plea of guilty and sentence in connection with an application then made to him to moderate the sentence and as the result of representations made to the court respecting the distressing situation of Goldhurst 's family . " The board 's investigation disclosed , the report said , that the references made by the former United States Attorney and his former assistant in their recommendations for parole to services rendered by Goldhurst to the United States Attorney 's office had reference to the bribery attempts above referred to , and Goldhurst 's readiness to testify for the government in another mail fraud case involving one Collins and others , as a result of which the defendants pleaded guilty . Senator Glass said tonight , in promising a statement after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ curiosity to ascertain why , if nobody concerned in the case has done anything that should not ' have been done , the parole was rescinded . I do not discover any tenable grounds for such action if the conclusions in the other respects are correct . "                     