@@702424

txt In a move to eliminate " shoestring trading " and to discourage " excessive " trading by exchange members for their own account , the Securities and Exchange Commission has requested the New York Stock Exchange and the New York Curb Exchange to adopt in substance a set of rules framed by the commission , which would require that commitments of members , their firms and partners , be fully margined at all times . The rules are aimed especially at " daylight trading , " which involves purchase of a security balanced by sale of the same security within a single trading session . In essence they apply the standards of Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board ( fixing loan values at 45% ) to any accounts in which members or partners have an interest and which are carried with a broker or dealer ; they also provide exemptions facilitating legitimate transactions . Analogous rules are provided for trading of member firms . The rules will shortly be sent to all other national securities exchanges . It is understood that only some of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as those suggested to the New York exchanges .. Second Step in Program The rules constitute the second step in the commission 's broad segregation program recommended in its report to Congress last June . The first step , weekly publication of dab , trading by exchange members for their own account , was put into effect last October . The next two steps , placing all trading by commission houses and commission house partners for their own account on an outright cash basis and putting restrictions on specialists ' trading for their own account , are now in process of being worked out by the SEC staff . At a press conference Wednesday . Chairman James M. Landis forecast that these two would be along in a couple of weeks . Chairman Landis indicated that the fifth step in the segregation program , segregation of broker and dealer functions of an members on the floor of the Exchange with the exception of the specialist in stocks which be specializes , will be delayed for some time . He said that rules effecting functional segregation were not in process of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unofficial report had been submitted to the commission by a technical staff of the Stock Exchange in opposition to the theory of functional segregation . Although the commission believes it is right in its conclusions as regards the desirability of functional segregation , it is still willing to listen to the other aide before going ahead . Chairman Landis pointed out at Wednesday 's press conference that while the commission had the authority under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to place the new margin rules into effect , the need of flexibility of interpretation and enforcement made it more desirable to have the regulations adopted by the exchanges . Adoption of the rules by the exchanges also preserves the theory of self-goveent . While the responsibility for the enforcement of the margin rules for , brokers will rest with the exchanges , Chairman Landis made it clear that the commission will take note of both their enforcement and effectiveness . Since the rules are directed primarily at " daylight trading " in stocks on the exchanges , the Commission said , they except from their operation accounts in which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short over-the-counter . Furthermore , the SEC said , in order not to hamper members and partners of exchange firms in peforming their legitimate dealer functions , other accounts in which are carried transactions not found by the segregation report to exert an undesirable speculative influence are also exempted from the rules . In this category are included bona fide cash and arbitrage transactions , transactions in the course of dealing in odd lots , and transactions in connection with the distribution of securities . Other Exemptions Inasmuch as the Commission has under consideration additional regulations of specialists ' activities in accordance with the recommendations made in its report , it was stated , transactions in the course of business as a specialist also are exempted , provided they are carried in a separate account . The new rules prohibit any transaction which results in the " equity " in accounts specified falling below 55C ; of the market value of all long securities in the account , plus the necessary margin for all short positions and for all commodity commitments . In order to avoid the necessity for recalculating an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price of the securities therein . security positions carried over from the preceding day are taken at their market values as of the close of the preceding day . Securities bought or sold on the current day are taken at their purchase or sale prices . Puts , calls , straddles , options , when issued rights , and all securities not admitted to trading on a national securities exchange , with the exchange of governments and municipals , are disregarded in the calculation of security positions , since they have no loan value under Regulation T and are therefore given no value in computing equity . Equity Net Worth The provision for computation of " equity , " as a corollary to the provision for calculation of security positions . freezes the equity in an account on a given business day at the net worth of the account as of the close of the preceding day , with adjustments for cash or securities deposited in or withdrawn from the account on the current day . Although a transaction not fully margined by the equity in the account at the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rule by bringing in the necessary funds or securities before 5 o'clock or placing them in transit for deposit . In all cases , however , the deposit must be made even if the commitment which necessitated additional collateral is liquidated before the end of the day . Moreover , any funds or securities required to margin commitments existing at any time during a day must be left in tile account at least overnight . In this respect , the rule is stricter on the exchange member than on the public . A member of the public , for example , buys 500 shares of stock and has three days in which to put up his 55% margin , except that a recent stock exchange ruling prohibits customers covering margin through liquidation of the securities within the three-day period . To facilitate enforcement of the rules and to enable the Commission to gauge their effectiveness , the Commission said , each member having an interest in any non-exempted ' account is required to prepare and preserve for at least 12 months a record of the sequence of all transactions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trading of member firms are closely analogous to those relating to individual members and partners of member firms , but the fact that many firms do not carry accounts with others necessitates the use of a limitation predicated upon capital rather than upon equity in an account , the SEC said . A firm , therefore , is prohibited from effecting any transactions in stocks on the Exchange or any withdrawal from capital as a result of which its position in stocks at any time exceeds the amount which could be financed overnight by the use of the working capital of the firm available for such financing . Working capital , like " equity " in a member 's or partner 's account , is frozen as of the close of the preceding day , with adjustments for contributions to or withdrawals from capital . As a practical matter , the SEC said , it will be unnecessary for a firm to compute its working capital daily so long as its commitments remain substantially below the maximum which it could carry . If a firm demonstrates the impracticability of making a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may permit it to treat its working capital at the beginning of a given period as fixed throughout that period , with appropriate adjustments made for contributions and withdrawals , the Commission said . Working capital is defined as net Worth less the value of exchange memberships , furniture and other fixed or illiquid assets . Securities carried over from the preceding day or preceding period are valued at the market prices current at the close of business at such time , Puts , calls , straddles , options and when . issued rights are again given no value , and are also disregarded in calculating security positions , the Commission said . Treated as Single Day As in the case of members and partners , a firm 's security positions carried over from the preceding day are taken at the market values current at the close of such day , and securities purchased or sold during the day are taken at their purchase or sale price . U working capital Is fixed for a period longer than a single day , any such period is treated as a single day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rules relating to accounts of members and partners are provided for partnership transactions having no direct bearing on the " daylight trading " problem . However , inasmuch as many firms do not separate their accounts , positions arising out of exempted transactions must be treated as deductions from total firm 's positions . The rules are likewise supplemented by a requirement that firms keep a record of the sequence of their transactions in the stocks on the exchange . No Exchange Comment Stock Exchange officials withheld comment on the SEC move . Members of the Exchange generally were interested in what effect the rules would have on volume and liquidity .                     