@@697929

txt President Hoover on Friday held conferences with House and Senate leaders as well as Undersecretary of the Treasury Mills and Julius Klein , Assistant Secretary of Commerce . White House officials refused to comment as to whether the matter of reparations and the general situation touching upon German conditions had been under discussion . The Congressmen whom the President saw were Representative Tilson , House Republican leader ; Senator Reed ( Rep. , Pa . ) , Senator Walsh ( Dem. , Mont. ) and Senator Glass ( Dem. , Va . ) , Representative Bacharach ( Rep. , N. J. ) . ranking Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee , was a caller in the afternoon . Officials of the government who are in touch with the.German situation , are fully cognizant of the conditions there . They realize that the hope of maintaining the present government lies in some relief of the German people . The fall of the government in Berlin would involve grave consequences , it is believed here . It is not yet clear to officials here what steps this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were intimations that this government might have under consideration adopting an attitude of greater open mindedness on the whole matter of international obligations , and that there might be evidence of this trend very soon . However , nothing definite in this regard was forthcoming from any of the conferees . Later in the day President Hoover said that these conversations have been particularly directed to strengthen the situation in Germany . No Definite Conclusion Reached No definite plans or conclusions have been arrived at , " the President said , " but the response which I have met from the leaders of both parties is most gratifying . " The President made clear that no definite plan had been arrived at leading to a solution of the economic troubles abroad , stating that any reports of any . plan or method are wholly speculative and not warranted by the facts . The discussions were intended to ascertain what steps might be taken to assist in economic recovery both in the United States and abroad . Up to the present time the attitude of the United States Government has been decidedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is specifically provided in the debt agreements .. In view of the discussions and Consideration now being given the question by the President and political leaders in Washington , the belief prevails that this attitude has somewhat softened .                     