@@697295

txt Mr. COOLIDGE , who has evidently been keeping a keener eye on Washington than many thought , joins Mr. TILSON , the Republican leader of the House of Representatives , in Praising its work . The ex-President declares that the House is " regaining its former prestige . " Others had taken note of this . It is a fact which has been brought to the attention of the Senate , with the result of ruffling its lofty sense of superiority . Senators more than once have risen angrily to accuse the House of Representatives of Dmething like " usurpation " in compelling the Senate so often to ! : ow its haughty head and tame its h2 art of fire and yield to the " lower " branch of Congress . But the matter requires definition . There is no doubt that the House of Repr3sentatives at one time enjoyed , a prestige greater than for many years past . There was a period when the newspapers reported House debates more conspicuously than they did those of the Senate . Individual Representatives towered above most Senators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By what steps is the House seeking to regain it ? The answer to these questions lies on the surface of our political history during the past thirty or forty years . Throughout that time the Senate has been steadily magnifying itself . This has been done largely through the use and power of patronage . It being necessary for the President to obtain the advice and consent of the Senate to the appointment of all important officials , the Senate seized upon the opportunity to make itself the chief dispenser of " plums . " No one could be named in a given State unless its Senators , if they belonged to the party in power , saw fit to endorse . him . This naturally set up a control : which worked down through the ' Representatives from such a State . They had to be content with the crumbs which fell from the Senator 's table . More and more they looked to him rather than to the President or the party organization . The result was that Senators could " deliver " not only their own votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representatives . MATTHEW QUAY never bothered to ask how Republicans from Pennsylvania would vote in the House , because they always did as he told them . Similarly with PLATT in New York , HANNA in Ohio , ALDRICH and LODGE in New England . Thus as Senators rose in political power , Representatives sank . Now for the other part of the story . For some years the Senate has been losing its solidarity . Party discipline has there broken down . Partly in consequence of the Senatorial primary and the direct election , of Senators , cliques have made their way into the Senate , along with a factional spirit which made it impossible for the party nominally in pow. er to present a united front or to determine legislation . Here was a chance for the House . With a Republican majority large enough to disregard a handful of secessionists , it has steadily pressed for its rights and privileges . Because it has been ' able to restore government by party , which had gone upon the rocks in rthe Senate , it has worked its way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of the last session of Congress and was able , in cooperation with the President , to impose its will upon the Senate in connection with one important bill after another . Mr. COOLI , DGE is quite right in stating that the Housi has won back to something like its old recognition for ? ability and usefulness . Special credit is due Speaker LONGWORTH , first of all for having inspired the House with a new ambi. tion , and then for putting on party Pressure in a way to secure at least the appearance of party loyalty That this gain will be preserved . and enlarged it would be rash to predict But for the present , and during the remainder of the Seventy-first Congress , the repute of the House of Representatives will be higher that for some time past . In its controversies with the Senate it has tasted blood , and its appetite will be whetted for more , come next December .                     