@@699660

txt Two objectives touching on important phases of European policy are behind the visit here of Herr Franz von Papen , German Vice-Chancellor , and Capt . Hermann Goering , Minister without portfolio . The first goal is to examine with the Premier , Signor Benito Mussolini , and other members of the Italian Government the political situation in Europe with particular reference to the Italian plan for a four-power pact , revision of peace treaties and the problem of disarmament . The second is to discuss with the Vatican various questions affecting the Roman Catholic Church in Germany . The fact that the visit is unofficial does not deprive it of importance . That the German Ministers are expected to remain here until April 18 is in itself evidence of their desire to discuss thoroughly with Italian statesmen and Roman Catholic churchmen the foreign and religious policy of the Hitler Government . The first interview between Herr von Papen and Cardinal Pacelli took place this morning in the Vatican . Conversations with Signor Mussolini are expected to begin after the latter has received the French memorandum on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mussolini plan has , of course , greatly satisfied the Italian Government , and minor modifications which the Germans propose to suggest will probably be put forward soon after presentation of the French memorandum . There are various indications showing that there exist already considetable differences of opinion between Germany and Italy on the question of revision of treaties , particularly as regards Austro-German unification , to which Italy is still strongly opposed . It would be idle to speculate at present ' on what territorial revision Italy favors , since , except for the single exception existing on the frontiers of Hungary , Signer Mussolini has not committed himself on the subject , and no doubt in their interviews with Il Duce , Herr von Papen and Captain Goering will be able to find out which of the German claims are likely to obtain Italian support and under what con ? ditions . For the moment Italy is marking time and is satisfied with having raised officially the question of peace-treaty revision and with the results so far obtained in many quarters , particularly in England the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with undue haste and at any rate will endeavor to obtain at least passive support of the British Gov- 1 ernment before raising the problem of any particular frontier revision . 1 Indorsement of Concordats Recent events in Germany , and particularly Herr Hitler 's declaration in the new Reichstag and the decision of the German Roman Catholic bishop at Sulda to suspend some of the restrictions and instructions upon political activities of German Roman Catholics , imposed when open conflict with the National Socialists seemed imminent , has led the Vatican to take a more optimistic view of future relations between the church and the National Socialist Government Apprehension which was first held in the Vatican as to the eventual consequenCes of hostility toward the Roman Catholic Center Party shown by Herr Hitler and his party before his assumption of power , has been largely removed by the German Chancellor 's declaration in the Reichstag to respect the three existing concordats with the Vatican . There are , however , various points concerning Herr Hitler 's attitude to-. ward the Center Party and the Roman Catholic Church , upon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a loyal Roman Catholic and papal chamberlain , has been intrusted with the mission of clearing up these points and insures Vatican support under the new regime in Germany .                     