@@699469

txt The Paramount-Publix Corporation , a motion picture producing and distributing firm with assets of $166,000,000 , was placed in equity receivershir last night by Federal Judge William Bondy . Charles D. Hilles , Republican National Committeeman , and Adolph Zukor , president of the corporation , were appointed receivers . At the same time the Publix Enterprises , Inc. , a subsidiary of the larger company , entered a voluntary bankruptcy in which the Irving Trust Company was appointed receiver . The subsidiary company listed its assets at $23,864,076 and its liabilities at $41,214,407 . Action against the ParamountPublix was precipitated yesterday by Colonel William J. Donovan 's law firm of Donovan &; Raichle , who , ignoring the customary procedure of filing petitions with the United States District Court clerk , carried the complaint of the Broadway Tweatieth Properties , Inc. , . a concern incorporated in California , directly to Judge Bondy . Under the law a Federal judge is empowered to receive such petitions . Three Bondholders File Plea . Earlier in the day three small bondholders , Reuben Gelford , I. Riseman and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the company 's 51/2 per cent sinking fund gold bonds due Aug. 1 , 1950 , and part of an issue of $13,484,000 dated Aug. 1 , 1930 , had filed an involuntary petition in the court . The petition of the small bondholders was filed with the district clerk . The petition of the California corporation was taken directly to Judge Bondy , who immediately called a conference in his chambers . At the end of the conference , Judge Bondy announced the appointment of Mr. Hilles and Mr. Zukor as equity receivers for the company , and also announced that each had been requested to post a bond of $50,000 . Trouble for the motion-picture corporation began on Dec. 30 , when L. H. Harris , also a bondholder , filed a petition in which he asked for an equity receivership . Last week Judge Bondy granted the company twenty days in which to file an answer to that petition . Admits Lack of Liquid Assets . In the action which Judge Bondy took yesterday in appointing an equity receivership , the corporation , through its attorneys , Rosenberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California corporation declared itself a creditor to the extent of $29,166 . The answer admitted that . the allegations of the California firm , to the ' effect that it lacked liquid assets with which to meet current obligations , were true , but asserted that the company had assets of great value , amount-. ing to about $166,000,000 . Following the appointment of the equity receivers the board of di- rectors of the corporation , which was in session yesterday while its attorneys battled in the courts , issued the following statement : " The business of these producing and distributing subsidiaries ( refering to Paramount Productions , Inc. , Paramount Pictures Corporation and the Paramount International Corporation ) , whickr conduct the business of producing and distributing Paramount pictures , is profitable and they will continue to manufacture and distribute quality motion pictures under the same management and personnel as heretofore . " At a meeting held today it was decided that , in view of the corporation 's inability to meet obligations presently outstanding and others shortly to mature , the interests of the creditors and security holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in equity . To Fight Involuntary Plea . " The corporation is not insolvent and intends to contest the involuntary petition in bankruptcy which has been filed against it . " The business of the corporation and its subsidiaries consists of the production and distribution throughout the world of motion pictures and of the ownership , leasing and operation of theatres in the United States , as well as in Canada and in other foreign countries . " As the result of the unprecedented length and severity of the depression , both the domestic and the foreign receipts of the corporation an-I its subsidiaries have been continuously and increasingly diminishing . In the case of foreign receipts the corporation has also been faced with heavy and unavoidable losses due to the depreciation of foreign currency . " Since the decline in gross receipts first ' manifested itself , the board of directors and management of the corporation has instituted a policy of drastic retrenchment and curtailment in controllable expenditures and has effected substantial economies of operation . The production cost of pictures has been lowered , salaries have been materially reduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corporation has earnestly striven to obtain voluntary adjustment of rentals and other fixed charges and has taken advantage of every available means in attempting to maintain a ratio between fixed charges and receipts approximating that which existed in recent and more prosperous years of the company 's history . Constructive and helpful though tl-ese efforts have been , they have been precluded from attaining their ultimate end by the prolongation and acuteness of the depression . " In addition to the appointment of receivers for Paramount Publix , the Irving Trust Company has been appointed receiver of Publix-Paramount Enterprises , Inc. , one of the corporation 's theatre holding subsidiaries . " Many Theatres Controlled . A catalogue of the leases held by the Paramount-Publix and its subsidiaries was not available last night . One financial guide said that : " Through subsidiary companies , notably Publix Theatres Corporation , the corporation owns , leases And operates a number of highclass motion picture theatres , including the Paramount , Rivoli , Rialto Theatres in New York City , the Brooklyn Paramount , the Metropolitan Theatre , Boston ; the Buffalo Theatre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the California and Paramount Theatres in San Francisco , the Palace and Melba Theatres in Dallas , the Paramount Theatre in Atlanta , the Tivoli at Chattanooga , the Missouri Theatre in St. Louis . the Chicago and Oriental at Detroit , the Paramount Theatre , Seattle , Wash. ; the Portland Theatre at Portland , Ore. ; the Minnesota Theatre in Minneapolis , the Saenger Theatre in New Orleans , the Eastman Theatre , Rochester ; the Paramount Theatre at Denver , the Newman Theatre at Kansas City , the Metropolitan at Houston and the Des Moines at Des Moines and others . " Through the fact that the Publix Enterprises , Inc. , had actually been placed in receivership , it was pointed out that the leases on whatever theatre properties held by the parent company could be placed before a referee in bankruptcy with petitions for modification or disaffirmances of the leases . Through a number of bankruptcy cases , notably that of the United Cigar Stores , the policy of disaffirming unprofitable leases has been productive of savings of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings suggested that this course would be followed by the Paramount Company , the phrase in the statement , issued by the board of directors , regarding the maintenance of a ratio between fixed charges and receipts , was taken to mean that such a policy was in view .                     