@@701529

txt Chicago legislators studied Gov . Horner 's call for a special session of the general assembly yesterday and concluded that they had better prepare for many weeks of journeying to Springfield , beginning next Monday . The special session will con ? vene at 8 o'clock in the evening of that day . Eighteen specific subjects were listed in the call , including , among matters certain to cause controversy , such topics as unemployment insurance , amendments to the occupational diseases act , the insurance code and a drivers ' license law . This combination alone made many of the Chicagoans feel that they would be fortunate if they finished the work of the session by Jan . L Schools ' Plea Left Out . In spite of the eighteen subjects , the governor omitted from his call legislation much desired by the Chicago board of education . James B. McCahey , president of the board , wired Mr. Horner last night that ne was disappointed to learn the call " was not broad enough to permit legislation to repay our Chicago schools the $2,384,255 owed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of maintaining classes and schools for delinquent , deaf , blind , and crippled children . " McCahey said that repayment of the amount had been counted on by the board to make up the cash balance necessary to meet its December pay roll . " May I beg you again to give consideration to this matter and find a way to include such legislation in a further call ? " said McCahey 's telegram to the governor . Mr. Horner could call a second special session to run concurrently with the first , but that would entail another payment of $50 to each member of the legislature . This $50 is a legislator 's " salary " for a special session . Governor Ignores Advisers . In opening his call to at least two topics the governor acted contrary to the advice of Democratic legislative leaders and state officers who met with him at the executive mansion about two weeks ago . Because they wished to " avoid controversial bills , " they advised against inclusion of unemployment insurance and the occupational diseases act amendments , which industrial organizations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois Manufacturers ' assocation had indorsed what is understood to be the Horner administration 's plan for unemployment insurance  --  the building up of individual reserves by private concerns rather than creation of a " state pool " in which all collections would be dumped and distributed by the state . Either plan is permissible under the new federal security act . James L. Donnelly , executive vice president of the Manufacturers ' association , denied that his organization favored the individual reserves plan . " We have not indorsed any kind of unemployment insurance , " he said . Pay Roll Tax Proposed . A one per cent pay roll tax , in conformity with the national social security act , is believed to be the plan the state bill will provide . It may be proposed to levy the tax on both employers and employes . The revenue from this tax could be used under either the individual reserves or the state pool plan . Other portions of the social security legislation are not expected to cause much controversy . The state 's old age pension law must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act  --  if Illinois is to get from Washington half of the one dollar per day pension for each of its citizens who are eligible to receive the payments . Similar provisions for federal shares must also be made for dependent children and the blind . However , neither of these three matters will call for additional taxation , it is thought . The Horner administration is planning to ' finance them from current sales tax revenue and other present sources . Labor Urges Amendments . Labor leaders were responsible for inclusion in the governor 's call of the proposed amendments to the occupational diseases act . A portion of the law relating to providing safe guards for industrial hazards was declared invalid by the Illinois Supreme court last April and attempts to put through stopgap legislation were made in vain during the latter part of the regular legislative session later in the spring . Licensing of drivers and the insurance code were other bills which the general assembly refused to approve in the regular session . Downstate opposition stymied the drivers ' license measure and while there were reports in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the bill would vote for it if it were made to apply only to cities , the path to its approval is by no means open . The insurance code , a huge bill drawn under the supervision of Ernest Palmer , state director of insurance , had a slow but eventually successful course in the house during the regular session , but was killed in the senate , failing by three votes . Its consideration by both houses was accompanied by long , controversial hearings which may be expected to be repeated in the special session . Other Matters Before Session . Other subjects in the call include legislation on working cash funds for boards of education in cities , changes in the law governing the issuance of local bonds and tax anticipation warants , validation of local bond issues , pension funds for city boards of election , participation in the Mark Twain centennial , and , last , but far from least in the minds of the members , appropriations for the expenses of the session . When the session is convened Monday evening it is planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Billman , secretary of the legislative reference bureau . These will include the social security legislation . Whether a move will be made to have them advanced to second reading could not be learned but they will at least be printed overnight and he ready for study Tuesday morning . Italian Pilot Is Killed as Army Plane Crashes ROME , Oct. ** government announced today that an Italian army bombing plane crashed at Desio , Milano province , last Friday , killing the pilot , Sergt. Villari Letterio , who had been recalled for training .                     