@@700012

txt The local NRA movement faced last night its first major problem , a threatened strike of 60,000 dressmakers , after having recieved earlier in the day the support of 800 persons representing practically every field of business and civic activity here . Coincidentally , the NRA executive committee adopted a resolution safeguarding concerns under investigation , but providing that proved violators of the President 's Agreement and the details of their cases might , " in the discretion of the committee , " be made public . The strike of the dressmakers was decided upon last night by . a vote of 12,146 to 463 in a referendum conducted by the joint board of the Dress and Waist Makers Union and the International Ladies Garment Workers ' Union . Meanwhile thee employers in the National Dress Manufacturers Association decided by a unanimous vote to sign the President 's Agreement . Their meeting in the Hotel New Yorker was addressed by Grover A. Whalen , head of the New York recovery drive , and Earl Dean Howard , deputy administrator of the National Recovery Administration , who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ codes in the needle trades . New NRA Interpretation . Another development was a new interpretation of the National Recovery Administration rules by Mark Eisner , who is in charge of the local interpretation bureau . He said that although the Merchants Association and the State Chamber of Commerce had been designated by the NRA to grant stays to worthy concerns seeking relief under one clause of the President 's agreement , other representative trade organizations generally had jurisdicition to perform the same function . That a larger strike vote was not cast by the dress workers last night was due to the fact that the referendum was confined largely to Manhattan and Brooklyn , according to Julius Hochman , president of the joint board of the Dress and Waist Makers ' Union . The strike vote affects workers in New York City and suburban communities of New Jersey and Connecticut . In New York 60 per cent of the workers are women , and in New Jersey the percentage of women is even higher , according to Mr. Hochman . Union Chairmen Meet Tonight . A secret meeting of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Eleventh Street and Third Avenue , to set the date for the strike , and in union circles it was reported last night that the strike would be called tomorrow . Mr. Hochman and David Dubinsky , president of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union , will address the local chairmen . According to Mr. Hochman , a strike is practically inevitable , despite the efforts that have been made by the local NRA organization to avert the clash . Mr. Hochman said he had been . informed that the National Associa- tion of Dress Manufacturers had discussed with Grover A. Whalen , Chairman of NRA drive here , the possibility of the association signing the President 's Agreement . He asserted that such a step would represent a last effort by the employers to avoid a strike . Employers Sign Agreement . The National Dress Manufacturers Association , at a meeting attended by 1,200 of its members at the Hotel New Yorker last night , voted unanimously to sign the President 's Agreement . Copies of the agreement were circulated at the meeting and the members engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the association membership was composed 98 per cent of jobbers who did not manufacture , but who obtained orders and farmed them out to manufacturing and contracting shops . Mr. Hochman further alleged that it was their custom to shop around for work done at the lowest possible price , which resulted in sweatshop conditions . Other organizations that will be affected by the strike , according to Mr. Hochman , include the Wholesale Dress Manufacturers Association , jobbers who let work to contractors , and the Affiliated Dress Manufacturers Association , composed of manufacturers who make and sell garments on their own premises . 28,000 Called Out Yesterday . In a separate attempt to bring the employers to terms the International Ladies ' Garment Workers Union announced that 28,000 workers in 1,280 shops had been called from work yesterday morning by the joint board of the Cloak and Suit Makers Union , to " continue in force for several days . " The leaders of the union asserted they wished to make it clear that the stoppage was " not in the nature of a strike , " but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or be near the shop so as to be available when needed . " The purpose of the order to cease work , " said the announcement , " was to facilitate the establishment of a system or price-fixing in the shops owing to the fact that the work-method has now been changed . The dressmakers ' demands , circulated during the referendum , de , signed to rid the industry of sweatshops. include the 30-hour week to relieve unemployment ; definite guarantee of the minimum wage scale incorporated in the existing agreement ; responsibility of jobbers for conditions in contracting shops ; collecting agreements and proper work standards to regulate the status of workers in that industry . The strike is timed to coincide with the NRA campaign to improve wages and working conditions in the industry . Doubts NRA Can Stop Strike . Doubt that the local NRA forces could do anything to stop the impending strike was expressed yesterday afternoon by Mr. Whalen . Before addressing the meeting of the National Dress Manufacturers Association at the Hotel New Yorker last evening . Mr. Whalen was informed by C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strike seemed inevitable . " Mr. Robbins said that in his judgment there was no doubt the workers were going to walk out . Ifsuch an eventuality does occur , we shall use every means at our disposal to bring about a settlement of it . I intend to invite representatives of both sides here first to see how serious their differences are , and also to see whether the appointment of a mediation board would represent the course through which we could get the quickest action , " Mr. Whalen said . panies accused of violating NRA codes where the names were not disclosed but might be inferred . A resolution on that subject was unanimously adopted . The resolution follows : " That it be declared the sense of this meeting that no bureau operating under its jurisdiction be permitted to make direct or anonymous reference to any specific complaints under investigation , and " That all communications be withheld until accusation is substantiated whereupon in the discretion of the executive committee the details may be made public . " But this is not to be taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the complaint before the Complaint Bureau . " " That will be the policy followed in the future , " announced Mr. Whalen . Mr. Whalen explained that the Labor Committee 's Code had been submitted by Matthew Woll , vice president of the American Federation of Labor , and referred to a subcommittee of which Arthur Hays Sulzberger of THE NEW YORK TIMES is chairman . The subcommittee is composed also of Mark Eisner , Henry Wolff , head of the local NRA Complaint Bureau ; Roy Howard of the Scripps-Howard Newspapers ; Herbert Bayard Swope and James F. Hodgson , district director of the United States Department of Commerce . The committee is to meet tomorrow with Mr. Sulzberger and report to a meeting of the executive committee on Thursday . While Mr. Whalen did not indicate the nature of the proposed labor code , it was learned that the labor committee was ready to promote the President 's agreement while having employers under union contracts and where organized labor relations existed , but with no definite form of collective agreement , or where individual working relations prevailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether independent unions not affiliated with the American Federation of Labor should have representation . Mr. Woll was reported to have advocated representation for unions not affiliated with the A. ' of L. provided they were not Communistic organizations . Mr. Whalen announced that the New York Clearing House Association had appointed a committee to cooperate with the NRA committee here . At the same time he announced two additions to the executive committee , Mrs. Charles H. Sabin , head of the Women 's Organization for National Prohibition Reform , and Mrs. Elinore M. Herrick , a director of the National  - -  tonsumers League . Additional NRA news will be found on Page 25 . Two-Hour Meeting Held . Before 9 o'clock yesterday morning Mr. Whalen was in conference at NRA headquarters at the Hotel Pennsylvania with Police Commissioner Bolan , Inspector John Lyons of the Radical Squad , Mr. Dubinsky and Mr. Hochman . The conference lasted nearly two hours . Asked to tell the nature of the conference , Mr. Whalen explained tthat the group had discussed generally with the police the situation and problems that might arise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 there were offers of cooperation with the police , according to Mr. Whalen . Asked whether the NRA would take a neutral stand in the con : troversy . Mr. Whalen announced that it would not be neutral " in the matter of eliminating sweatshops I and the payment of a living wage . " Mr. Robbins said after news of the strike vote had been received that the adoption of the blanket agreement had no bearing on the strike . " The adoption of the blanket code is simply a patriotic act to support President Roosevelt . " he declared . At the executive committee meeting members made a number of suggestions to provide employment . The committee unanimously voted down a proposition made by a Manhattan business house that a full month 's salary be advanced to workers on condition that it be spent for current expenses in any Blue Eagle store by Sept. 1 and that it be repaid over a period of three months . Labor representatives objected strenuously on the ground that such a plan would give employers an unfair advantage over employes and others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying campaign , also set up a false credit system . Resolution on Complaints . The executive committee also discussed the matter of publicity with reference to complaint against com-                     