@@699324

txt After a night spent in their trucks on the outskirts of Washington , where police hemmed them in on their arrival yesterday , approximately 3000 " Hunger Marchers " were making plans today for presenting their demands to Congress and to the President . " We are here to petition Congress for unemployment insurance and to get cash relief for millions of our comrades " was the reply the marchers gave when asked the purpose of their trek from various sections of the country . Held in the northeast section of the city , in sight of the Capitol because they had found no shelter in the city , the demonstrators last night , without protest , slept under heavy guard on the highway leading into Washington from Baltimore . No disturbance was expected until the " marchers " permit for a demonstration on the Capitol grounds . Early this morning the various truckloads here selected members of their groups to attend conferences scheduled for today to decide on further steps in their campaign . The hall which had been secured for their meeting would accommodate only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the District Court to ask for an injunction preventing the District Commissioners to interfere further with what they claimed were their constitutional rights to assemble and petition Congress . As they prepared to spend the night in the open last night , the marchers were for the most part orderly but sullen . A truck brought food gathered by a local committee , consisting of bologna sandwiches , apples and water . Some of the food was said to have been supplied by the Workers ' International Relief Committee , which fed 100,000 marchers during the recent unemployment demonstration in London . The morale of the marchers picked up as their ranks were augumented by the arrival of the various columns , A band emerged from one of the trucks to play the Communist anthem , " The Internationale . " Some of the marchers sang . They addressed each other as " Comrade . " Many of the " marchers " are on their second protest visit to Washington . The truck drivers from the North said they were not connected with the march , but had answered advertisements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received between $90 and ' $150 . The District government chose a strategic location for the marchers to halt . The street is blocked off at each end by cordons of policemen five deep . On one side are railroad tracks ; on the other a high embankment . Unless they are able to secure shelter in the city the marchers will stay in this spot the rest of their three-day visit here .                     