@@697123

txt The ' pause and visible embarrassment of the London Naval Conference for the gme being invites inquiry into the reasons . Certainly there has been no lack of fine intentions or good-will . Every effort has been made to cause the smaller naval powers to ' feel themselves welcomed to entire equality with the larger . Prime Minister MACD0NALD , as president of the conference , has never . assumed the port or airs of a dictator , but steadily has protested that , though also at the head of the British delegation and in charge of British interests , he is there as an impartial chairman , seeking to secure the best possible decision in common . As for . President HOOVER , he has , of course , been kept intimately informed of the whole trend of the discussion , but has . apparently ' preferred to devolve the main responsibility upon mit ? delegates . Having appointed a commission of high calibre , he seems to have felt it his duty to keep his hands off as much as possible . Even so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or directed the American attilide on various controverted points . In the nature of the case , this must have been so . The President has a responsibility in the matter of which he could not divest himself even if he wished to do . so . Both Mr. HOOVER and the.British Prime Minister , with the Japanese Government , must be credited with high ideals as respects the peace of the world doubly guaranteed by reductions in naval armament . Their emotions ' on the subject were generous . The aims they cherished were excellent . . But the , events of , the past two months at London raise again the question whether they had sufficiently studied the road which they must travel to ' reach their desired goal : The ends which they sought were admittedly noble , but were.they prepared resolutely to adopt the necessary means ? An English writer on politics once called it " the solecism of power " strongly to desire an end but weakly to reject the only means to it . It is to be feared that something like that . has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the London Naval Conference . It is easy to understand how the President and Prime Minister MACDONALD went into , it with high hopes and great co nfidence . Their proposals , though never sharply defined , had met with almost universal applause . It seemed ? as if the heart of all the world was with them . It may be that this bred a little overconfidence in their minds . They coUld , not conceive it to be possible that any nation would fail to fall in at once - with their high and sincere professions . . Possibly their diplomatic information about the position which France and Italy would take was not as accurate or complete as it might have been . At any rate , the conference had not long been under , way before it appeared that the all-round agreement which they sought could not be obtained without passing beyond the technical ' naval details and facing political decisions affecting international affairs . Thus emerged the - indispensable means to the coveted end ; but thereupon came the refusal of the American delegation , unquestionably With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " follow the argument ' , " as SOCRATES used to say , and having . agreed to . A , proceed to the inevitable B and C. . . ? The call for such a decision did not Come as a startling surprise . It did not develop as a result of the exchange of opinions at London . A month earlier , in the.middle of December , the French Government made it clearly known that it could not consent to naval reduction without an accompanying safeguard in the form " of ! security . " This was a Apiawhat vague term , but it became concrete , finally , in the proffer of . a large cut in naval strength , provided the British and American Governments would pledge themselves to " consult " in case of a threatened war . , Great Britain was reported ready to meet the terms , but the American delegation , after discussing the matter and finding that their counsels ' were divided , in the end returned the answer , . doubtless under ? instructions from Washington , that the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this was all the world knows . It has , for the present at least , driven the Naval conference back merely to a hope of a fragmentary achievement in the place of the large measure which was at first comprehensively hoped for . Much may yet be saved , but just at the ' moment it has to be admitted that the two governments which started out to do a big thing shrank back when told of the only way in which it could be-done.                     