@@703625

txt With another recovery movement getting under way perhaps no single problem is of such great importance to all the country as maintenance of peace between industry and labor . The recovery of the 1933-34 period bogged down in a flood of strikes unexampled in our history . Opinions may differ as to causes of the past year 's recession . It is attributed both to rapid price increases forced by higher wages and to sharp curtailment of federal expenditures without a compensating increase in new capital investment . Fighting by labor and industry over division of the national income was , however , of great importance . In one case labor , as has been said , " priced itself out of the market " and forced industry to do the same with its products In the other case seizure of property and other unlawful acts by over-zealous unions frightened that notoriously skittish factor of production  --  venture capital ? so badly that investments for rebuilding and reequiping existing industries or construction of new plants failed to develop in ; volume as the federal government tapered off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Still Unemployed With millions still unemployed and with the national debt at the highest level in history as a. result of government expenditures for relief and pump-priming it is essential that quarrels between industry and labor do not again develop to choke off this second effort to attain a lasting and stable recovery  --  lest business again go into a taillpin , federal expenditures again be forced heavenward , and continued budgetary deficits plunge the country eventually into uncontrolled inflation . Seeking to find an answer to the problem of how industry and labor can reconcile their differences , The Wall Street Journal has undertaken a survey of companies which have avoided serious labor trouble in the last few years in the hope that management and investor alike may benefit from a study of those industrial relations policies which have worked out successfully in practiceSuch. policies have been analyzed in detail from the standpoint of both management and labor to find out what has made them click . Representatives of employes including union officers in several cases . have been interviewed to find out from the workman 's standpoint what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his company 's program nave helped most to keep him satisfied with his lob . These companies deal with their employes through representation plans , independent , CIO or AFL unions ; some of them are large , others relatively small : some manufacture consumer goods with relatively stable sales while others manufacture durable goods whose sales fluctuate widely both on a seasonal and cyclical basis . Theywere selectee so as to give as broad a cross section as possible of companies whose stock is held publicly . Possible Application Studied One or two companies which have made some unusual contribution to the industrial relations problem , such as guaranteeing annual wages of production employes , have been studied and the possible application of such policies to other industries has - been considered in the light of current knowledge of business cycles and the probable effect of sharp fluctuations in sales volume on employment and payrolls . But no survey of the current industrial relations situation would be complete without some attempt to evaluate in the light of labor history the present position of the labor movement , the probable factors which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation as compared to that of other industrial countries  --  particularly England and Sweden , and the part which has been and will be played in the future by the Wagner Act . History of Labor Labor has had three high points in its history in this country . The first was in the 80 's when the Knights of Labor swept through the country with an industrial form of organization similar in some respects to that of the CIO and in so doing threw fear into the hearts of industry and the middle class  --  just as did the CIO in 1937 . The Knights disintegrated rapidly as a result of excesses climaxed by the Haymarket riot ( for which they were not responsible ) and inept leadership . At about the time the Knights of Labor began to break up , Samuel Gompers launched what is now the American Federation of Labor , a body whose constitutent and autonomous unions , most of a craft type , were to grow in strength , with minor interruptions , until America entered the World War , by which time labor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Stimulus to Labor Movement Under the impact of post-war deflation , " The American Way . " " The New Capitalism " and strong opposition from industry the member unions of the AFL lost much of their strength in the early 20 's and had only paitially repaired the gaps in their ranks by the 1929 collapse . Its resultant unemployment , falling wage rates , and general disillusionment again struck at the roots of the organized labor movement  --  men without jobs and with their pockets empty could see no point in trying to keep up dues payments and so dropped out of unions . Passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act with its Section 7A gave new stimulus to the labor movement and launched it on its third great upward surge in membership and political and economic power . Aided by the CIO , which extended the aristocracy of labor as typified by the craft unions dominating the AFL into the semi or unskilled ranks of mass production workers , the now dual labor movement reached new peaks of strength in the spring of 1937 ? and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checking the recovery movement of the past five years . Many Questions Posed Now confronting us are such questions as these : Will the CIO disintegrate under growing public disapproval as did its spiritual godfather , the Knights of Labor ? Or will these two divergent forces , the AFL and the CIO , settle their differences and weld themselves into a strong and untied labor movement ? If so , can we expect a repetition of the 1937 period ? with labor carrying its fight for a larger share of the national income to such a point that capital will again become frighteaed and refuse to risk itself in new investment ? Or will labor accept the teachings of economists and admit that wage levels are dependent upon value of production , that profits are , the mainspring of industry and that without them production will languish to the injury of all the people , that forced increases in hourly rates greater than justified by increased productive power of labor can only force up prices with no net gain to either labor or capital and with possibly destructive results if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best interests of both capital and labor are served by expanding production so that there is more to divide rather than by quarreling over respective shares of a relatively scanty volume of goods ? Principle of Wagner Act What of the Wagner Act which one faction of labor has hailed at one time as its Magna Charts and turned on a year or so later with a venom which only labor leaders can equal ? is the principle which it placed on the statute books to remain virtually unchanged or will the board be stripped of its power through amendments urged by industry and the AFL ? Will industry and labor learn anything from the excellent reports presented recently by the President 's commission on the handling of industrial relations problems in England and Sweden ? Do they have a real bearing on our problems ? Will they be used or like most reports of this type will they rest dust-covered and unread on the shelves ? Answers to these and related questions will be sought in future articles of this series . Some of them will be tentative , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are happening with the rapidity of the last few years few final and unchanging estimates can be made . But throughout , a sincere and unbiased effort will be made in the conviction that fundamentally the interests of labor and capital are one : the more there is to divide the more each will receive . Increases in the amount to divide can be achieved only by cooperative effort ; calling names or striving to gouge the other fellow can Create only disequilibrium , , lessen the volume of production , decrease the amount to divide , and thus injure all concerned .                     