@@701564

txt Organized business is expressing emphatic disapproval of " recent trends in Federal legislation " in a referendum conducted by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . A survey disclosed today that polls taken so far among widely scattered member organizations showed a strong tide of opposition to policies attributed to the New Deal . Only two local business groups out of twenty-eight whose votes were reported to The Associated Press favored trends for which a special committee of the national chamber 's directorate requested " the most thoughtful attention . " ' Several other chambers , however , have refused to take part in the referendum . Some objected that questions submitted were " too broad . " Others complained that the subject matter was " partisan . " The chamber at Columbia , S. C. , where there is much New Deal activity , resigned from the national organization Its board of governors charged " anti-New Deal proclivities . " Four Questions Asked . Four questions based on the special committee 's report ? highly critical of the New Deal  --  were submitted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade associations : 1 . Should there be extension of Federal jurisdiction into matters of State and local concern ? 2 . Should the Federal Government , at the present time , exercise Federal spending power without relation to revenues ? 3 . Should there be government competition with private enterprise ? for regulatory or other purposes ? 4 . Should all grants of authority by Congress to the executive department of the Federal Government be within clearly defined limits ? Twenty-six of the local and State groups have answered " no " to the first three questions and " yes " to the fourth . The Helena and Kalispell ( Mont. ) chambers were the only ones shown by the survey to have taken an opposite stand . The referendum will not be completed until midnight Nov. 23 . Many chambers in some of the largest cities have not yet voted , and their action could easily reverse the present tide . While the national chamber has announced it will not disclose any returns until all are in , a nationwide survey by The Associated Press-shows this action to date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City Merchants ' Association , and Hartford , New Haven and Torrington , Conn. , have voted disapproval of the " trends . " South  --  Similar action has been taken by the Tennessee Manufacturers ' Association and the Atlanta , Savannah , Fort Worth , Galveston and Nashville chambers . Governors of the Jacksonville ( Fla. ) chamber held the questions were I " too general " to be answered yes or no , and also that they " smack of political partisanship . " The Knoxville chamber criticized the questions as " not specific enough " and refused to vote , while the national affairs committee of the Chattanooga chamber deferred a vote until the United States Chamber of Commerce furnishes all 700 members with complete ballots and pro and con arguments . Houston 's chamber Is not participating in the poll . Opposition in the West . Midwest  --  The " trends " were opposed by the Kansas City , Springfield ( Mo . ) , Cincinnati , Indianapolis , Lansing ( Mich. ) and Indiana State chambers . A special committee of the Waterloo ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Iowa ) chamber is not voting , a Grand Forks ( N. D. ) committee will recommend similar action tomorrow on the ground the questions are " general and vague , " . and the St. Louis chamber declined to make public the result . Far West  --  San Francisco chamber directors said an answer to Question 1 was " impossible because of its broad scope , " but voted against the " trends " on the other three . The Wallace ( Idaho ) Board of Trade voted " no " on Questions 1 and 3 , declining to vote on the other two . All four " trends " were disapproved by Oakland , Calif , . ; Ogden , Utah ; Reno , Nev. , and Tacoma . Wash . Salt Lake City 's chamber declined to vote on the ground that the subject matter was " partisan , " while Seattle 's chamber will decide Nov. 19 whether it wants to vote . Republican Heads Committee . The National Chamber 's committee of three which prepared the report on legislative trends consisted of John W. O'Leary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) attorney , and Thomas Guy Woolford , Atlanta , credit firm chairman . Chairman O'Leary and Mr. Scherr are listed in Who 's Who as Republicans , Mr. O'Leary serving as vice treasurer of the Republican National Committee in the Hoover campaign . Mr. Woolford , a Democrat , is a colonel on the staff of Governor Eugene Talmadge . After surveying in detail legislation passed by Congress since March 9 , 1933 , the committee reported these trends : " Exercise of the spending power , without regard to revenues , for purchase within the powers of neither Federal nor State Governments and on a scale that brings to every business and to every individual the dangers following a continuing unbalanced budget . " Extension of competition by government enterprise into the fields of private endeavor , for the purpose of regulating private enterprise or otherwise . Regimentation Charged . " Regulation by the Federal Government of production , industrial and agricultural , and local marketing and retailing  --  with the Federal Government impinging upon the individual in his everyday affairs in making a living ? in planting crops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working as an employe of another . " Delegation of powers to the Executive Department of the Federal Government and constantly enlarging administrative agencies and bureaucracy for detailed application of measures , with all decisions for the whole country ' at a central point and consequently delays and expense for citizens even as to matters in themselves of small importance . " The full report was mailed to the member chambers in a pamphlet Icontaining the ballots , and equal space was given to " arguments in Ithe negative " prepared by the national group 's legal staff . In some instaaaces directors of local chambers voted on the four questions , while in others polls were taken of the entire membership . The voting was not close in any local group where totals were announced .                     