@@700084

txt Another effort to secure limitation of armaments by international agreement was begun in Paris today when representatives of Great Britain and France met at the Quai d'Orsay . After seventeen months of effort at Geneva , during which fewer old problems have been settled than new ones created , these two great powers have met to discuss the possibility of a solution which may be summarized as containing four main proposals : 1 . That an approximately unified short-term military service system should be adopted by the continental nations . 2 . That there should be a definite reduction of air forces , with elimination of certain types of aircraft . 3 . That France and Italy should adhere to the London naval treaty . 4 . That there should be set up a permanent commission for supervision of armaments in each country . After today 's discussions it was said that " satisfactory progress has been made in a most cordial atmosphere . " No doubt was left that during the last few months the British and French viewpoints had been brought appreciably nearer together by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversations were Captain Anthony Eden , Under-Secretary of Foreign Affairs ; Lord Tyrrell , the British Ambassador , and A. ' G. M. Cadogan . The French conferees were Joseph Paul-Boncour , Minister of Foreign Affairs ; Rene Massigli of the Foreign Office , and , during the afternoon meeting , Premier Daladier . Norman H. Davis , United States Ambassador at Large , who ar- rived from London during the afternoon , is being kept informed of the progress of the conversations and later in the week will have interviews with M. Daladier , to whom he has brought a message from President Roosevelt , and with M. Paul-Boncour . Arthur Henderson , president of the Disarmament Conference , also arrived in Paris this evening , traveling on the same train with Mr. Davis . It is being emphasized here tonight in all quarters that those engaged in these conversations very fully realize that failure to reach an agreement must inevitably have the most serious consequences . it is felt , too , that before the conference reopens in Geneva on Oct. 18 something very near an agreement must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trail off in endless discussion . Plans Are Simplified . It is for that reason that during the last three months the French and British plans have been reduced almost to the barest skeletons . It is to be noticed , for instance , that except in the matter of aircraft reduction there is no longer likely to be any distinction between offensive and defensive weapons , with a demand that the former be eliminated . On the other hand , equality for Germany in the matter of army recruitment is put at the forefront of the program . That is , in itself , an admission that the Versailles Treaty system has failed and that it is better to have a known potential in army force rather than an unknown camouflaged strength . Inevitably , the French , in today 's discussion , attached the most importance to the system of supervision which it is desired to set up . Their proposal is , briefly , that there should be a four or five year trial period , during which supervision should be fairly constant . Sanctions Cause Difference . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries it with regard to the " sanctions " that should be applied in case the supervision commission should discover grave infractions and clandestine increases in armaments . There once more , as so often in the past , the two nations are faced with the inherent difference between the Latin and the Anglot Saxon ways of doing things . To the French , control without defined sanctions is almost unthinkable . The British , recalling that neither Napoleon 's nor General Nollet 's efforts at controlling German armaments were very successful , prefer to think that acceptance of control by any country is a better assurance that the letter and spirit of the agreement will be kept than is any threat of punishment . Much argument is certain to be wasted over this question , and finally , it is foreseen that whatever supervision method is adopted , not everybody in France will be satisfied . Developments Are Questioned . During the four or five trial years of the control plan , France would , of course , retain a very large " margin of security " over Germany in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be done at the end of that period . Britain , and presumably also other countries , including the United States , would like to see some formal promise by the French Government that if the trial proved successful there would be an automatic reduction of French armaments to something like the German level . Such a promise , however , in the present circumstances , is going to be very difficult to obtain . Press opinion , which is increasingly unfavorable to the present administration , would seize at once on such a promise as equivalent to an abdication of French sovereignty . It is very evident then that there are still enormous difficulties to be overcome , and today 's exchange of views was only a prelude to what must be an energetic and , at times , tense argument . Messages from London today regarding Mr. Davis 's breakfast-table conversations with Prime Minister tended to indicate that the Ambassador had received new instructions from the President and had submitted what was said to be an American memorandum . The American delegation said tonight , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's verbal message given before Mr. Davis had sailed . The Anglo-French conversations will be renewed when Captain Eden has received from London its reaction to today 's discussion . He himself may fly to London tomorrow .                     