@@701458

txt Italy has replied to the proceedings of the past few days at Geneva with a declaration , that destroys the last slender chances of a peaceful solution of the Italo-Ethiopian controversy . Italy rejects in advance any compromise proposal that may be suggested . A communique issued after a Cabinet council this morning under the chairmanship of Premier Benito Mussolini states , in fact , that the Italian Government " feels it is its duty to reconfirm in the most explicit manner that the Halo-Ethiopian problem does not admit of compromise solutions after the enormous efforts made and the sacrifices borne by the Italian people and after the irrefutable documentation contained in the Italian memorandum. ? ' ? Hints at Leaving League . Lest there be any lingering doubt that Italy is ready to defy the world to achieve her object in East Africa , the communiqu ? goes on to say that the Cabinet council , in relation to the suggestion of sanctions , " has examined the case in which Italy 's further adherence to the League of Nations would become impossible . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remain faithful to the principle of European collaboration . It says that Mussolini advised the Cabinet of the speeches delivered by Foreign Secretary Sir Samuel Hoare of Great Britain and Premier Pierre Laval of France at Geneva , " which , for obvious reasons , could not be any different from what they were " and which for this reason were accepted with perfect calm by responsible Italian circles and by the people of Italy . But the Cabinet council noted with particular pleasure the cordial words that Mr. Laval dedicated to the /talo-French agreement of last January and to the Italo-French friendship therein consecrated . I Italy , it was said , intends to develop and strengthen this friendship in the interests not only of France and Italy but also of European collaboration . European collaboration can not be broken by a mere colonial conflict , it was asserted , or by the use of sanctions which have been specified or applied in far more serious previous controversies between members of the League . Turning its attention to military preparations in East Africa , the Cabinet emphasized that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee the Italian colonies from the threat of preponderant Ethiopian forces whose mobilization has already begun . " Italian defense of Libya is also being strengthened , owing to unrest already noted among political refugees who have left Cyrenaica and are now biding their time in neighboring countries . Ii Duce Defies All Threats . Mussolini pointed out in particular that Italy 's land , sea and air forces were sufficiently strong to reply to any threat , from whatever quarter . Finally the Cabinet was informed that munitions and military supplies in general were being turned out by Italian factories " with intensified but regular rhythm . " The purposes of today 's communique are obvious . In the first place , it warns the League that if it wishes to solve the Italo-Ethiopian controversy peacefully it must make its proposals very attractive , because Italy wants no compromises . Next it hints unmistakably that Italy will withdraw from the League if sanctions are applied . Next it emphasizes that Italy 's strength can not only take care of a war in East Africa , but can also deal with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tries to counterbalance the deep impression created in France by Sir Samuel Hoare 's speech by dwelling with considerable insistence on ItaloFrench friendship and Italy 's wish to continue to collaborate in Europe . This last point is particularly important , for it is obvious that Italy still looks to France to play an important part in helping her smooth out the European situation created by her East African venture . Determined efforts are being made to lure France away from Great Britain . Press Reilecte Concern . It is sufficient to look at Italian newspapers to find proof of this . The Messaggero this morning says : " From the expressions that emphasized the importance that the Rome agreements of January , this year , have for France , it seems that for the present the French Government and people have far more confidence in the splendid Italian motorized divisions , the magnificent Italian soldiers and Italy 's readiness for anything that may occur in Europe than in the vague promises and doctrinal affirmations of His Britannic Majesty 's Ministers . " The same wish to cling tenaciously to France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Mr. Laval personally . The French Premier was no less explicit than Sir Samuel Hoare in his statement that his government wished to remain faithful to the League covenant and in insisting on its applications . Yet Sir Samuel 's speech caused a storm of protest in Italy , while Mr. Laval 's was greeted as enhancing " the honor of France . " The British spokesman is accused of scheming underhandedly to obtain the endorsement of the League for a line of action that aims only at defending egotistical British interests . The French Premier , on the other hand , is applauded for " having expressed the convictions and sentiments of a gentleman and a friend . " The difference between the two in Italian eyes is that Sir Samuel represents a government that set its face with determination against Italian plans in East Africa , while Mr. Laval has not yet exhausted his usefulness to Italy . The Frenchman dealt Italy a severe blow by declaring himself in favor of sanctions , but the Italian people are willing to forgive him because they consider it is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied shall be purely nominal and no real hindrance to Italy in her warlike undertaking .                     