@@697430

txt In their study of juvenile delinquency in Colorado , just published by the State university , the three members of the department of psychiatry admit in their first sentence that they have opened up so many questions that the actual knowledge Dbtained in their survey seems very Little . To readers interested in the problems of preventing and correcting the misconduct of children , their results will appear important for information and far reaching in implication . They set out hopefully to gather facts which would enable them to make recommendations for community dealing with the problem of juvenile delinquency . Facts were not hard to find . Juvenile court records were available , and data regarding religion , race , age , school grades and physical condition could be found in the files and in the records of the detention home and the State school for delinquents . But the answer to the most important questions was not to he found here . They wanted to find out , if possible , why children became delinquent , in order to remove the cause . To do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a firsthand study of a hundred boys chosen at random from the State industrial school at Golden . These children ranged in age from 10 to 18 , all but two being over 12 . They had been committed for stealing , truancy , running away from home , general disobedience and sex delinquencies . Only nine of them had but one offense charged against them . Ten of them had had no school difficulties ; the rest had trouble with teachers and other pupils , did not get their lessons and failed to move along normally from one grade to the next . Surprisingly , there was no significant correlation between their physical condition and their delinquency .. The majority were normal ; only three were undernourished , and in general they were comparable in health to a non-delinquent group of boys studied at the same time . In intelligence there was greater variation from the normal . While more than half were of average mentality , there were eighteen cases of mental deficiency , and twenty-nine dull though not abnormal boys . The psychiatric examination revealed the sharpest differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is in this field that the investigators found the deepest causes of delinquency and the most puzzling problems for solution . These boys had all had a bad emotional start in life . Fifty-four of them came from broken homes . The parents or other members of the family had set examples of delinquency inthirty-six cases . Training regarding property rights and good social habits bad been given to very few of these boys and only nine of them came fron homes which could be called good Recreational facilities ' were eithe entirely lacking or were poor . Thi neighborhoods in which they ha ( been born and brought up were of the borderline between business am residential sections , in business dis tricts , in communities of foreigner ; or among people who habitually dis regarded the law . At the age of 6 when these boys started to school they were already potential delin quents . The investigators are con vinced that training for parents am for teachers of primary grade pupil : is necessary in order to catch am divert the tendency toward unsocia behavior . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  