@@700659

txt Relief workers in the Tidying national capital have Up the been assigned the task Monuments . of cleaning and sprucing up the Washington Monument . This ought to be sufficient proof that the New Deal is not out to subvert the Constitution . If its object were to destroy the work of the founding fathers , the Roosevelt Administration would presumably do its best to encourage the ravages of time on the memorials to WASHINGTON and LINCOLN . Similarly , in New York no less than 282 public monuments are to be repaired by relief employes . Time and the small boys have been eating away at the statuary , and in many cases public sympathy would normally be on the side of Time and the small boys . But work for idle hands is needed , and so we have the paradox of the alleged victims of our present social system engaged in repairing and laundering the monuments of that system . Mr. FARLEY disT he claims responsibility Preceding for his luxurious Administration . headquarters in the new Postoffice Building . His caveat extends to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and painters who collaborate on the full-page ads in color . " Do n't blame this on us , " said the Postmaster General to the newspaper men . " It came from the last administration . " At first sight this would be an analogous case to the fine new classic murals in the Agricultural Building , from which the present beads of the Agricultural Department have dissociated themselves by labeling them conspicuously with the names of the Hoover incumbents . But if some of Mr. FARLEr 's constituents should happen to express pleasure at the handsome style in which Uncle Sam houses his postal servants , would Mr. FARLEY hasten to explain that the Hoover Administration is responsible for the new Postoffice Building ? If some of Secretary WALLACE 'S admirers from Iowa were to ? compliment him on the elegant mural decorations , would he go to the trouble of pointing out that they . represent an antiquated art outlook ? And , in general , if anything from the Hoover era were to win public commendation , would there be a rush on the part of contemporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a letter to Not THE NEW YORK TIMES the Wholly other day said of a promiObsolete. neat public figure that he is " as old-fashioned and out of date as yesterday 's newspaper . " But just how out of date , as a matter of fact , is yesterday 's newspaper ? It is much to be regretted that people so often put yesterday 's newspaper in the same class with King RAMESES or a doornail . The fact is that a very large part of today 's newspaper will be alive tomorrow , the day after tomorrow and for a number of days to come ; and some part of today 's newspaper may live for weeks , months and even years . Obviously there is little interest today in yesterday 's news about the stock market quotations , the weather forecast , the vote in Congress , the baseball scores , the ships incoming and outgoing . Today 's news on all these subjects has rendered obsolete everything that came before ; though , for that matter , it is not bad fun to compare yesterday 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good deal Change in yesterday 's newspaper of Is less transitory matter . There Slow , were long pieces in it about national recovery , about unemployment , about relief , money , gold , silver , wages , production indexes , Republican prospects , public debt , school budgets , the Congressional elections , the economic revolution , beautification of Central Park , On these subjects yesterday 's news is in the main still valid . It is not likely that the lapse of twentyfour hours has brought startling changes . As to disarmament , war debts , the European balance of power and the preservation of world peace , the newspaper of yesterday five years ago , and yesterday ten years ago , will be found to read remarkably up to date . Finally , there is the conScanners siderable , portion of yes , of terday 's newspaper dethe Future . voted to predictions by scientists , scholars , business men , college presidents , novelists , social service workers and others concerning the status , one hundred years from now , of science , housing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , art , morals , aviation . It can not be that in the space of twenty-four hours these visions of the future should have lost all validity . Americans now realize that instead of lending money to England to carry on the war we ' should have invested it in the Irish Sweepstakes . Mayor LAGUARDIA is said to have read with a sigh the story that in some parts of China , people have paid up their taxes to the year ism .                     