@@700499

txt Warning that increasingly bitter competition among various types of carriers threatened chaos to the transportation system , Joseph B. Eastman recommended today that motor trucks and buses and water transportation be brought as soon as possible under " the guiding hand of Federal control . " The transportation coordinator 's recommendations were contained in the second of a series of reports to Congress and the President on what is wrong with the transportation industry and what should be done about it . In his first report , several weeks ago , Mr. Eastman declared government ownership and operation of the railroads was the only solution to the problem , but held that the time had not yet come for such a move . In his report today Mr. Eastman answered emphatically " yes " to the following two questions on which the report was based : " Is there need for Federal legislation to regulate other transportation agencies and to promote the proper coordination of all means of transport ? " Is there need for amendments to Federal statutes to improve details of the present system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first of these questions was answered in the report by two drafts of proposed legislation , each extending to highway carriers and water carriers the same degree of Federal regulation as is now imposed upon the railroads . In answer to the second , Mr. Eastman submitted to the President and Congress four companion bills amending existing provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act . The first of these bills , enabling the Interstate Commerce Commission to prescribe maximum as well as minimum joint rail-water rates and to establish through rail rates without regard to present restrictions of the act , Mr. Eastman urged be considered along with the motor and water-carrier bills , since , he held , all together were " of the most pressing importance . " " It has become evident , " said Mr. Eastman , " that the entire transportation Industry , including the other agencies as well as railroads , is in need of the guiding hand of Federal control if a threatened chaos is to be transformed into order , and this is the conclusion that has been reached quite generally in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object of such control is not the protection of the railroads only , but the proper protection of every form of transportation , " he went on . " They all have their parts to play , for each one of them can do certain things better than any other agency . " It 's too much to expect that all of the present facilities of transportation in each group can survive , for there are many which are now without economic justification , but , out of the present confusion and waste , a sound and well coordinated national system of transportation can be built . " Mr. Eastman held that , from the standpoint of organization and experience , the Interstate Commerce Commission was the most natural and appropriate agency in which the new regulatory authority should be vested . He dealt in his report with motor and water carriers , air transport and pipe lines . On the first three agencies his stand was definite ? Federal regulation had been proven necessary . As to pipe lines , he made no recommendations , deferring comment pending the outcome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transport regulation , Mr. Eastman held that its need " is sufficient to warrant definite recommendations in the form of a bill of proposed legislation at this time , " but deferred detailed comment in recognition of the effects which measures now pending in Congress may have upon the present problems of the Industry . Commission Backs Report In a letter transmitting the report to President Roosevelt , Vice President Garner and Speaker Rainey , William E. Lee , chairman of the commission , expressed its unanimous support of the findings of the coordinator , except in one particular . It was recommended by Mr. Eastman that the fourth section of the Interstate Commerce Act be restored to the form it had prior to 1920 . As it now stands , the section authorizes reductions in freight rates for competitive purposes at the discretion of the commission , provided the rate resulting from the reduction would remain a " compensatory " rate . The effect of Mr. Eastman 's recommendation on this point would be to remove the " compensatory " restriction and leave the commission free in. its discretion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ joined by Commissioner , the legislative representative of the commission , in opposing any amendment to the fourth section . Speaking for the full commission on its attitude regarding the report of Mr. Eastman , Chairman Lee wrote the President as follows : Dear flir . President : Pursuant to law , we have the honor to transmit herewith further recommendations and a report thereon from the Federal Coordinator of Transportation . The Coordinator 's present Teoommendatlons fall into three general classes : ( 1 ) a bill for the regulation of motor carriers ; ( 2 ) a bill for the regulation of water carriers , and ( 3 ) bills proposing miscellaneous additional amendments to the Interstate Commerce Act . In our judgment the enactment into law of the first two bills is imperatively necessary under present conditions , and the bill marked No. 1 in Appendix H should be considered in connection therewith for the reasons indicated in the Coordinator 's report . If , on account of pressure of time , the Congress should find it impossible or impracticable to undertake to enact into law all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be given to the first two . including the bill in Appendix H above mentioned . These we recommend unanimously . Through our Legislative Committee we have heretofore expressed our approval of H. R. 6836 , relating to the regulation of motor traffic , known as the Rayburn bill , and have submitted certain suggestions intended to improve it . The bill now submitted by the Coordinator differs slightly from the Rayburn bill . However , the changes suggested by the Coordinator are in line with our suggestions to Chairman Rayburn and we believe still further improve that bill . We are also unanimous in recommending the third class of legislation , with the exception that Chairman Lee and Commissioner do not concur in any amendment relating to the fourth section . While we are required to comment only on the recommendations of the Coordinator , we can not refrain from commending to your careful consideration his excellent discussion of the many situations associated with his recommendations . His analysis of the contemporary situation is illuminating . Respectfully submitted , V/M . E. LEE . Chairman . As to Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that any such scheme embrace these three major sub-jects : 1 . Administration of payments for carriage of the mail . 2 . Administration of any subsidies which Congress may authorize in the future . 3 . Control of entrance into the industry and of extensions of lines . Water Transport " Chaotic . " On the question of extending Federal regulation to water carriers , Mr. Eastman pointed out that neither the fact that competing railroads want it for their protection nor the fact that many water carriers desire it for similar reasons is a controlling factor . " The chief answer , " he said , " is that unregulated competition may be quite as much of a public evil as unregulated monopoly . This is a fact which it takes time to leant but which the country has learned well enough from sad experience. - The ends sought to be obtained by extending Federal regulation to motor buses and trucks and water ; carriers were enumerated by Ma , Eastman as follows : 1 . A minimum of outright duplir cation of facilities or services . 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an orderly , dependable way , rathes than one which is unstable , uncere tain and a breeder of discrlminels tion 3 . Responsibility in both the nate row and the broad sense . 4 . Financial stability and good credit . " There are some who think that the thing to do is to let down the bars and allow the competitors to fight it out to a finish , " the report said . " This would of course require practical abandonment of railroad regulations , leaving redress of grievances to the courts . " The eventual result might be a kind of coordinated system of transportation achieved through survival of the fittest , but the greater competitive strength of the railroads would be likely to distort the results . The fact is that this plan of free-for-all competition has never worked successfully , either here or elsewhere . It has been tried and found wanting . " Port Protection Sought . In addition to enabling the COM0 mission to fix minimum as well a maximum joint rail-water rates and through-rail rates without re- . Bard to existing fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mr. Eastman in his re , port would : 1 . Include ports and gateways in the protection of Section 3 of th Interstate Commerce Act againd undue preference and prejudice . 2 . Shorten the statutory periods ? of limitation with respect to rapers , . tion claims to one year In the case of overcharges and undercharges and to ninety days in the case of all other claims against carriers . The present statutory periods of limitation on these claims are three years , two years and one year , rer spectively . Another recommendation made by Mr. Eastman but not embodied in proposed legislation was that Congress repeal the Hoch-Smitik resolution , under which the corm mission has been engaged , since 1930 , in investigations of the gene eral freight rate structure with a view to establishing the lowest rear sonable rates on agricultural conm ? modities as may be consistent witti efficient operation . Due to interpretations placed upon the resolution by the Supreme Court , it has ceased to have any , legal effect , said Mr. Eastman , and ' since it serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ship Line Ban . Railroad proposals that Congress repeal laws prohibiting them from owning water lines and that the latest rule of rate making be see vised were rejected by Mr. Eastman as unwarranted .                     