@@697223

txt The House ordered wholesale arrests of its members at a session tonight in an effort to obtain a quorum and transact business . Among the first to be brought in by the sergeant-atarms ' round-up was Speaker Longworth . A handful of administration leaders had tied up the House for more than six hours in the first filibuster conducted there in eight years . They were trying to block a " farm relief " measure which , they declared , President Hoover did not want . Adjournment was not taken until 9:35 tonight , when the body found Itself facing the impossibility of going further . The sergeant-at-arms was sent out about 7 o'clock under a resolution presented by Representative Quin of Mississippi . Soon after 9 o'clock the sergeant-at-arms came walking in with the Speaker , who had gone home late in the afternoon , thinking adjournment was at hand . Representative Crowther of New York was brought in in his dinner coat . Mrs. Ruth Bryan - Owen , member from Florida , was another who came in after the sergeant-at-arms got busy . Mrs. Oldfield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only women who stayed in the chamber throughout the long session . Desertions Offset Arrivals . The sergeant-at-arms faced a difficult task , as hungry members deserted almost as fast as the wandering ones were rounded up .. The bill which caused the filibuster provides for the creation in the Department of Agriculture of an agricultural foreign service , with attach ? s at embassies and legations . This proposal , according to Representative Wood of Indiana , was opposed by President Hoover , the Department of Commerce , the Department of Agriculture and even the Farm Board . Mr. Wood declared from the beginning that it should not pass until every parliamentary method had been used against it , and he proceeded to throw everything at his command in its way . By early evening the House had put through practically all the tactics known to parliamentarians . The group had forced roll-call after rollcall . When ' time came to vote on the bill , however ) , they raised the point of no quorum , and by count a majority of members were not present . Round-Up Voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absentees be " arrested and brought in here , " introduced a resolution providing that members " absent without excuse " be taken in custody " and brought to the bar of the House . " The resolution was adopted 122 to 74 , and was signed by Representative Tilson of Connecticut , Acting Speaker . Representative Summers of Texas sought to save the women members . He proposed a unanimous request that they be excused from arrest . Representative Howard of Nebraska , once secretary to Wiliam Jennings 1 Bryan , father of Mrs. Owen , objected . The first attempt of the sergeantat-arrns failed to bring in a quorum . He went out a second time and a third . Finally , on his fourth round of the office building , the House restaurant and the homes of a number of the members he managed to bring in enough of them to make a count of 222 . The House was still in a turmoil , however . The public had heard of the stormy session and had braved a heavy rain to be present at the first filibuster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nook and corner around the Capitol to avoid a quorum for consideration of an anti-lynching bill . After the quorum was counted a demand for a roll-call on a preliminary motion to pass the bill tied up proceedings for another forty minutes . Then it developed that the opposition intended demanding an engrossed copy of the bill . Thiz would have required at least an hour more , so the House adjourned with the understanding that the bill will be brought up again on Friday . Supporters of the measure are confident it will be passed . The regulars indicated that they wanted most of all to stave off action until members could think over their opposition to the White House . The bill was introduced by Representative Ketchum of Michigan , former lecturer for the National Grange , and was declared to have the backing of " every recognized farm organization in America . " Stanch administration followers went in droves to the support of the measure . Representative Wood charged them with " cowardice , " but this did not stop them . He told them they were afraid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief " on it , and that instead of using courage to vote their own consciences , they were " passing the buck " to the President . The bill appeared to have little or no opposition when introduced . No one asked for time to oppose it . Only one member objected . Representative Collins of Mississippi wanted to know if the measure was not simply one for the " preation of a few more social jobs " to allow some " dapper young Americans- to sport around in foreign countries with spats and canes . " Mr. Wood strolled on to the floor as if he did not know what was up . He had just come from an Appropriations Committee meeting . When he found what bill was being considered , however , he jumped into the fight . The bill had been elated to pass about 4 o'clock .                     