@@701960

txt Farm equipment sales the first half of the current year substantially eclipsed the money-making level of 1935 . Business was livelier than at any time since 1930 , with some lines going into peak production . Although demand for certain types of machinery is dull , the first half was sufficiently good to permit manufacturers to experience a moderate letdown in the last half and still exceea the 1935 showing . Threat of drought in the Northwest remains , but the view for the second half is satisfactory . Barring setbacks , income from crops should be the highest since 1930 . Industries depending either directly or indirectly on rural income should get a good share of this betterment . Chief industrial beneficiaries besides farm equipment manufacturers are mail order houses , granger roads and motor companies . So far equipment manufacturers do not appear harassed by the used tractor situation . There has been some accumulation in the first half , but the industry entered 1936 with its second hand inventory practically exhausted . Last year when demand exceeded production farmers were buying used units rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for combine sales this year do not appear much more than fair . No heavy demand for the big machine is anticipated , except possibly in Kansas where the Winter wheat crop is double last year . The small combine is still in the introductory stage so far as the farmer is concerned , but a moderate number have been sold . The trend appears definitely toward the smaller machine , except in spots where farms are very large . In order to operate a big combine , a farmer must also have a big tractor . The belief is steadily growing that adequate power , and a more Justifiable capital expenditure , can be obtained by employment of the smaller units , The tractor continues to be the . big moneymaker for the industry with demand holding up excellently in medium sized and small machines . The big tractors still lack in normal demand . The industry now offers tractors for every size farm . Judging from results the first half of the current year . a good amount of capital is available for farm mechanization Call Trend Normal Experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tendency toward smaller machines . They say that while money was a factor , the change primarily was a natural one . Previously the industry aimed only at the top brackets of farmers . Now its potential field is practically every farmer in the country . Implement sales have been holding up well . As tractors supplant horse , implement volume expands as such equipment must be made to fit the tractor . Advent of the small machine has added to the activity in the plants making plows and similar equipment . No Drought in Evidence The current year gives evidence of evading some of the catastrophes which , in recent years . have taken toll of the wealth of the grain belt . Drought and dust storms do not appear to be in the immediate picture and chances of avoiding insect and rust plagues are regarded as fairly good . Higher production in most classes of vegetation is anticipated . Equally important is the fact the general price trend is not expected to suffer greatly as a result of increased production . Accumulated reserves have been pretty well absorbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident that producers of Winter wheat will receive at least 850,000,000 more for their crop than last year . This is particularly true of farmers of Kansas , who set something of a record in wheat production . Although the bulk of the increased income from Winter wheat will go to that state , the nation 's chief wheat producer , other states will not suffer compared with a year ago . Kansas Offers Good Sales Field Kansas this year should prove to be an exceptionally good sales field , The state has been hit for some time and need of replenishing stocks of all sort is urgent . Farm equipment makers should have good sales there in 1936 . Railroads which tap it most thoroughly  --  Atchison , Rock Island and Missouri Pacific  --  doubtless will be rewarded with heavy grain haulings . The Spring wheat crop , just beginning to penetrate the ground , is sown to a slightly larger acreage than last year 's ill-fated planting . The 1936 crop began the year unsatisfactorily , but recent and timely rains have improved it . At this early date @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in excess of 1935 and 100.000,000 to 150,000,000 bushels over that of two years ago . Like the Kansas Winter wheat growers , the four principal Spring wheat states  --  the Dakotas , Minnesota and Montana  --  have been hard hit in the past two years and undoubtedly have many needs to which they can apply any additional wheat money received this year . Rains Needed Later This region , of course , is subject to hazards which could play havoc with present prospects . At present moisture is sufficient , but it is not adequate to carry through very far into the future without additional rains . Little apprehension is entertained of another plague such as slashed wheat hopes late in last year 's season . The rust disease has never been known to hit a region two years in succession . The cool late Spring has aided the crop by preventing undue evaporation . Mild weather is desirable until a better moisture reserve has been built up . It is yet too early to comment specifically on the corn crop . A larger acreage than a year ago has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ start than in 1935 . Its condition is termed good to excellent . A normal season will assure a bushel as well as a monetary increase such as rye , oats , barley and soybeans , do not unfold optimistic hope , but are unlikely to yield returns under those of a year ago .                     