@@696992

txt According to present indications , the United States will be prepared at the London Naval Arms Conference to agree to reduce its fleet of battleships from eighteen to fifteen by 1936 , if an equivalent reduction will be made by Great Britain . The present British strength is six , teen battleships and four battle cruisers , ' whereas the United States has no battle cruisers . The gun power of the United States in the capital ships is slightly in excess of that ' of the British , but Great Britain has in the Rodney and Nelson two battleships of post-war construction which excel anything in the American fleet . Whether a reduction in battleships would be accomplished by scrapping is problematical , as the 1936 date would be the time for replacement programs to take effect under present plans for deferring until that time the replacement date of 1931 specified in the Washington treaty of 1922 . Delay in Capital Ship Parity . By deferring the replacement date to 1936 , parity with Great Britain in capital ships would be deferred five years , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegation obtains at London agreements which will mean equivalent parity with Great Britain in other categories . Not only would extensive battleship construction be required after 1936 if present plans are accepted at the London conference but a considerable building of destroyers would also be necessary after that date . The American destroyer fleet is very large because of wartime construction , but the Washington treaty defines the effective age of ships of this category as fifteen years , so all will be antiquated by 1936 and theoretically will have to be replaced . The need for a large fleet of destroyers would be increased , it is contended , should the London conference be unable to place any limitation on submarines , for the World War taught that many destroyers are needed for meeting a submarine menace . This consideration has led to some doubts among experts as to limiting destroyers at London should no great restriction be placed upon submarines . When replacement of battleships is begun it is practically certain that the new ships will not be of the size of present vessels of that type , inasmuch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently prepared to vote a limitation of less than the 35,000 tons now established under the Washington treaty . The American viewpoint inclines to a limitation in size of around 30,000 tons , whereas Great Britain is believed ? to favor 25,000 tons . The United States , it is understood , will - esist the latter figure as too low and ne which would impair the effeciveness of the battleship , which In he American view is the core of the leet and should be retained on an efficient basis . By a reduction in the size of battleships after 1936 the preponderance of Great Britain through the Rodney and Nelson would be increased . This caused concern among naval officers here , but not to the point of their injecting objections which would imperil the main object of attaining equivalent combatant parity with Great Britain in naval units as a whole . Want to Keep Battleships . Any suggestions that battleships be abolished will be resisted at London . not only by the United States but by Japan , which considers the time has not arrived for such a move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fits in with practical considerations involved in keeping shipyards in a condition to build them should a war emergency require sudden and extensive construction . Many of the powers represented at the London conference will have this element much in mind , even though it remains in the background . The construction of many destroyers after 1936 will also fit into this question . The further naval holiday in building battleships , which would result from deferring the replacement date to 1936 , would make possible the closing of half the navy yards of the continental United States , and naval officials would feel justified in recommending to Congress that at least four be closed . This would not mean that the yards would be dismantled or sold . They would merely be laid up , with reduced personnel , while the machinery would be packed in grease and boxed against deterioration . It is recognized at the same time that Congress has always resisted the closing of navy yards and that such a recommendation might not be adopted . Five navy yards are capable of constructing capital ships . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francisco and Puget Sound . With no increase in the contemplated cruiser construction program . officials believe the navy could get along with two such yards on the Pacific and two on the Atlantic Coast . Other navy yards in the continental United States are at Portsmouth , N. H. , Boston and Charleston , S. C. It is because of this construction problem that the Japanese will oppose at London any proposal to prolong the holiday in capital ships to ten years , whereas it will welcome a postponement for five years . The Tokio Government would oppose a ten-year period because it feels it would be difficult to keep open Japanese shipyards capable of building a capital ship , and the workmen competent to construct a battleship might be lost to other industries . This , it is believed , would undermine the maritime strength of the nation . The same considerations apply with slightly less force to Great Britain , particularly since one of the great problems of the Government is unemployment . In the United States the situation is somewhat different . Here it formerly was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . More recently construction has been apportioned between private yards and government navy yards , and in the case of the fifteen-cruiser program Congress specified that alternate ships should be built in private yards . In recent years there has been an influx of merchant ship building in American private yards , so the loss of construction units by navy yards would not be as significant now as when private yards had few merchant craft to turn to with their highly trained organizations .                     