@@697838

txt The League of Nations today had one of its greatest days from immediate and long range political , juridical and economic viewpoints . In the Council this morning the most interested parties agreed , as was expected , to ask the World Court 's advisory opinion on the most dangerous part of the most immediately dangerous conflict in Europe ? whether the proposed Austro-German customs union is compatible with post-war treaties . They went still further when Austria and Germany , after what seemed a last-hour attempt to avoid clean-cut decisions , gave in completely and unmistakably on the point most essential just now , not only for Prance but even more for Foreign Minister Briand of France and Foreign Secretary Henderson of Great Britain in their policy of assuring the League and World Court position as the supreme arbiter in the gravest disputes . Austria and Germany agreed to halt their negotiations until the World Court has advised the Council and , what is considerably more , until the Council has decided what action to take on the court 's advice . League and World Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these institutions in the most severe test they have had . European Union Proposals . With the greatest capitalist powers content on moving toward a peaceful settlement of their bitterest dispute , the great European powers , including the Communist Soviet Union and other non-members of the League , entered discussion of the economic ills of Europe in the League 's European Union Commission this afternoon with two proposals . One was general , for a protocol for economic non-aggression among nations , capitalist or communist . The other was specifically aimed to prevent dumping by an agreement for the compulsory sale of goods on the national market at prices not exceeding those demanded abroad . More important than the proposals themselves , which obviously were made with an eye to Russia 's needs , was the manner in which they were made  --  and in which they were received , for this made many regard it as a genuine move toward the Soviet modus vivendi with capitalist countries . It was not the Litvinoff one was used to hearing here in the Preparatory Disarmament Commission who spoke today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and by foregoing the opportunity to exploit capitalist ills for the glory of communism . The respectful attention he commanded this afternoon was equally impressive for those who have seen the usual attitude toward Russian proposals in the Disarmament Commission . For the first time in the Russo-European discussion here there was today an atmosphere on both sides , in mood at least , to talk business in a practical way . Though the Council , because of the length of the discussion , which will continue tomorrow , technically has not reached a decision to ask the World Court 's advice on the AustroGerman issue , the fact that Austria , France , Italy and Germany all formally accepted Mr. Henderson 's proposal to this effect made such a decision a foregone conclusion . None of the Foreign Ministers who spoke so much as questioned indirectly the supremacy of the Council or the advisability of asking the Court 's advice . Vice Chancellor Schober of Austria and Foreign Minister Curtius of Germany gave their reasons for believe ing their project was permitted by existing treaties , and M. Briand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their reasons to the contrary . But the former did not say what one hears in Berlin , that " even if the Court declares the project illegal we will go ahead , " and the latter did not breathe what is shouted In Paris , that in no event will France allow this union . Scme believe a bigger thing was the acceptance by the nations today of the practical application to themse:ves of the basic principle of law among individuals  --  that litigants must maintain the status quo while a dispute is before the courts . The customs union issue came with drama rare in Council meetings before a crowd which packed the meeting hall . Mr. Henderson , after formally submitting a resolution asking that the World Court give as an urgent matter an advisory opinion , added : " I hope our Austrian colleague will agree that until the Council has taken a decision on the advisory opinion of the court no further progress should be made toward the establishment of the proposed regime . " Dr. Schober , also speaking in English , began a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I agree with Mr. Henderson 's proposal , " but ending with " I repeat now , I accept unreservedly Mr. Henderson 's proposal , especially in the sense that nothing be done to induce a fait accompli until the Council has taken a decision on the advisory opinion of the court . " Like many others , Mr. Henderson saw what he called a possible " discrepancy , " between the two sentences , allowing doubt as to whether Austria really agreed to halt the negotiations themselves . Immediately he asked Dr. Schober if Austria agreed to the passage of his speech quoted above . Pinned down , Dr. Schober flushed slightly , but wiped out all possibility of misunderstanding by saying : " During my speech I twice had occasion to declare I unreservedly accepted Mr. Henderson 's suggestions . I can therefore certainly give him the assurance which he requires in regard to the period before the Council shall have taken its decision . " Thus passed a tense moment of the day , though the Austrians and Germans are still annoyed by the way Mr. Henderson crossed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the point which Berlin has tried to leave ambiguous . Text of Henderson Proposal . Mr. Henderson 's proposal reads : The Council of the League of Nations has the honor to request the Permanent Court of International Justice to give its advisory opinion in accordance with Article XIV of the covenant on the following question : Would a regime established between Germany and Austria on the basis and within the limits of the principles laid down by the protocol of March 19 , 1931 , the text of which is annexed to the present request , be compatible with Article CXXXVIII of the Treaty of St. Germain and with Protocol 1 signed at Geneva on Oct. 4 , 1922 . The Council requests the Permanent Court to be so good as to treat the present request for its advisory opinion as a matter of urgency . The Secretary General is authorized to submit the present request to the Court and to give any assistance required in the examination of the question and , if necessary , to take steps to be represented before the Court . That both sides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown in the Council today , but by nothing , more than the fact that both sides brought out , unwillingly , that 100 years ago they were each arguing the other 's case . The Allies , after the Napoleonic wars , sought to prevent vanquished France from absorbing Belgium by stipulating in a treaty that Belgium must remain neutral . France , in 1840 , sought a customs union with Belgium , causing artl ' . outcry from Prussia . Both sides .. today recalled this historical parallel . It was understood tonight that M. Briand had arranged to have a conversation tomorrow with Dr. Curtius and on Wednesday with Signor Grandi and M. Litvinoff separately .                     