@@699390

txt Nearly a million members of the Communist party may be deprived of their membership rights in the coming months , when Joseph Stalin follows the example set by Lenin and purges the organization of undesirable elements . The party itself has a little more than 3,000,000 members , but with its junior affiliated organizations it totals 10 per cent of the population and is the cement and centripetal force holding the disparate masses Of the Soviet Union together in rigid discipline and obedience . Yet in the Communist party , as everywhere in this country today , there is a minus to set against the plus . The party has grown too fast , and many of its members , though loyal , are undisciplined . Many , though loyal and disciplined , are ignorant and unfit for the leadership to which Lenin destined them . Some are not even loyal and have broken discipline . Expulsions in Ukraine . Only today the newspaper Pravda reports the expulsion and arrest of nine Communists , Ukrainian district leaderes , who had made common cause with the kulak enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Siberia . In 1921 , when Lenin purged the party , more than half of the members were expelled . Careerists , shirkers , wolves in sheep 's clothing , the blind leading the blind , he called them , and Stalin will follow his hard example . It is probable that most of the Communists affected this time will not be utterly expelled but will be placed on probation . The Council of People 's Commissars has just announced that capital investment for the coming year will be on a far less extravagant scale than was at first intended for the beginning of the second Five-Year Plan  --  that is , such expenditures for 1933 will be about equal to those of the year now ending , but they will be applied more judiciously to purposes of the greatest importance . The year 1933 will witness a more modest effort , with the aim of finishing and consolidating present enterprises , but this tardy modification will not lessen the price to be paid or quickly lighten the burden . However , State expenditures for F'social and cultural " purposes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9,800,000,000 to 12,000,000,000 rubles . In building the colossal new edifice tailed socialization , the Soviet Union has in its favor a predetermined plan , a highly centralized administrative and economic organization and a degree of unity possessed ply no other nation . Newness a Drawback . Against those advantages are the inexperience of leaders and followers alike and the innumerable difficulties that even a trained personnel would find in blazing a social and industrial trail through a vast , backward country . By a plan the writer does not mean only the State Planning Department , although that merits special attention . The Gosplan , as it is called , is headed by a member of the Communist Political Bureau , V. V. Kuibysheff , with his able coadjutors , Valerie I. Mezhlauk , who is well known in America , and M. Smilga , former Trotskyist but one of the old Bolsheviki who surrounded Lenin . The Gosplan has now become a nationwide organization , with branches in the provincial capitals and its own training institute , or university , in Moscow , attended by graduate students from all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet sense , /implies far more  --  that is , nothing less than a clearly defined program fox the All - Union Communist party , which completely controls all government and economic organs , labor Unions and village Soviets . But there is an element of weakness in the State planning system itself ? when a mistake is made or when extraneous and unforeseen circum/stances upset the program , the ef- fects are universal , and there is no margin or leeway , as in individual capitalism , where shrewd men can avoid /the errors of the majority . From this intrinsic defect the Soviet Union is now suffering and is paying a heavy price for overeagerness and overgrowth in a period of world depression . Competent Men Work Hard . The inertia of inexperience is , perhaps , the greatest single obstacle in the Soviet Union 's path . The relatively few competent men the country possesses are literally being worked to death , and , at that , their efforts are hampered by hosts of inefficient persons and by bureaucracy , which seems to be another intrinsic weakness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and education can cure inexperience , and the last two factors the Russian people are getting as lavishly as possible . From the universal compulsory schooling of children , which now reaches 17,000,000 under the age of 14 , up . to factory schools , university extension courses and night schools , the whole nation is learning with incredible avidity . In the Bashkir Republic , where 70 per cent of the populace were backward Tartars , the literacy rate now surpasses 90 per cent , and other national units show results little less striking .                     