@@703186

txt Physfcians administered heart stimulants to Gen. John J. Pershing early today and reported a short time later his blood pressure was slightly better . An unsuccessful attempt was made to get him to drink some water . Intravenous feeding had been abandoned . There was no change in his condition , said Dr. Roland Davison , at 2:45 a. m . Chicago time . ( Picture on back paac . ) Tucson , Ariz. , Feb. 24. ? lSpecial ? ? Gen. John J. Pershing lapsed into a coma tonight , his attending physicians announced . Members of his family came tear . fully from his bedside and indicated that the end was near . A bulletin issued at 11:45 p. m. , cage time , said that his heart wEas very irregular and that his blood pressure was rapidly approaching a critically low level . " The general 's coma continues , " the bulletin said . " Although he was semi ? conscious for a short time , he is fail ? ing rapidly . " Doctor Fears End Is Near . Elaborating on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt it he can last very long . " An earlier bulletin , issued at 10:15 p. in. by Dr. Davison and Dr. Verne Mason , disclosed that the world vial commander , who is 77 years old , had grown progressively worse in the pre ? ceding three hours . Dr. Mason , summoned from Los Angeles for consultation , arrived here at 9 o'clock and went imme. diately to the general 's bedside . where he joined Dr. Davison and Lieut . Col. S. U. Marrietta , army heart specialist . Doctor Rushes to Room . After handing the first bulletin to reporters , Dr. Davison said : " 1 have no time to stop and talk with you . " Then he ran back into Gen. Pershing 's room . disc May Pershing , an only sister , and Gen. Pershing 's son , Warren , passed in and out of the room , then paced the hospital corridor . Sena . C. C. Shaeffer , who has been general 's orderly for the last ten years , emerged from the sick room with tears in his eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family , includ ? ing Frank Pershing , a nephew , of Palm Springs , Cal. , had been called to the bedside . Miss Pershing and Warren , who arrived this morning from Palm Beach . Fla. , were called about 30 minutes before physicians disclosed that the general was sink . ing . Tonight 's bulletins were the most alarming of a series issued during the day after Gen. Pershing had suffered a relapse . Heart Found Weaker . This afternoon Dr. Davison and Lieut . Col. Marrietta announced that the general 's condition was not as good as it had been during the morn ? ing . His heart , they explained , was somewhat weaker . At that time , however , Dr. Davison denied reports that Gen. Pershing was dying , and said that he was in no immediate danger . ? The physicians ' morning statement said that the patient was definitly weaker , Hospital sources said that the gen eral was having trouble swallowing and complained at times of double vision , dangerous symptoms of high blood pressure , with which it was known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been given infra . venous nourishment . Dr. Davison would neither confirm nor deny these reports . Greets Son Warmly . Gen. Pershing , who has been it ' since he suffered a heart attack Feb. 5 , warmly greeted Warren , when the letter visited the sick room this morn . ing . The bulletin describing his heart as weaker came three hours after this meeting , but Dr. Davison said that the reaction at seeing his son had caused no change in the commander 's condition . Friends and relatives , on the other hand , said that the son 's visit had cheered the general and was the best medicine he has had .                     