@@704259

txt The use of the ports and territorial waters of the United States by submarines of the belligerent powers was forbidden by President Roosevelt in a proclamation today . It was issued under provisions of the Neutrality Act designed to " maintain the peace " and " promote the security of the United States . " The action was taken after reports had been received on numerous occasions of submarines of unidentified nationality off American coasts . Similar steps are expected to be taken by eighteen of the Latin-American governments , as the plan was discussed informally at the recent Panama conference on American neutrality and won widespread approval . It is believed that only two Latin-American governments may fail to follow the lead of the United States . These are Argentina and Uruguay , who are understood to feel that submarines should be treated as other war vessels under international law and not placed in a special category . 300-Mile Belt Ignored The proclamation issued by President Roosevelt did not take in the safety belt of 300 miles around the Western Hemisphere that was endorsed at Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters . That is deemed sufficient to serve the purpose of keeping submarines away from American shores , inasmuch as they will find it more difficult to operate on this side of the Atlantic if the chances of their refueling are reduced . With ports and territorial waters barred to them , they will be more than ever dependent on mother ships for replenishing their fuel supplies . The Panama Canal Zone was excepted by the President and no official explanation was given for that action . Last month , however , President Roosevelt issued an executive order placing Major Gen. David L. Stone in supreme command of the Canal Zone and giving him " exclusive authority and jurisdiction over the operation of the canal . " Under this authority General Stone would be enabled to prescribe any regulations as to movements of submarines or other vessels which he might deem necessary to the safety and proper operation of the canal , subject to obligations contained in treaties with other countries . Only One Exception Submarines will be permitted to enter ports and territorial waters of the United States by force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and flying their flats . Any now departing from our territorial waters must also follow this procedure . Under international law force majeure means conditions of distress , but not attack by an enemy force , so that vessels fleeing a superior force would not have right of entry . The authority contained in the existing neutrality statute permits the President to impose restrictions on submarines and armed merchant vessels of belligerents in United States ports and waters . No restriction was placed on the operations of armed merchant vessels . The only such restriction placed on either submarine or armed merchant vessels during the World War was that they leave within twentyfour hours . During the period of our neutrality in the World War the German merchant submarine Deutschland made sensational Atlantic crossings to Baltimore and New London . Neutrality legislation did not then exist . Penalties Provided in Act WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 President Roosevelt did not state in his proclamation today what would be done with belligerent submarines entering American ports or waters in violation of the proclamation , but experts said they could be interned . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offenders . Any trespassing commander could be tried under the Neutrality Act and , if convicted , could be sentenced to five years in prison and a fine of $10,000 . The proclamation enjoined all American enforcement officials to use " the utmost dilligence " in preventing violations of the Neutrality Act . Contravenes Old Rules WASHINGTON , Oct. 18 ( UP ) ? President Roosevelt , in barring belligerent submarines from American waters , set up in effect a new standard of international law . ilia proclamation contravenes sections of the Manual of International Law on which the United States Navy in the past has dealt with belligerent ships while this country was neutral . It is also a departure from Article X of the Convention on Maritime Neutrality signed at Havana in 1928 and subsequently ratified by the Senate . That article provides that belligerent ships may supply themselves with fuel and stores in neutral ports under conditions especially established by the local authority . The manual used by the navy recognizes the same tenet . The proclamation named the belligerents as France , Germany , the United Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Union of South Africa and Poland  --  the latter because the United States has not recognized the Russo-German conquest and division of the Polish Republic .                     