@@699579

txt Terror stalked a wide area tonight when the earth shuddered in Los Angeles and Orange Counties . Tall buildings tottered , with blinking lights recording their progress in space , while throngs below looked on breathlessly . Solid walls bellied and fell with a rumble . Leaping fires illuminated stretches of desot lation . Through streets crowded with men . women and children seeking refuge from falling debris , ambulances pushed their way in Glendale to reach several persons struck down in the collapse of walls from the old Chamber of Commerce building there . Automobiles , jarred from their places beside the curb , also blocked the streets . Lights went out with the first 11 tremor in the poorer residential district of Glendale and in other communities . Crashing window panes warned of disaster as darkness heightened the fears of those within buildings . They rushed to the streets . swelling the home-going crowds , and thoroughfares became crowded with jostling , . panic-stricken knots seeking the open amidst the utmost confusion . Wall Cracks Warn Occupants . Buildings showed the severity of the shocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ darted like shadows up'and down the walls of nearly every room in the Los Angeles City Hall and , the structure shook off plaster as a dog shakes off water . Bricks and copings fell into piles from the Hall of Records on North Broadway , just across Temple Street from the white granite Hall of Justice and the Los Angeles County Jail housed within it . Prisoners in the three top floors of the huge building , feeling it ride the temblors and seeing the debris flung to the street from the sister structure across the way , howled for release and shook at their cell bars in an effort to gain the safety of freedom . Announcement later by jailers that the Justice Building had suffered no apparent damage helped ' to quiet the panic . Gas and Oil Fuel for Fires . Other menaces followed in the wake of the shocks . A leak ' was found to have been sprung in a large domestic gas tank of the Los Angeles Gas and Bleotric Corporation at Seventh and Almeda . Streets . All persons remaining in the vicinity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the area to prevent an explosion . Broken gas lines gave fuel to flames in three Vernon high schools and in other buildings in various parts of the city . ' Fire apparatus , ' speeding to blazes with sirens screaming , added to the confusion in the streets . From sections thirty miles away , fires that reddened the overhead skies like furnaces could be seen . leaping out of the earth in the Sig-nal Hill oil section near Long Beach . A short-wave radio appeal sent out from Long- Beach and picked up here asked all American Legion. : nacres- to help the harassed citizens and aid in fighting the fire spread- - ing over , the seaside city . Many Leap From Buildings . Ambulances returning to hospitals-laden with all the injured they , could carry found patients who had been admitted prior to the shocks : clamoring for help/- to reach the - . street , others hobbling out the doors and some on fire-escape chutes . From buildings in Long Beach , Compton and other communities , men and women leaped as the walls gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured . Front among the less terror-stricken , the police recruited auxiliaries to search piles of brick and stone for casualties . But the casualties were not Haiited to broken bones or wounds caused by debris . A 37year-old child , playing on the floor of the kitchen of her home in San Pedro . was seriously burned by boiling water - shaken from the stove , at about the same time as U. W. Murray , a navy fireman , was struck in the street by a cornice toppling off the Anderson Building there . Practically all large Los Angeles buildings lost their plate-glass windows or some ' parts of the superstructure or movable ,  - -  fragile contents in their stores . The . crash of bottles in drugstores sent rushhour customers scurrying to the street , where plate glass was crashing on the pavement . Dishes in restaurants , as well as in homes , dashed into pieces upon the floor . Wild Scenes in the Streets . Contrasting scenes were enacted in the streets of the more afflicted . areas . Through milling crowds that sought only safety and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policemen , sailors , doctors , nurse 's and volunteers sought the injured . amid desolation . Men and women , searching for relatives parted from them by the disaster or the attendant confusion , buttonholed passers-by or searched deserted buildings . Some remained on guard against the chance of looting . Like all-powerful signals , the shocks stopped transportation in the area around Pasadena . Trains halted with the jerk of hastily clamped air brakes when the ... ngineers saw the ground shiver underrail , threatening derailment if the steel ribbons gave way to the roadbed 's shudder . Passengers , their fears of collision aroused , were ordered from the cars to the open outside , where they . . balanced against the temblors railroad men ran " iihead. - to check up on the rails . Some.could see fire creeping upon a near-by town while they waited anxiously for news of the track which might save them from exile where they were until wrecking crews cleared the way . Wire Operators Stick to Posts . Telephone and telegraph operators in points spared from disruption of their communications broke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sticking at their posts , they told of rocking in their seats , of fears that their buildings were about to tumble over their heads , of menacing fires and later of the havoc and destruction that had been wrought . A sudden stillness in the lines from Long Beach , announced with appalling effect that the wires were down . But soon staccato squeaks from a short-wave radio station there penetrated the breach and . stirred relief agencies to action with a description of the toll reaped by the seismic disturbance . Lines that were'left open hummed . with the news . One call that ? came through was from the Compton police , who , although their station house had collapsed about them , asked for aid for stricken villagers . Offsetting scenes of despair ' were many of gallantry as the lessstricken responded to the appeals of the less fortunate . CENTRES ON LONG RIDGE . Father Lynch at Fordham Places Quake on San Andreas Fault . Two major seismic disturbances , the second of which was more violent than the first , were recorded within a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Rev. J. J. Lynch , director of the observatory , , said that the first shock was recorded at 1 minute 13 seconds past 9 o'clock and the second at 6 min .. utes 47 seconds past the hour . That the second disturbance exceeded in violence the first , Father Lynch said , was unusual in the fact that in nearly all earthquakes the first of a succession of tremors car ' ries the major force of the shock . Father Lynch said the record of the shocks indicated that their cell= ' tres were not at any one given point but stretched out along an ex ' tended ridge . Describing the earthquake ' as indicated by the seismograph , Father Lynch said : ' It seemed to be not a sudden shock but a gradual tearing of the earth crust . The rift would seem to have become- as the disturbance continued . " It " It was as if you would take ' . a handkerchief in your hands and attempt to tear it in two . - At first there would be resistance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and after that the tearing would be easy and violent . " The California shock , the seismograph indicated , began rather mildly and as it . went on became : - quite violent . " The Fprdham - seismograph corded.the distance as being , about . 2,460 miles southwest of New in the area known to scientists as ' the San Andreas geological fault extending ' along the coast range - mountains from about 200 ' miles north of San Francisco to the quit of Lower California . It follows the coast line 100 milessouth of San Francisco , , where ' it . swerves inland about twenty miles . ' and gradually extends further east= ' ; ' . ward , traversing " Lcis ' Angeles ; : ' / Riverside and San Diego Coutities.i. - It was along this fault ? that the.:r divastrous San Francisco : earth . quake occurred on April 18 , 1906 .. -                     