@@698813

txt A young woman about 25 years old , clad only in pajamas , leaped to her death from a 25th floor room of the Stevens hotel last night . Before Jumping she slashed her wrists with razor blades . She landed on a balcony twenty floors clown . Four hours before she had registered as Miss E. Goddard of 2008 Sherman avenue , Evanston . At that address is the Austin Scholars ' fraternity , housing a select group of Northwestern university students . No woman or man of that name is knave there . The mystery which shrouded her Identity did not , apparently , extend to the motive for her act . Among the young suicide 's effects was found ' a copy of Oscar Wilde 's " The Ballad of Reading Gaol . " One verse starting out with the ' line , " Yet each man kills the thing he loves , " was bracketed with pencil marks , From this police ' deduced the young woman had suffered disappointment in a love affair . Find Body on Fire Escape . " Miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night . She carried an overnight bag . At 10:30. a loud ' crash was heard on the fifth floor roof of the " Michigan avenue court . Several guests noted the thump and one of them ? notified hotel officials . A .. Clark and Dr. James Curry , house physician , found the body on a fire escape . ? No one had witnessed the woman 's leap ; and it was necessary for ? Policemen Louis ; faster and Benjamin Benson of the South State street station to make a systematic search for the room . In room 2510-A , ' they found a window open and the floor-stained with blood . This was directly over where she had landed . , Clothing of Costly Texture . Clothing , a Bible , poeni , and The a sheet of music ' were found : clothing was , of excellent texture , an her purse was . ' found MM . The clothing had been stripped of all marks of identification . The verse in " The Ballad of Reading ? Gaol " which the woman had bracketed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act , reads : Yet each man kills the thing he loves , By , each let this be heard ; Some do it with a bitter look , Sonia with a flattering word . A coward does it with a kiss , A brave man with a sword : Some kill their love when they , are young And some when they are old ; Some strangle with the hands of Lust , Some with the hands of Gold ; The kindest use a knife because The dead so soon grow cold . . Police took the body to the Central undertaking rooms , 425 Plymouth court , where an inquest will be held at 1:30 o'clock this afternoon . It is hoped by then to identify the woman .                     