@@697515

txt REPARATION PAYMENTS . German exports will maintain to the end of the year a showing which would be impressive at all times and is nothing short of remarkable ' in a year of trade depression . For November , a month normally down from the high peak of the outward movement of goods , the ' excess of merchandise exports over Imports is almost exactly 200 million ' marks . The current month will see the balance swing the other way , but it is now estimated that for 1930 as a whole the export surplus will stana at about 1,150 million marks . The largest previous surplus , according to a special dispatch in THE TIMES of yesterday , was in 1926 , when the figures were just short of 800 million marks . The comparison is all the more striking if the sharp decline in prices is considered . In actual volume it was anticipated some weeks ago that German exports in this distressful year 1930 would be down by only 3 per cent from the boom year 1929 . To the emergence of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noted by PHILIP SNOWDEN in the House of Commons some time ago that Germany is now leading Great Britain in volume of ex- , ports , must be attributed a marked subsidence of the discussion of a moratorium on German reparation payments , and of the impossible nature of the Young Plan as a whole . The climax and the quietus came a few days ago in the form of that amusing but extremely effective indiscretion in the German Ministry of Finance , as a result of which the Bruening Government is on record in the German press as convinced of the entire feasibility of the Young Plan payments . It should be immediately noted , however , that Chancellor BRUENING and his Minister of Finance , Herr DIETRICH , had never raised the poverty plea against the reparation payments . They have , of course , made the inevitable protest against the burden and the injustice of the entire reparation settlement , but as a practical matter they have done their best to discourage talk of moratoria , and Herr DIETRICH has stated in the Reichstag that Germany , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if she is given a chance . The present German Government has abstained from joining in the calamity cry raised by unofficial spokesmen . A German'export surplus of 11150 million marks for the calendar gear is to be matched against reparation payments for the same period of about 1,600 million marks . This sum is obtained by prorating for ? the twelve months the schedules from the Young Plan . The apparent deficit is more than made up by payments in kind which the Young Plan ' fixes at 750 million marks for the first year . Including payments in kind , the trade balance , after the Young , Plan obligations have . been met , remains favorable to Germany by about 300 million marks in merchandise . This would be increased perceptibly by " invisible exports " ? shipping profits , interest on foreign investments and the growing tourist trade in Germany .                     