@@702662

txt The Spanish Situation LONDON  --  Foreign Secretary Eden obtained the virtual agreement of the German , Italian and French Ambassadors on measures to safeguard warships patrolling Spanish waters . Page 1 . THE FRONT  --  The Loyalists in a surprise attack in the Guadalajara sector , northeast of Madrid , took 107 prisoners and quantities of war materials . Insurgent planes made unexplained raids on three towns in Rebel-held territory . Planes and guns pounded Bilbao 's forts . Page 12 . BILBAO  --  The Basque Government disclosed a letter presented personally at the Vatican by a delegation of Basque clergy , protesting against bombings of churches and civilians by Insurgent planes . Page 12 . Accord on Patrol Plan By FREDERICK T. BIRCHALL Wireless to Tem NHW Toss TIMES . LONDON , June ** separate conversations with the French , German and . Italian Ambassadors today Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden reached a virtual agreement regarding the measures to be adopted for protection of warships patrolling Spanish coast and the guarantees for their safety to be required From the warring factions there . Tomorrow Mr. Eden will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft proposals which will then be submitted to the Valencia and Salamanca authorities in Spain through British diplomatic channels . They are expected to accept the proposals in principle , although there is some possibility that certain reservations may accompany the assurances required from Valencig , . Amendments Not Considered Suggested amendments of the naval control scheme do not come into the present discussion . The Non-Intervention Committee will take these up in due course , and no difficulty is expected in dealing with them . The British Government , for example , will raise no objection to the suggestion that neutral observers accompany patroling fleets . The Russian attempt yesterday to upset the general harmony of the four-power talks is not taken Seriously anywhere . It is looked upon officially as " an isolated expression of opinion which will not retard the present settlement . " The Russian arguments have been gently brushed aside . It has not escaped notice here as somewhat unusual that the note sent by-the Russian Ambassador in London to a committee sitting in that same capital should have been given out at Moscow . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maxim Litvinoff has seen in this the possibility of diverting home attention from nearer and more serious consequences . Chairman Answers Russia Ambassador Ivan M. Maisky 's contentions have , meantime , been answered by Euan . Wallace as acting chairman of the Non-Intervention Committee . In his note Mr. Wallace says : " I have the honor to point out that the present discussions between the four powers responsible for the naval observation scheme were undertaken as a result of what was understood to be the unanimous view of members of the chairman 's subcommittee at its meeting May 31 . " Your Excellency will observe from the minutes of that meeting that on three occasions I stated to the chairman my view that the best immediate procedure would be for the four powers to agree among themselves as to the guarantees which they would- consider desirable for continued operation of the scheme . There were no dissentient views to this opinion , and I understood that to be the agreed view of the committee . " At the same time I am able to assure Your Excellency that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fully informed by His Majesty 's government , are strictly confined to ascertaining what essential guarantees the four powers consider necessary for continuation of the duty which has been entrusted to them by the committee and which they have been and are undertaking at their own responsibility and at their own expense ; and that there is no ques , ion of any amendment or modification of the nature or scope of the scheme itself being discussed outside the committee . " It is the view of His Majesty 's government , and I share this view as chairman of the committee , that the present discussions are the most hopeful method of securing the return of the German and Italian representatives to full cooperation , without which I think Your Excellency will agree the committee 's work can not fruitfully be pursued at present . " As soon as that cooperation is renewed , the committee will be in a position to examine various suggestions which have been put forward for improving or modifying the naval observation scheme . " In the circumstances I am sure Your Excellency will realize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infringement on the right of other members of the committee or an attempt to withdraw from the committee consideration of matters with which it is primarily concerned . " There is now every reason to expect naval control will soon be working as before with both Germany and Italy back In the Non , Intervention Committee .                     