@@700532

txt While a resolution was being introduced in the House today to compel Dr. William A. Wirt , head of the Gary ( Ind. ) school system , to " tell all " about what he has termed the revolutionary activities of President Roosevelt 's " Brain Trust , " Speaker Rainey characterized as a traitor the person alleged to have told Dr. Wirt that Mr. Roosevelt was the Kerensky of America , and demanded a Department of Justice investigation . Dr. Wirt 's charge was contained in a statement read before the House Interstate Commerce Committee last week by James H. Rand Jr. , chairman of the Committee for the Nation . " If the charges are true and the revolution is in progress , " said Speaker Rainey , " the men who are responsible for it are guilty of treason under the Constitution of the United States . The matter should be investigated by the Department of Justice . If the statements he alleges were made , were made as a joke , the men who made them ought to be severed from their connection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , and if they are plotting to overthrow the government , the Department of Justice will know how to act . " Chortle Over the Possibilities . While Speaker Rainey was apparently not overenthusiastic about the possibility of Congressional investigation , many House members chortled today over the possibility of " putting the Brain Trust on the spot . " Certain officials , racking their memories , said that Dr. Wirt , who was in Washington for some time last Summer , had " been taken in " by jokes at his expense , and had " swallowed whole " considerable facetious talk about revolution . The resolution to investigate Dr. Wirt 's statement was introduced by Representative Bulwinkle of North Carolina . It read in part : " The committee is authorized and directed to conduct a thorough investigation , " ( 1 ) Of the truth or falsity of the statements alleged to have been made by Dr. William A. Wirt of Gary , Ind. , in a written document read by James H. Rand Jr . into the record of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in which statements it was I alleged , among other things , that certain employes of the United States or other individuals were at-i tempting or would attempt to prolong suffering , destitution and misery among the people of the United States ; that they were attempting or would attempt to thwart the pro-1 gram of national recovery in the United States ; that they were attempting or would attempt to overthrow the social order in order that a revolution might be brought about in the United States , and that such employes or other individuals were attempting to influence a President of the United States to take action contrary to the general welfare and his constitutional duties ; and " ( 2 ) For the purpose of determining whether in the case of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce , or in the case of any other committee of the House , any individuals under the guise of disinterested purposes , or in purporting to express the legislative policies of the administration or of the executive agencies of the government , or with the prestige of close personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials of the govern , ment , have in any manner advised or influenced , or attempted to advise or influence , the preparation and enactment of any legislation with the object of prolonging economic depression , thwarting the program of national recovery , or overthrowing the social order of the Government of the United States . " The committee shall report to the House during the present session of Congress the results of its investigation , together with such recommendations , including such recommendations for legislation , as it deems advisable . " Rainey Calls for the Names . Speaker Rainey , In his statement , suggested that Dr. Wirt , " a school teacher in Indiana , " would hardly be the confidant of revolutionary plotters . He said : " The publicity which is ' being , given the statements of Dr. Wirt demands an investigation by a competent branch of the government . If it is true that we are in the process of ' a deliberately planned American revolution , ' and if it is true , as Dr. Wirt states , that certain persons prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should , of course , be investigated . " Dr. Wirt , as I understand it , is a school teacher in Indiana . It is difficult indeed to believe that conspirators would divulge their plans to Dr. Wirt . " If there are men , little or big , connected with the recovery movement who have made - the statements he alleges , whether they were setious or joking , Dr. Wirt should give their names .. His refusal to do it brands him as a mere publicity seeker , determined to sab- ' otage the recovery program of the administration as much as possible . " If the charges are true , and if a revolution is in progress , the men who are responsible for it are guilty of treason under the ' Constitution of the United States . The man who advocates the overthrow of ' this government is a traitor to his 1 country , belonging in the class of Benedict Arnold . The men who are responsible for this movement , if there is such a movement , are adhering ' to the enemies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort . ' " The matter should be investigated by the Department of Justice . If the statements he alleges were made as a joke , the men who 1 made them ought to be at once severed from their connection with the recovery program . If statements were seriously made , and if they are plotting to overthrow the government , the Department of Justice will know what to do in the matter . " If the statements he makes are true , certain persons connected with this administration are guilty of treason , and he comes dangerously near violating the law himself when he declines to give their names . " I notice a copyrighted article by him in a morning paper . I am wondering if he is capitalizing on his supposed information and collecting money from newspapers . His conduct does not deserve commendation . The information he has , if he has any , ought to be given directly to the President of the United States and to the Attorney General of the United States . " I rather suspect that what he wants to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Congress in order to challenge the recovery program of the administration , and to have their sensational statements carried under black headlines in the newspapers throughout the country . " Dr. Wirt can render a patriotic service , if he wants to render a patriotic service , by giving the in .. formation at once to the Depart , ment of Justice so that they can carry on the only kind of an investigation which would result in proper treatment for the men who are participating in his alleged revolution . "                     