@@704331

txt President Roosevelt 's key advisers believe that Congress should be offered the alternatives of either increased income taxes or removal of the public debt limit in meeting history-making national defense appropriations for 1941 . This was the interpretation placed by influential New Deal circles on the President 's statement at Warm Springs yesterday that consideration is being given to a special tax to finance the increased national defense outlays that will be sought from the next session of Congress , as well as the possibility of financing these expenditures through additional borrowing . These circles also consider that the apparent conflicts in new taxation views between various groups in the Administration are based primarily on the contrasting hypothesis on which the respective tax proposals are predicated . War Profits Levies Supported That is. one group representing the leftwing of the New Deal sincerely believes that special taxes should be levied on so-called " windfall " profits derived from the European war in order to check a possible war boom in this country and also to provide additional funds to meet expanded national defense outlays . Another group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profits out of war " in the event that this nation should become involved in the European conflict In addition to these positions , high Treasury officials , convinced that business itself will prevent the development of a runaway war boom , take the position that substantially larger revenues can be produced from the existing tax structure provided nothing is done to discourage business initiative in the currently improved economic situation . Consequently , the primary consideration advanced by these officials is the removal of deterrents to business enterprise in the existing tax set-up rather than the imposition of new tax burden .. In the light of these contrasting approaches to the tax question on the part of the President 's circle of advisers . Mr. Roosevelt 's remarks yesterday were construed as designed to strike a middle ground and at the same time to emphasize publicly the fact that a choice must be made between higher taxes or a higher public debt . Political Emphasis on Spending The political basis of this approach Is accentuated by the circumstance that . unless substantial new taxes are voted at the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of $45,000.000.000 will be required in order to cover the deficit in prospect for the 1941. federal fiscal year . In a pre-election session of Congress . this issue inevitably will be highly controversial . Political emphasis will be placed on the roughly $22.000.000,000 rise in federal indebtedness that has occurred since the New Deal took office rather than on the expansion of around $2.000,000,000 in the limit needed to cover safely the anticipated deficit in 19n . In other words , the President is considered by observers here to be endeavoring to focus the political implications of a rise in the debt limit on the exigencies of the moment rather than on the past fiscal recorc of the New Deal . The attractiveness , f the debt limit alternative is expected to be enhanced by a program of economies designed to offset , by retrenchments in other expenditures , at least a large part of the added appropriations required for the national defense . This line of approach closely approximates the position taken recently by Senator Harrison ( Dem .. Miss.1 , also supported by Under Secretary of the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have declined to discuss 1940 budget expenditures , apparently reliable estimates have placed the combined 1940 defense bill at between $2,000,000,000 and 52.500,000,000 . In addition to the Navy 's current building program , Chairman Vinson of the House naval affairs committee has announced his intention of introducing a $1,300,000,000 program to add 95 vessels to the fleet and to double the Navy 's present aviation goal of 3,000 planes .                     