@@697441

txt The German delegation to the session of the Preparatory Disarmament Commission of the League of Nations will go to Geneva determined to " unmask the hypocrisy " which the Germans charge for years has prevailed at the meetings of this commission . Driven by mounting impatience at home and the necessity of bringing back some ' tangible results if it is in any way possible , Count von Bernstorff and , his associates appear bent on getting action . They may even go so far as to hint that Germany can not be expected to maintain her disarmament obligations forever if the other powers continue to disregard their promises to apply similar restrictions to their own armed forces . But the Germans will not threaten except as a last resort , if at all . Their primary task , it is announced , will be to obtain the dissolution of the Preparatory Commission and the calling of the long-promised general disarmament conference at the earliest poy sible date . Some time in 1931 would apparently be early enough . Reason for mope . The main ground for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ratification of the London naval treaty . It will be recalled that France has consistently refused to talk land disarmament until the question of sea power has been settled . While France is not a party to the London naval agreement , there is , nevertheless , reason to hope , at least in German eyes , that France can now be moved from her timehonored position . These hopes , however , are by no means great . The long and short of it , according to the Germans , is that France does not want to disarm and that if she should be forced to abandon her position naval disarmament must come first , then she surely would succeed in finding some other equally tenable position from which to urge further postponement of the actual conference . Well-informed German circles have detected no real evidence that French faith in security through a powerful army is waning , and much as the German Cabinet would like to be able to calm the growing impatience here by pointing to a step forward at Geneva , there is not overmuch faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprised here to learn at the close of the Geneva discussions that the same old story had been repeated . Firmer Foreign Policy .. To say that Germany is going to Geneva with a stronger determination to enforce some progress toward disarmament than she has hitherto felt would be slightly misleading . It is rather a determination to express her will more emphatically than she has done hitherto . Several observers in various countries have commented on the firmer tone of German foreign policy which became noticeable during the Summer and which appears to have more than a temporal connection with the final evacuation of the Rhineland . The intention to take a firmer stand at the coming session of the Preparatory Disarmament Commission merely further evidences the growing vigorousness the Wilhelmstrasse has displayed since the last poilu left the former occupied area . The first objective of the German delegation , then , will be the disbandment of the Preparatory Commission . This commission has been meeting and talking , talking and meeting for nearly five years with- out attaining anything , aside from a high degree of skill in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already ; let 's finish it off , " might be said to express the views held here of this commission . Sees This as Only Way . Germany is particularly anxious to terminate the Preparatory Commission because she feels that only in this way can the League Council , which meets again in January , be persuaded to fix the date for a general conference . And Germany , if she was asked whether it would not be dangerous to call the general conference too soon for fear a failure might have to be recorded , would probably reply , " Better a failure and the knowledge of where we stand than this endless prolongation of the discussions . " What Germany would mean by such an answer is clear . She would consider the definite proof that other powers did not want seriously to attempt disarmament as a legitimate excuse for " forgetting " her own obligations in the way of reduced defense . General von Seeckt , creator of the Reichswehr , is known as a stanch supporter of an army of 200,000 in stead of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . IA for the first time . He is an influen ? tial member of the People 's party . the party which last week pushed a resolution through the Reichs. tag 's Foreign Relations Committe ( calling for a firm stand at Geneva , Government View Differs . General von Seeckt does not suppose any more than any one else that the German demands at Geneva are going to meet with the passive acquiescence of the other powers . But he would certainly not be alone if he felt an " unmasking " at Geneva would pave the way toward convincing the world of Germany 's moral right to rearm at least moderately . This , however , is definitely not the view the government entertains , at least officially . It believes in disarmament and wants to see the world disarm ; only as a last resort if hopes of obtaining that reduction of armament which was foreseen in the League covenant should seem completely dashed Would the German Government consider taking the attitude of " If you wo n't disarm , we are going to rearm . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those key points in all the disarmament negotiations which the commission has thus fan successfully avoided . The inclusion of reservists and the amount of war material on hand in fixing army strength , disarmament by delimitation of military budgets and the publication of official figures on their armed strength by all countries are the chief among these points .                     