@@699916

txt To give the lay reader s chance to " explore the times " and to get a close-up picture of the rapid succession of present-day events , the American Library Association is publishing today a series of five new reading courses . The books are written by men who hive been in the midst of the ictivity vrrounding the work of the President 's Research Committee on Social Trends . " Living with Machines " was written by Dr. William Fielding Ogburn , professor of sociology at the University of ' Mi1 cage and research director of the President 's Committee . " Collapse or Cycle ? " is the work of Prof. Paul H. Douglas , an authority on wages land unemployment . I " Meeting the Farm Crisis " was written by Dr. J. H. Kolb , who grew r up on the farm and has done much research work in agriculture . Mr. Harry D. Gideonse , associate pro ; lessor of economics at the University of Chicago , prepared the book on " World Depression  --  World Recovery . " " Less Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brownlow and ' Mr. Charles 8 . Ascher , officers of the Public Administration Clearing House and specialists in problems of local government . Debigned to point the way to good reading and intelligent thinking on current problems each pamphlet gives a short discussion of the subject and then guides the reader to six or eight outstanding books'In the field which are recommended for further reading . " New machines have deprived many of their jobs , " writes Dr. Ogburn , " but in the long run have given us all more of the good things of life . " Machines are responsibile for only ' 10 or 15 per cent of the total number of unemployed , he said . The great public question before the American people now and during the next few decades is : What shall the state do with the business organizations that the machines create ? In dealing with the farm crisis . Dr. Kolb calls the farm problem everybody 's problem . Both food and folks are the modern symbols of service and interdependence  --  country with city and city with country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an example of business methods and professionalism in government is discussed in the pamphlet " Less Government or More ? " To establish more stable economic conditions in the entire world , Professor Gideonse in his pamphlet proposes a restoration of the flow of world trade by removing or lowering trade barriers . He suggests a reexamination of the relationship of government to economic activity .                     