@@702438

txt A big internal loan for the pt ' - pose of guaranteeing the franc against further depreciation will be launched Monday , after the Government has given absolute assurances of economic stabilization if the country does its art . Premier Leon Blum will address France by radio tomorrow , and on Sunday President Lebrun will take the unusual course of making an appeal by radio in a great effort to save French finances from collapse . It was urgent that a decision be reached in today 's ministerial council , for the confidence of the country has been shaken by recent expertrnents which have alienated capital both large and small . Liberalism Promised M. Blunt himself explained tnat there would not be control of exchanges , but on the contrary , reversion to financial liberalism , and the tri-partite accord of Sept. 22 would remain the basis of monetary action Banks would after Monday be free to negotiate gold without demanding the identity of the seller , thus rescinding measures of coercion which have failed . A committee is established foi the direction of the equalization fund , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to stabilize prices and to survey the market 01 " rentes . " , This committee is cemposed of Charles Rist , famous financier , acting as adviser to the Government ; Emile Labeyrie , head of the Bank of France ; Paul Boudouin and Jacques Rueff , widely known as financial experts . Tn Reduce Costs Optimistic as relkards the budgetary deficit , Premier Blum further proclaimed that there would be nc further expenditure . no additiona ' credits . no more appeals to Parliament . Prices had already risen to legitimate levels , and should stay there . Treasury needs would be vigorously reduced by at least 6,000 , - 000,000 francs , and as 8,000,000,00f have already been absorbed it is calculated that new methods will bring the Treasury needs within the capacity of the lending power of the populace . With these promises , every French man will be expected to do his duty to save the country . Capitalism is now to have its last chance in France , is the attitude taken by Premier Blum in the face of the financial crisis . Meanwhile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop sensational rumors quickly denied by the Government regarding drastic measures to be taken immediately These were a prelude to the ministerial council today Treasury in Bad Way It has been realized in wen-Informed quarters for some time that he failure of devaluation of the ' vane , accompanied by costly Indus ; rial changes , and a completely undalanced budget , has placed the Treasury in a difficult situation . : lontradictory proposals varying rom resignation of the Cabinet to a reversal of policy by the Blum Government have been canvassed . Premier Blum 's program is now to reconcile capital and labor . It would appear that Radicals in the cabinet have prevailed over Socialists and have demonstrated the impossibility of pursuing extravagant experiments any further without bringing the country to speedy bankruptcy . They demand not only a " pause , " but assurances that nationalization , which Is frightening capital out of France , Is no part of the government program . Difficult Choice For some time it has been apparent that the Government was being forced into a position in which it must either restore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instituting real control of the exchange market . The choice for the Front Populaire was difficult . The possibility of the control of exchanges might accele- 1 rate the flight from the franc that has been gaining momentum for some time and would moreover signify a rupture of the tri-partite fins new understanding which France concluded with the United States and Britain when the Gov- I eminent decided to of the country or at any rate into hiding places . Nor was it the great capitalists but , on the con-trim .. the small owners of securities who chiefly displayed their distrust . 1 They , as in 1026 , " plebiscited " the Government  --  in the negative sense ? by selling their bonds . Slow to Save Franc The problem is not , as is sometimes stated , whether the Treasury can meet its obligations . Of course it can . It can print money . The problem is how to prevent the franc from falling if there is inflation or a financial panic . In other countries , the mere fact of devaluation has restored confidence and commercial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devaluation has not so far succeeded in this respect because it was accompanied by measures sending up costs and sending down production , and by threats frightening the small as well as the large possessors of capital . Alternative Courses So . inexorably , Premier Blum was being driven to draitio detisions . Would he resign , leaving his successor to wrestle with the financial troubles ? Or would he by giving assurances and by making rit.t .... mary changes sacrifice his policy to the financial needs of France ? Or would be  --  or someone else Reproduced with permission of the repudiate the ideal of financial liberty hitherto professed in France and control the exchanges by what would be tantamount to a financial dictatorship . Against such control Premier Blum has always protested . But he , like many other statesmen , declares that in the last resort the State " has a right to all the elements of French riches " and he has said " I will not envisage the possibility of what Must happen If help is systematically refused . " Surprise Communique By French Government Precedes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leon Blum 's Government , seeking to steady France 's teetering finances , lifted a five-month-old ban on domestic gold trading today and announced that the deficit-ridden budget would be reduced drastically In preparation for a new loan to pay national expenses . The effect of ' the Cabinet 's action , officials hoped , would be to attract gold from hoarders Inside the country and draw French gold back into France from lutside . Premier Blum called on President Lebrun , former Premier Edouard Herriot and other present and former officials of the Government to join in radio appeals to the country to support the new interior loan . The amount of the loan has not been fixed . Further Devaluation An official communiqu ? left the question of further devaluation of the franc unanswered . But informed sources predicted that Finance Minister Vincent Attriol was prepared to stabilize the monetary unit at 21.94 to the dollar , only slightly less than the present rate of 21.50 to the dol1 ler . The reduction would be slightly more than 2 per cent . At the rate of 21.94 to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , compared to the present rate of almost 4.65 cents . Government control of foreign exchange is " excluded , " Premier Blum announced in a communique after the Cabinet session at the Elysee palace . He emphasized that all financial activity of the Government would be guided by previsions of the monetary stabilization agreement of last September among the United States , Great Britain and France . New Measures The Cabinet voted approval for three measures to bolster the nation 's nnanciai position , 1 . A request to the Bank of Prance to give general authorization for tree importation and free trading in gold in the interior ( of the country ) to become effective Monday , March 8. 2 . Formation of a commission of experts to " assure defense of ? the franc , the security of commerce and stability of prices . " 3 . Dispatch of " severe instructions " to all Government departments to cut expenses with the " single reservation of necessary increases in small salaries , " and promise of punishment for unjustified increases in prices , of necessities of life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would allow the Bank of France to enter the gold market , buying and selling at current prices and without identification of dealers . Old Restrictions Off Restrictions on gold transactions , imposed last October under the devaluation law , thus were nullified and the metal again became an motive unit in over-the-counter trans-actions , Concerning reduction in governmental expenditures , the Cabinet ministers said : " The Government is resolved not to hinder a return to real equllibrium by expenses not provided for in the national revenue . Must severe instructions will be given to all departments to forbid additional credits . " Must Peg Franc To revive confidence , parliamentary circles said , the Government necessarily must peg the franc , at least unofficially . Financial circles expected the Bank of France , with the backing of the Treasury and under the tripartite agreement among France , Great Britain and the United States , to keep the franc to 21.50 to the dollar , approximately the present market price . Parliamentary circles thought it more probable that Vincent Auriol , Minister of Finance , would seek to peg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in order to aid foreign trade and prevent further strain on French finances . The Premier promised the " needs of the Treasury will be brought to a figure which should not exceed the normal capacity . of Treasury placements or loans . " " Half of these needs , " he said , correspond to the 19,000,000,000 francs ( $883,500,000 ) in extraordinary defense credits for 1937 . This national defense financing , Mr. Blum asserted , will not allow any Frenchman to " plead his personal interests In order to dodge his civic obligations . " ? rue rest or the treasury needs should be easily covered by normal operations in a short-term market , " be added .                     