@@700868

txt The Roosevelt administration definitely turned away from Upton Sinclair today , with unmistakable indications that it does not care to have the former Socialist elected as Democratic Governor of California . A letter from Democratic headquarters , urging the election of Mr. Sinclair and carrying the signature of Postmaster General Farley in green ink which he always uses , was termed a " mistake . " The signature was affixed with a rubber stamp . Dispatch of the letter was said to have been an error on the part of a minor employe . A growing belief here that the administration would withhold support from Mr. Sinclair further was solidified by publication of a letter to the Democratic Gubernatorial candidate from George Creel , withdrawing his backing . Creel Scorns " Epic " Plan . It was established that Mr. Creel carried in his pocket a copy of the letter when he conferred earlier in the week with President Roosevelt and with Senator of California . At that time , Mr. Creel stated publicly that he was going to California to " assess " the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as in his letter made public today , declaring that Sinclair 's statements about his " Epic " plan were " optimism carried to the point of delirium . " Then , as in his letter , Creel intimated that Sinclair was stepping off the State platform . The " mistake " of the Farley let- ' ter on the California Gubernatorial candidacy was surrounded by great mystery at Democratic headquarters here . The incident carried some comic as well as serious touches . From the Postmaster General down , Democratic spokesmen declined to discuss it . The President at his press conference turned aside questions with a reiteration of his hands-off-Statecampaigns policy . Form Letters Were Prepared . It was learned that form letters for endorsing many Democratic candidates had been prepared at Democratic committee headquarters to go out over Mr. Farley 's signature , to be stamped in green ink . As the story was told , a Californian asked for a letter on Mr. Sinclair , and a minor employe sent one before it was authorized . Before that , however , it was ascertained , several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructions from Mr. Farley were to have been destroyed . It was reliably reported , however , that not all had been destroyed . The recipient of the letter in California was reported to have got in touch with Emil Hurja , executive secretary , who was uninformed of the developments . Mr. Hurja assumed that Mr. Farley had sanctioned the letter , since it bore his green ink signature , and upon request said it could be made public . Thus the comedy of errors progressed , and now the Democrats here are remaining as quiet as possible . Will Stay Off Stump . Any hope that Mr. Sinclair may have held for active speech-making support from Senator was blasted tonight by the Senator himself . He said he had to make speeches in Arizona and Utah in support of Democratic Senatorial candidates there , and would not reach California until election day . When informed of Mr. Creel 's letter , Senator obviously was not surprised . Mr. Creel was reported to have shown a copy of the letter to not only him but others . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as he was concerned it was unchanged from the statement he made after the State convention at Sacramento , Calif. , when he said he would support Democratic nominees running on the platform that was adopted . Senator explained that he did not know whether Mr. Sinclair had gone beyond the platform , and that he preferred not to enter the controversy at this time . 80,000 Form Letters Mailed . Although Postmaster General Farley declined yesterday here and in Washington to comment upon his letter urging the election of Upton Sinclair as Governor of California , it was learned that it was a form letter . During the last two weeks more than 80,000 letters to Democratic committeemen in every State , except a few solidly Democratic States in the South , have been mailed from the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in Washington . Each contained four paragraphs , with the well known green ink signature of Mr. Farley and a postscript , also in green ink . The first and fourth paragraphs are general , the first urging support of President Roosevelt and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The second paragraph in each instance urges the support of Democratic State-wide candidates such as Governor and United States Senator , the names being changed to suit the State to which the letter is sent . The third paragraph urges support of the Democratic candidate for Representative in Congress and is changed for each Congressional district . The Sinclair letter , it was learned , was one of these form letters , for California , in which an appeal was made for the election of Mr. Sinclair , Democratic candidate for Governor , and Senator Hiram Johnson , who is on the Democratic ticket as the party 's candidate for Senator . The sending out of these form letters is one of the methods used by Mr. Farley to build up the Democratic organizations throughout the country . The method was used with great success in the ' campaign of 102 for the election of President Roosevelt .                     