@@697135

txt UNDER THE MANHOLES . Pipe Galleries Below Street Level Do Not Seem Feasible Here . To the Editor o ! The New York Times : On March 19 THE ' TIMES ? commented , in an editorial Under the Manholes , " on the need of providing pipe galleries similar to those recently used in London and other English cities far the housing of public utility properties , in order to avoid the necessity of continuously digging the streets an dtemporarily inconveniencing , the public . From time to time serious consideration has been given to the questiOn . of pipe galleries , and , owing to the large demand for services of tal character in New York , the space below the street surface has become very valuable . In 1909 the Public Service . Commission constructed for the city a subway in Centre , Kenmare and Delancey Streets , known as the Centre Street loop , and with this construction were built two pipe , galleries . These are 9 feet wide by 7 feet high , except where they pass under the roadways of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transverse pipes and other substructures to cross . The total length of the two galleries is approximately 4,262 linear feet . The cost to the city for construction was approximately $110,000 . It was felt at the time that certain of the utility companies with franchise rights in the streets might be induced to place their facilities in these galleries . After considerable investigation , the use of the galleries as a " common home " by public service corporations was found by them to be objectionable . Electric light and power companies and telephone companies objected to the placing of gas and water mains in the galleries on account of the danger of explosions of gas , inaccessibility in the event of floods due to either leaks or breaking of water mains , and inability to maintain the high standard of service which these companies try to render . When one considers the ever-changing sky line of New York , it is almost impossible to anticipate the growth and requirements for future needs . The streets of New York ' now carry a greater amount of necessary public utilities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the world . For example , one intersecting street has been found to contain the following facilities : Large steam mains , heavy trunk telephone lines , telegraph lines , fire alarm circuits , burglar alarm systems , pneumatic tubes for United States mail , pneumatic tubes for transmitting telegrams , large gas mains , high-pressure and low-pressure water mains and large trunk duct systems for electric light and power . One might argue that in the building of new subway systems pipe galleries could be constructed as part of subway construction . In building subways , consideration must be given to the , cost , and to provide galleries to separately house utilities of like and kind would be the only solution ; but this would be a very costly proposition and would be more extravagant of space . In building the subway structure serious consideration is given to the question of minimum excavation , every foot of excess depth increasing the cost . Public convenience must also be considered , as subways built at a greater depth than necessary would materially affect ingress and egress , due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subways is provided to permit the restoration of the existing facilities owned by utility companies and the necessary additional facilities which may be required for the immediate future , on account of the building changes which immediately follow subway work in the surrounding territory . The Board of'Transportation , which is building subways in New York , has always surveyed and mapped , upon opening the ground , every structure found below the street . In addition thereto , upon completion of the railroad , drawings are prepared , indicating the exact final location of every substructure along the line of construction . In planning the restoration of these substructures , segregation must be provided , in order to avoid placing structures that may prove detrimental and costly in close proximity to other structures , as this might cause operating difficulties . It does not appear to be feasible and practicable to require public service corporations to occupy a " common home . " It seems to the writer that as long as New York keeps growing either upward or downward , digging is essential and necessary , admitting at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Upon completion of digging operations necessary surface improvements are accomplished . For example , in Central Park West , Eighth Avenue and many ' other points where subways have recently been constructed the streets have been widened to accommodate the ever-increasing vehicular traffic . M. SERATING , Jr . New York , March 28 , 1930.                     