@@699657

txt The story of a nation 's efforts to combat the springtime iceberg menace on the north Atlantic was told to Newfoundland people recently in a radio address by Mr. Floyd M. Soule , senior physical oceanographer of the United States coast guard . Mr. Soule came here in the U. S. coast guard cutter General Greene 1 len route to the ocean regions which I he is to cover in the interests of the International Ice Observation service which precedes the regular patrol I work ending July 1 . The United States undertook ' this service as the result of an international treaty formed soon after the sinking of the Titanic . Other maritime nations contribute to the annual service . This year the Genral Greene is making the preliminary cruise during which 1Mr . Soule is attempting to forecast the probable volume and drift of the ice as well as the time in which , the southward flow will : tart . Later , 1 larger cutters maintain watch over the moving fields of bergs and growlers , warning ships by radio of the exact position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the General Greene becomes an oceanographic vessel with the primary duty of supplying the patrol cutter with accurate and up-to-date charts of the iceberg areas . This material is prepared from data collected at various oceanographic stations which are well distributed over the area to be charted . The oceanographers determine the vertical distribution of the density of the water down to the level where the water is motionless , which is about 1000 meters . The density is determined by measuring the temperature of the water and its saltiness . I For these measurements a Nansen water bottle is used , which is clamped to a stranded wire cable and lowered over the side to the desired level and then ' tripped . When it is tripped it turns upside down , and in doing so closes and traps a sample of water which then is tested for its salinity . Two thermometers are attached to each bottle which record the temperature of the water the moment it is trapped . Having obtained the salinity and temperature of the water , the contour map is drawn showing the height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below . This contour map is the current map , the current following the direction of the contour lines and the strength and velocity of the currents depending on .. , how close together the contour lines are .                     