@@701629

txt After deliberating three and a half hours , a verdict of not guilty was returned last night by the jury in the Court of General Sessions before whom the three officers of the defunct New York Title and Mortgage Company went on trial five weeks ago charged with publishing a false statement of its cash assets in , January , 1933 . The defendants were Frederic Fuller , president of the company for about eight months prior to its collapse ; Harry A. Kahler , former chairman of the executive committee , and H. Pushae Williams , his successor . They were immediately ordered discharged by Judge John J. Freschi , who presided at the trial . They shook hands with each juror a few minutes after Ralph H. Cowell , foreman , announced the verdict . The jury took the case under deliberation at 4 o'clock on its return from a belated luncheon . Two and a half hours later it returned to the court room and asked Judge Freschi for further instructions on the counts in the indictment on failure to possess all the funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and on publication of the statement . The jury asked also that the testimony of Harold A. Crane , custodian of collateral in the Federal Reserve Bank , be read . This was done and the jury retired to resume deliberations . At 7:30 in the evening word reached the court room the jury had agreed on its verdict . Judge Freschi came down from his chambers and the jury filed in . Judge Thanks Jury . With the exception of the defendants , counsel and court attaches , there were few in the court room . Judge Freschi thanked the jury and told them that he would like to provide them extra compensation but that the trial legally had not lasted long enough for him to do so . The trial started Nov. 12 . The defendants were indicted on a felony and three misdemeanor charges . One of the misdemeanor charges was dismissed just before the case went to the jury . Judge Freschi took more than four hours to charge the jury . He began the charge at 10 o'clock in the morning and finished a few minutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lunch and returned at 4 o'clock . The prosecution charged the cash item of $8,823,671.61 in the financial statement of the company as of Dec. 31 , 1932. - should have been $2.000,000 less . It was the contention of the State that the company borrowed $2,000 , -1 000 from two banks Dec. 31 , 1932 , which was repaid on the following Jan. 2 . It was charged the two - loans were obtained for " window dressing , " and that 55,000 copies of the financial statement showing the $8,823,571.61 item were sent to stockholders Jan. 13 , 1933 . Mortgages Held Pledged . The State also contended that first mortgage and mortgage certificates of $30,208,695.70 were shown in the statement . The prosecution charged that $14,000,000 of these certificates were pledged with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and therefore were not available . It was alleged also there were tax arrears of $278,302 in real estate secured by about 36,000,000 of the company 's mortgages . in his charge to the jury , Judge Freschi , referring to the first count relating to the issuing of a false statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affecting the first count only , no intent to defraud Is required . The section does not require an intent to deceive as distinguished from a general criminal intent . " The jury must determine from all the surrounding facts and circumstances of this case whether or not the defendants at the time charged in the indictment had such a specific intent to deceive by the making , issuing or publishing of the statement as of Dec. 31 , 1933. as to the financial condition or facts affecting the financial condition of the New York Title and Mortgage Company on or about the 13th day of January , 1933 . " In reaching a conclusion s.s to whether what these defendants did was unlawful and criminally wrong the jury must take into consideration all the facts and circumstances as shown by the testimony and exhibits received in evidence during the trial . The acts shown to have been committed by these defendants in this transaction , if any , coupled with all the other circumstances in the case , the manner in which the acts complained of by the people were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the intent of these deifendants or any of them . Intent Is Explained . " Ordinarily we judge a man 's intent by his acts and spoken words . Sometimes his acts speak louder and more convincingly than words . I However , an innocent construction . if one exists , must always prevail . We can only impute a dishonest motive when one 's conduct is inconsistent with innocence , for it is well established that conduct and circumstances charged against one accused of crime , if consistent with innocence , the innocent construction must be placed on it and the defendant to whom it applies given the benefit thereof . " If you find from all the evidence that wrongfulness and criminality attach to the statement because of its falsity , because of misrepresenting material facts , then it becomes your duty to say what was the intent of the party concerned , whether guilty or innocent , whether to deceive or not . " Judge Freschi in his charge on the third count said under this statute no intent was necessary . Relative to the fourth count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown to have been knowingly committed in the making or publishing of the statement . " You may find the defendants or any of them guilty of the crime charged , either under the first count or the fourth count . You may find them guilty on any two counts or on all counts , or , on the other hand , you may find the defendants I or any of them not guilty and thereby declare their acquittal . " The felony count in the indictment carries a term in State prison . Conviction on the other counts call for terms in the penitentiary or heavy fines . Assistant District Attorney Alexander H. Kaminsky prosecuted . Former Governor Nathan L. Miller was conncel for Mr. Fuller . Former Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer was counsel for Mr. Kahler , and Wilbur W. Chambers appeared for Mr. Williams . ? -                     