@@700316

txt Reorganization of the fighting forces of the marine corps so as to put them directly under the commander-inchief of the fleet was announced today at the Navy Department . The East and West Coast Expeditionary Forces have been abolished and merged into a new fleet marine force , which will constitute a part of the fleet organization and be included in the operating force plan for each fiscal year . Orders giving effect to the new policy were issued by Major Gen. Ben H. Fuller , commandant of the marine corps , immediately after he had received a general order from Secretary Swanson directing this sweeping change . Brig . Gen. Charles H. Lyman has been placed in command of the new force , and with his staff will be stationed normally at Quantico , Va . Command Is Unified . " This new policy unifies the mall as an offensive arm of the navy at the disposal of the commander-in-chief of the fleet , " said General Lyman . " This set-up gives to the commander-in-chief of the fleet a military force to accomplish whatever his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command . " Under the previous set-up the East Coast Expeditionary Force was located at Quantico , while the West Coast group was at San Diego . Neither force was under naval command and took orders direct from marine corps headquarters at Washington . Now , under the new policy , the fleet marine force will provide for the head of the United States fleet a shore base force upon which he can call at all times . On this point Secretary Swanson 's general order read : " The fleet marine force shall be available to the commander-inchief for operations with the fleet  --  or for exercises , either afloat or ashore in connection with fleet problems . " The commander-in-chief shall exercise command of the fleet marine force when embarked on board vessels of the fleet or when engaged in fleet exercises either afloat or ashore . " 4,500 Men in the Force . Altogether the Fleet Marine Force will number about 4,500 men . They will be organized in six battalions , two batteries , seventy-five pack howitzer outfits , a signal group and marine aviation units on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warships are not counted as part of the Fleet Marine Force , but in extraordinary situations they may be thrown In with it as landing troops . Thus with the 1,200 marines now On warships , the Commander in Chief of the fleet will have 5,700 marines under his command . General Lyman said today that about half of his force was now assembled on the East Chest . This comprises ' the Seventh Regiment of marines , with one battalion in training afloat on the battleship Wyoming and the other at Quantico . Colonel John :  - -  'otts commands the contingent on the Wyoming , and the battalion at Quantico is commanded by Lieut . Col. Sydney S. Lee . The battalion now being organized at San Diego is commanded by Major-Keller E. Rockey . West Coast Chief Not Picked . An officer yet to be designated by General Fuller will be commanding officer of the Fleet Marine Force on the West Coast . He will be stationed at San Diego and will be responsible , under the direction of General Lyman , for the general efficiency of the Pacific Coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served in many parts of the world and is a graduate of both the Army and Navy War Colleges . His chief of staff is Lieut . Col. Robert L. Denig , a native of New York , who holds the distinguished Service Cross and the Navy Cross . He is also a graduate of the field officers ' course at the Marine Corps School .                     