@@699744

txt Accdrding to all the evidence , it has been a new and more conciliatory Italy which has been speaking to President Roosevelt this week througn Signor Guido Jung , Finance Minister , and Signor Augusto Rosso , Italy 's extremely able Ambassador here . The indications are that their case , as presented to the Chief Executive , has been to prove that Italy does not share the international extremes to which Herr Adolf Hitlet 's Fascist Government seems prone to go . So successful has been the Italian mission to date that Signor Jung has postponed his departure from Washington by 24 hours , in order t ... ) have another long talk with President Roosevelt today . The Italian spokesmen explain publicly that their talks with the President have been largely political . And they express themselves as highly pleased with the " extremely frank , intelligent , and widespread " conversations they have had . Italian Policy To those in close touch with Italian policy  --  although a discreet silence has been preserved about the substance of the White House talks  - -  It is clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ideas about European stability . They were quick to disassociate themselves from the charge of potential peace breaker which rightly or wrongly attaches to the new Hitler Government , in the opinion of congressional and diplomatic leaders here . It is the task of Dr. HJalmar Schacht , Germany 's forthright representative , who arrives here late today , to take up the defense of the third Reich . The Italians , who at times in the past have sprung to Germany 's defense , have been pointedly leaving their fellow Fascist state to present its own case in the Washington discussions . Instead Signore Jung and Rosso have explained Italy 's desire for removal of the causes of European conflict by peaceful treaty revision . The change of Italian policy which was first manifest over a month ago when Mr. Ramsay visited Il Duce in Rome is thus being strongly apparent in Washington . The Italian Government , it has been explained in the White House , js behind the disarmament plan instead of any of the various plans which Italian representatives have sponsored in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any time in recent years , it is stated . This swing in the European alignments , although only partial and reflective more of the International ostracism of the Hitler Government than of any fundamental peacemaking between the " haves " and the " have-nots " has however served to assure President Roosevelt , as it did Mr. Ramsay , that Italian support can be counted upon to bring the world economic conference to success . No Big Economic Issue No outstanding economic issue divides Italy and the United States , Italy , though a high tariff country , also counts . on export of a good range of products and can not supply all its own foodstuffs , so that it must always import . The ingredients fora workable trade agreement are therefore present . It would surprise no observers If Italy were near the top of the list of countries with which the United States could work on bipartite treaties under the new reciprocal &gime,; if this course is ever embarked upon The Argentine talks , which proceed concurrently with the Italian , were initially used to prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have developed into a discussion of the Anglo-Argentine trade agreement . The delegates from Latin-America were able to explain to President Roosevelt and State Department experts that some advantages to the United States would accidentally accrue from the treaty . The agreement with Great Britain , they stated , has started a liquid foreign exchange movement ? large depositors of sterling having been tied up . This liquidation will in turn permit payment of the Argentinian public debt service to the United States , which had been in danger of continued default . Likewise , they denied that the agreement was In violation of the tariff truce proposal , since all tariff changes envisioned were downward cuts .                     