@@700732

txt This city was under a military dictatorship tonight as the result of failure of both sides to get together hr a settlement of the truck strike which has crippled commercial transportation for nine days . Governor Olson declared martial law after noon when he was informed that the employers refused to accept in full the revised settlement terms proposed by the Rev. Francis J. Haan and E. H. Dunnigan , Federal mediators . The members of the striking truck drivers ' and helpers ' union , meanwhile , had voted complete acceptance of the plan by 1,866 to 147 . The Governor had given both sides twenty-four hours to accept the peace plan , with martial law as the alternative . In declaring the military dictatorship Governor Olson placed Brig . Gen. Ellard A. Walsh in command of the martial law area , which includes Minneapolis , all of Hennepin County and a section of St. Paul embracing the State Fair Grounds , where 4,000 guardsmen have been quartered since Saturday . Troops Move Into City . - General Walsh immediately set up headquarters in the Minneapolis armory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city to take control . Military officers were also dispatched to the various city and county courts to inform the officials to continue in their present capacity in the usual Manner . By the Governor 's order , however , the Police Department and the Sheriff 's office became subject to General Walsh 's orders and they were told to continue their customary duties pending further orders . A provost marshal is to be appointed to rule these two departments . General Walsh drew up regulations to govern both private and business conduct during the military rule . Regulations concerning trucks declare that military passes shall be necessary for movement except in certain instances . Trucks carrying common necessities may move without permits , as may vehicles owned and operated by farmers and carrying farm products , vehicles carrying passengers , trucks carrying merchandise in interstate commerce , government vehicles and cars carrying merchandise for personal use of the driver or his dependants . Permits for movement of any other vehicles must be obtained from the troop commander 's office . Other regulations order all places of amusement to close by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doors must have approval . Military Courts Planned . Military courts will be set up to act on violations of military rule . The regulations order all non-residents having no legitimate business or reason for being in the city to leave forthwith . Citizens are warned to refrain from visiting riot areas . In proclaiming martial law , Governor Olson said : " The intervention of military rule was conditioned entirely on the settlement and ending of the strike . " That necessitated complete acceptance of the proposed settlement by both sides . The employer group having refused to accept results in continuation of the strike and the probable continuance of disturbances in the city of Minneapolis . " rn order to protect the citizens of Minneapolis , therefore , it is imperative that martial law be de-dared " I hope the strike negotiations will continue and that a settlement may be arranged by Father Haas and E. H. Dunnigan at the earliest possible . moment . " Replying to the proposed settlemeat plan , the employers ' advisory committee , which represents 166 truck fleet owners , asked modifications in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This provided that the " arbitra- tion award should in no event provide for a wage scale of less than 42% cents per - hour for inside workers , helpers and platform men and 52% cents per hour for truck drivers . " " It is ? ridiculous and out of all reason , " the reply on this point said , " to suggest an arbitration of wage scales by a stipulation that arbitration must start with a minimum scale that is an increase of the existing minimum scale . This is contrary to all principles of fair arbitration . " Before the employers announced this decision the hdvisory committee issued a statement attacking the Governor for his threat of martial law . Quick to reply , the Governor attacked the Citizens Alliance , " of which you are members , " as being " dominated by a small clique of men who hate all organized labor and are determined to crush it . "                     