@@699323

txt After a three-hour conference with the Democratic President-Elect here yesterday , Senator Bronson Cutting ( R. ) of New Mexico expressed confidence in the continued progressivism of Governor Roosevelt and forecast legislative cooperation between Democrats and Progressive Republicans during the next session of Congress . " After conferring with Governor Roosevelt , " he said , " I am satisfied that he is still as sincerely progressive in his point of view and his plans as I considered him before the election . I am in general sympathy with his attitude toward public questions . " Senator Cutting 's statement served to emphasize the widening gap between the Roosevelt group within the Democratic Party and its conservative elements . As to a possible merging of the Democratic Party with the progressive wing of the Republicans , Senator Cutting considered the time premature for any forecast , but added that the political situation of the country is " fluid as it never was before , " and " almost anything is possible . " Will See Others Later The New Mexico Senator is one of the four Progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the recent campaign . Governor Roosevelt is intending to confer with Senators Hiram W. Johnson of California , George W. Norris of Nebraska and Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin soon after his return to Albany this week . The general implication of Senator Cutting 's remarks was that he and his Progressive Republican colleagues considered the Democratic Party on trial . They sincerely hope it will prove to be sufficiently ' liberal under the Roosevelt leadership to merit their support but are unwilling to commit themselves until the new Administration has taken office and given tangible evidence of a break with the conservative influence of Wall Street domination in its affairs until the Chicago convention . For the time being , he indicated , the Progressives in the Senate intend to retain their nominal Republicanism and vote with regular Republicans in the organization of the Senate . He said he did not expect any reward in the form of chairmanships from the Democrats after March 4 , but added it would not be surprising if the Republicans punished them for their Roosevelt adherence in the meantime by deprivation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Was Long Discussion The conference with Senator Cutting was the longest which Governor Roosevelt has held with any of his 1 , itors since he reached Warm Springs 10 days ago . Other subjects discussed included agricultural relief . ieforestation . Indian affairs and concerted degislative action . Governor Roosevelt has been known for some time to cherish the hope of reconstituting the Democratic Party along truly liberal and progressive lines . According to many of his most influential advisers he would like to see it definitely purged of its reactionary elements which would then go over to the Republican Party while the Progressives of that party would be drawn into the new Demo , - ci atm Party . His desire , they hold , is to end the ma of sectionalism in American politics . The President-Elect 's week-end also produced completion of general plans for the inaugural ceremony on March 4 . Every unnecessary expense is to be avoided . Contingents of troops from the states may be brought only if the expenses arc paid privately . No public funds are to be used for this purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the parade due to the coot of bringing the West Point Cadet Cops to Washington . It would not be suitable , it was pointed out . to bring the Annapolis Midshipmen unless the West Pointers were to be present also There will be an inaugural ball . but the incoming President will not attend , although Mrs. Roosevelt and her children will .                     