@@704037

txt Education in " free China " is experiencing a spurt which reflects the general reconstructive attitude everywhere evident at Chungking . While I made no special effort to investigate this subject , it kept coming to the fore constantly in one way or another either through corn ersation or by a glimpse of some such development as the astonishing new Central University , built in 42 days and now housing 2,200 students , or 3,000 if the experimental school is included . Some idea of the scope of the Government 's present effoi is v. as gained through a talk with Chen Li-fu , Minister of Education , N. ho said that the war has only accentuated efforts to educate both children and adults throughout the areas in which such work can be conducted . Willing to Teach Others There is a special trend toward technical education , he stressed . In years past , professional men have stuck close to the cities . There has been a lack of trained mechanics , and in general the inclination has been toward the " white-collar " type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now , Mr. Chen said , students sought technical subjects and were ready to go out into the villages and country to put their knowledge to practical , useful application during national emergency conditions which have deeply stirred their patriotism . The National Government has taken over 12 middle schools and provided equipment for teaching many trades including leather and paper manufacture and similar things , Mr. Cheri continued . Military training was given for three months last year , as compared with a former one-month course , with compulsory Boy Scout training for the younger boys . Many of the private universities have been given Government subsidies in order to help them teach technical subjects , give military training , and further mass education . " Every middle school , " said Mr. Chen , " has the duty to educate the people in its vicinity , " and in accordance with this policy it is provided that both students and teachers from January of the present year must go out on Sundays and holidays in furtherance of the work . Twenty million people a year will be given elementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a thousand characters as well as propaganda to instill patriotic ideas and support such obligations to the state as military conscription . Using Trained Teachers A special effort is being made to use teachers brought from the , Japan-occupied areas because people from the coastal provinces are , regarded as more progressive than those from inland . Units are be ' ginning to travel over free China , using as educational media lee- ' tures , lantern slides and particularly the drama as a means of conveying wartime lessons . Cars have been prepared complete with phonograph records , projectors , and music for patriotic songs . The Government is also preparing to use " show boats " to reach villagers and farmers who use rivers and canals as sole communication means . Girl students are being trained as nurses . Some of the teachers from occupied ' areas are being sent to work in refugee camps . " The aims of the Education Ministry with reference to teachers are twofold , " said Mr. Chen . " First , we want to use ' occupies areas teachers ' to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be busy somewhere . Teachers are transferred to districts as convenient to them as possible . Once there , they not only teach , but also unity and organize politically . We are also sending some teachers secretly into the occupied areas where they do work to enlighten the people in order to prevent them from being paralyzed by Japan 's propaganda efforts . " Throughout everything we do we are trying to meet needs not merely of war , but also of reconstruction for peace . " This thought runs throughout everything in Chungking , and perhaps nowhere more than at such educational institutions as those visited . The first of these , not far from ' Chungking , but well out in beautiful open country , was the well-constructed and extensive new Nankai Middle School which removed to Chungking from Tientsin in 1937 . Dr. Chang Poling , the President , explained that he came to Chungking and started a branch institution at first . Then the Nankai University at Tientsin was bombed and later looted by the Japanese and ? the college joined with Southwest University in Kunmine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was most economically constructed , costing less than half a million Chinese dollars  --  the cost now would be tar greater , as prices have soared  --  and it accommodates 1,400 students , both girls and boys , one-third of whom are local and the others from various parts of the war zone . In addition to classrooms , labor stories , dormitories , and similar , buildings there is a bank , a post office , and a co-operative store . Actually Nankai is hardly recognizable as a wartime job , due to the forethought which installed it in Szechwan Province at an early stage of the hostilities . Farther on , at a point beautifully situated and overlooking the Kia - ling Ili% er , is the really wartime institution of Central University  --  built on land obtained from the near-by Chungking University and built , as already mentioned , in only 42 days . The President , Dr. Lo Chia-luen , took a rather apologetic attitude over the somewhat crude and light construction of the buildings , and he also declared that the institution was already much ci @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed that the construction was serviceable , clean , and utilitarian , and however limited the accomodation may hak e seemed to a man with a big Jon on his hands , there was nevertneless far more to see than could be inspected in one brier visit . One hundred and seventy lull-time professors , 32 lecturers , end 108 assistants are training the 2 200 regularly enrolled students . and Dr. Lo pointed out that 98 per wat of the courses are under professois . In Nanking , 524 courses 1 , , ere given during the last senester the University operated : this year , 608 courses were go . en Jr . the first semester , and 630 are no . v being given . Lecture hours total 1,150 per seek , and laboratory hours in e about the same to a t. , , a1 of 2,300 hours .                     