@@702786

txt The impression that Japan does not desire a peaceful end to the Shanghai fighting has been strengthened here by word of her refusal to accept the British proposal that neutrals should undertake the protection of Japanese non-combatants on condition that the Japanese and Chinese fighting forces evacuate the International Settlement . The presence of Japanese troops in the Shanghai area is allegedly due to the necessity of protecting the lives and property of Japanese residents . The Japanese plea that this is a duty they can not allow other countries to perform " cuts no ice " at all here . Meanwhile the British Government has expressed its intention of holding the Japanese to account both for rent and any damage that may ensue in respect of the properties of , British residents which are occupied by Japanese for military purposes . Trade Pact Held Up Whether they will get any satisfaction is , of course , another matter . But it is pointed out that just before the Sino-Japanese dispute began Japan made overtures to Britain for a new trade agreement for the purpose of opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in British colonies during the past few years . Naturally there is no prospect of embarking on negotiations of this kind until matters arising out of Japan 's invasions of China have been settled . China 's warning to neutral warships that unless they move five miles away from Japanese warships she will not be responsible for any mishaps that may occur is not expected to lead to the removal of British vessels . Extension or Bailie Zone Nevertheless , British authorities are becoming increasingly concerned at the dangerous possibilities of the situation . Although an attempt is being made to carry on as usual in Shanghai , it is believed here that Japan will make a strong effort during the next few days to stern the tide of China 's unexpected successes and that this is liable to result in extension of the area of fighting . In this connection some sympathy is expressed here with the Soviet Consul who is accused by Japan of deliberately helping the Chinese by putting a lantern on the roof of the consulate . The building is almost next door to the Japanese Consulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Leaves Action to American Officials in War Area Price of Rights SHANGHAI , Aug. 20 ( ii ' ) ? One United States sailor was killed and 18 wounded tonight when an anti-aircraft shell of undetermined origin struck the after deck of the cruiser Au gusta , flagship of the United States Asiatic fleet . The sailor killed was Freddie John Falgout Raceland , Fla . None of the 18 wounded was seriously hurt . The shell struck when Japanese and Chinese guns were roaring on both banks of the Whangpoo and from warships on the river . it ) a Stall Cnrreginnulent of he Cis ivies . Science Alonnor WASHINGTON , Aug. 20 ? President Roosevelt sounded the official note of reaction to the explosion of a shell on the U. S. S. cruiser Augusta here this morning , describing it as one of those things which is almost inevitable in a situation such as exists at Shanghai . He added that American officials would be left in complete control of the matter there , and that no initiative would be taken from here in regard to possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feeling in official and State Department circles that the injuries and one fatality on the Augusta is part of the priCe which is exacted in the discharge of national obligations and responsibilities which can not at this time be avoided . The Augusta and all the American marines ashore at Shanghai are obviously in a dangerous place . American citizens and American troops along with the nationals and troops of a half dozen other neutral powers , are caught in the middle of a war . The possibility of what has happened was foreseen here when the situation broke out and when the Administration decided upon its ' course of action . The only way the accident to tht Augusta could have been avoided Would have been the withdrawal of all American armed ' forces and warships from Shanghai the moment trouble started . But this would have meant abandoning 3800 American citizens , who would have had no protection then except what the British and French might have been willing to extend . This the Administration never for a moment considered . The Augusta , it is emphasized , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in covering their evacuation from Shanghai down the Whangpoo river to passenger ships which will carry them to safety . The incident nevertheless served here to emphasize the cost of de- , fending American lives and , interests in the Chinese war zone and resulted immediately in a demand from several Senators for immediate and complete evacuation of all nationals , including armed forces . and for immediate application of the neutrality act . Demand for Withdrawal " We should have withdrawn from Shanghai long ago , Senator Bennett Champ Clark ( D ) of Missouri said . " Civilians who want to leave should be removed and then the armed forces , including naval vessels , should be withdrawn . Of course some civilians would n't want to leave but that would be up to them " The neutrality legislation should be in effect . " Senator Gerald P. Nje ( R ) of North Dakota said that ' the thing the United States should do is get out of there . We should have been out sooner and the neutrality legislation should have been invoked by the President " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand that Congress remain in session long enough to take " every possible action to pi otect this country against being involved in the Far Eastern war . " Would invoke Neutrality " Congress enacted the neutrality legislation after careful study of World War experience " they said in the statement . " as a protection against policies which would involve us in just such a conflict as is going on in China today . For reasons appaiently based not on consideration of our own protection , but of the effect of our policy on other countries , the neutrality legislation has not as yet been applied . " We have every confidence that ' the President will in the immediate future carry out the mandate of that law and stop feeding the war which means destruction of thousands of lives in the Orient and the danger of war to all the world " Frederick J Libby . executive secretary of the National Council for Prevention of War , also joined the growing chorus of groups demanding immediate application of the act . Asked about this particular aspect of the Far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President said that it was under daily consideration . But he pointed out . as he did last week , that diplomatic relations between China and Japan have not 3 , et been finally- sesered . It has been made clear here that Mr. Roosevelt has no intention of applying the act so long as China and Japan continue to maintain such relations It is further believed that the Administration hopes . ashen and if relations are severed , that it a ill continue to be able to resist pressure for application of the act . I                     