@@697775

txt Edward Robinson , director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1910 , died in his home at 84 Irving Place yesterday morning after an illness of several months . His age was 72 . He was recognized as one of the world 's leading experts on classical art in all its forms . Mr. Robinson became ill in December and had not visited the museum since . His wife and friends had been encouraged recently by what appeared to be a marked improvement in his condition . Funeral services will be held on Tuesday at 10:30 A. M. , in St. Bartholomew 's Church . Joseph Breck , assistant director of the museum , has been acting director during Mr. Robinson 's illness . Mr. Robinson 's responsibility had greatly increased since he became director of the museum . Five new departments were organized and a large scientific staff engaged , including the members of the museum 's Egyptian expedition ; the museum 's buildings increased and its collections tremendously increased . In Sympathy With New Art . Mr. Robinson succeeded with the art movements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boston , Nov. 1 , 1858 , he had been interested in art from his boyhood . After his graduation from Harvard in 1879 he went to Europe , where he spent five years studying the great art works of the past . He lived in Greece for fifteen months and was a student at the University of Berlin for three semesters . Upon returning to the United States he became curator of classical antiquities at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts , a position which he held from 1885 to 1902 , when he was made director of that institution , remaining in office for three years . He was in many ways identified with the artistic impulses of Boston , and from 1890 to 1898 was secretary of the Municipal Art Commission there . For eight years , in all , he lectured on classical archaeology at Harvard . In 1887-88 Mr. Robinson was concerned with the collection and arrangement of the art objects in the Slater Memorial Museum at Norwich , Conn . Jointly , with Henry W. Kent , he selected and arranged the casts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prolific writer on classical art during this period . From 1891 to 1895 he selected and purchased casts for the Metropolitan Art Museum here , although it was little thought then that he would come to New York permanently . Shortly after the death of General Luigi P. di Cesnola , the Metropolitan 's first director , Mr. Robinson was spoken of as his possible successor . The post went to Sir Caspar Purdon Clarke , then director of the South Kensington Museum in London , however , and Mr. Robinson was made assistant director with the understanding that he would supervise the classical antiquities . One of the results of Mr. Robinson 's work in this branch of the museum was his reclassification of the Cypriote collection assembled by General di Cesnola , which had become the object of criticism . Mr. Robinson took the initiative with regard to the collection by proposing to have it submitted to the judicial examination of Professor John L. versity and then of the University Myres , formerly of Oxford Uniof Liverpool , whom he considered the leading world authority on the Cyprus relics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collection . EDWARD ROBINSON . Greece ; officer of the Royal Order of the Polar Star , Sweden , and an officer of the Royal Order of the Star of Rumania . He was the author of catalogues of Greek and Roman casts and Greek , Roman and Etruscan vases in the Boston Museum of Art . An article by Mr. Robinson , " Did the Greeks Paint Their Sculptures ? " which appeared in The Century Magazine in April , 1892 , attracted much interest in the artistic world . On Feb. 21 , 1881 , Mr. Robinson married Miss Elizabeth Gould of Boston , who survives him . Heads Metropolitan Museum . After Sir Caspar Clarke resigned the directorship of the Metropolitan Museum because of ill health , Mr. Robinson succeeded him . Despite the fact that he had given so much of his time to the study of the antique , he was thoroughly in touch with other branches of art , both medieval and modern . In his inaugural address Mr. Robinson outlined the policy of the museum as follows : " To maintain jealously a high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admitted to our collections ; to exhibit those works with knowledge , system and taste ; to exercise a liberal hospitality toward every branch or period of art that can legitimately come within the province of a museum of fine arts ; to make the Metropolitan Museum of Art one of the great forces in the education of the people , not only of New York but of the whole country . " In furtherance of those ends , to develop our staff along the lines upon which we have already started , namely , of departmental organization , placing in charge of the various collections competent men and women of advanced knowledge as specialists in their subjects , in order that the word of the museum on any subject within its range will be accepted as coming from the highest authority , as in the case with opinions expressed by officials of the great museums of Europe . " Recipient of Many Honors . Few men in his profession have acquired more honors than Mr. Robinson . He held the LL . D. degree of the University of Aberdeen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Princeton . He was a trustee of the American Academy in Rome and a member of the managing committee of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens , a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , a member of the council of the Archaeological Institute of America and president of the New York Society , a director of the American Federation of Arts , member of the German Archaeological Institute and a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York . Mr. Robinson was also a knight of the Prussian Order of the Red Eagle , third class ; commander of the Royal Order of George the First ,                     