@@701441

txt A measuring rod you can apply to yourself to learn whether you are at heart a radical or a conservative , Red or reactionary , was described to the American Psychological association here today by Dr. Theodore F. Lentz of Washington university , St. Louis . It comprises several hundred selected and " weighted " questions . You May Be Radical . " Yes " to such as these shows your tendency is radical . 1 ? Alimony for divorced husbands is as logical as alimony for divorced wives . 2 ? The world needs a new religion . 3 ? It was within the power of the diplomats of 1900 to 1912 to prevent the world war . 4 ? Something more effective than our present brooms and mops and vacuum cleaners should be devised to clean our homes . 5 ? One-fifth of the public school budget could well be spent in educating parents to educate their children . now to Pick a Conservative . Conservative , if you answer yes to these : 1 ? It is bad for a married man to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Billy Sunday has done much to make religion a vital force in our lives . 3 ? Not all international disputes should be settled by arbitration . 4 ? Women in general are not as intelligent as men . 5 ? College education is right in more ways than it is wrong . 580 Students Tested . The testing method was tried on 530 college students . With full statistical analysis , the experimenter found that it shows radicalism and conservatism are matters of degree rather than kind . Also that it is very difficult to devise a measurement which does not unduly influence the findings in these human problems . The four day meeting of the psychologists closed at noon today . An idea of the currents of war and anti-war and radicalism running on college campuses was given by E. Lowell Kelly of the Connecticut State college . The effects of an anti-war meeting on the campus , he said , extended widely beyond those who attended . The meeting caused the participants to become slightly more anti-war than before . Meeting Widely Discussed . But those who did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The meeting , he explained , received much discussion about the campus . These findings were based only on students whose opinions it was possible to measure carefully three times ; first before the anti-war meeting , second , at the time of the meeting , and third , some time afterward . The split showed in the third measurement . All these students were opposed to war on general principles , and tha measurements showed either mildness. or violence of this opposition . Between the sexes Dr. Kelly found no essential difference on the war issue . On other subjects , the men were somewhat more opposed than the women to both Socialism and communism .                     