@@697621

txt It is manifest that those European countries which are preeminently industrial are tending toward a reduction in money wages and salaries . Foreign observers , noting the opinion almost universal in this country in favor of high wages and maintenance of " American standards of living . " see an opportunity to capture , markets from our exporters by Cutting their labor costs . That wages will be reduced to some extent in those countries is now reasonably certain ; to what extent is at present not clear . That there Is likely to be any similar or concerted movement in this country is unlikely unless there should be a further sharp decline In commodity prices or a further important shrinkage in business . One important fact must be borne in mind . Whoever in this country is employed today at the same rate of wages or salary as he or she received a year ago is enjoying an increase in real wages , measured by the decline in prices of the goods and services which he or she uses which has occurred since January , 1930 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is little advantage in mathematical computations based on commodity price indices , for variety of individual consumptive habits robs such computations of much of their value . Certain it is , however , that as compared with prewar days the wage-earner and the salaried employe have secured a large advance in real wages , a not unimportant part of which has accrued in the last year . Mere maintenance of the post-war money wages has been all that was necessary to accomplish this , for , speaking broadly , wages having overcome the lag which occurred in the first uprush of prices and having adjusted themselves to the post-war commodity price level . have on the whole failed to follow that price level in its subsequent decline . Thus one result  --  and an important and excellent result ? of the war has been to improve very materially the living standard of the wage-earner and the salaried worker . And the wage-earners and salaried workers who are employed today are enjoying the full benefit of that improvement . It is probably safe to conclude that at this time those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salary which has not been reduced In money are at " peak " In the matter of real wages . The Two Factors in Unemployment Unemployment as we all know arises from // two things . One is the substitution of mechanical processes for human labor , and we speak of that as " technological " unemployment . The other Is the dislocation of our productiveconsumptive economy , and this we call " business depression . " There is no real remedy for unemployment except through restoration of balance in that economy . To attempt to reinstate the " technologically unemployed " in the industry from which the machine has Alimin .. ted them by reversing the process that has brought about that elimination is futile . It is equivalent , in fact , to the attempts of a century and a half ago to hold back the machine age . Substitution of machine-hours for man-hours in manufacturing processes must continue to the extent that human ingenuity can devise ' the means , for only in that way can product-unit cost be lowered , and lowered product-unit costs are the goal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration of balance in the productive-consumptive economy is possible , as Mr. Melvin Traylor pointed out in his Dallas speech , only by concerted planning and action in which not only all leaders of industrial and commercial activity have part and representation but also those who make and administer the laws of the country . Failing  --  or pending  --  such a process we shall probably have to be content with a periodical recurrence of dislocation in some degree , and resigned to the necessity of taking care of unemployment by one or another form of " dole . " Depression Low Point Seems Reached Never in the history of previous depressions in this country has there been so general an aversion on the part of employers to reduce the money wages of those still employed as there is at this time , notwithstanding the fact that real wages are at the highest point  --  or near it ? ever known . Never in our history has there been a more general recognition of the fact that the road to prosperity lies in increasing the share of the wage earner and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services . We hear little nowadays of the phrase so familiar to the ears of seniors ? " liquidation of labor . " It is everyone 's hope that industry may not be driven to the point where the choice is between a wage-reduction and the suspension of production . We seem now to be at about the bottom of the present depression and the next few months should see the beginnings at least of recovery . In some , perhaps many , cases , however , production is running at a direct out-ofpocket loss without reckoning any profit or return on capital investment , because product-unit factory costs exceed selling price . This  --  assuming no purely " business reasons " to be present ? is tantamount to a " dole " to the workers . We would probably all or almost all                     