@@700433

txt Orders for new cars have been piling up faster than the motor plants have been able to build up production with the result that the industry , exclusive of Ford . entered February with upwards of 250,000 unfilled orders on hand . Ford Motor Co .. with steadily expanding output , is keeping abreast of demand . The accumulated business in the hands of the balance of the industry means that its entire February output atteady is taken and that a substantial volume of orders will be carried over into March . Production delays and the , strength In demand have brought about the pars- i doxical situation whereby the industry will be entering its spring selling season with an inventory of unfilled orders rather than an inventory of cars in the field If demand holds , as there are strong indications that it will , it can mean only that intense activity is in store for the industry throughout the spring months . It will be a problem for the manufacturers to provide adequate display cars for dealers . The burden of expanding the business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division ; the sales departments which have carried the burden for many years are finding their load lightened . Volume Production Problem While good progress has been made in stepping up the production rate , it has been a tedious and somewhat painful process . The manufacturers are not yet out of the woods , and desired volume is still a goal toward which most of them are striving and some may not reach even in February . The greatest progress has been made by the volume producers . Some lines not in the volume field will not be in production until late this month or first of next . Despite the production difficulties , in the neighborhood of 160,000 cars and trucks are estimated to have been turned out in January and upwards of 250,000 units is the indicated output for February , based on present plans . Companies have been barkwar4 about revealing-their jaznuary. dutpitt - dkurea sinde so many missed the marks set up earlier in the month . Ford 's January Record Ford Motor Co. turned out 57,575 cars and trucks in January , the biggest January production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ford is aiming at 80.000 units for February . Daily production is approaching the 4,000 mark . Chevrolet , with unfilled orders for 100.000 cars and trucks is understood to have attained a daily output of more than 3,000 units . Retail sales of Chevrolet cars in Cook County during the first four days of the Chicago show totaled 460 , or more than the combined sales during similar periods of 1932 and 1933 . Plymouth production is running in excess of 1,200 cars daily and unfilled orders total 65,000 , or 25,000 of the entire 1933 output . Plymouth dealers took orders for 370 cars at the Detroit show , compared with 100 at the 1933 show . The initial schedule of Hudson Motor Car Co. for February calling for 12,000 cars will be stepped up if production can be advanced beyond this mark . Company has more orders on hand than can be filled this month . Dealers have no more 1933 cars but the entire dealer organization is expected to be supplied with current models shortly . 10,000 Snicks in February Buick 's production has reached 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be produced in February . Company has 13,500 men on its payroll . Retail sales at the Chicago show by Tuesday night totaled 106 against 18 for the same period a year ago . Olds Motor Works turned out 2,375 cars in January and plans to produce 7,000 in February . Production so far has been entirely on the eight cylinder cars . The new six will get into production about February 15 . Pontiac reports orders on band for 20,000 cars . Production is being stepped up rapidly and February schedule calls for twice as many cars as were turned out in January with a 50% increase over February slated for March . By Thursday night 289 Pontiac cars had been sold at the Chicago show , increase of 45% over the period last year . 6.000 DeSoto Advance Orders De Soto with 6.000 advance orders from dealers recently started building its new airflow cars and expects to be in strong production by the end of February . Company officials are highly pleased with the public reaction to the new models . Forty-eight De Soto cars were sold at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first three days of the Chicago show than during the entire show last year , the company reports . The first Chrysler airflow model came off the assembly line Friday . Company reports advance orders for 10,074 cars . Laterally swamped with orders . Cadillac Motor will build up production as fast as possible , according to J. C. Chick , sales manager . In January 1,500 Cadillac cars were produced . Production of the LaSalle cars is scheduled to get under way during the latter part of this month . Mr. Chick reported that the company has been adding dealers and currently have a total of around 1.200 which is about 20% above the number at this tune last year . Western Auto Shows Real Test Motor executives found even more encouragement in the Detroit and Chicago shows than they did at New York . " As an annual institution . " said Alfred Reeves , N. A. C. C. manager , " the New York show always attracts big crowds but the real test of potential public demand is the western shows in the manufacturing and agricultural sections , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That visitors at these shows were in a buying mood was evidenced by the substantial increases in sales made by various companies and by the large number of prospects booked . Another encouraging feature of the retail situation is the public reception to the dealers ' code . The manufacturers had been somewhat concerned about the ieaction to that phase of the code which prescribed uniform allowances on cars traded in . From all indications the code is working out satisfactorily . Allowances for used cars have been higher than anticipated and there is no evidence of sales resistance because of the new basis on which deals are made . Membership in the National Automobile Dealers Association now totals over 22,000 , highest in the organization 's history and compares with previous peak membership of 6,000 dealers . The association estimates that there are approximately 32,000 dealers in the united States that can be classed as actual automobile retailers .                     