@@703441

txt The first national center for safety education in the United States is in operation at New York Univetsity this summer under a special grant of funds from the National Conservation Bureau for a comprehensive program of insttuction , research . and 1nfot motion in problems of accident control . The bureau is maintained and administered by 61 stock casualty insurance companies , and the center will be supervised by its former Director of Education , Dr. Herbert J. Stack , with Dr. Frank S. Lloyd , Professor of Education at the university , as consulta , nt . The 1938-39 academic program will feature 24 research fellowships in safety education , stipends to range from $400 to $1,200 for graduate students enrolled in the university 's School of Education . Although the center has been planned primarily for the instruction of teachers , the work will he conducted on a scale to serve all types of personnel concerned with safe living , according to Chancellor Harry Woodburn Chase . Need Emphasized ' The tremendous ' toll in human suffering and economic waste which the hazards of modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread effort : , to control these hazards , " the Chancellor said , - " Education is one of the most potent tools we can employ . " Between 1922 and 1936 , he continued , the teaching of safety in the schools had decreased the accident fatality rate In the age group of 5 to 14 years 15 per cent , and for all ages , 24 per cent , while the fatality toll for persons over 14 years of age had tripled . These statistics , he held , showed the need of " much more " safety education not only for students , but for men and women In all walks of life , Ned H. Dearborn , Dean of the Division of General Education , said the center had Its further premise In the facts ( het 24 States and more than 100 cities already have published courses In safety , that this phase of education will be the source of the 1090 yearbook of the American Association of School Administrators , that at least 5000 high schools In the Nation were giving driving Instruction In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , now require the teaching of safety In public schools . New methods Sought " The thorough preparation of teachers of safety . " . he continued , " now  --  requIres concentration on efforts to find and introduce new methods and technics . For that reason fellows appointed In the University 's new program of safety education will he expected to supplement their courses with field work in various cities and with research along practical lines , their studies to be published and , along with other Information in safety education , to be made available for general Ilse . " Study emphasis at the center will embrace materials and methods of teaching safety education In de- secondaiy , and vocational schools ; safety in athletics and recreation ; organization and administiation of safety education . cunt-cut= building , essentials of industrial accident prevention , and ( Inver training . The University center has evolved a standai diced course in ( hiring skill which will be adapted to safety instruction in 40 universities and colleges this summer . The test run was a side street oft Washington Place , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Motor Car Division of General Motors to the American Automobile Association for driving training , were the practice motorcars . White lines had been painted on the asphalt and portable stanchions marked the course for the backing and filling , weaving In and out , diagonal and curb parking and gear shifting . Students were all teachers or directors of safety in schools and public departments from many states .                     