@@698975

txt The first feeling of any conversant with the matter , regarding the Commerce Commission 's decision on the " trunk-line railway mergers , " is relief that the ten-year deadlock has been broken . This does not exclude a sense of irritation that decision has been so long deferred . This new alignment conforms closely to the proposal made on Dec. 30 , 1930 , by the presidents of the trunk-line systems whose properties must be the basis of the consolidation . In it four main systems were prescribed , to be built up around the existing New York Central , Pennsylvania , Baltimore &; Ohio and Chesapeake &; Ohio-Nickel Plate systems . Control of many of the subsidiary lines proposed for allotment was already held by the companies into which , under the plan suggested , they would be merged . It is only after eighteen months of delay that the commission has brought itself into general agreement with the plan . During all that period the alignment of railways proposed by the commission in December , 1929 ? to which the larger railways , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official program . The commission had in 1929 outlined not four but five trunk-line systems . One of them , a curious grouping of the Lehigh Valley , the Wabash , the Seaboard Air Line . and a dozen other smaller roads which were much more closely affiliated with the four existing trunk lines , was considered impossible by the larger railways , and the petitioners for such a system have withdrawn their application . The commission itself now calmly announces that , quite aside from the subsequent bankruptcy of Seaboard Air Line and I Wabash , " there have arisen grave doubts " whether such a grouping " would fulfill the requirements of the statute . " Potsibly it may seem to others that 71-wo and a half years was a long time to occupy in reaching the decision . In point of fact , the procrastination has had actual awkward consequences , because several of the large trunk lines held a proprietary interest in smaller lines . Against this control the Clayton act was invoked , ostensibly with a view to compelling the larger systems to dispose of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smaller lines are now allotted to the very trunk lines which had acquired control of them , but not until , in the case of the Pennsylvania 's control . of Wabash. ptopkt the proprietary line could note because of the uncertain legal tenure , intervene to save the Wabash from receivership . The matter seems now , however , in line for readjustment . Several " loose ends " are left , chiefly affecting the New England roads ; but on this the railway presidents themselves had not agreed in December , 1930 . Under existing circumstances too much ought not to be expected from this latest proposal . ' The railway situation is very different from what it was at the end of 1929 or 1930 . In the calendar year 1929 total railway gross operating revenue was $6,360,000,000 , as against $4,236,000,000 in 1931 , and it has decreased further thus far in 1932 . There is possibly , in some respects , all the more need for what the commission describes as the primary purpose of consolidation ? " aural " gamation between the weak and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems which , while per " haps not as strong as some of the " existing properties , will be strong " er than the average of the weaker " roads to be consolidated . " But the time for effecting such a change to the best advantage was manifestly several years ago . Even now , however , agreement on a sound and practicable plan will be preparing for the future . It will give a sense of permanency and assurance to the railways generally , and should certainly enable them to take advantage of the revival in trade which will in due course come .                     