@@703091

txt N. C.1 entertained the senate today with a disquisition on the habits and mental processes of Harold L. Ickes , secretary of the interior and prom inent business baiter for the Roose velt administration . Senator Bailey amused himself by quoting from a book called " America 's Sixty Families , " by Ferdinand Lundberg , which Secretary Ickes cited approvingly in his recent radio diatribe blaming the new depression on a business sitdown strike and monopolistic practices of " economic royalists . " The North Carolina senator intimated that the book was garbage of a low degree , the product of a diseased mind , and that anybody who would rely upon it places himself in the same mental category . Reads Passage from Book . The senator produced great merriment when he read a passage from the book , as follows : " Bathing is a frequent ceremony in upper class life , and the member of the average wealthy family is apt to spend much time in the bath , telephoning , transacting business with secretaries and housekeepers , read ' ing , listening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The psychologist Freud has a theory that frequent washing of the hands marks a betrayal of a subconscious feeling of guilt . Frequent bathing , by the same token , must then mark the betrayal of an even deeper feeling than subconscious guilt . " " So if you wash you are guilty , " said Senator Bailey . " If you get into the bathtub you are condemned . That is a new doctrin in America , but will say that I am ready for anything now . I have heard enough strange things not to ' be astonished at the bible of the secretary of the interior , Mr. Ickes . " Asks About the Bathtubs . Senator Ellison D. Smith D. , S. C. interrupted , but Senator Bailey , before yielding , asked whether he had bathed lately . " If you have , I do not want to deal with you , " Bailey said . Senator Smith , declaring he did not wish to betray his guilt , finally succeeded in getting the floor and asked : " What significance should be attached to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honey . combed with bathtubs and all the latest accouterments of the sixty fam ? files to whom the secretary of the interior refers ? " " Very clearly , they are all guilty , " said Senator Bailey . " I have never been admitted to the privacy of that gorgeous department down there . Intimations were made , you know , which made a man  --  a gentleman  --  a little reluctant to expose himself . He Suspects Ickes Bathes. 4 ' I would not care to impeach the secretary of the interior with the suggestion that he bathes , but I have read in the newspapers and I will state , as the lawyers say , on information and belief , that when his office down there was built he re ? quired , in addition to all the other palatial accouterments , that he should have a private bath , and that it should be in blue marble finished in gold . " I have heard men who were admitted to those sacred precincts say that Mr. Gibbon 's description of the luxuries of Caligula and Nero @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But I am not saying that Mr. Ickes ever bathes . I would not strike below tile belt . I would not go that far with a renegade Republican who has become a sort of half way Democrat , " Discusses Questions Further . Senator Bailey then proceeded to go further into the business of bathing under the Roosevelt administration . " Above all things , do not bathe , " he said . " If you bathe , you are guilty . It evidences a feeling of subconscious guilt , and I understand that one of the most awful feelings in the world is subconscious guilt , " Taking up a more serious discussion of the book on which Ickes based his alibi for the current recession , Senator Bailey said he would pay no more attention to a man who gets his information from such garbage than he would to the man who wrote it . Blasts BMWs Autnor . " But sometimes we have to protest , " he said . " It is a disagreeable task , but we can not stand here and let a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interior evidence that it comes from a diseased mind . " It came from garbage , and it is garbage . I have no complaint against a garbage collector . I can take off my hat to the humblest man who does the humblest job on earth . But when a man deliberately chooses to create garbage and sell it for money he has gone a little bit lower than the stuff in the sewer itself . " Senator Bailey said the author of the book filled Mr. Ickes " full of stuff that any man , however weak and however crazy , might have resisted , however blind and however partisan , might have discovered . " I think the trouble with Mr. Ickes , " he said , " was that he forgot to take a bath before he read that book . " GERMANS HONOR VISITING PREMIER OF JUGO-SLAVIA ANNABERG , Germany , Jan . IA(R) ? Premier Milan Stoyadinovich , first Jugo-Slav statesman to visit Berlin officially since the world war , was welcomed ceremoniously tonight when he entered German territory at thi : frontier station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headed by Chief of Protocol Buelow Schwante and high Nazi officials , who were to accompany him to Berlin , arriving there early tomorrow . Stoyadinovich 's visit officially was a return call for the one Foreign Minister Baron Konstantin von Neurath and Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , then minister of economics , made in Belgrade last June . It has been stated author . itatively that no new pacts or agreements were expected . His five day visit was scheduled to include a talk with Chancellor Adolf Hitler .                     