@@703109

txt lines missing bill should be through during this weck , In the same category is the tax revision program incorporated in the big new revenue act of 1938 , modifying the undistributed profits . tax and exempting about 90 per cent of all corporations . It Is before the House Ways and Means Committee and should come over to the Senate fairly promptly . Roswell Magill , the capable undersecretary of the Treasury , and former Columbia University tax expert , who chiefly engineered this bill , would have preferred a more sweeping program of tax reform but finally decided business conditions made . it impractical for the time being . ReoreanizinC Plan Finally there Is the third category of legislation  --  either new ideas for putting America 's house in order after the New Deal pattern , or Nils previously introduced for that ambitious end which have not got very far . Such a one Is the program to reorganize the executive departments of government . This measure is actually sitting on the Senate 's doorstep . It . Is about the only matter which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ includes matters on which Mr. Roosevelt promised to ask legislation In special mes.sages ? First of all , of course , is ' the prospective navy increase . That will come up as soon as the pending naval supply bill is qut of the way . The Administration for strategic reasons wants to keep the regular supply bill and the new policy-forming navy bill separate and distinct . Most observers , judging by the fate of the Ludlow war referendum proposal , believe Congress will ' pass the " big navn bill , which Is likely to be coupled with peaceful professions and the thought of its aid to business . Finally , the President . has promised legislation directed against monopolies and " concentration of economic control . " Coupled with this may be a program , for bringing the Government into closer cooperation with business , had the recent reappearance of Donald Richberg in high New Deal councils causes speculation as to whether a revived NRA is in prospect : There certainly will be a new relief bill to meet the business slump , and Mr.-Roosevelt 's annual message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to impose responsibility on organized labor . Holding company regulation may develop , too , Take it all and all , this is an ambitious program . Its nicks and crevices will be filled with all sorts of extraneous legislation initiated in Congress itself . It will be hard for Congress to get through all this work and take ' its scheduled spring adjournment . For this reason the ruddy-checked Vice-President has at last cracked down , From now on the Senate filibuster will have real intensity . It is fortunate that a southerner sits in the presiding officer 's chair . There can be no accusation of northern partisanship . There is evidence that the Administration does not much care which way the anti-lynching bill falls ; what it wants is to got oh with its own program ,                     