@@698469

txt News of the appointment of Mr. Henry L. Stun-son , Secretary of State , to head the American delegation to the General Disarmament Conference has enormously encouraged those preparing for the conference here . Genuine satisfaction is felt that now the United States , like other great powers , will be represented by a leading statesman of Cabinet rank . Mr. Stimson is , of course , on close personal terms with many of the leaders who will attend the conference . His presence will be a solid influence for success , it is felt here . Meanwhile , final preparations for the conference are being completed . As far as physical equipment goes , the conference will undoubtedly have the most efficient plant of any similar meeting in history . At its own expense , Geneva and the Swiss Confederation have erected and presented to the League of Nations a 4arge modern building annexed to the present League Secretariat . In this structure , elected in record time , there are ample facilities for all conference needs except for the plenary sessions , which will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready for the curtain to ring up on the conference on Feb. 2 . Mr. Norman Davis , American delegate , is already here and several State Department officials , as well as Mr. Hugh R. Wilson . Minister to Switzerland , are in Geneva to complete American preparations . Stimson Appointment Leads to Speculation Special from Monitor Bureau WASHINGTON . Jan. 20 ? Speculation as to the underlying purpose ! of the appointment of Mr. Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State , to the chairmanship of the American dele-gation to the Geneva Disarmament Conference Feb. 2 , is heard here . Would he accept such an appointment , and could he accept it if there were not something more than a mere disarmament discussion to be undertaken " Otherwise , could he leave the United States with the situation in the Far East tense , and while important administration policies in Washington are being considered ? These are questions being asked . . That his appointment generally strengthens the morale of the commission is admitted , although the same agieement was expressed when Brig. - Gen . Charles G. Dawes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a logical one by those who are close to the situation , if tt is understood that no battering on a reduction of tsar debts will be discussed , and if the Amet scan delegation is not to be authorized to enter into any security compacts as a price of disarmament . On this point the contention is made that " so strong is the Administration 's feeling on the question of disarmament that its attitude need be expressed again . " Mr. Stimson has stated that until the European nations put their houses in order , further war debt readjustment must not be expected                     