@@703543

txt After a day of wildly contradictory reports from the Continent ? so many and so divergent that even the British Government could not keep pace with them  --  hopes of the continuance of Czechoslovak-G-erman negotiations began to grow dim tonight . The situation was felt to be at least as serious as at kny time in the past fortnight . It was like living another fateful day all over again  --  that day last February when Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg of Austria left Berchtesgaden , Germany , with Austria 's death warrant in his pocket . Then , as now , the first reports of what happened were reassuring . It was said Austria and Germany had agreed to be frieffds , just as today London is flooded with stories of Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's peaceful intentions . But there was this difference , among others  --  that in February Britain did not guess how much depended on the Berchtesgaden meeting and did not greatly care . Today Britain looked anxiously across the North Sea , wondering what really took place on the Bavarian hill tops and realizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lives and fortunes of British people everywhere . It was not known whether Sir Nevile Henderson , British Ambassador to Germany , repeated yesterday to Joachim von Ribbentrop , German Foreign Minister , the warning given a week ago by Sir John Simon , British Chancellor of the Exchequer . Nor was there confirmation of the official assurance said to have been given to Sir Nevile by Baron Ernst von Weiszaecker , Under-Secretary of the German Foreign Ministry , in Berlin yesterday , that Germany would not use violence against the Czechoslovaks . Government spokesmen here said they had no record of this promise , although they added dryly that they recalled many previous declarations of Germany 's peaceful intentions . This , perhaps , was just a tactful way of recalling the assurance given in January , 1936 , by the Foreign Minister , Baron Constan , tin von Neurath , that Germany I would not occupy the Rhineland , or Hitler 's promise last February that he would respect the independence of Austria or Field Marshal Hermann Goering 's pledge to the British Government last March that Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always help reduce the tension , but they will be read here in the light of promises that have gone before . Outwardly there was no sign of concern in the government offices today . Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain was still at Balmoral with the King while Viscount Halifax , Foreign Secretary , went to Yorkshire this morning after seeing overnight dispatches . But most of the other Ministers remained within an hour or two of London . Among those hard at work was Sir Kingsley Wood , Air Minister , who was able to announce the completion of a scheme for building bombing planes in Canada and flying them to Britain . The bombers will not be ready for a long time , but every such announcement helps to remind the British that they will have powerful friends and immense resources when the time of trouble comes . Interest in Our Actions The British press continues to I show curiosity over United States Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy 's visits to Downing Street Monday and Tuesday and other signs of American concern over the European situation . The creation of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention , which will become still greater if battleships are transferred from the Pacific to the Atlantic . At such a moment the British like to think that the American naval decision is a gesture as well as a precautionary measure , although so far there has rbeen no public comment . Likewise , The Yorkshire Post , which is not only well-informed but usually reliable , told its readers today : " There is reason to believe President Roosevelt is ready , if need be , to make a new declaration of warning to Germany of the dangers of a resort to force . " The Yorkshire Post also asserted that Lord Halifax asked Mr. Kennedy " certain precise questions as to what the United States ' attitude would be should Britain become in , volved alongside France in war on behalf of Czechoslovakia . " The questions , according to The Yorkshire Post , dealt with the effect of the Johnson act , the Neutrality Act and the American attitude generally . Government quarters here denied flatly , however , that any question had been asked of Mr. Kennedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fairly confident that neither the Johnson act which bars loans to foreign nations in default to the United States nor the Neutrality Act would be allowed to cripple them for long if they should be drawn into war . They have the impression that American public opinion is far more sympathetic to them and far more hostile to Germany than in 1914 . Moreover , there Is a widespread belief here  --  resulting perhaps from the tone of recent speeches of President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull  --  that the United States Administration would push revision of the neutrality act through Congress rather than allow it to handicap Britain , France and their Allies in a war against Germany . So there Is Intense interest here in knowing what the United States will do. - . Consider Spanish Situation Meanwhile diplomats in London were able to devote some attention today to what has become the relatively minor problem of Spain . What the British want at the ill moment is some device of delay that will permit the pretense of non-intervention to continue and keep alive the plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crisis dies down . Accordingly , the Earl of Plymouth , chairman of the Non-Intervention Committee , proposed to Italian , German , French and Russian diplomatic representatives today a suggestion that Francis Hemming , permanent secretary of the non-intervention board , be sent to Spain to discuss the British , plan both with Loyalist and Insurgent governments . The British idea is that Mr. Hemming , who played a major part in drafting the withdrawal plan , would be able to explain and answer any points that might be raised by either side , for it is the British argument that the full scope of the plan has not been fully understood by Germany and Spain . The new idea is now being submitted to the governments concerned . Altogether the Spanish problem is no more troublesome at the moment than a corn on the left foot of a patient who is suffering from an excruciating toothache . At ilsuch a moment the patient usually , forgets about the corn and seeks relief for the toothache . This is what the British Government is doing at the moment while it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlin and Berchtesgaden.                     