@@704208

txt What is perhaps the first definite move on the part of foreign governments to secure actual munitions here was revealed yesterday . when it was learned that a French mission has approached certain American manufacturers in regard to projectile orders- The mission will meet with suppliers of eifiella probably late this week or some time next week . A mission to work out similar arrangements for Great Britain is reported on its way to the United tww Actual placing of projectile orders , of course , is contingent on repeat . of the present arms erabArgo , upon which . r:on , gra ! z ** consideration this week . Not only - does projectile business for American manufacturers hazig in the balance , but the status of substantial amounts of other war material business of the munitions type also is in doubt under the present neutrality laws . One prominent supplier of such heavy equipment , which does not include aircraft . stated that it had a $1,000,000 British contract on its books on which work could not be started under present laws . It was also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placed with other concerns here which would have to be dropped if the statute was not changed . In authoritative quarters it was emphasized that while the French mission actually had approached American concerns , that initial orders would be of educational type to allow American manufacturers to tool up for large scale awards which might come later if the war continued . One concern disclosed that its payroll in the world war , due to projectile production , was three times the number employed in 1937 when operations on normal production were at 100 ? , of capacity . Since the outbreak of the present war . inquiries for machine tools , presses and machinery which would not come under the embargo , have mounted sharply from French and British sources . Canada also has accelerated its buying program for machinery and equipment of many types and plans to purchase substantial amounts of railroad equipment , of which American owned firms will get a share . Although no authoritative survey has been made , reports indicate that much of the machinery used during the world war to manufacture shells has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it could not be used . Thus , American concerns which take foreign orders will have to work out plans for amortizing their investment in new machines , which presumably would have little further usefulness when the war ends . At the close of the world war , many firms which had large manufacturing profits found themselves with substantial plant investment to write off , sharply reducing the real return to stockholders . It is probable that the experience of the last war will make for more caution this time .                     