@@700940

txt American business as represented by the ninety or more leaders meeting here in a joint conference for recovery Veered tonight toward open advocacy of a cash " dole " for relief as the most direct and least expensive method of meeting the unemployment emergency . The conference 's subcommittee on social security and relief , headed by W. B. Bell , president of the American Cyanamid Company , had agreed upon a report recommending direct cash relief and had reported it to the drafting committee , headed by John J. Raskob , for inclusion in the final resolutions of the meeting . The final form of the recommendation , therefore , was still to be evolved , but leaders of the conference believed that it would state the preference of business for direct relief over " made " work , with the qualifying provision that the conference would maintain an " open mind " as to any other " feasible " suggestions made by the administration . The latter declaration , it was thought , would be made applicable also to unemployment insurance . Old-age pensions were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A divergence of views within the conference leadership as to the procedure of , stating the new cooperative recovery program served to delay final action , and put off until tomorrow a second plenary session of the group . 0 . D. Young as Conciliator . The question at issue was whether the program should be stated as a " 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 " platform upon which " united " business would stand , or whether it should be a more simple and more general declaration with " cooperation " with the administration as the keynote . Advocates of the " cooperative " declaration were Henry I. Harriman , president of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , and others of that organization , including Silas H. Strawn . Across the table from them were spokesmen for the more militant National Association of Manufacturers , who came here from their Congress of American Industry in New York with a ten-point recovery program , adopted at that recent gathering . They considered themselves bound by the general terms of that platform . Leaders of each group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution of the procedure which would not be inconsistent with the manufacturers ' document . This belief was heightened with the arrival here today of Owen D. Young , regarded by business men as an excellent conciliator , who immediately was added to the personnel of the drafting committee . Report on NRA Is Delayed . - . Every one of the nine sub-committees to which various sections of the recovery program were assigned yesterday had reported to the drafting body tonight except the one on the NRA . The difficulties in this committee were over the subjects of produc- tion control and labor provisions . The committee was understood to have agreed upon a recoMmend ? tion that codes in the future be strictly voluntary , and the further question was whether or not mandatory provisions for maximum hours and minimum wages should be instituted for industries without codes . The committee had not decided whether or not to recommend that business should adopt any form of production control as a definite policy . The NRA committee had agreed on several other principles regarding labor , among them recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in employe representation , opposition to sympathetic or general strikes and advocacy of legal responsibility for both the employer and employe . A major item in the report of the durable goods committee , headed by Walter J. Kohler , president of the Kohler Company , it was learned , was endorsement of the Federal housing program . Seek Way to Cooperation . Other committees finishing their tasks dealt with the subjects of agriculture , transportation , foreign trade , Federal finance , business finance and government competition . Managers of the conference tried in every way to keep the contents of the reports secret until the full session tomorrow . That proved impossible , however , with the buzz of conversation of earnest business men about hotel corridors . It was more than a game with the business leaders to keep their conclusions as quiet as possible until a formal announcement . They felt it more incumbent upon them to construct their program and recommendations in such a way as would pave the way to a maximum of cooperation with President Roosevelt and his administration . Some of them contended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President might just as well be left here in the mountains . They said they realized , for instance , the seeming conflict between their plan for a cash " dole " and the President 's proposal for " work relief , " but they believed that their view and purposes could be so stated as to show a minimum of difference . To this end the conference may make some declaration about the willing assumption by industry of the major responsibility for re-employment .                     