@@697294

txt The Chamber of Commerce of the United States addressed a letter today to members of the Senate urging ratification of the London naval treaty . , The letter was written after a meet , ing of the board of directors , who took the position that previous commitments of the chamber justified the action taken . With the extra session of the Senate once under way , advocates of ratification believe a final vote will be reached after a debate of not more than ten days .. Senator Walsh of Montana , one of . the minority leaders favoring ratification , made the prediction . Senator Watson , the Republican floor leader , and Senator Robinson of Arkansas , leader of the minority , are ? of the . same opinion . On the other , hand , Senators Johnson , Moses , and other opponents of , the treaty are making no predictions . It became known today that the " round robin " of the twenty-three Senators who sought to have the extra session postponed until after the November election , was promptly turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following the delivery of the " robin " at the White House he wrote to Senator Moses as follows : The White House , June 25 . The Hon. George H. Moses , United States Senate . My dear Senator : I have your letter of the 24th enclosing the request of a number of Senators that the proposed extra session of the Senate be deferred until next December . I realize fully the great strain which has been placed upon the Senate by this long continued session . On the other hand , the national interest in having the naval treaty brought to a conclusion is so great I feel that I must ask that it should be dealt with at the earliest possible date . Yours faithfully , HERBERT HOOVER . Secretary Stimson , commenting today on the denunciation of the treaty In the House of Lords yesterday by Earl Beatty and Earl Jellicoe , remarked that the Admirals of the three principal nay ; es ? those of the United States , Great Britain and Japan  --  are now in agreement . The trouble with these " Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their governments see the whole horizon they see only about half of it . The letter of the United States Chamber of Commerce to Senators urging ratification was made public by William Butterworth , president of that body . It read : The Representatives of our membership in 1929 declared that : " The Chamber of Commerce of the United States views with great satisfaction the progress which is being made toward ' the establishment of real peace in the world and the constructive leadership in this direction which the government of the United States has taken . " It endorses heartily the principles of the treaty of Paris and the inspiring proposals consistent with the treaty which have been presented on behalf of our government for the effective reduction ... of armaments . " This followed a declaration in relation to the Washington treaty for limitation of armaments . Thus the business men 's organizations composing the Chamber of Commerce of the United States ' have declared their ' support of the principle of reduction of armaments and specifically endorsed the device of international agreement as a proper method of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objections urged against the London naval treaty . The board of directors of this organization , exercising the function delegated to it by the membership of interpreting specific proposals involving declarations of the Chamber , has considered these objections in the light of the expressed ? interest of our members in adequate provision for national defense . The board reached the conclusion that the London treaty does not jeopardize adequate defense , and , therefore , that it is consistent with the Chamber 's formal declarations in favor of reduction of armaments above quoted . I am accordingly placing before you these views of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States upon this important subject , expressing the hope that the London naval treaty will be ratified and made effective at an early date . Sees Economic Benefits . Mr. Butterworth made a statement pointing . out economic benefits which would come with ratification of the treaty . The statement read : " A study of the " London naval treaty from an economic viewpoint brings to light some material advantages , and also some savings in cost through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including maintenance and construction costs , up to the year 1936 . If we could be assured that both Great Britain and Japan would be content to maintain their present fleets without any additional construction up to 193ti , then our naval Overhead could in that case be fixed without ' a treaty ; but it is altogether unlikely that either of these nations would sacrifice the lead which they have established in certain categories and permit the United States to catch up without having assurances and limitations similar to those which are provided by the treaty . " If , on the other hand , no treaty were entered into and Great Britain and Japan continued their construction in certain categories in order to maintain their preponderance over the United States in those categories , then it would be altogether impossible to fix the naval u.a.head up to 1936 , or to any other specific time . Points to Savings for Nation . " The advantages of having a fixed naval overhead for the three powers which are party to the treaty are obvious . Stabilization-of the budgets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade and commerce of the world in general . " The saving to be effected through the battleship holiday has been estimated at various amounts . Secretary Stimson , in his testimony before the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate estimated the treaty would save the United States approximately $400,000,000 , while calculations by Representative ' French , chairman of the House Subcommittee on Naval Appropriations , placed the saving at about $300,000,000 . " For several reasons the cost of building up to treaty ' levels in cruisers , destroyers and submarines is difficult to- determine exactly . Most of the building authorized by the treaty , of course , is optional and not mandatory , and construction costs can be determined in advance only approximately . " Whatever new construction Is done , except in aircraft carriers and cruisers , will be to replace old vessels , which have reached the age limits set by the treaty . On this point , Section 1 of Annex 1 of the tr'eaty specifically states , ' the right of replacement is not lost by delay in laying down replacement tonnage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of opinion regarding whether the maximum levels permitted by the London treaty should be built up to the last ton by 1936 . A bill to bring the navy up to the maximum level allowed by the treaty has been drafted by Representative Britten , chairman of the House Naval Affairs Committee . " Representative French has publicly favored a conservative building program . In Mr. Britten 's bill to build to the maximum limits permitted under the treaty , an estimated outlay of about $500,000,000 is called for by 1940 . This , added to the cost of ships already authorized , would bring the total cost of building fo approximately $936,000,000 . " As to the question of whether the treaty gives to the United States means of adequate defense , the statement said : " While objections by naval experts must be given due consideration , yet it would seem , in view of the relative significance of the questions at issue , that the London naval treaty does not jeopardize adequate military preparedness and represents an important step toward effective reduction of armament and of tile continuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ? taken toward the establishment of enduring peace in the world . " Stimson Comments on Critics . The criticisms by Earl Beatty and Earl Jellicoe in London occasioned much comment in Washington . Secretary Stimson , talking to ' newspaper correspondents said the remarks of Earl Beatty and Earl . Tellicoe bore out some of the things he has said recently about the " military viewpoint " in treaty-making . He pointed " out that the British naval critics take the same position toward the treaty as that taken by groups of flag officers of the American and Japanese navies , each group contending that the treaty seriously threatens the naval defenses of its country . If what the three groups have said were arranged in parallel columns , Secretary Stimson said , the unbiased student of world affairs could arrive at but one conclusion  --  that , so far as the Admirals are concerned , " parity " means " superiority . " The Secretary stated that what he said was not to be taken as a criticism of the naval opponents of the treaty . What lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interesting scientific fact based on the education of the Admirals4                     