@@698680

txt Definite clues that have withstood preliminary investigation are still be-1 ing followed by the police investigators seeking the kidnapped Infant son of Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh , it was disclosed last night by Colonel H. Norman Schwarzkopf , commander of the New Jersey State Police . Although he declined to reveal the nature of these leads , his statement , coming as it did after many days in which the police communiqu ? s have consisted largely of announcements that various tips and rumors had been run down and proved worthless , was considered the most hopeful that has come recently from the headquarters of the hunt at the Lindbergh home near Hopewell , N. J. Curtis on New Mission . Meanwhile John Hughes Curtis , the Norfolk shipbuilder who reported ten days ago that he had established communication with the kidnappers of the baby , disappeared again from his home in the Virginia city . His associates in the negotiations , Rear Admiral Guy H. Eurrage and the Rev. H. Dobson Peacock , were rather vague on his mission , although Admiral Eurrage asserted that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intermediaries , who declared they never had lost faith in the soundness of the information on which they have been working , indicated that they believed the next few days would disclose whether their efforts would end in success or failure . Colonel Schwarzkopf , who has steadfastly maintained that neither he nor Colonel Lindbergh attaches much importance to the Norfolk negotiations , refused to disclose the reason for the departure of his deputy , Major Charles H. Schoeffel , for England last Monday , after Mr. Peacock had visited the noted aviator . Scotland Yard denied any knowledge of the reason for Major Schoeffel 's trip . Child Said to Be on Ship . It was reported during the day that Federal investigators were convinced that the baby , who was stolen more than a month ago , was on a ship beyond American territorial waters and that Coast Guardsmen and immigration officials had been warned to watch for the child 's arrival aboard an unidentified freighter . At headquarters of the Coast Guard and the Immigration Service the report was promptly denied and it was said that no orders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a craft bearing the Lindbergh baby . Colonel Schwarzkopf denied any knowledge of this report or of the activities of the Coast Guard , which , he said , had not been reported to him . In response to a question he also announced that there had been no reduction in the number of investigators at his headquarters , and that none was contemplated . Buffalo police reported they were holding Edward Van Arsdale , a 21-year-old youth who gave Hopewell as his home , on a vagrancy charge , because of his reluctance to discuss his movements during the last month . A check-up at Hopewell disclosed that Van Arsdale was the son of a blacksmith employed at the State Village for Epileptics at Skillman . He left home three years ago to join the navy and , according to his sister , Elizabeth , made his last visit to Hopewell more than a year ago . Curtis 's Trip Kept Secret . Mr. Curtis 's departure from his home was cloaked in mystery . Admiral Burrage and Mr. Peacock at first suggested that he might have been called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval officer admitted that the trip was in connection with the efforts to bring about the baby 's return . Asked whether Mr. Curtis expected to make contact with the kidnappers or to visit Colonel Lindbergh , Admiral Burrage replied that he " might " do both . He refused to say where the contact with the kidnappers was to be made , if at all , but expressed the hope that there might be some interesting developments which could be made public on his return . A report was prevalent at Martha'q Vineyard last night that Mr. Curtis was on his way to that island to meet the kidnappers or their representative at the isolated Summer home of former United States Senator William M. Butler . Mr. Butler denied any knowledge of such a meeting , however . Mr. Curtis , however , failed to keep two business appointments in . Norfolk and did not appear at a rival shipyard where he was scheduled to make a visit during the day . He visited his own shipyard early in the forenoon , however , and told George D. Brownley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will settle down into the normal routine in a few days now . " Mr. Brownley quoted Mr. Curtis as saying he believed " this thing will be settled one way or the other in a short time now . " Lieutenant George L. Richard , who piloted the navy plane in which Mr. Curtis made two trips to meet with an alleged agent of the kidnappers , did not accompany Mr. Curtis yesterday . Lieutenant Richard , who is under orders to take the negotiators on any mission they suggest , was standing by . His wife said be had told her he did not expect to fly yesterday but might get a call today . Despite the expressed skepticism of Colonel Lindbergh and the police regarding the efforts of Mr. Curtis and his associates , it was reported that two of the aviator 's representatives were in Nprfolk and that operatives of a private detective agency were at work in the vicinity of that city .                     