@@700717

txt It was announced from Munich tonight that at a session of the Bavarian Cabinet it had been decided , " in line with a pertinent decision of the Reich Ministry of the Interior and a decree of the chief of staff of the Storm Troops , " to abolish immediately in Bavaria also the institution of Storm Troop members invested with special powers or special commissions in administrative offices . Furthermore , the course of events since June 20 having proved the strength of the governmental structure , according to the announcement , all special commissars and special agents still holding office are removed , with the government 's thanks for their services . Information from other centres indicates that this abolition is general throughout the Reich and that it applies not only to administrative offices but to banks and industry . Thus what has been perhaps the strongest hold of the Storm Troops on the active life of the nation is broken with the stroke of a pen . However , attempts to verify the scope of the order at the Reich Ministry of the Interior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present they are indications only . Nazi Organs Not Pleased . In Munich , the only place where the newspapers have commented on the decree thus far , it is noticed tat the bourgeois newspapers , now coordinated , all approve it , but the Nazi organs do not ? seem to be so pleased . There is no doubt that in such guise the reorganization of the Storm Troopers is proceeding apace . Simultaneously the weeding out of district leaders is going on continuously under the supervision of General Kurt Daluege , police chief , and new appointments are being announced almost daily . In the deliberations over these it is generally understood that the Reichswehr leaders are having much to say . The reorganization tends to convert the Storm Troops into a force embodying the principle enunciated by Chancellor Hitler in his recent speech , that is , one not with a military but only with a political task , It is apparently to be the militant political force of the National Socialist party , whose principal duty will be to set an example in discipline and be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Socialist principles , practice and philosophy . Training in arms will be dropped , so that never again will there be , a chance for the organization to clash with the armed Reich forces , 1 and it will be much smaller  --  perhaps only one-third of its present membership . To Get Rid of Probationers . This will be done apparently by first dispensing with thousands of probationers who have less than six months ' service , with further progressive reductions probably following , bringing the organization within the scope of a really select , compact political force . Physical training will be relegated mostly to the Hitler youth and the labor service camps , which are now being prepared for compulsory service with an annual conscript contingent up to 300,000 . However , the reduction is not easy and requires tact : Especially there seems to be developing a need to placate the Storm Troops for a while . General Hermann Wilhelm Goering 's newspaper announces toI day that discussions are under way to end their July vacation and lift the prohibition on their wearing uniforms in the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be issued by Viktor Lutze , their new chief of staff , very soon , except for certain districts in which the situation arising out of the events of June 30 has still to be clarified . " Thus in the Reich the brown shirt is again to enliven the street ; picture as the honored dress of the Storm Troops , " says General 1Goering 's newspaper . It adds that this will end the unwarranted assumption by certain sections of the populace that the entire Storm Troops and not a small clique of their leaders were responsible for the scandals that brought about the recent clean-up , an assumption that the present vacation possibly has helped to promote . This is all very well , but it scarcely accords with the fact mentioned in these dispatches yesterday that brown shirts are both frequent and prominent throughout the German provinces despite the vacation and that returning travelers are commenting on the fact . It . leads , therefore , to the not improbable assumption that the supreme Nazi authorities , finding themselves unable to enforce the vacation or ban the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and legalize the second . Which , if it were true , would seem to show that while Nazi commissars can be abolished if not controlled , since they are few in number , with the rank and file of the Storm Troops it is a different story .                     