@@702164

txt With a successful season in beer cans and expansion in other general line tin containers , including development of cans for wine , American Can Co. ' s 1936 business is running ahead of that for 1935 despite the drought . Beer can deliveries for the first nine months aggregated 300,000,000 or more , and a substantial addition to this total will be made before the year-end . That American 's activity probably reflects conditions in the whole industry is indicated by the fact that tin plate output has been holding up much better than previously expected , being around 905 of capacity , which represents a small gain over a few weeks ago . The wine canning development has come along more rapidly than had been anticipated in the trade earlier this year . American Can recently signed a contract with the Roma Wine Co. , of California , to supply its tin container requirements , and it is likely that several million cans will be delivered to Roma 's wine customers this year . Advantage for Cans Claimed Advantages claimed for the wine can are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are detrimental to wine . Also , a can of wine is tamper-proof , and since wine bottles seldom are returned to the maker , their cost in higher than that of most beer bottles . However , cercans in their present stage of development . can in their present stage of development . though improvements in linings , etc. , are being made . Opinion in the can industry is that the beer and wine can has opened a field for other beverages which heretofore have been packed only in bottles . While containers for soft drinks are being experimented with , nothing has been announced . The beer can growth this year has been rapid During the Summer a number of leading breweries that had been skeptical were signed , and it is this new business that is adding to the industry 's Fall volume . A conservative estimate of the total beer can output for 1936 would be 500,000,000 cans . However , there are possibilities of a somewhat higher production in view of the Fall outlook . Company 's 1036 Net Up The American Can Co. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show better earnings than the $5.83 a common share reported for 1935 on the 2,473,998 shares after preferred dividends . The surplus profits tax appears to insure payment of an extra dividend this Fall , in addition to the $1 quarterly , though no declaration of policy has been established . The American Can Co. is revising its contracts with customers under the RobinsonPatman Act . The magnitude of the problem , however , is necessarily making adjustments sloW and many legal angles remain to be worked out . Other can companies also are making similar adjustments . However . owing to the confidential nature of the contracts , details are not being made public .                     