@@699306

txt The State Department notified Poland and Czechoslovakia today that the United States would expect the payments on their war debts Dec. 15 and that no extension of the moratorium could be expected . The notes mentioned , however , that President Hoover was prepared to recommend to Congress the creation of a special agency to review the debt settlements . Signed by William R. Castle Jr. , Acting Secretary of State , the communications were similar to those delivered last Wednesday to Great Britain , France and Belgium . They were identical in language except for their first sentences . In the note to Poland , which was addressed to Ambassador Tytus Filipowicz , the first sentence said : I fully appreciate the importance of the proposal that you made to me on Nov. 22 and the seriousness of the situation upon which it is predicated . The opening sentence of the note to Czechoslovakia , which was addressed to Ferdinand Veverka , the Minister , read : I fully appreciate the importance of the situation presented by the requests contained in the memorandum of the Czechoslovakian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Delivery of the notes represented the only move by the State Department in the debt sitpation today , and officials are now awaiting new notes that may be delivered from abroad , - setting forth in some , detail the economic and financial position of the debtor governments . Such a statement from Great Britain is expected next week , but in the opinion of high officials here it must present a convincing argument why payment should be suspended and the debt settlement reviewed if it is to modify the present hostile Congressional attitude against a change in the debt situation . Such evidence as has thus far been received through official channels is inconclusive as to British economic conditions , although efforts have been made to determine with exactness the weight of the difficulties confronting that country . Studies made by official experts show that four of America 's principal debtors either are faced with smaller deficits this year than the United States , or have a surplus of receipts over expenditures . France and Britain have been operating on deficits during their current fiscal year4 , although much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23 4tood at $734,045,410 , or more than , 100 per cent of the receipts , which totaled $664,062,700 in the period . from July 1 . The British deficit , according to latest information , was $4 per cent of total receipts , while the French deficit was estimated at about 24 per cent of the receipts . These two countries , with Germany and Italy , both of which have excesses of receipts over expenditures , are due to pay the United States $254,700,000 this fiscal year , or 91 per cent of the total receivable . Germany already has postponed an $8,000,000 payment . Some Debtors in Default . Poland and some of the small debtors have postponed principal payments , while others already are in default or have served notice that they can not meet ' non-postponable payments . When the foreign debt agreements were negotiated the United States sought payment on the basis of capacity to pay . The situation in each debtor country was carefully considered , including national wealth , tax burdens , national debts , business conditions , balances of trade and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely favorable agreements were granted to France , Italy , Belgium and all of the small countries . Britain 's agreement was the most advantageous to the United States . Of the total due from the four principal debtors $72,208,000 includes payments on the principal of the debtors and all payments from Germany which are postponable under the agreements . The remainder is non-postponable unless Congress acts . Failure to pay these sums would put the debtors in default . Statistics show that payment of all amounts due would . reduce the present American deficit by 35 per cent , while payment of the non-postponable items would cut the deficit 25 per cent . Officials also pointed out today that if all payments were made the British and French deficits would be increased , the German surplus would be cut in two and that lof Italy would be transformed into a deficit . Depreciated foreign currencies , which have placed the manufacturers of these countries In a position , to compete successfully in the United States , threatening , it is held by some officials , the existence of certain American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt payments . Britain would need twice the volume of pounds sterling to meet her payments this December than prior to the depreciation of the pound . The currency depreciation ' situation is expected to be emphasized ' by the debtors in their new notes . Hold We Influenced Lausanne . The Foreign Policy Association contended in a special report today that " despite the consistent refusal of the I United States to admit any relation between war debts and reparations , the American Government exercised a direct influence upon the Lausanne conference which . brought a supposedly ' final ' settlement of German reparations wad led to  --  rhe rottliasto of the principal allied governments for suspension of their Dec. 15 payments to the United . States and a review of the whole structure of intergovernmental debts . " The association referred to the document presented by Premier Herriot of France at a private meeting at Lausanne on June 29 , in which France claimed to have received " information of a most reliable character " from the United States that the American Government opposed complete cancellation of German repara-tions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department , which reiterated today its previous statements that it had never given any such views , while holding that there was no connection between ? debts and reparations . It would not favor complete cancellation of German reparations if such were conditioned on cancellation of the debts owed this country , the department said it had always . asserted , but that was the nearest approach there was to any support for the alleged French information . French Memorandum Quoted . The association quoted the French memorandum , which sought to interpret the American position , as follows : " In practice , cancellation pure and simple will not give us the basis of an accord with the United States . And failing a settlement with America , a final settlement ( of the reparation question ) is not possible . The results obtained at Lausanne will remain without definitive effect . This we affirm with all certainty . " The French delegation , after receiving information of a most reliable character yesterday , has adopted a plan which it believes will facilitate the pour parlers with the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes that cancellation , pure and simple , ' would actually be regarded by the United States- as an act of defiance with respect to the principal creditor , whose title to payment the delegation neither qftzi nor wishes to discuss . " Up to this time , the association 's report said , Great Britain had been advocating a " clean slate " and seeking to persuade France to wipe out all European intergovernmental payments . " Apparently , " the report added , " the - French argument that complete concellation would displease the United States greatly impressed the other delegates . The introduction of this issue seems to have initiated the long and difficult negotiations on the amount of the final German payment . Cites Lausanne Agreement . " The - final agreement provided that Germany shall make an eventual payment to its Creditors of 3,000,000 , - 000 gold marks in the form of bonds to be delivered to the Bank for International Settlements as trustee . " As a result of the gentlemen 's agreement , under which the chief creditor powers agreed not to ratify the Lausanne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . it is possible that the reparation question will bp reopened . if the . American OFAUVEli refuses to accept President . Hoover 's proposal calling for a new agency to review the allied debts . ' Although the gentlemen 's agreement was apparently necessary to secure the signature of France , it constitutes the gravest factor on the negative side , for the postponement of ratification of the Lausanne agreement until a satisfactory settlement has been made with the United States necessarily prolongs the uncertainty which has been such a serious obstacle to world recovery . " Nevertheless , it appears doubtful whether any future reparation conference  --  to be held in case of nonratification of the Lausanne agreement  --  would be able to turn back the hands of the clock and draw up a settlement which did not recognize these essential economic facts so clearly affirmed at Lausanne . " Organization Reviews Debts . " Editorial Research Reports , " an organization which is studying the debt problem , recalled today that the British pound sterling had an exchange value of $4.62 when the British debt funding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lira was valued at 4.03 cents when the agreement with Italy was signed on Nov. 14 , 1925 , and the franc was valued at 3.33 cents when the ? agreement with France was signed on April 29. 1926 . Thereafter the pound was restored to its pre-war value of $4.87 . The lira was fixed at about one-fifth of its pre-war par . The lira and the franc are now at about their postwar par , whereas the pound has dropped to only several points above its all-time low of Feb. 4 , 1920 ? $3.18 . Late in 1919 , the organization pointed out , the United States Treasury consented to a postponement for several years of the war debt interest payments due , then amounting to about $475,000,000 a year . In reply to criticisms in Congress of this action , it added , the Secretary of the Treasury , Carter Glass , said after describing the existing state of foreign exchange : " An impenetrable barrier exists which makes it impracticable for these governments to pay in dollars the amount of interest due from them to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign exchange markets .. " If the Treasury does not defer the collection of interest , and thus adds to the present difficulties in the financial and economic rehabilitation of the world , we should not only make . it impossible for Europe to continue needed purchases here and decrease their ultimate capacity to pay their debt to us , but should hinder rather than help the reconstruction which the world should hasten . " Explains Debt Concessions . The organization made this com-ment : " There is a difference in principle between a concession on war debt payments made because of a fall in foreign exchange and one made because of the increased value of the dollar . " In the first case it tray be argued that the , United States Treasury made the original advances in dollars , borrowed dollars in order to . make them , and must pay interest in dollars on the borrowings . " Hence any receipt of fewer dollars than anticipated represents a loss to the Treasury . " In the second case , it may be pointed out that a rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maturing war-time obligations with new bond issues bearing a lower rate of interest . " The interest rates of the five Liberty Loans ranged from 3 ' to ? P. , per cent , whereas the last long-term government bond issue bore an interest rate of 3 , per cent . " The intention of the debtor governments to stabilize their currencies at points above the existing levels may well have been taken into account by the World War Foreign Debt Commission in determining ability to pay . " The reports of the commission indicate that the receipts by those governments of reparations and other intergovernmental payments also were considered in fixing the amount of the war debt annuities under the funding agreements . Could Pay In Our Securities . " The agreements provide that the debtor countries may make payments in United States securities , which are to be received at par . The Treasury 314 per cent bonds of 1946-49 are now selling at about two points below par , and the 3 per cent bonds of 1951-55 at more than 3 points below par . The latter fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If they had then been bought by the debtor governments to be turned in at par on the coming Dec. 15. the transaction would have saved these governments almost one-fifth of the amount due . " War debt payments received in the fpem of government bonds must go to_the reduce the public debt , inasmuch as the Secretary of the Treasury has no authority to reissue them . " Most of the cash payments received on account of principal ( about $75,000,000 due in 1932-33 ) must also by legislation go toward retirement of the public debt , whereas cash payments on account of interest ( about $195,000,000 due in 1932-33 ) may go toward the current expenses of the United States Government . "                     