@@703123

txt The Federal Reserve System , with the collaboration of the Treasury , has embarked on a program of open market buying and selling devised to stabilize bond prices generally and to prevent a repetition of the MarchApril , 1937 break . To this end the Federal Reserve Banks sold off $23,400,000 of Treasury bonds during the two weeks ended January 19 when prices were rising and now are in a position to switch back into bonds if the recent decline in prices should show signs of going too far . Treasury open market operations , carried out through the so-called federal investment accounts , have paralleled the selling of the Reserve Banks , it WWI learned yesterday . Treasury Selling In Open Market The Treasury during the first three weeks of this month has been selling in the open market Government bonds held by the postal savings system , one of the so-called " investment accounts " , according to the Treasury 's daily statement . On January S the Treasury put 85. - 000,000 of postal savings funds into a special non-market issue of Treasury notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes on January 19 . These transactions are understood to reflect the sale in the open market of $10,000,000 worth of government bonds held by postal savings and their reinvestment in the special non-market notes . At any time the Treasury can redeem these non-market notes and switch the money back into the open market . That these maneuvers are a part of a new and more flexible policy aimed at stabilizing bond prices and money markets generally was definitely established yesterday . The operations are an especially new departure for the Treasury 's investment accounts which apparently may become more active in-and-out traders in the market . Switching due to - Pike Trends Federal authorities declared that the switching out of Government bonds into notes and bills which the Reserve Banks carried out during January and a part of December was caused by the price trends in the Government bond market , not by a desire to change the composition of the Reserve Banks ' portfolio of Governments . Federal Reserve operations for the purpose of stabilizing prices in the bond market probably will be confined to switches from bonds into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of last March develop , the Reserve banks probably will not add to or curtail their total holdings of government securities , it was said . The belief now is that switching operations will be sufficient to prevent a recurrence of last year 's bond market break . The program now being followed is basically different from ' that evidently pursued before the break last March . At that time the Reserve banks were adding to their holdings of government bonds , doing nothing to check the rise in prices which preceded the drop . Now the policy is openly one of preventing prices from being bid up to a point where banks will decide to cash in on their profits , dumping their government bonds as they did last spring .                     