@@701632

txt Verner W. Main , Republican and a supporter of the Townsend old age pension plan , tonight was elected representative from Michigan 's Third congressional district by a margin of more than two to one over his Democratic opponent . Returns from the district 's no Precincts gave Main 24,686 votes to 11,342 polled by Howard W. Cavanagh , the Democratic nominee . E. G. Keifer , Farmer-Labor nominee , received 397 votes in the special election . In acknowledging his victory Main attributed his election to the support of " the rank and file voters of both parties who opposed the New Deal . " He said the Townsend plan was " just one of the elements " to which he owed his election . Aided by Townsend Group . Throughout the campaign Main declared that his espousal of the Townsend program was beside the issue , and his support of it brought little interest from party leaders . The support of the , Townsend organizations of the district , claiming 5,000 members , immediately swung to him , however . Workers for the Townsend national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant demonstration of the vote pulling power of their program . A heavy vote was registered despite a snowstorm in parts of the five county district . Election observers , however , said many of the district 's voters did not go to the polls , regarding Main 's election as a certainty . Observers also reported that the proportion of elderly voters was larger than usual . Both Main and Cavanagh are attorneys and both reside in Battle Creek . Cavanagh was prosecuting attorney of the district and later was defeated as a candidate for state attorney general . Wins Over 4 Opponents . Main , a native of Ohio , has practiced law here for more than 20 years . He also has served as secretary of the Calhoun county Republican committee and as assistant county prosecutor . In the primary campaign he defeated four opponents with a total vote of 1,000 more than they polled in combined strength . Today 's election was made necessary by the death of Representative Henry M. Kimball , the fifth successive representative of the district to die in office . The district @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hits Pension . Washington , D. C. , Dec. 17 ,  --  ( 111 ? Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg Rep. , Mich. , among those mentioned for the 1936 Republican presidential nomination , today said the Townsend old age pension plan would prove a " tragic disillusionment . " His statement was directed at voters today In Michigan 's third congressional district in which Verner W. Main , Republican , campaigned as an advocate of the Townsend plan . The senator endorsed Main 's opposition to the New Deal , although criticizing the Townsend plan . Vandenberg said the plan " would create more problems than it would solve and would unwittingly destroy every chance for orderly economic reCU Vel , y . " Expected It , " Says Townsend . Rochester , Minn. , Dec. 17. - 011 ? Dr. F. E. Townsend , here for a physical checkup by Mayo clinic physicians , tonight asserted the triumph of Verner W. Main , who bore endorsement of the Townsend club organization in his race for representative in Michigan , " is exactly what I expected . " Greek King George Calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? UP ) ? King George of Greece signed a decree today dissolving the assembly and ordering a general election for Jan. 26.                     