@@703661

txt The broadest attempt in the industrial history of the United States to stabilize workers ' earnings etas announced last night by General Motors Corp . Designed to lessen the hazard of seasonal unemployment , the plan , in effect , will assure to the great majority of the corporation 's factory employes a minimum weekly income . Approximately 150,000 hourly wage employes  --  or 90% of those now employed  --  will be eligible for some benefits under the plan . A parallel program to cover G. M. 's 37.000 salaried workers will be announced shortly . First details of the new policy . to become effective January 1 . 1939. were made public by Alfred P. Sloan , Jr .. chairman of the corporation . In essence . it provides that when a worker 's weekly wage falls below a standard minimum , the corporation will advance an amount sufficient to bring it up to that level . Such advances will carry no interest and will be repayable a little at a time when a worker is employed more than 24 hours a week . Program in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two parts , one covering hourly paid employes with five or more years of service with the corporation and on its payroll at any time during December of this year . and a second plan covering hourly paid employes with a service record of two years or more , but not eligible under the first . Employes with five or more years service will be assured an income equivalent to 24 hours pay a week , 52 weeks a year . At the corporation 's average hourly wage of 90 cents , this would mean a minimum of $21.60 a week . Although in actual practice no veteran workers ' wage would fall so low , it would establish a guaranteed annual income of $1,232 . Provision is made for including any earnings from other regular employment and any unemployment compensation received in the guaranteed weekly income . Plan Is Voluntary - The advances by the corporation will be made only at the request of the employe and will be repaid out of the employe 's earnings oi.ly when his weekly earnings exceed 60% of the standard , in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standard will be devoted to paying off the advance . Under that part of the plan covering employes with a service record of two to five 3-4-tars. 40% of standard earnings will be received weekly under the same general conditions as apply to employes with longer service records . However , the total advance to be made by the corporation is limited to 72 hours ' earnings at the employe 's latest average hourly earned rate . The provisions for repayment are the same as in the " Income Security Plan . " In announcing the new plans . Mr. Sloan stressed the fact that General Motors " is not guaranteeing work for which there is no need . " %Vill Mean Large Outlay In describing the philosophy behind the plan , Mr. Sloan said : " Using the resources of the corporation as an income stabilizing factor , giving the largest group of employes possible a definite assurance of a substantial minimum weekly income for a definite period is. according to my beliefs , sound and highly desirable . I am gratified that our experiments indicate that it is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of providing greater economic security for an important part of our organization ? ' Mr. Sloan pointed out that in the periods of subnormal activity which occur during the automotive industry 's year , advances to be made by the corporation will involve a mbstantial outlay of cash . " While the corporation may sustain a considerable loss , I believe that the greater security provided under the plans , and the better relations that such cooperation will promote between the corporation and the employes benefited , will justify the costs involved , " he declared . Result of Experiments In the event of the death of any employe his unpaid advances will be cancelled Lake . wise , if an employe owmg advances leaves the employ of the corporation , these advances will not be collectible unless the employe subsequently resumes employment with General Motors . It was stressed that the only method of repayment set up by the plan occurs when the corporation makes work of more than 24 hours a week available to an employe and the employe accepts the work Mr. Sloan disclosed that the plans are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been conducting in several of AS plants for a number of years in an effort to ' develop ways and means whereby greater eta- ; bility might be provided for as large a group of its factory employes as possible and for as large a part of the year as practical " " These experiments have now i cached a point which justify making the benefits available for eligible employes throughout the entire corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries within the United States , " he said . Independent of Business Trend The plans as announced yesterday are effective for the year 1939 and are independent of i . any change in business conditions . Mr. Sloan pointed out that the plans are still somewhat experimental . " Circumstances ' may arise that are impossible to foresee , " he said . " The purpose is , however , to make a start at this time and to develop through evolution such modifications as experience may dictate from year to year . There are included the usual provisions allowing for suspension of the plans in case of are . floods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the : corporation . " In addition to providing earnings stability for large groups of General Motors ' workers , the plans are expected to exert a strong indirect influence toward stabilizing General Motors ' operations and employment . generally , especially from a seasonal point of view . Since sharp seasonal fluctuations in operations will involve the payment of substantial advances , observers point out that the plan may cause the local General Motors ' managements to regularize their operataons to the greatest extent possible in order to hold the volume of the advances to a minimum .                     