@@704173

txt Prime Minister W. L. Mackenzie King has sent pleas for the peaceful settlement of the Polish dispute to Chancellor Hitler , President Ignaz Moscicki of Poland and Premier Mussolini . This , it was learned today , was the chief result of yesterday 's Cabinet meeting , and no further session was held today . The communications to the German and Polish leaders , which were identical , asserted the unanimity of Canadians in believing there is no international problem which can not be settled by conference and negotiation , and that force is no substitute for reason . They continued that Canadians " are prepared to join what authority and power they possess to that of the other nations of the British commonwealth in seeking a just and equitable settlement of the great problems with which nations are faced . " The message to Signor Mussolini asked him to use " his great power and authority " to bring about a peaceful settlement . Speculation on Commitments Among that section of the Canadian public which has criticized Mr. King for refusing to commit Canada to fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a peace appeal of his own he had acted with the approval of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and whether or not his statement to Herr Hitler that Canadians would use their power and authority to secure an equitable settlement was or was not a commitment to war . It was recalled that Canada 's Prime Minister had interviewed the German Chancellor in 1936 and returned much impressed with his personality . The government announced today that all non-permanent coast defense troops except the infantry had been called out to guard the shores of the Dominion . This means that coast artillery , engineers , signal , ordnance and army service corps units have been asked to volunteer for defense purposes . In addition details of other units have been called up for the protection of vulnerable points in the interior of the country and the entire Lincoln and Welland regiment is guarding the Welland Canal . TEXT OF CANADIAN NOTES OTTAWA , Ont. , Aug. 26 ( Canadian Press ) . ? Following are the texts of the messages sent by Prime Minister King today to Chancellor Hitler and President Moscicki @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believing that there is no international problem which can not be settled by conference and negotiation . They equally believe that force is not a substitute for reason , and that the appeal to force as a means of adjusting international differences defeats rather than furthers the ends of justice . They are prepared to join what authority and power they may possess to that of the other nations of the British Commonwealth in seeking a just and equitable settlement of the great problems with which nations are faced . On behalf of the Canadian people , but equally in the interests of humanity itself , I join with those of other countries and powers who have appealed to you , in the firm hope that your great power and authority will be used to prevent impending catastrophe by having recourse to every possible peaceful means to effect a solution of the momentous issues of this period of transition and change in world affairs . The message to Premier Mussolini reads : At this critical moment in the liistory of the world I wish , on behalf of the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to you to use your great power and influence to ensure a peaceful settlement of the issues that threaten the peace of mankind . The people of Canada are firmly convinced that it should be possible , by conference and negotiation , to find a just settlement of all existing problems without resort to force . They are prepared to join with the peoples of other countries in doing all in their power to achieve this end . Britain Forbids Sale of Ships LONDON , Aug. 26 ( A= ) . ? The British Board of Trade , acting under emergency defense powers created by Parliament Thursday , today forbade the sale of any British-owned ship . Vessels registered in the Dominions were not affected .                     