@@698802

txt Almost universal opposition to the British attempt . to cut the League of Nations budget developed today in the Council debate . Finances of the world peace organization were defended not only as being ridiculously small as compared with world expenses toward war preparation , but as about equal to what any large city spends annually for cleansing its streets . The British drive on the League budget began last week with an imposing memorandum addressed to all of the Council members , arguing with extreme seriousness the British Government 's desire for economy . Its repercussions were grave , ' for general confidence in the League budget  --  admittedly the most thoroughly controlled and pruned budget in the world  --  appeared to be shaken by the British attack . Many reasonable observers here believe also that the British movement represents not only the desire of economy to gain political applause at home but a definite Consenative Party policy to de crease League activities . Such policy has been often evident in the past and In the opinion of friends of the League constitutes today a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes against the salaries of League officials which are admittedly higher than those in internal civic services . But it was frequently pointed out responsibly In today 's debate that living costs in Geneva are higher than elsewhere in Europe or America , and officials who expatriate themselves are normally paid higher salaries than home officials . The British urged that the world crisis necessitates League economy , but Senor Salvador de Madariaga reminded the Council today that the crisis calls for higher League expenditures than ever , since the League must redouble its efforts to bring remedies for the crisis . The day 's almost unanimous expression of confidence ? in the League 's spending is held to have important constructive ' results for the League 's future in that it may stem the tendency to default on . the part of smaller states                     