@@703035

txt The peculiar economic interests of the United States In China are worthy of re-explanation in view of the Panay incident . I will start today with the Standard Oil Company of New York . Three of its tankers were set on fire by the Japanese . It is said that the Panay was in Nanking waters for the purpose of convoying those tankers up-river . This I very much doubt . The Panay , obviously , was in Yangtse waters only to look after American nationals , including embassy officials ; moreover , treaty rights with China provide for American patrols In the Yangtse . Anyway , the tankers happened to be with the Panay , and . consequently , an ancient and oil-like smell , to parody Shakespeare , has clung to the United States gunboat In many American minds . Socony busine.ss in China is different from the work that Standard Oil Interests were engaged upon in Ethiopia . Therg they were trying to obtain a concession to operate oil fields . There is no oil in China , or very little ; what Socony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China " ft is a kerosene trade . Back in the ' eighties the only illumination available to the Chinese was a piece of rush dangling over the side of a saucerful of vegetable oil . This was all that Used to lighten theThight hours of the Chinese . The light was dim , the smoke and soot unhealthy and disagreeable , and , relatively to kerosene , the Illuminant was uneconomical . Standard Oil came along to bring the Chinese more and better light . A- A The campaign is among the great romances of business . Marketing goods In China used to be an unimaginative affair . Tho foreign manufacturer simply loaded his merchandise onto the home quays for consignment to the foreign merchant at the few Chinese ports open by treaty to foreign residence . On his part the foreign merchant , immured in the treaty port , turned the Incoming goods over to his Chinese associate , who handled and disposed of them over a long line of Chinese middlemen . You may imagine , if you know anything about Chinese conservatism or Chinese " squeeze " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those goods , and that they were absurdly dear when they reached the ultimate consumer . In these circumstances trade in Standard 011 products was slight . In the ' nineties , however , some Standard Oil genius sought directly to connect the need with the means of fulfilling it . He set up a new organization reaching to every township hi China 's spacious realm , Thousands of agents were enrolled in this great campaign . Like Florence Nightingale , each of them carried a new smokeless oil lamp . Its superior merits to the sputtering piece of rush was demonstrated alt over the kingdom . Then it was offered to the Chinese at a nominal cost . The " unchanging Chinese " switched their preferences to kerosene instanter . And then the genius made the potential demand effective by controlling a low unit price for kerosene to the ultimate consumer . It did not matter whether the consumer lived near the enty ports , the Tibetan border , or the Mongolian steppe . The organization ? ye came unparalleled difficulties of custom , language , communications , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And before the turn of the century kerosene had been made a Chinese necessity . A A A The Standard Oil Company had , of course , to bring to the work of distribution as ramified an organization as it had introduced in the field of merchandising . A line of tankers appeared on the Pacific run . These feed innumerable tanks along the China coast anti rivers . Sometimes the tankers , drawing ns little as six Inches of water , navigate tiny creeks in the very heart of China , pumping their load into a wayside tank for conveyance by earl Into the villages . Imperialism ? Very likely , but it Is the kind of imperialism that the world should foster  --  this great work of improving human conditions by trade . Standard 011 's Introduction of kerosene to China created as great h social revolution in that country as did the introduction of gas into England . " More light ! " were the dying words of Goethe . He meant it , of course , In other than a physical sense ; but Standard 011 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chinese people . It likewise enhanced their purchasing power and living standards . For the new kerosene enabled the Chinese to increase the output of their home industries immeasurably . Standard Oil , in short , has done more for the Chinese than all the eleemosynary institutions in China combined . Incidentally , much of the profit , made in the trade has been returned to China in Rockefeller benefactions . This does not mead that the United States Government with its gu  --  boats should help to sell Socony kerosene to the Chinese . Far from it . Several times - President Roosevelt has announced the demise of " dollar diplomacy " so far as he is concerned . " Dollar diplomacy " means the protection of either foreign trade or foreign investments with naval and military forces . That has certainly not been the American policy sinpo the Sino-Japanese conflict broke out .                     