@@701194

txt President Roosevelt 's failure to make public a report of the Business Advisory Council of the Department of Commerce attacking the utility holding company bill will be used against him in the Senate next week when the Wheeler-Rayburn measure is presented by Chairman Wheeler , of the Senate interstate commerce committee . The council 's report , uncovered within the inner circles of the New Deal , where it had apparently been temporarily shelved pending Congressional action on the bill , makes a strong plea for protection of the good features of utility holding companies , rather than their complete abolition as proposed in the bill . In the Senate a movement is afoot to obtain from President Roosevelt the entire report of the advisory council , for the use of the Senate in considering the bill . Senator Stwiwer ( Rep. , Ore. ) has introduced s. resolution calling upon the President to transmit the report to the Senate . May Influence Senate While the views expressed in the report have not influenced the Administration in its determination to eliminate holding companies , there IS a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate . Utility developments in the Senate yesterday included the completion by the Senate committee of consideration of the utility bill , which was subsequently reintroduced by Senator Wheeler , in.order to have it printed . Formal committee approval will probably be given the measure on Monday . The filibuster in the Senate against TVA amendments ended when the Senate adjourned , displacing the Norris motion to make the amendments the unfinished business . The more pressing NRA . legislation will come up for debate in the Senate today . The filibuster ended with a sharp attack by Senator Norris , Republican Progressive of Nebraska , against Senator Austin ( Rep .. Vt. ) who initiated the fight against the TVA bill . Norris charged the Vermont Senator with unethical conduct in opposing utility legislation when he is widely advertised in the Martindale Directory as counsel for the New England Power Association , a holding company . Moderate in Tone The holding company report of the advisory council is definitely moderate in tone , but penetrating in the degree to which utility control problem is analyzed . It recommends that operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subsidiaries , if the s.ubsidiaries carry out an integral . part of the parent companies business , and if the subsidiary stock is entirely owned by the parent operating company . The report is critical of the type of arrangement in which holding companies are pyramided upon still more holding companies . The position is taken that this type of set-up gives an appearance of earnings which may be disproportionate to actual earnings of the underlying operating companies . The use of various categories of stock without voting rights is also viewed adversely , as offering the opportunity for sweeping control of a utility system on the basis of small investment . Other Reports Submitted The advisory council has made reports to the President on the pending banking bill and the social security legislation , which like the utility bll received critical analysis . The new procedure through which these and subsequent reports will go opens the door one more link in the latch chain for the participation of business in the New Deal . This is the interpretation placed by the advisory council on its new arrangement with President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested by the President and agreed to by Harry P. Kendall , of the Kendall Corp .. Boston , and who is chairman of the council . The plan calls for submission of each report and recommendation of the council by the chairman of the subcommittee drawing it to the governmental department concerned . After a detailed conference on the objectives 01 the legislation concerned and the viewpoint of the council mmbers. a meeting of minds Is reached if possible , after which the council officials take up the report with the President himself . Council leaders are of the opinion that the President is attentive to and interested in the opinions of business , although they readily state the general term " business " is difficult to define . As one member put it . the council itself , composed of more than 50 nationally known business leaders , is mode up of every degree of opinion from extreme reactionary to very liberal , so that there is no complete unanimity of opinion among the membership on its own recommendations , nor anything like complete accord in every issue between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 