@@699188

txt With the Republican cohorts of Queens making use of aerial bombs and blaring bands to lend to the occasion something of the setting appropriate to his army sobriquet of " Wild Bill , " Colonel William J. Donovan , Republican Gubernatorial nominees opened his campaign last night with an address at Jamaica High School . In his first speech , to be followed by his appearance at Madison Square Garden tonight with former President Calvin Coolidge , he began by attacking Governor Roosevelt , Democratic candidate for President , and Lieut . Gov . Herbert H. Lehman , , Colonel Donovan 's Gubernatorial rival . Both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Lehman have shown themselves inefficient in the expenditure of State funds , Colonel Donovan declared . During the Roosevelt-Lehman administration , the costs of the State government have mounted steadily ; and the only relief in sight for a taxpayer rests upon the promise of the Democrats that economies will be made , Colonel Donovan said . The rest of his address stressed , for the most part , the need for continuing unemployment relief by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through public projects . He urged the voters of Queens to insist upon a State reapportionment , to give them at least twice the six Assemblymen and two State Senators who now represent the county 's 1,300,000 inhabitants . Militant Campaign Promised . Other speakers , including Representative Robert L. Bacon , candidate for re-election , and George Z. , Medalie , United States Attorney , who is Republican candidate ' for United States Senator , sought support for President Hoover and Vice President Curtis , insisted that the Republican stand on prohibition was the only logical one , and discussed the general issues of the campaign . Some 2,000 persons filled the auditorium , while others listened outside the building before the loud-speakers of an amplifying system . All the utterances of those who spoke earlier in the evening bristled with references to Colonel Donovan 's military career and with warlike references to the determination of the Republicans " to storm the trenches of Albany " and " to hold fast at the ramparts of Washington . " But it remained for the arrangements committee which had functioned for Warren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military note of the proceedings . American Legion fife and drum corps paraded through the hall . Another band on fixed post did its best to play " Mademoiselle From Armentieres " at least once every five minutes . Sirens and cowbells stimulated gas alarms . There seemed to be little doubt that , in Queens at least , it was to be a campaign In which war veterans were expected to become as interested as their ancestors did in post-Civil War days . Scores Roosevelt 's Leadership . Colonel Donovan dined at the Pornonok Country Club in Queens after completing the draft of his speech at his home , I Beekman Place , Manhattan , and arrived at the meeting accompanied by Mr. Ashmead and George U. Harvey , Queens Borough President . The candidate , introduced by Mr. Harvey , prefaced his prepared address with another reference to war days , likening the country to a , military column , and insisting upon the need for proved leadership . Governor Roosevelt , he said , had not proved himself a leader at Albany , " but only a Presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared address with an attack upon the candidacy of Mr. Lehman . Referring to Mr. Roosevelt 's recent characterization of Colonel Lehman as " he is my own right arm ; " Colonel Donovan declared , " I am my own right arm , " and went on to intimate that he did not wish to be elected as the successor to the in- vumbent of the Governor 's office , but I only on his own merits . After the address , which was 1 broadcast over WOR , Colonel Donovan remained at the high school for a reception to voters and party workers of Queens County . He was assisted by Moses G. Hubbard , Republican nominee for Attorney General . Although the topics of the speeches he plans to deliver during his tour of the State haven of been made public , it is known in general that Colo - 1 nel Donovan plans to develop the broad charges of inefficiency which he made against the Democratic State administration last night , and to deliver at least one address upon the necessity for farm relief in this State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Colonel I Donovan will make his next speech at Buffalo tomorrow before a group of I Italian societies . On Thursday he is to visit Dunkirk , Jamestown and Olean . On Friday he is to speak at Wellsville , Corning and Elmira , thence returning to New York , where he will deliver three addresses on Oct. 15 , 16 and 17 . Stops scheduled for the following week include Utica and Rome on Oct. 18 ; Lovvville , Carthage and Watertown on Oct. 19 ; Gouverneur , Canton , Potsdam . and Ogdensburg on Oct. 20 , and Massena , Malone and Plattsburg on Oct. 21 , The schedule beyond these dates has not been determined . The farm address is expected to be delivered at Utica , where the Republican candidate will make a rather prolonged stop , since it is the home city of Mr. Hubbard , the candidate for Attorney General . Virtually all of the trip is to be made by bus caravan .                     