@@701124

txt Those who would do away with the Sabbath gaps in Broadway 's glittering smile feel they are close to viclory . A measure legalizing Sunday drama , but giving one day of rest to the theatre worker , has been passed by the Legislature . If the bill wins the approval of Governor Lehman and the municipal administration ? both almost foregone conclusions ? and the acceptance of the Actors Equity Association , the legitimate play will doff its role as the Rialto 's Sunday orphan . There have been , in their time , al good many such Sunday orphans in the city . One by one they have been taken in hand by a pleasure-1 seeking population determined , apparently , to have all the amusement channels open seven days a weeks Today the New Yorker can find as much to do for recreation on a Sunday as on a weekday  --  with a great deal more time to do it in . He has had the movies since 1919 , and he flocks to them 150,000 strong each Sunday . He goes to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baseball season in numbers frequently exceeding 35,000 . In fills ' a dozen concert halls , wanders . through museums , feeds the monkeys and the elephants and taps on the glass cases in the Aquarium . He has the run of parks , and of highways and byways leading out of the city . He can bowl , play pool , go dancing , and sing " Auld Lang Syne " at a bar . Benefit Performances . Even approval of the measure legalizing Sunday performances at the city 's half-hundred legitimate playhouses will bring no sensational additions to the life of the pleasureseeking New Yorker . Not all such stages are dark even today . Under the present law benefit performances are permissible and for the last two years at least one theatre has been open every Sunday night , its receipts going to a fund for needy actors , In other playhouses dancers and impersonators draw large Sunday night crowds . Technically , the law does not permit make-up or change Of scene in a stage presentation given on a Sabbath , but the powers that be have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lectures and travelogues are common enough in theatres , on Sundays as well as weekdays . In addition , the Sunday show-seeker has his choice of burlesque , vaudeville and nightclub shows , all of which have been permitted , apparently , as being " educational " or " sacred "  --  the two principal yardsticks by which Sabbath gatherings are supposed to be measured and approved under the existing law . A Significant Step . So the proposed Sunday drama law will do as much toward putting the stamp of approval on conditions already existing as it will toward creating new ones . Nevertheless , backers of the law insist that it will be a significant step toward resuscitation of the drama throughout the country . They base their reasoning on the fact that to help  --  the New York stage get back on its feet means , inevitably , an increase in the quality and quantity of drama available to the hinterland . Road shows start from Broadway , and they practically never start until they have made money here . And Sunday shows , those who favor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the grade . On the other hand , opponents of the measure  --  and the Actors Equity has led the opposition  --  charge that the producers have merely been rendered greedy by the sight of the thousands who throng Times Square Sunday nights , drifting in and out of the movie houses . Equity 's contracts outlaw Sunday performances in cities in which they were not legal on May 1 , 1924 , regardless of subsequent legislation . Hence Equity must be won over .                     