@@700005

txt A basic wage of $5 a day and a thirty-hour week in the soft coal mines were urged by John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , at a hearing on the twenty-seven bituminous codes today . Declaring that competitive wagecutting had pauperized the miners hand bankrupted the operators , Mr. Lewis asserted that his union was the " only stabilizing force the industry had ever had . " Unsparing in his condemnation of " ruthless and cut-throat " competition , Mr. Lewis declared that the coal industry could not save itself without government supervision and proposed that the Federal Government act as the umpire in the formulation of a planned basis of procedure . The general code , which he helped draft , was formulated , he said , as a result of collective bargaining according to the procedure proposed in , the Recovery Act , and he predicted that the establishment of the six-hour day and five-day week would give work to the excess 200,000 miners in the industry . Operators Back Stand . The code Mr. Lewis favors differs in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was joined in its support by two leading operators George B. Harrington of Chicago , president of the Chicago , Wilmington and Franklin Coal Company , and I Frank E. Taplin of Cleveland , president of the North American Coal Corporation . The latter spoke in I behalf of Central Coals Associates . Mr. Harrington and Mr. Taplin were , , spoltesmen of the employers who aided in formulating the genzl eral code after collective bargaining with the union . While some of them operate non-union mines in the South , these operators , who operate largely in the North , threw , the weight of their influence today in favor of complete unionization of the industry . They urged that the final code should recognize the United Mine Workers of America as representing the employes and should seek stabilization of the industry through a uniform wage scale . Mr. Lewis said that practically the entire industry was now unionized and declared he spoke for 750,000 organized miners . Non-Union Code Criticized . Criticizing the code submitted by operators of non-union mines , Mr. Lewis held that the Recovery Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of employes . " He declared that the Recovery Act meant a " rebirth , ' not a return to the conditions of former years , and demanded that " enlightened social consciousness " replace the " old laissez-faire " and " ruth1 less competition . Mr. Lewis asserted that the em- ployer is the greatest beneficiary II under the act . " He gets complete freedom from the anti-trust laws and assurance against unfair competition and against the overdevelopment of his industry , " the union head said . " He secures what amounts to a government guarantee of reasonable profits and freedom from most of the worries which now trouble him ? in short , that security of income and employment , which the worker has so long been striving for but is still denied . " What does the employer give in return ? Absolutely nothing . He is merely debarred from monopolistic practices and from the opportunity to exploit laborers and consumers , or , in other words , he is merely prevented from unduly absorbing the gains which arise from the productive efficiency of industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by chance , costs of production are thereby enhanced , a commensurate increase in price is contemplated by the recovery program . " Mr. Harrington declared that only by the adoption of one code , national in its application , could the serious abuses of the industry be remedied . He asserted that some companies omitted pay days at times , " an impossible form of competition . " He insisted on the eight-hour day as against the union 's demand for a six-hour day , but agreed on an average thirty-six-hour week , as did the other operators . While other codes sought to protect employers from " chiselers , " Mr. Harrington said that the code he spoke for was the only one that aimed " to protect employes from chiseling employers . " This was provided in the sections that called for check weighmen , payment in cash instead of scrip , and freedom ' of miners to trade at company or at " free " stores . Mr. Taplin asserted that pleas for the " company union " were " archaic . " He not only favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government supervise competitive fuel Industries such as oil and gas . He proposed establishment of a. planning board for that purpose .                     