@@703173

txt The tentative Democratic slate for the primary election in Pennsylvania , framed yesterday at Harrisburg , with Charles A. Jones of Pittsburgh designated for Governor and George H. Earle for the Senate , was apparently wrecked today when John L. Lewis , chairman of the Committee for Industrial Organization , gave notice that his labor votes would not support such a ticket . This caused Senator Guffey to bolt and leave the conference in the Executive Mansion at Harrisburg this morning . Mr. Lewis is said to control 800 , - 000 labor votes in Pennsylvania , 90 per cent of which are registered as Democrats . He has insisted that the party leaders support Lieutenant Governor Thomas Kennedy for Governor or Senator . When Mr. Guffey heard that the labor leader would not agree to the selection of Mr. Jones he declined to abide by the decision agreed to last night . Governor Earle is reported to have agreed with Senator Guffey , and he , too , is said to be looking to Mr. Lewis to work out a compromise . Earle Cites Lewis Strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Pennsylvania without the support of Mr. Lewis . His influence in 1934 , Governor Earle said after the election , was responsible for his election as well as that of Senator Guffey . With the slate wrecked by Mr. Guffey 's rejection , a conference was held here this afternoon attended by Mr. Lewis and Matthew McCloskey of Philadelphia and Walter Jones , a friend of Senator Guffey . Mr. Guffey declined to - attend but left Harrisburg for New York where he is to speak at a dinner of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick tomorrow . Mr. Lewis is reported to have persisted in his original demand that Mr. Kennedy be put on the slate for the nomination for Governor . At a conference here last week attended by most of the Democratic leaders , except Governor Earle , it was decided that Mr. Kennedy should not receive this honor . Today Mr. Lewis refused all offers of a compromise , although it is thought that he would listen to a proposition that would put Mr. Kennedy in the Senate . Lewis-Pinchot Link a Threat The situatiort is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate nomination to succeed Senator Davis ; with Mr. Guffey for Governor . In. the event of the election of Mr. Guffey as Governor , Mr. Kennedy would be appointed by him to the Senate to fill the unexpired term ending 1941 . Mr. Lewis 's position is unique . It is pointed out that , if the Democrats ignore his claims for recognition , he can turn about and make a fusion ticket with former Governor Gifford Pinchot , who is seeking the Republican nomination for Governor . In that event , Mr. Kennedy would be designated for the Senate nomination and Mr. Pinchot would be the fusion candidate for Governor . It is this possibility that gives concern to the Democratic leaders in Pennsylvania . Bitter Fight Now Looms Special to THE rim Ye= TIMES . HARRISBURG , Feb. ** a bitter factional fight threatened in the Pennsylvania Democratic primary , party leaders today withheld formal announcement of the Gubernatorial candidacy of Charles Alvin Jones , a Pittsburgh attorney , upon which a tentative agreement was reached at a conference last night in Governor Earle 's office .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the agreement on Mr. Jones was confirmed , David L. Lawrence , State chairman , and Matthew H. McCloskey Jr. , co-leader of the Philadelphia Democratic organization , hurried to Washington for the conference with John L. Lewis . Meanwhile trouble loomed in another quarter . Not only has Attorney General Charles J. Margiotti announced his own candidacy for Governor , with Mr. Kennedy threatening to take the same action upon completion of a labor survey , but Luther Harr , City Treasurer of Philadelphia , was believed tonight to be on the verge of entering the race for Governor . Dr. Harr has the backing of J. David Stern , publisher of The Philadelphia Record and New York Post . Mr. Stern supported Governor Earle when the Democrats swept Pennsylvania four years ago . The publisher , who was not invited to the Harrisburg conference , was understood to have recorded a strong protest against the selection of Mr. Jones , described as " an Al Smith Democrat , " because he believed the candidate lacked political appeal . The conference here this morning was marked with some bitterness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would run for Governor in spite of the earlier tentative agreement on Mr. Jones . Mr. McCloskey 's anger was aroused at this , according to reports , and he declared that if Senator Guffey ran he would back John B. Kelly , chairman of the Philadelphia Democratic Committee , in spite of a previous pledge to back Dr. Harr.                     