@@699439

txt The League of Nations put to Japan tonight a question aimed at bringing out dearly which weighs the more with , Tokyo : its desire to keep the United States and Soviet Russia out of the proposed conciliation body for the Manchurian question , or its desire to keep League principles from being applied to a settlement of the dispute . The Committee of Nineteen was officially informed that Japan declared that her chief objection to the draft resolution the League submitted to her in December was its invitation to the United States and Russia to participate in the conciliation work . The committee decided to answer by asking Japan whether if that invitation were eliminated she would accept all the rest of the December resolution . This means that the price Japan would pay for keeping non-members of the League out of the proceedings would be her acceptance of Chinese sovereignty in Manchuria in return for Manchuria 's autonomy , withdrawal of all her troops in return for the establishment of a special gendarmerie in Manchuria and renunciation of her demand that the League , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparing the way for direct Chino-Japanese negotiations . It would mean implicitly her acceptance of the application of the non-recognition doctrine . Seek Tokyo 's Instructions . The Japanese delegation , surprised , as was nearly every one , by this development , telegraphed to Tokyo for instructions . The Committee of Nineteen in an official communiqu ? tonight " foresaw " a new meeting Friday , but as the most important issues are now at stake Japanese quarters doubt that they ' will get an answer before Monday . Members of the committee and others closely acquainted with the situation express a certainty that Tokyo will refuse to pay the price of acceptance . This , they explain , is why the question was put to Tokyo . According to them Japan sought to end the League 's conciliatory efforts on the ground most favorable to Japan by making it appear that conciliation had broken down because the League tried to force non-members on her as peacemakers . The Committee of Nineteen decided that if conciliation were to break down it would be much better to have it break down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sure Japan also considered the real issue  --  their December demand that conciliation be based on the principles in Chapter IX of the Lytton report . In other words , with hope of conciliation virtually gone each side is now simply manoeuvring to assure that the efforts end on the ground most favorable to it and League quarters think they did the United States a great favor today " in preventing it from being made the scapegoat as Japan desired " both for foreign and domestic reasons . They believe they have " turned the tables neatly . " Japanese quarters are obviously annoyed by the committee 's question and indicate that Tokyo probably will try to avoid a yes or no answer and will seek ' if possible to turn the tables back again . Committee in Secret Session . The decision of the Committee of , Nineteen came after many conversations during the day and a threehour secret meeting this evening . The committee 's communiqu ? , one of whose authors was Sir John Simon , British Foreign Secretary , said in referring to the Japanese proposals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of 1 fundamental points from those it had approved and communicated to : the parties . One of the main objections of the Japanese Government is to the inclusion in the cqmmission to settle the dispute submitted to the League of representatives of non-member States . The committee considers that if this were Japan 's only objection to the texts which have been communicated to her it would not be impossible to settle the question in consultation with the two parties . It therefore deems it necessary to obtain further information , in par ? ticular as to the question of whether if this difficulty were surmounted Japan would be prepared to accept the draft resolution drawn up by the committee last December . ' The committee asked its president , the Secretary-General , to get into communication with the Japanese delegation on this point . " Before continuing the conversations with the Chinese delegation the committee thought it should first make certain of the reply from the Japanese delegation . " Today 's proposal by the committee seems to have originated in discussions in the Secretariat although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the meeting . including Sean Lester of the Irish Free State , who opened the debate ; Sir John Simon , Rene Massigli of France and Dr. Giuseppe Motta of Switzerland . It was generally deemed an astute manoeuvre and met no opposition . It was explained in the meeting that Japan 's objections ? to nonmembers were based ostensibly on the same legal grounds she had advanced In October , 1931 , and then dropped after the League Council , overruling them , had admitted Prentiss Gilbert of the United States to its table . It was an open secret , however , that the real rea-. sons Tokyo gave were those outlined in yesterday 's dispatch . Apparently it was generally assumed at the meeting that it was doubtful whether at best the United States , and particularly Soviet Russia , would accept the invitation if it ever was issued . ' and it was highly unlikely that either would ? accept the role of conciliator after Japan 's open opposition to them today . In these circumstances it was thought best not to try to force the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a break with Tokyo on a ground deemed not merely the least favorable to Geneva but dangerous to Washington . League Ready to Go Ahead . If the unexpected happens and Tokyo accept today 's offer , officials explain , the committee will be quite willing to abandon the idea of inviting the non-members , considering their presence of secondary importance . since the present liaison continues to be maintained . League circles welcomed President-elqpt Roosevelt 's statement on the Far East and thought it would be " a hard blow " for the Japanese , who have given the impression here that they really believed the new administration would not push Secretary Stinison. ' s policy . On the other hand , the same circles deplored the State Department 's denial that it had urged the British and French that the time had come for the League to act , which they predicted Sir John Simon would hasten to exploit .                     