@@703411

txt An Influential group of President Roosevelt 's close advisers now discuss the railroad problem almost altogether in terms of government ownership and operation . This may have had something to do with the failure of the Administration to insist upon emergency legislation to aid the carriers during the 1938 session of Congress At any rate , the fact that no such legislation was passed has given further impetus to the government ownership approach . It is true , of course , that a number of high Administration officials urged the passage of the emergency bills and sought more specific White House support . But , as events proved , this element did not carry the day . Generally speaking . it is the left-wing of the New Deal which is seriously considering public operation of the carriers as the most logical " solution " of the present difficulty . So far as can now be learned , however , no definite program under which the transfer from private to public enterprise would be accomplished has been worked out . Eastman 's Position It might be mentioned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastman . who has long been konwn as an advocate of eventual Government ownership , has not publicly discussed this idea for some time and has gradually drifted further and further away from the inside circle of Administration advisers . More conservative officials here have not yet given up hope of rehabilitating the industry under private operation , however . although few of them can see their way clear to an ultimate solution on the basis of the situation today . They arc not unaware of the conflict between economic and political forces involved . In their minds , the question will depend upon the trend of events during the next six months in which time the question of wage adjustments presumably will be settled one way or the other and the trend of traffic may improve . Step Held Inevitable The current advocates of Government ownership regard it as " inevitable " for a number of reasons ; chief among these reasons being the " political impossibility " of labor cost reductions and coordination of facilities under private management . This school of thought holds that as long as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish extra employment as well as transportation service and which must maintain facilities which are uneconomic in the strict sense of the word , private capital can naturally be no longer relied upon to maintain the necessary plant investment . It is pointed out that most other important countries have gone to publi : ownership , and that such a development in the United States would not represent anything except a perfectly natural step . One White House adviser explains that the railroad industry . with its huge payrolls and widespread operations , has come to be more and more regarded as an instrument for the redistribution of the national income and that , as such , it has no present or future appeal to private investors- Be fully expects government operation , on this beide , to result in annual bookkeeping defteits.                     