@@702909

txt The drive for peace between the two great rival factions of the organizer ' labor movement of America has begun . Behind closed doors today plenipotentiaries of the rival Committee for Industrial Organisation and American Federation of Labor armies , numbering all told more than 7.000.000 workers , met to search for a formula of agreement . In the mere fact of the two groups sitting down together is seen one of the most hopeful signs of peaceful labor and industrial relations in the past 24 months . dui Ins which time a bitter internecine warfare has been going on up and down the length of the country . In the outward events of the morning session there was an undercurrent or drama . Rival labor leaders greeted each other with smiles and outstretched hands . The A. F. of L. was represented by three leaders : the 0 . I. 0 . by 10. all expert ? enced negotiators . Neither William Green , head of the A. F. of L. nor John L. Lewis head of the C. I. 0 . was present . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position to see if the basis for an agreement can be reached . See Long Negotiation If satisfactory progress is made , later conference will be held and it is commonly supposed here that negotiations may strekh out for three or six months . WhAb greetings this morning were friendly enough . there was no private assurance of optlinism among the different representatives . In fact , the attitude would probably be most fairly described as tempered pessimism , in which , however , either side is prepared to be agreeably surprised if the admitted obstacles to agreement are overcome . The conference was late in starting . Round the corridors on the third floor of one of Washington 's biggest hotels milled a score of reporters and batteries of camera men waiting for the delegates . The negotiations were to be ' conducted in a three-room suite containing a larger conference room and two secondary " huddle rooms " where the representatives of the factions could caucus . The conference room had two oblong tables placed side by side in the center to form an almost square table devoid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of precedence . There were the customary ice water pitchers and gilt-backed ball-room chairs characteristic of hotels , with a quota of chintz-covered overstuffed chairs in corners , and the usual closets and bathrooms of a hotel suite . Have Open Minds Several minutes after 10 , the A. F. of L. group smilingly emerged from the elevator and paused for A minute among the flashing bulbs of camel amen while George M. Harrison , president of the Railway Clerks , commented : " We are coming down here to attend a meeting and see what we can do to settle this . We are coming with open minds and we will try to settle it . " Then , to the still popping camera flashes , the three leaders , including Matthew Well , head of the Photo-Engravers Union , and 0 . M. Bugniazet , of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , entered the inner suite . The 10-man 0 . I. 0 . delegation was smiling , too , as it came out of the hotel corridor in a body under the leadership of Philip Murray , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to comment on the statement issued by William Green yesterday that the " door of the American Federation of Labor Is open . " other than to remark that " Mr. ? teen is , of course , very voluble . " Mr. Green 's ascumption in the same statement that the union of warring factions , if it occurred , would be " under the banner of the A. F. of WI was regarded in some quarters as provocative , But Mr. Murray merely declared : " Our minds are open  --  they are always open . " With that the C. I. 0 . group also went into the inner sanctum . There the two groups intermingled , shaking hands . Mr. Harrison turned to the C. I. 0 . group exclaiming . " We could have settled this thing before if you boys had let us . " Renew Soolal Contacts " Glad to see you again ! " said several leaders as they met . Cameramen nerd allowed in for a few minutes prior to the first discussion . Murray and Harrison smilingly posed shaking hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded . Harrison and Murray came to the door of the suite together and Mr. Harrison delivered a joint statement for the two as a battalion of newsmen edcompassed them , and a row of cameramen standing on chairs in the rear kept up their incessant flashlIghting . The two men stood in shadows and were Illuminated by the fitful lighning strokes of the camera bulbs . Harrison explained that only procedural matters had been discussed and that the session would be resumed in the afternoon . " We discussed the proceddre to be followed in this conference . Maybe we will have some news this afternoon . " " I do n't see any black eyes ! " commented a reporter . " That 's right , " Mr. Harrison replied . smiling , " this is a peaceful meeting . We are hero to make peace . " When Good Fellows Get ; Despite the absence of specific announcement the mere fact of the leaders of the two rival factions Sitting down together in one room . PAM tabls mai naggaral most significant labor news In two years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thunder and brimstone relationship to comradely affection . An example of this was the former bitterly vituperative feud between John L. Lewis and John Brophy who organized a rival mine union with Powers Hapgood , 1026-1028 , Today , Mr. Brophy is the adjutant general of Mr. Lewis 's forces while Powers Hapgood Is also a fellow worker . Labor leaders often take the position of lawyers in a suit in jurisdictional matters it is pointed out , and are able quickly to fraternize if the ground for controversy is expunged . Dispute absence of specific details national interest was such that press association representatives dictated accounts of what WaS . Or WAS not , happening almost continuously into private telephone lines during the course of the morning . The long , delicate negotiations , if they develop , will be the source of almost constant rumor and speculation in the opinion of labor specialists , but developments are likely to remain obscure .                     