@@701407

txt The three-power conference on the Italo-Ethiopian dispute collapsed today , destroying the last hope of preventing armed intervention by the Italians in Ethiopia . Discussions will continue through diplomatic channels , but none of the delegations here made any effort to hide that the next date for any new developments will be Sept. 4 , when the League of Nations Council will meet . The end came suddenly and unexpectedly when Premier Benito Mussolini of Italy sent a flat rejection of the proposal put to him by the British and French , offering what they deemed the most favorable basis of discussion short of granting in advance his maximum demands for political domination of Ethiopia . It had been a day of tenseness and feverish activity . The breakdown came as a bitter disappointment to Premier Pierre Laval of France and Anthony Eden of Great Britain , who had only the slimmest hopes of a satisfactory conclusion to their negotiations but who hated to see this last chance of peace evaporate . Adjournment Announced . The failure of the talks was announced in the following communique , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pierre Laval , the representative of France ; Mr. Anthony Eden , the representative of Great Britain , and Baron Aloisi , the representative of Italy , met at Paris in an endeavor to find a peaceful solution of the Italian dispute . They have not yet been able to find a basis for discussion that would permit of a solution of the conflict . The differences met with during the examination of the suggestions put forward in the course of the discussions make it necessary to adjourn the study that has been undertaken . This study will be continued through diplomatic channels . The diplomatic phraseology of this communiqu ? , with its traditional unwillingness to admit final defeat , does not alter the plain fact that it is really all over as far as concerns any attempt to reach a peaceful solution on the basis of the 1906 Three-Power treaty involving Ethiopia . Since there is no other basis for conversations between now and Sept. 4 , when the League Council will meet , and since complete discouragement reigns among the British and French regarding the possibility of stopping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official circles in admitting complete failure . Mr. Eden plans to have another talk with Mr. Laval tomorrow morning about their future attitude toward the situation , after which he plans to return with his delegation to London . Baron Aloisi and his delegation plan to leave tomorrow for Rome . Background of Events Revealed . The precise background for today 's events has now been divulged by official sources . The Ethiopians , during the past few days , had let it be known that they would welcome foreign assistance in the economic , financial and even administrative spheres and had indicated a willingness to request the League for collective assistance along those lines . Such assistance would naturally come from those powers territorially surrounding Ethiopia , notably France , Britain and Italy . But as neither France nor Britain had any desire to assume such a task in Ethiopia , it was pointed out , the Italians would therefore have a virtual monopoly of such assistance . It was also agreed to suggest plans for safeguarding the frOntiers of the-Italian coloniesadjoining Ethiopia , as well as taking care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to be dependent Upon three reservations : First , they would . have to be accepted by Ethiopia ; secondly , they would have to be accepted by the League ; thirdly ; the ? independence and territorial integrity of Ethiopia muse be respected . This in substance was the proposal put to Mussolini , not as a final offer in any sense , but merely as a basis for discussion . The British and French knew perfectly well these terms would not satisfy II Duce , but they did hope he would at least accept them as something to work from . Baron Aloisi forwarded these suggestions to Rome Friday evening . All day yesterday the conferees. awaited a reply , while Mussolini was out inspecting and encouraging his troops . This morning Baron kola ! went around to the . Quai d'Orsay to see Mr. Laval and told him a reply had been received . It was a very discouraging one , and Mr. Laval kept the Italian delegate in argument for more than an hour , during which time Baron Aloisi again telephoned to Il Duce . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Laval 's office Mr. Eden arrived for an hour 's discussion with the Premier . They decided upon one last appeal ; to Mussolini ; the answer to which was to be given by Baron Alois- at a formal conference of the three - powers , starting at 3 o'clock this afternoon . Those in closest touch with the French and British delegates give assurance that neither expected 11 Duce to put an abrupt end to the discussions . But that was exactly what happened . ? From Italian sources it was learned that Mussolini was extremely angry at what he regarded as a manoeuvre to blame him for the breakdown . of the conference . He is understood to have stated in very plain lan-1 guage that Mr. Eden knew perfectly well before he went to Paris that Italy would not accept anything so unsubstantial as what was now being offered . Mr. Eden , he is relia-. bly reported to have said , started for Paris wholly unprepared to make any suitable proposal and with the deliberate intention of placing Italy in the wrong and bringing world condemnation on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This accusation of bad faith , it should be said , holds on both sides . The British answer tonight was that , while it was true that they and everybody else knew Italy 's maximum position in advance , Italy also knew Britain 's position and should not have come to the conference if she had no intention of contributing anything toward ' it of a conciliatory nature .. lit Feeling Runs High . One British spokesman remarked in private Conversation : " We have - nothing on our conscience . " , ? There ii , ma.clOubt among. , ; , q1MeS , V7 ers who have ' been closet-yin tettell ' with the parties to this conference that ill feeling runs very high between the British and the Italians . The British weie in a prim mood today and made no attempt to , hide it . . Veterans ' of many conferences said they had never seen the British so upset . Mr. Laval 's gifts as mediator have never been put to a harder task . Faced with the failure of this conference , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has apparently managed to retain Italian goodwill  --  so much so , indeed , that there was talk tonight of his meeting Mussolini privately for one more effort at conciliation . When Mr. Laval received newspapermen at 8 o'clock this evening , he emphasized that the French and British were fully in accord on the necessity of working together for the League 's principles . These conversations , he said , were part of the League 's proceedings and in the spirit of the League . He added , however : " Our friendship for Italy has inspired us to a very great effort to reach a satisfactory conclusion of these discussions , and we are going to pursue " this effort until all our resources have been exhausted . " He did not explain how he would go about continuing his mediation , but it was one of the things that gave rise to the report that he was possibly contemplating a meeting with Mussolini . . ? ? - It is certain that there is going ' to in Ethiopia , and if France will not I do that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he and France have almost been pushed to that dreaded crossroads where they must choose between Britain and Italy . Yesterday it even looked as if Mussolini had already forced Mr. Laval to take the inevitable choice of Britain . He  --  still may have to , for France can not sacrifice.British friendship or permit the League to be destroyed along with world peace . But . Mr. Laval has not given up . No sooner had this parley collapsed I than he started a patient search for a new basis of compromise . Whatever hopes exist ft &; preventing an armed conflict it is felt here will rest in Mr. Laval 's efforts , although every one admits these hopes are as slim as they can possibly be . The French do not feel for a moment that the British have had their last say , and they expect very important developments from London in the ' near . future . However , ' most observers believe the British *ill save their thunder for the . League Council meeting . Legal Dispute Rages . ' ' Meanwhile there a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and British both trying to prove the justification of their respective attitudes lies in existing treaties . During the three days the conference lasted there was a close study , leading to varying interpretations of the treaties that concerned Ethiopia  --  those of 1891 , 1894 , 1909 , 1925 , 1928 and 1930 . The last of these had not been mentioned before . in connection with the Italo-Ethiopian dispute , but it is understood the British made good use of it here . It is theso-called Ethiopian arms convention , signed by the Ethiopian , French and Italian Governments . There is a preamble that seeaks of . maintaining harmony of . action in conformity with the principles of the Covenant of the League ; " in particular in the matter of respecting and preserving- the ? territorial integrity and political independence of members of the League . " Another shrewd dig at Italy was taken when attention was called to the text of a letter that Count Colli , ' the Italian Minister at Addis Ababa , wrote on behalf of the Italian Government June 9 , 192G @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dividing Ethiopia into two zones of influence , as " of a purely economic character which does not in/ridge on the integrity of Ethiopia . " Another passage in the same letter says : " Ethiopia is entirely free to grant ? or to refuse any requests in connection with the economic question that either of the governments may make . " . Italians File a Protest . The grave negotiations that continued steadily throughout today had one interruption that did not lack humor . In the middle of the afternoon - Baron Alois ! , accompanied by Vittorio Cerruti , the new Italian . Ambassador here , acting under Mussolini 's instructions , paid a formal visit to Mr. Laval at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs . The Italians ' marched into the Foreign Minister 's office with dignified , serious mien and announced that they had come to make a diplomatic protest . It seems that a correspondent of Havas , the semi-official French news agency , in an account of yesterday 's negotiations , stated that Italian intransigeance was holding up the progress of the conversations . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was " tendentious and untrue , " and he desired to enter Italy 's protest against the statement . Mr. Laval gravely expressed on behalf of the French Government his regret that the Italian nation should feel distressed at the Havas Agency 's interpretation of what occurred yesterday , brit he pointed out that Haves had latitude in writing it ? news and therefore naturally could not be considered as expressing the official French viewpoint . Thereupon Baron Aloisi and Ambassador Cerrutti rose , thanked him and left . Ten minutes later they were back at the Quai d'Orsay to continue the three-power negotiations . The true . irony of the situation tonight , however , as everybody is pointing out , is that the IteloEthiopian arbitration commission on the Ualual incident will meet tomorrow morning at the Hotel Meurice and choose Nicolas Politis , Greek Minister to Paris , as its fifth member . Then all five will sit down to negotiations whose outcome , whatever it may be , has been made utterly futile by the collapse of the tripartite negotiations today . PEACE TALKS FAIL AS ITALIANS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next few weeks that Europe has seen since the World War . The situation is fraught with the gravest consequences ' for ' European peace , and the statesmen who took part in the conference ' here know . that perfectly Well . . German Envoy Visits Alelsi . It was deemed significant that one of the first things that- happened after the parley 's collapse was a . visit to Baron Aloisi by Roland Koester , the German Ambassador here . The great shadow of Germany ' has already loomedover the horizon here and the immediate future , it is believed ; . will settle the European trend for Years to come . The rear of Museoiini 's , 1 army must be covered while it is                     