@@699855

txt New York wiped its brow and replaced its wilted collar yesterday after an early morning electrical storm had relieved the sweltering city . The storm was accompanied by a sixty-mile wind which did much damage in the metropolitan area . Yesterday 's maximum temperature of 86 degree at 5 And 6 P. M. was 10 degrees lower than Friday 's record of 96 . However , it rose to within 2 degrees of the record for June 10 , and the maximum was 18 degrees above the normal average for the date . Storms and shifting winds sent temperatures down throughout the East , but not before the three-day heat wave that shattered records over a large portion of the country had caused , according to Associated Press compilations , more than 125 deaths . In addition to the toll of lives the unseasonable heat damaged some farm products , and in the Hammonton section of New Jersey , where on Friday the temperature set an all-time record of 120 degrees in the sun , strawberries wilted on the stem . 23 Deaths in Philadelphia . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nineteen dead in Philadelphia alone . The blanket of heat was reaching across the greater part of the coun-try yesterday , according to The Associated Press , with the Southwestern States suffering from the high temperatures that the East experienced on Friday . In the wheat belt of Kansas the mercury was hovering well above 100 degrees , with a high of 109 reported from Junction City . Nebraska reported grain crops damaged and no rain in sight , and three additional deaths occurred in St. Paul , Minn . The coastal States , still oppressed by the unseasonably high temperatures , turned rto the week-end with weather forecasts holding out little prospect of permanent relief . " Continued warmth " was the prevailing prediction , with some hope , how-ever , that clouds and light variable breezes forecast for the metropolitan area might keep the temperature from again approaching Friclay 's highs . Beaches Afford Relief . While thousands from the city sought the beaches yesterday or went out of town for the week-end to escape the heat , police compilations showed that prostrations caused two more deaths in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief by bathing were drowned . John J. , 40 , of 24-03 Forty-first Avenue , Long Island City , a complaint clerk in the Long Island City magistrate 's court for fifteen years , was found dead in the bathroom of his home early yesterday . His death was attributed by his physician to the intense heat coupled with illness . Milton White , 35 , a Negro , of-507 West Street , was drowned while swimming off Pier 44 in the Hudson River . Edward Joyce , 17 , 742 East Fortyfifth Street , Brooklyn , a student at Samuel Tilden High School , swan out beyond his depth at Elmont Beach , Mill Basin , Jamaica Bay , and was drowned before two high school companions could reach him . William Brinkerhoff , 67 , of 41-13 Seventy-fourth Street , Jackson Heights , collapsed of the heat and died in front of his home . Mary Reynolds of 511 West 170th Street observed that her brother , John , 19 , appeared to be ill as he waded in the shallow water of Van Cortlandt Park swimming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ o'clock last night . As she assisted him out of the pool , he collapsed . He died apparently of heart attack while being taken to Jewish Memorial Hospital . An autopsy will be performed . In New Jersey Grant Metzger , 21 , of Carrs Corner , Warren County , was drowned early yesterday while seeking relief from the heat in Lake Susquehanna , near Blairstown . Wilma Kotacska , 16 , of Raritan Township , drowned in Robinson Clay Pond while swimming Friday night , and David Lindquist , 44 , of Carteret , died in a Rahway hospital of heat prostration . William Mahoney , 25 , of Philadelphia , was drowned last night in Lake Cotoxon , a Summer resort one mile east of Medford , N. J. , where he had gone swimming with a party of bathers . State troopers were summoned from Berlin Barracks , near by , to grapple for the body . It had not been recovered late last night . ' New York 's respite yesterday from the scorching heat of Friday came shortly after 3 A. M. from a severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York skyline . Shifting winds that reached a velocity of sixty-six miles an hour at 4:55 A. M. snapped off trees all over the metropolitan area , whisked signs from their supports , smashed plate glass windows and did other property damage . From 4 A. M. until after dawn , police emergency squads all over the city were kept clanging from call to call , to clear the streets of fallen trees or limbs , or to anchor wildly flapping signs . Brooklyn apparently felt the full force of the storm more severely than the other boroughs , and for a time several Manhattan - emergency squads had to , be shifted temporarily to Brooklyn to assist in restoring the storm ' wrecked borough to normal conditions . Two accidents , both minor , were reported during the storm . Patrol- , man Tobias Goodman of 2,187 Kruger Avenue , attached to Motorcycle Squad 1 , was riding through Central Park when at Eighty-first I Street a strong gust of wind bowled him over . He was treated for lacerations and bruises and continued on duty . Mrs. Justine hallo . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely by glass fragments , when a window in the bedroom of her apartment at 1,324 Oakley Avenue , the Bronx . was blown in : Two on Yawl Rescued . In Brooklyn a police emergency squad that had been summoned by Sergeant John E. Dawson aided in the rescue of two men , whose small yawl , the Veronica , was blown ashore at Shore Road and Ninetysecond Street . The two men , Phaddeus Harrington , 35 , of Milrose , Mass. , and Charles La Blanc , 21 , of Salem , had moored the yawl at the foot of Ninetieth Street , and were asleep aboard her when the storm broke . The wind pitched the boa ' on the rocks at the foot of Ninetysecond Street . The high seas made rescue difficult , but Sergeant Dawson and the emergency squad got a line out to the men , and aided by the line Harrington and La Blanc swam ashore . Lightning which flashed in great jagged streaks across the sky struck a large chimney atop the Hotel Pierrepont at 55 Pierrepont Street in Brooklyn and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About 400 persons were asleep in the seventeen-story hotel at the time , but no one was hurt , and many of the guests were not even disturbed . At Coney Island throngs of persons , who were trying to find relief from the sweltering night by sleeping on the sands , were driven to shelter under the boardwalk . Queens also sufferdd heavily from the storm , and telephone calls poured into the offices of the Department of Parks and the Highway Bureau , reporting trees and wires blown down and other damage . Sanitation Department trucks , police emergency squads and other city employes were sent to all sections of the borough and especially to Ozone Park . St. Albans , Queens and Flushingf which reported much debris scattered about the streets . Gas and electric emergency crews were kept busy in all boroughs . In Manhattan trees were uprooted in Central Park , and a large plate glass window on the ground floor of the Holland-America Line at 29 Broadway was shattered . The Bronx reported twenty-five large trees down , and dozens of recently planted saplings were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flung through the air . On Staten Island the roofs of three buildings were struck by lightning ? though little damage was done . Trees were snapped off and a bolt struck and severely damaged a switchboard in the main plant of the Staten Island " Edison Corporation in Livingston . Service on trolley lines was temporarily halted . The driving rain did much damage to highways through the island . Scores of trees were uprooted in the Heckscher State Park , East Islip , L. I. , and a campers ' colony of 500 persons there was terrified when the wind blew down tents and scattered equipment . Bay Shore and the Islips reported considerable damage , with two persons injured and several homes struck by lightning . Coast Guard communication lines along Fire Island Beach and Oak Beach were torn down by the storm , and two homes were destroyed at Oak Beach . Numerous automobiles were overturned or damaged in minor accidents caused by the storm . Nassau County reported comparatively little damage , though electric service in the Great Neck area was suspended for several hours and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck by lightning . Many Boats Driven Ashore . The storm over Long Island whipped many small boats from their anchorages and whisked them ashore , and Westchester also reported boats adrift , trees down , shrubs uprooted and windows broken . In Northern New Jersey the storm exacted the same toll  --  boats blown ashore or sunk , trees uprooted , windows smashed , houses struck by lightning . Mrs. Edna Smith of Red Bank drove her car into her garage late Friday night and awoke yesterday morning to find her car where she had left it but the garage gone . Lincroft was practically isolated by the storm , with wires down and roads blocked by fallen trees . Jersey City and Bayonne felt the full force of the wind . and patrolmen of the emergency squads who ventured out in their open trucks during the height of the storm had to lash themselves to their seats . Boulevard policemen bound themselves together with ropes like mountain climbers as they patrolled their posts early in the morning . In Perth Amboy two bolts of lightning struck St. Mary 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Elizabeth were littered with debris and in Newark a fifty-foot section of glass roofing over the riding ring of the Essex Troop Armory . 120 Roseville Avenue , was torn loose and hurled to the floor below .                     