@@703297

txt A Republican leadership laboring to make an anti-New Deal entity out of the State Constitutional Convention and a Democratic minority equally determined to force the issue of post-1932 reforms today was riyeting political attention in New York as responsibility for procedure shifted from the floor of the body to the deliberations of 34 standing committees . The second of the brief convenings which have cleared the decks for action leaves Democrats initiators of most of the propositions that will center debate , while Republicans filled the portfolio of places of which they are arbiters and in which they predominantly figure in a ratio of something like three to one . The Democratic zeal in " beating them to the gun " on amendment proposals to a degree that puts this Party label on all save six of the 45 recommendations debouched into committee on Monday and Tuesday , was disturbing to the Republican majority , but , with the convention hopper making quick work of everything received , this bloc held fast to its convention attitude of doing nothing to rock the boat . Political Hurdles Admittedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a Party which hopes to successfully combat the New Deal in New York this fall and in the nation in 1940. and the fact has charged the convention atmosphere with the drama of hazard . Republican equanimity in the situation apparently derives from their decision to hold proceedings to a course that will " protect the State from inept changes . " This approach had early definition by William S. Murray , Republican State Chairman , and the formula is to " consider carefully before opening the door for revolutionary measures which will obliterate proved and ancient landmarks . " It is a policy of understatement designed to obviate any attempt by the convention minority to turn the proceedings into a New Deal field day . Division In Viewpoint Meanwhile the Democratic measures sharply expose the division in viewpoint in this bloc , leaping from the broadly neo-liberal recommendations of United States Senator Robert F. Wagner and Supreme Court Justice Charles Poletti to the Old Guard proposition that would disqualify as an elector and from holding office any citizen who advocated , advised or taught the overthrow of organized government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hands of the Suffrage Committee , whose Chairman , Mrs. Helen Z. M. Rodgers , is one of , the six women delegates to the convention . One signal advantage already has made itself felt in the proceedings ? . a public apathy deriving from the fact that this convention had none of the impetus of popular demand . It was projected in 1936 , but was with- out mention in either major party platform that year and campaign speakers were equally without illumination on the subject . Civic bodies have given it only casual or belated consideration , and this lack has subtly , but pervasively , communicated itself to the sessions . That this indifference will be overcome as.debates proceed is expected , though not certain , for the Republican policy of preserving a " calm , cool and collected " attitude already is showing its service as a damper to the kind of aggressiveness characterized in the address of Senator Wagner and the 14 Poletti proposals , with their emphasis on the cause of the underprivileged and labor . As nearly as can be judged at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Constitution that has remained unrevised since 1894  --  a period marked by change in all fields of industrial and social activity . At the same time , their committee preponderance promises to hold the analysis sternly apart from all sensational latter-day " heresies . "                     