@@703915

txt American business and industrial leaders will be given a full opportunity publicly to air their criticism of the New Deal and to outline to Congress just what they consider to be wrong with economic conditions and what can be done by government to encourage business . The sounding board for such procedure Will be none other than the monopoly committee which has announced a ? sharp departure from its previous form of conducting public hearings Chairman Olitialioney , in announcing plans for hearings in connection with a study of the oil Industry , stated that it has been . decided to provide a distinct method of non-governmental presentation to the committee and that the oil industry study will provide the first opportiinity for such procedure . Time Will Be Limited Other industries will be given similar opportunity , but the time devoted to this type or " forum " will be limited since the committee was authorized to spend only $600,000 additional for its study . This will make necessary a report and recommendations to Congress by January or ' February of next year . Jaeretofore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been directed by the executive departments and commissions which are represented on the committee . There have been complaints regarding this form of procedure , and some witnesses have contended they were denied full opportunity to answer some of the contentions made by government witnesses . Chairman O'Mahoney states that the previous method of conducting hearings has not been concluded , since some cases are still in preparation and will shortly be presented at public hearings . Numerous conferences have been meld with representatives of both big and little business of varying or conflicting views in the oil industry and invitations are being extended to them to assist in designating witnesses who will appear at the hearings to present to the country and the committee their views and facts with respect to the economic problem confronting That major industry . Problems of Production " Interest will naturally center on problems of production , refining , transportation and distribution , with particular reference to the effect upon employment and upon the prices which are charged for finished products , as well as the effect of industrial and corporate organization upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's offer . " he continued " is made without limitation as to the content of the testimony or reports . except that the material presented include data requested by the committee and that opinions , including any criticism that may be made of exist'ng governmental or intra-industry policies , be supported by actual evidence . " The program for the oil industry was worked out with Axtell T. Bytes. president of the American Petroleum Institute . who has consented to cooperate with and seek the cooperation of various leaders in the industry The program will make possible the presenttation , in a forum . which is so situated as to command national attention , carrying opinions by business and industrial groups or leaders with respect to the cause and cure of our economic ills . Mr. O'Mahoney said . While it is not possible to Mate how many separate industries will be heard in this manner . the committee chairman said that opportunity would be given in any event for the presentation of testimony through reports , but that the committee reserved the right to receive the material either by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For Hearing " Industrial leaders or groups which feel that they may make a contribution to the solution of their own or the nation 's problems by taking advantage of this formula may make application to the committee through the chairman or the executive secretary for an opportunity to be heard , " Senator ** said . The senator believzs that the presentation of the oil hearings may be begun not later than the first of June , but ample opportunity will be given to the witnesses to prepare . Order of appeal ance of witnesses will be directed by the committee and every effort will be made to arrange the hearings in such a matter as to afford the most effective and fair presentation of conflicting views .                     