@@697067

txt Without waiting for the completion of his first year in the Presidency , many are writing estimates of his successes - nd failures . The favorite question is iow his popularity stands today compared with the time when he took office . It is still to be rated high . The country has lost neither confidence in him nor admiration for him . It believes him highly trained and especially capable , and certainly very hard-working . Yet there were any way today to make a political test , there can be little doubt that it would show a falling off in popular acclaim or approval . For a large part of this he is himself in no way to blame personally . It is a necessary reflex of the stock market collapse and the depressed state of business and employment . Nothing that President HOOVER did brought about this unfortunate state of affairs . When it precipitated itself upon the nation , he acted with great promptness hand intelligence to quiet panic fears and to pave the way for better times . But it was inevitable that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Administration . In this , and without any personal reference at all , there was a certain poetic justice . The Republican party had assumed and assured the country that so long as it was in power prosperity would flow in full tide . During his campaign for the Presidency , Mr. HOOVER accepted and tried to enforce this view . Consequently , when the crash came , he could not extricate himself or his party from the ruins . Had a Democratic President been in the White House , the whole responsibility would have been laid upon him . A Republican President , whether justly or unjustly , can not escape a similar political charge , carrying with it , as it does , a certain lessening of political strength . Along with these events , which are to be thought of as misfortunes rather than blunders , have gone certain disappointments in the application of President HOOVER 'S chosen method of administration . At least two of his governmental commissions have fallen on evil days . The preliminary report of his Commission on Law Enforcement was not well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress in its main recommendations . and is felt to have foreshadowed a long and futile inquiry advancing the country not a whit in knowledge of what to do about prohibition . As for the Farm Board , it has gone on from bad to worse so far as concerns keeping up or stabilizing the price of wheat and winning favor from the farmers of the Northwest . The breakdown , at least temporary , of this semi-socialistic device can not fail to injure the President politically . His experience with the tariff has been especially unlucky . It might almost be called a political disaster for him . No bill that may yet emerge from the Congressional welter , whether it be good as some hope or bad as many fear , can prevent the impression that the whole question was handled in a bungling manner by both the President ana Congress . Public sentiment will fe3l that there is some force in the assertion that Mr. HOOVER did not exert himself and affirm his leadership , as he might have done . He has apparently been content to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigorous participant . In his defense , it has been said in the Senate that he is careful not to interfere in any way with the legislative branch of the Government . But the Constitution empowers him to recommend legislation , and it is his duty to sign or veto bills passed by Congress . The country knows well that for at least sixty years the custom has grown up of assigning a definite right of leadership to t114 President and of expecting him to exercise it Failure to do so , coming on top of the other things referred to , insensibly loosens his hold upon the public . All this is merely a reading of political symptoms as they appear at the moment . They may disappear , or change for the better , any day . In his conduct of foreign policy the President may be able to snatch a renown which will both heighten his fame and bring him plaudits from the people . In domestic matters he may show that he has simply been waiting for the strategic hour to step forth as a strong and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run smooth again and float him and his party to their old level of popularity . Nothing is so kaleidoscopic as American politics . Its next turn may be all in favor of President HOOVER . .                     