@@697672

txt Although it is admitted that there has been price shading during the past few weeks in some of the leading semi-finished and finished steel products , leaders in the industry are still studvine ? the ' possibility of making an advance in quotations for bars , shapes and plates , for second quarter delivery , and some are hoping to be able to mark up the " official quotations " for several of the finished articles . Such action will be another step in the effort to bring about greater stabilization in the industry . A number of the smaller companies which are actively seeking business have been offering concessions to consumers , and it has been necessary for several of the larger interests to meet these quotations to keep their customers in line . However , this situation is not unusual . It existed late last year also , when price shading was much more drastic than it has been in recent weeks . A definite decision has not yet been reached to advance quotations , but an announcement of such action would not cause surprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers , and the result might be that the markets would become more stabilized at the prices which have been quoted recently but which have been shaded when actual business has come out . Higher Prices or Lower ' Wages That something must be done to bring about somewhat increased profits for the steelmakers is the view held in responsible headquarters . There is only a limited amount of business to be had and , with steel plants operating only slightly above 53 , - , of theoretical capacity , the cost per ton has been so high that little or nothing has been left for net profits for many cf the steel companies . One steel authority , in discussing current conditions , admitted that the leaders in the industry were facing a problem which they must solve in the not distant future . He said : " We are face to face with the problem of getting a reasonable margin of profit on our production . There are two ways by which this can be accomplished . The first is through the establishment of a higher general average price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on actual business , while the second is through a reduction in the costs . We have taken every possible step in our plants , and only through the liquidation of labor can the cost be reduced now . " Naturally ' we are averse to reducing wages . It must be realized that the steel worker already has been feeling the depression through lower weekly earnings resulting from the ' stagger ' plan of employment which exists in most of the large mills of the country . However . this has not meant any reduction in the labor cost per ton of steel produced . If a reduction in labor can possibly be avoided it will be , in my opinion . " Smaller Companies Cut Wages A number of the smaller steel companies throughout the country reduced wage rates acme time ago . However , this did not bring any material benefits to those making the cuts . for the advantages in the lower cost of steel produced went to the consumers The smaller steel companies in their anxiety for contracts were willing to grant concessions to secure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower prices in some instances , without having costs reduced through lowered wages . By an advance in current quotations , which would result in somewhat better earnings for the steel companies even if price shading were continued , and through an increase in the orders coming out it would be possible to avert a wage reduction at . th s time . The matter is being given serious consideration in the leading quarters in the industry , and a decision may be reached before very long It is certain that everything possible will be done to keep wage rates at the prevailing levels This is the desire of the leaders in the steel trade . Therefore , if an advance in quotations does not remedy conditions the last step might be through an adjustment and liquidation of labor costs . The next few weeks may prove to he among the most important in the steel industry in recent years . Earnings Disappointing While theie has been moderate improvement in steel trade conditions oeer the experiences of last December , insufficient progress has been made to permit any showing of profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from many of the smaller companies were to the effect that many of them operated " in the red " in the first seven weeks of the current year , though the losses were smaller than those recorded in the final month of 1930 . Even several of the larger concerns did not show any earnings for the common stocks in the first two months of the year . However , officials are hoping that there may be somewhat better results for the current month , especially if the rate of production continues to show moderate gains . Specifications from consumers have been coming out at a steady rate which has permitted various companies to expand activities slightly from week to week . New buying has been limited , however , because consumers have not been inclined to purchase far ahead . This is a natural attitude in view of their experiences in recent weeks , which showed them that pilee concessions could be obtained when attractive inquiries are put out . Some of the users of steel have been able to get advantageous contracts booked in the past two weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requested , reflecting that stocks in the hands of the consumers continue at a low point .                     