@@700075

txt Fascism is the wrong term to apply to the new regime that Chancellor Dollfuss is about to institute in Austria . The authoritarian government on a corporative basis that he proposes will snot necessarily be a copy of the Italian original , as it will most certainly not be modeled after Hitler theory or Hitlerite method . It will be a truly Austrian conception of the sort of State best fitted to Austrian needs , and Austrian statesmanship is now framing it constitutionally on those lines . And intolerance either of race or of religion will find no place in this new constitution or in the new Austrian State , for " a man 's soul is more than his race . " All this was made plain today by the Chancellor himself in an interview with this correspondent that he closed with a personal message to Americans . He asks them to come to Austria to see for themselves a country bred in the Germanic tradition and peopled by a Teutonic race where freedom still reigns and " tolerance prevails irrespective of race or religion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the morning , yet the Chance//or bad been at work for hours . His daily labors are a standing refutation of the generally accepted theory that all Austrians take life easy and extract mostly leisure from it . He had cleared his desk of the morning 's communications , hart paid an official call upon the Cardinal Legate , about . to return to the Vatican after Vienna 's five-day Catholic celebration , and had returned to find the antechamber of his workroom filled with petitioners , would-be consultants , Ministers and party leaders . For each a definite answer was quickly forthcoming . Dr. Dollfuss likes Americans and is glad to have them know it . He greeted the correspondent cordially with instant remembrance of a previous interview last May . He was asked first whether he felt that his government was now more completely master of the situation than it was then , when it had just been reconstructed . " Yes , " replied the Chancellor . " I hope you have been able to convince yourself during the last few days of the complete change of opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participated in our demonstration of Austrian unity and the enthusiasm with which it was received bore striking witness to that . Domestic Position Stronger . " Domestically our whole position is stronger than it was . Our police and gendarmerie are not only loyal but enthusastic cooperators in our efforts . We have young men of the best class voluntarily offering their services as auxiliaries . " Since May there has been a feeling of greater security in Austria . You.  - -  will have noticed we have been able to carry on our tourist activities undisturbed " As for the exterior situation , the sympathy for Austria felt by the Western powers was plainly evident at the World Economic Conference in London and we have had demonstrations since of their interest in our position . " There remains only the difficulty of constant isolated attacks and threats from irresponsible elements in Germany . I believe these are designed chiefly for the encouragement of the Nazis in Austria . However , we are dealing with them and will continue to defend ourselves against them , " " Do you **pent an incursion from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I hope and am convinced that official Germany would not carry out any action of the kind , " he replied . " But from what we know of the foolishness and irresponsibility of certain elements in Bavaria , including the so-called Austrian legion , encouraged as they are by violent radio propaganda , we must assume that such a development is unfortunately possible . I can only say that we are prepared to meet it . " Asked Who Would Aid Him . " On whom could you rely for help in such an eventuality  --  upon Italy ? " asked the correspondent . The Chancellor considered the question carefully . He probably knows that through official circles in Vienna there runs the story that on his recent visit to Riccione Premier Mussolini gave him a real reassurance . It is said to have been that while Italy was not interested in such childish annoyances as radio propaganda from Munich , nevertheless should this develop into armed aggression , whether from Bavaria or Bavarian-inspired Austrian Nazis , that day Italy would be found standing beside France and Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence and security . But that he had even heard this rumor the discreet Chancellor gave no sign . " I can go as far as to remind you that Italy is a State on Austria 's borders , with a strong interest therefore in the maintenance of her territorial integrity , and to hazard the prediction that in such an eventuality Germany would find herself completely alone , " he said . " Do you see any chance of reconciliation . with Germany ? " Dr. DeAlfiles was asked . " We consider the present attel &a,; ? particularly the radio propaganda that is being carried on from Munich , as actually a - sign of weakness , " he replied unhesitatingly . " The time will come when the responsible authorities in Germany will find the situation in Austria otherwise than has been represented in Bavaria . Since April this source has been predicting the ira-1 rpinent overthrow of niy govern-1 meat , but we are still in the saddle . For our part we are- always ready for reconciliation . " " You spoke Monday of the early , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model , " he was reminded . " What sort of fascism do you contemplate ? " " Fascism is a bad definition for Austria , " answered the Chancellor . " We want , as I have already emphasized , an authoritarian government on a corporative basis . That is not , necessarily , what to many minds is connoted by fascism . " I have instructed Dr. Otto Ender , Minister and former Chancellor , with the task of preparing the new Constitution . I can not say at present how we propose to overcome the difficulties involved in its realization . " " Do you intend and hope to enlarge your new ' Fatherland front ' by the inclusion of the more moderate Socialists and National Socialists ? " he was asked . " You must understand that the fatherland front is not to be an amalgamation of the old parties , but a new organization that can tae joined by the members of the old parties , " replied the Chancellor . " It is not a coalition . There are good prospects that many members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Socialist party may join the new frbnt . " You may have noticed the 8,000 postoffice employes who walked in Monday 's demonstrative parade for the fatherland front . By far the greater number of them are or were members of the Socialist party . " " Premier Goembbes said in a speech in Budapest last week that Hungarian talk of a ' political union with Austria had found no response in Austria , " the Chancel pr was told . " How do you regard future relations between the two States ? " " Politically there should be the warmest friendship ; economically the closest possible relations , " answered Dr. Dollfuss. - A Message to America . " And , finally , Herr Chancellor , can you say anything to the American people that will dispel their apprehension that fascism in Austria might mean intolerance ? " the correspondent asked . " I can , " replied the Chancellbr , earnestly . " I said Monday that what we wanted was a Christian German . State on a corporative basis with authoritarian leadership  - -  a Christian State . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important than his race . I regard Austria as a country of almost 7,000,000 souls . We must consider man 's soul above all questions of race or nationality . " It is not a party fight that is going on in Austria , but the creation of a new attitude toward life . ' And , finally , I invite any Americans who may have a lingering doubt to come to Austria and see . for themselves that here at least is a country where tolerance prevails irrespective of race or religion . " " It is also as beautiful and hospitable a country as exists ' anywhere in the world , " the correspondent assured the Chancellor , " and Americans who have been here this Summer are going home happier for having come here . "                     