@@701357

txt The origin of the word " lobbyist " is not obscure . It means a person who frequents the lobby of a legislative house to strive to influence its members . Thus a lobbyist is a special kind of propagandist . He does not depend solely upon the printed word , the pamphlet , the letter , the telegram , but upon word of mouth and personal contact . There is nothing improper about this per se . Legislators can not always be trusted to read pamphlets and letters , or to appreciate the full force of an argument even when they do . A personal interview , in which a lobbyist and a legislator can discuss pending and possible legislation at length and ask and answer questions , may be enlightening to both participants . The lobbyist may learn the legislator 's precise reasons for favoring a bill ; the legislator may learn in detail the objections that can be urged against it . What is objectionable is not the existence of lobbies , but some of their methods and practices . The worst of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indirect bribes which may sometimes be as subtle as a hint of social recognition of the legislator 's wife by the right people . In addition to this are unlimited varieties of misrepresentation , involving either the merits of the bill directly at issue or the number of persons that the lobbyist is supposed to represent . The question of just where misrepresentation begins is not an easy one to answer . It would be utopian to expect a lobby to present all the facts in a situation . Probably the best that can be hoped for is that it will make an honest presentation of the particular facts that favor its case . Opposing honest lobbies may then be able to give legislators a better grasp of the issue involved than they would otherwise obtain . Lobbies may be temporary or permanent , aggressive or defensive . It is not always possible to say to which of the last two classes a lobby belongs . Last week the railroad labor lobby accused the railroads of lobbying . The railroad lobby replied , in effect , that it was compelled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a net deficit of $32,000,000 , the railroad labor lobby was insisting upon the passage of at least eight bills which would cost the roads a total of more than $750,000,000 . While the line of propriety is easily stepped over , the honest lobby performs a legitimate and perhaps indispensable function in the democratic process . The best disinterested economists can not recognize certain possible results of a bill as clearly as those who are working every day in the process or business directly . affected by the bill . But when passions are roused about a question , the legitimate functions of a lobby are overlooked . The argumentum ad hominem then prevails . The fact that a certain interest opposes a bill , or , worse , uses questionable or unscrupulous methods in opposing it , is regarded as a proof that the bill is a good one and ought to be passed .                     