@@697217

txt It is estimated that approximately $150,000. - 000 of radio " distress " inventory has been disposed of since the beginning of the year and that the industry is once more in satisfactory shape . From now on the leading companies will be doing business with a normal inventory and they will keep a strong hand on this department in the uncertain business conditions of this year . The Radio Corporation has disposed of its overproduction carryover from 1929 amounting to some $32,000.000 and most of the " sales " of companies that got into trouble have been consummated . Radio Corporation 's first quarter was hardly a profitable one as this carryover inventory was disposed of at " sales " prices . This particularly applies to the sale of straight radio equipment . Distributors report that they have moved old inventory readily and that by the time new inventory comes to hand they will be in a position to handle it . It is likely that the leading companies will increase their manufacture of lower-priced sets rather than attempt at this time to send to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Grigsby Gruno ? ' s advance in prices , it is obvious that as new inventory comes on the market prices will be advanced by most companies compared with the abnormally low prices prevailing during the distress period of the trade . The trade expects that by the end of the summer radio sales will be normal , and while conditions in the industry will mean that the highest prices obtaining last year will not be seen in 1930. prices will be high enough to afford a good profit . Many new models and prices probably will be announced at the Radio Show of the Radio Manufacturers ' Association in Atlantic City beginning June 2 . More than 200 manufacturers will fill the main exposition floor of the new Civic Auditorium at the New Jersey resort and more than 30,000 members of the trade and industry from all sections of the country are expected to attend the convention and show .                     