@@697301

txt Officials of the New Yorlt Central Railroad disclosed yesterday that the company would build a huge freight terminal , at least four , and possibly seven , stories high , on the entire four blocks bounded by Clarkson , Spring , Washington and West Streets . The improvement was unofficially estimated to cost from $10,000,000 to $15,000,000 , and the railroad company Is rushing tentative plans in the hope of starting work on the foundation in September . At the higher figure the New York Central 's new freight terminal , together with the fourteen-story terminal projected by the Port of New York Authority on the Nock bounded by Eighth and Ninth Avenues , Fifteenth and Sixteenth Streets , and the fifteen-story freight terminal on the block bounded by Twenty-sixth and Twenty-seventh Streets , Eleventh and Thirteenth Avenues , projected by the Starrett Investing Corporation and each costing approximately $15,000,000 , would represent a total investment of approximately $45 ; 000 , - 000 on the lower west side . Port Authority 's Plan Opposed . The Port Authority 's plans for a freight terminal , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground that the terminal would be an encroachment on an old and established residential neighborhood , are going ahead rapidly also . The New York Central will call its warehouse the " New St. John Park Terminal , " according to J. M. Doorley of the engineering department of the New York Central . With the opening of the new terminal the old St. John Park terminal , on the block bounded by Laight , Beach , Varick and Hudson Streets , probably will be abandoned and the parcel put on the market . ? The site of the old St. John Park terminal is 400 feet by 400 feet , a ground area of 160,000 square feet , or approximately three and one-half acres . It is in the midst of a number of huge skyscraper developments , and the New York Central expects to dispose of it readily . Engineers of the New York Central are still making a survey of the site for the New St. John Park Terminal , to determine the type of foundation and the height of the superstructure . The ground is filled there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go below grade with any extensive excavation . They will make provision for a basement only of the size needed for heating and other mechanical equipment . Plans to Be Ready Next March . When the type of foundation is decided upon the specifications for the superstructure will be distributed among architects for the plans for the structure itself . Mr. Doorley said that those plans probably would be ready by the first of March , 1931 . It will take nearly a year to build the new freight terminal . If the height of the terminal is limited to four stories the New York Central expects to occupy the terminal exclusively , but if the height is raised to seven stories the railroad 's engineers suggest that there will be enough spare space to rent to outside business concerns . Freight will be delivered at the new freight terminal on an elevated structure one story in height . It will be unloaded from cars on the elevated structure into elevators and unloaded from the elevators on platforms on the ground level . Freight cars will not be run into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for motor trucks to enter . The area to be covered by the terminal is 1,250 feet long and 250 feet wide . To make way for the huge freight terminal wreckers began the demolition of eighty-eight tenement houses that stood on the three blocks . They started the work of demolition soon after the city of New York and the New York Central Railroad Company signed the agreement worked out in connection with the entire West Side Improvement Association . Demolition of the first unit was started on Sept. 19 , 1929 . As many as four different firms of wreckers have been engaged in razing the old tenements and the work soon will be completed . ? In furtherance of its huge freight terminal project the Port of New York Authority within the past week has purchased two additional houses , representing the addition of that many parcels to the site for its warehouse . To date the Port Authority has obtained approximately 50 per ' cent of the area it needs for the terminal , and its real estate department is carrying forward negotiations for additional parcels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against terminals which they feared would engulf the residential character of their section , the Port . Authority expressed a willingness to cooperate with the city in the matter of selecting a location . The Board of Estimate held hearings on the matter , at which protests again were made , but the Port ' Authority held to its purpose to use the Ninth Avenue and Sixteenth Street site . At the time that the question of site was settled about three months ago the Port Authority had acquired 42 per cent of the site for its proposed terminal . so that the addition since then represents 8 per cent of the required area . Engineers of the Port Authority began making borings several days ago to determine the character of the excavation and the type of foundation . Plans are being put in shape for the advertising of bids for the work on the excavation .                     