@@700419

txt The fact that Governor Lehman , under the agreement reached between him and Mayor LaGuardia is virtually committed to the LaGuardia Emergency Economy Bill , is the one strong foundation upon which supporters of that measure build their hopes that it will be saved from defeat or drastic revision . The Governor and the Mayor were in accord on the general terms of the Emergency Economy Bill . In fact , these were for all practical purposes dictated by the Governor after his rebuke to Mr. LaGuardia for his attempt to have vested in himself as Mayor the broad powers that the Governor insisted should be vested in the Board of Estimate and exercised by ten votes out of its sixteen . Governor Lehman was consulted after the bill had been drafted in its present form and had an opporI tunny to scrutinize it before it was Introduced in the Senate and the Assembly . The Governor declined today to say whether as leader of his party in the State he would bring to bear the necessary pressure on Democratic legislators to render passage of the bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Republicans in both chambers , probably to a man , will support the bill " as written , " in pursuance of the demand advanced by Mayor LaGuardia when he appeared here Wednesday night at the opening session of the public hearing on the bill . The bill , in order to pass , must receive a two-thirds vote in both the Senate and Assembly , under the requirements of the Home Rule Law . In neither house can such extensive support be insured without Democratic cooperation , which the supporters of the bill now look to Governor Lehman to bring about . Despite his non-committal attitude today , there is little doubt at the Capitol that when the time arrives the Governor will act effectively in the interest of prompt financial re , habilitation of the city . The Governor in the course of his negotiations prior to the bankers ' agreement had abundant opportunity to become familiar with the financial difficulties of the city and is believed to be thoroughly alive to the necessity for decisive action to restore its credit . Next Skirmish Monday . The next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at meetings of the Assembly Committee on the Affairs of the City of New York and at a conference of Democratic Senators . Both these meetings will be held behind closeddoors . The Assembly committee , of course , is controlled by the Republicans . Its chairman is Assemblyman Abbott Low Moffat , sponsor of the Economy Bill in the lower house . The Democratic conference in the Senate , it is expected , will witness a threshing out of proposals made for amendments to the bill by groups which were represented at the public hearing and registered their protests against the bill in its entirety or against provisions in it affecting the salary rights of individual groups . When the Democratic - Senators have taken action on the bill it should become apparent whether , as has been suggested in some quarters , they will go along with the Republicans , on the theory that if the LaGuardia administration receives all the leeway it wants it will quickly antagonize strong voting groups in New York City . This , of course , would be to the advantage of the Democrats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments will be agreed upon at the conference and that , subsequently , these will be made by the Senate Committee on Cities which has custody of the bill . Both on the Senate and the Assembly side , it is believed , the bill may be reported at the session Monday evening , on the Assembly side with some amendments to protect pension rights but none that would materially curtail the powers of the Board of Estimate to effect substantial economies . With the Republicans in the majority in the Assembly committee , the prospect is that the Democrats in the lower house will offer amendments from the floor and thus make their fight for them in the open . This is regarded in some Democratic quarters as good political strategy for the opportunity it would afford them to put the LaGuardia administration in the wrong in the eyes of the teachers , policemen , firemen and civil service workers in the city generally , at the very start of the LaGuardia regime . The Democrats would represent themselves as the valiant defenders of the salary and pension rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctly is that at the first stage of the fight over the bill the Democratic Senate and the in.epublican Assembly may be dead ' locked . It may then become necessary for the Governor to break the deadlock by convincing the Democratic leaders that it would be inexpedient to oppose the economy program of the new city administration both from a practical and political viewpoint . As a result of questioning processes to which proponents of the LaGuardia program were subjected by members of the two committees before which the public hearing was held , speculation of what amendments may be in view covers a wide range . Assemblyman Steingut , Democratic leader in the lower house , asked some questions which are regarded as not without significance . He asked Harold Riegelman , counsel for the City Budget Commission , after the latter had explained that many of the powers sought through the bill could be exercised by the city administration at the time the budget is in the making , if reopening of the 1934 city budget with legislative permission would not meet the existing emergency . Mr. Riegelman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furloughs " would be . He replied that if applied strictly to the entire civil list it would save approximately $21,000,000 , an amount at least $10,000,000 short of the economies required to enable the LaGuardia administration to balance , the budget for the present year . Senator Julius S. Berg of the Bronx introduced today a new charter revision bill for New York City . His bill provides for a survey by a legislative commission , reporting back to the Legislature next January . Even should the Berg bill be passed , it is not believed that it would receive executive approval . Governor Lehman believes the procedure he recommended in his annual message and which is provided for in the Streit charter revision bill already pending will bring the quickest results . GRAND JURY PROTESTS . Bronx Body Adopts Resolution Opposing City Economy Bill . The Bronx grand jury adopted a resolution yesterday attacking that part of the city 's economy bill which affects the District Attorney 's bffice . The resolution was handed up to Supreme Court Justice A. Cotillo , who issued a statement declaring he sympathized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city 's employes should not be made to suffer . The resolution was signed by Henry F. A. Wolf , foreman of the grand jury , and copies were sent to Samuel Mandelbaum , chairman of the Cities Affairs Committee of the State Senate and to Abbott Low Moffatt , chairman of the Committee on the Affairs of New York City . The document asserted that the bill should not be passed in its present form because it would interfere with the efficiency of the District Attorney 's office .                     