@@701570

txt Warning that American institutions will vanish if they do not adapt themselves to social changes , Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace , in a speech here last night , urged the establishment of a nonpartisan , independent Council on the General Welfare , chartered as a sort of economic supreme court , to study Federal legislation , recommend changes , and promote permanent well-being and balanced national economy . Mr. Wallace addressed several hundred prominent economists at the annual dinner meeting of the Academy of Political Science , closing an all-day session at the Hotel Astor . The general topic at the morning , afternoon and evening meetings was whether constitutional changes were necessary to social progress . Like most of the speakers , Mr. Wallace did not commit himself definitely either way on this . The consensus , however , appeared to be that much social progress was possible within the Constitution , and that too hasty efforts toward amendments should be discouraged . Green Would Await Decisions . William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , speaking at the afternoon session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain reached years ago , when , he said , that country was forced to accept social security legislation in the face of threats of revolution , Mr. Green suggested waiting for the Supreme Court 's decisions , on the AAA , the Guffey Coal Act , and the National Labor Relations Act , before answering the question about the need for constitutional changes . A. A. Ballantine , former UnderSecretary of the Treasury ; Professor Howard Lee , Dean of the Graduate Faculties of Columbia University ; and Dr. William Yandell Elliott , Professor of Government at Harvard University , agreed that the spending and taxing powers of Congress under the Constitution give it great scope to achieve social reforms without constituticmal amendment . Professor , however , held that eventually there must be an amendment to enlarge Congressional powers for regulating the business cycle and preventing depressions . Douglas for Balanced Budget . Lewis W. Douglas , former Director of the Budget , insisted that both a balanced budget and adequate relief- were possible , and warned Mr. Green that there could be no sound and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Mills , former Secretary of the Treasury , who presided at the afternoon session , laud- ed Mr. Douglas 's remarks as " very sound doctrine . " Other speakers included former Governor Joseph B. Ely of Massachusetts , Dr. Wesley C. Mitchell , director of the National Bureau of Economic Researeh ; Professor Noel T. Dowling of Columbia Law School , Gilbert H. Montague ; chairman of the NRA committee , New York State Bar Association ; Edwin G. Nourse , director of the Institute of Economics , the Brookings Institution ; Attorney General John W. Bricker or Ohio , Assistant Attorney General John Dickinson and William L. Ransom , president of the American Bar Association . Wallace Stresses Changes . Mr. Wallace asserted that in the modern economy interdependence and balance must be emphasized . " There is as much need today for a Declaration of Interdependence , " he said , " as there was for a Declaration of Independence in 1776 . " The typical New England farming community of the eighteenth century was 95 per cent economically independent of the rest of the nation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly disappeared , and the community could continue to function . Of how many communities in America could that be said today ? Merely to ask the question is to answer it . And if farmers , with the help of government , should today achieve even a 50 per cent economic selfsufficiency , as compared with their present 20 to 30 per cent , the result would be the starvation of many millions in our cities . A change of this sort might be brought about slowly , but brought about rapidly it would prove a catastrophe . " Declaring that the core of the problem was the power of " modern I pressure groups " to get what they wanted from the government , Mr. Wallace said he could see only one solution . " That , " he explained , " is Ito require of each of these specialinterest groups a subordination to the general welfare . It is either that or permit the general welfare to be an afterthought , a product of chance . " Whether the United States could solve this problem under the Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American people " to undertake important integral changes in our economic and political institutions rather than pursue a policy of drift . " Farmers " Reluctant " Lobbyists . Asserting that the pressure groups played " hob " with representative government , Mr. Wallace went on : " The farmers have been the last to become an organized pressure group . They entered the field reluctantly , and only when compelled to do so by the effects of the use of governmental powers by other Ipressure groups . They saw business using such governmental devices as the tariff and the corporation to , the advantage of business and the 1disadvantage of agriculture ; they saw labor , though much less successful than business , win certain governmental rights and privileges . Farmers saw all this and much more happen within the framework of the Constitution , and they decided that perhaps there was room for them , too . " Farmers know there are some who contend that governmental powers ought not to be loaned to either agriculture or labor , but farmers reply that it is either that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . They believe it is to the nation 's best interests that agriculture be permitted to meet the other major groups on equal terms . " Mr. Wallace conceded that giving the farmers comparable governmental power with other major producing groups was not " a final answer to our economic and political problem . " " Free competition among pressure groups , " he said , " is not likely to produce what anybody wants . The difficulties that remain can be illustrated by reference to an editorial on the agricultural adjustment program in one of the fairest of the metropolitan newspapers . This editorial , mildly critical of the adjustment program , contained the following statement : ' The parity-price plan , by attempting to subsidize special favored groups and by ignoring all these changes in the conditions of demand and production , must run into difficulties of constantly increasing gravity and complexity . ' - Points to Tariff History . " There is much truth in this comment on the consequences of the use of governmental powers by one particular pressure group , but what of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not the first effort at governmental favoritism . Students of tariff history might produce some interesting items , beginning with 1789 , and taking such curious forms as an export subsidy to New England 's cod-fishing industry , with government payments of so much per year per boat . In one form or another this subsidy continued until after the Civil War . " Suppose the editorial quoted above were applied to the tariff rather than the parity-price plan ? You would then find it reading : ' The tariff , by attempting to subsidize special faYbred groups and by ignoring all these changes in the conditions of demand and production , must run into difficulties of constantly increasing gravity and complexity . ' " Ever since the United States became a creditor nation , at the close of the World War , the United States tariff has so interfered with the normal functioning of the law of supply and demand on a worldwide scale as to produce ' difficulties of constantly increasing gravity and complexity ' sufficient to cause tens of billions of dollars Of international losses and immeasurable international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favoritism , the right to organize a corporation . The editorial statement might then read : ' The corporate form of organization , by giving special powers to special favored groups , and by ignoring all these changes in the conditions of demand and production , must run into difficulties of constantly increasing gravity and complexity . ' " It seems to me these ' difficulties of constantly increasing gravity and complexity ' will never be solved until two things are possible : First , acceptance by each group of obligations to the public comparable with the governmental powers granted by the public ; and , second , integration of each group program with a conscious continuous national economic policy that runs across political administrations for as long as may be necessary . " I am now referring to things which must of necessity concern any group in control of our government , whether Democratic , Republican , Fascist , Communist , reactionary , conservative , liberal , pink or red . And I am hoping that the general objective I am about to advance , which for purposes of effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be necessary , might so recommend itself to the fair-play instincts of the American public that all political parties alike might see fit to incorporate it in their next platforms . Proposed Policy Stated . " The material objectives which would undoubtedly appeal to all groups , classes and parties can be briefly stated somewhat as follows : Our national economic goal must be increased balanced production of the things which people really need and want ( 1 ) at prices low enough so consumers can buy , but high enough so producers can keep on producing , and with income so distributed that no one is shut off from participation in consumption , except those who refuse to work ; ( 2 ) with scrupulous regard for the conservation of our remaining natural resources , and ( 3 ) by means characteristic of our traditional democratic processes . " It was to make this general policy effective that Mr. Wallace proposed the Council on the General Welfare , acting under an economic charter . " Such a council , " he proposed , " might be composed of four or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would obviously have to be nonpartisan both in letter and spirit . It could not function unless it were as revered I and trusted as the Supreme Court . " Probably the members should be appointed for overlapping terms , say , from five to eleven years . ' Appointment could be by the President , with the advice and approval ' of Congress , but with appointments so arranged that no one President could determine the economic complexion of the council . " It could be the function of this council to consider the enactments of the Federal Government in the light of the general welfare and with specific reference to some such economic objective as that I suggested a few months ago . If in the mature judgment of the council our national economic objectives were being endangered or violated it would be the duty of the council to inform the government and the people of this opinion . " If nevertheless the appropriate branch of the government took no action , and if the council saw no reason for modifying its opinion , it would be its further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question to the people . A referendum would then be in order , but only after the people had had opportunity to become thoroughly informed , and to study an impartial presentation of the advantages and disadvantages of the practical alternatives to the existing enactment . The result of the referendum might then serve as a guide to the national government for future policies and acts . " It will be noted that the sole power of this council would be to refer , in a proper and deliberate manner , issues of grave national importance directly to the people . This would involve selection and determination of what these paramount issues might be and how the advantages and disadvantages of alternate choices might properly and impartially be put before the people for a matured judgment. , Obviously the power should be used - sparingly , and the method of its use might easily determine its wisdom . " Following Secretary Wallace on the same platform , Mr. Ballantine took issue with several points made by Mr. Wallace in recent speeches and books . " Secretary Wallace has frequently referred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said . " Does he wish to create a system under which the traffic police not only assist our traveling , but choose and decree our destinations ? " Mr. Ballantine said that Mr. Wallace 's proposal last January for the appointment of an economic council by the President to propose constitutional amendments , which would become part of the Constitution by a two-third vote of tile people  --  a different plan from that which Mr. Wallace urged last night for a Council on the General Welfare ? " would substitute the Executive for Congress and the State Legislatures for initiating amendments , and in their adoption dispense altogether with the voice of the separate States . "                     