@@703795

txt The two-day-old strike of building service employes , which tied up hundreds of buildings and made idle 100,000 workers in the garment and fur district , will end this morning- as a result of an agreement reached last night through the determined intervention of Mayor La Guardia . Announcement that the end of the strike was in sight was made at City Hall shortly before last midnight by Borough President Stanley M. Isaacs , acting for the Mayor , after the last of many conferences held during the day with representatives of . the Building Service Employes Union , the organization directing the strike , and the Realty Advisory Board . Choices Open to Strikers Mr. Isaacs announced that James J. Bambrick , president of the union and the strike leader , had agreed , ' after consultation with his colleagues , to place the following two proposals before the union membership at a meeting at the Hotel Center , 108 West Forty-third Street , this morning : Acceptance of a compromise proposal made yesterday by the Mayor affecting hours and wages and adjudication of other differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Mayor and the State Mediation Board choosing the arbitrators . " Regardless of which proposal the union accepts , the strike will be ended , " Mr. Isaacs announced . In behalf of the Realty Advisory Board , acting for the Midtown and Penn Zone Realty Owners Associations , the employer organizations against which the strike was specifically directed , Walter Gordon Merritt , counsel for the board , announced at City Hall that either proposal would be acceptable to the employers . Service After Noon Expected Mr. Isaacs said that immediately upon action by the union membership , Mr. Bambrick will notify the Mayor and the strike will be officially declared ended . It was expected , therefore , that normal building service operations in the strike zone would be resumed at noon or soon thereafter . The particular conference at City Hall which brought the development assuring termination of the strike began at 9 P. M. after the employers , under protest , had accepted the compromise proposal made by the Mayor in the form of a peremptory demand for peace , and the union had declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bind its membership in advance . Both sides showed resentment at what they characterized as the Mayor 's " dictatorial " attitude , but after another two and a half hours of discussion they bowed to the Mayor 's " command " to come to an understanding . Mayor La Guardia was kept in touch with developments throughout the evening by Mr. Isaacs , assisted by Max Meyer , member of the State Mediation Board . Both of them worked tirelessly during the two days of the strike to facilitate a settlement . The Mayor stepped into the picture with an " ultimatum " for immediate cessation of warfare shortly before 6 P. M. when he summoned the conferees to City Hall from Mr. Isaacs 's office in the Municipal Building , where conferences had been in progress all afternoon . He read " the riot act " to both sides and insisted that the strike must end without delay . At a meeting of union shop stewards at the Hotel Center at 7 P. M. the Mayor 's proposal for immediate acceptance of his compromise was rejected as " dictation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall two hours later for the final conference with the employers which brought assurance that the strike would end today . Had Designated The Mayor 's proposal was for an agreement on wages and hours , with remaining minor issues to be " ironed out " with the assistance of Edward F. MeGrady , former assistant Secretary of Labor and now vice president of the Radio Corporation of America . The compromise proposed by the Mayor was that the employers grant an increase of $1 a week and that working hours be set at fortyseven for the first half and at forty-six for the second half of a new three-year contract to be concluded between the union and the Realty Advisory Board . The walkout went into effect at midnight Tuesday , when the old agreement expired . At that time the union demanded wage increases of 15 to 20 per cent and a fortyhour week in place of the old fortyeight-hour schedule . The union has since declared its willingness to accept an increase of $1 a week and a forty-four-hour week . These are the terms upon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the strike with owners not affiliated with any employer association . While accepting Mayor La Guardia 's compromise proposal in behalf of the realty owners , Mr. Merritt informed Mr. Isaacs at City Hall , before the evening conference began , that the employers too resented what they characterized as the Mayor 's dictatorial attitude . Referring to a statement by Mayor La Guardia earlier in the evening , when he insisted upon a settlement without delay , Mr. Merritt spoke of " the Mayor 's command " and said the employers accepted it only as a " Munich pact . " " This is not a negotiated peace , Ws is dictated peace , " Mr. Merritt said , as he and William D. Rawlins , executive secretary of the Realty Advisory Board and other employer representatives prepared to rejoin Mr. Bambrick and his colleagues in a resumption of negotiations . Mr. Isaacs remained at City Hall , ready to assist in the discussion . He had spent many hours throughout the afternoon in conference with representatives of both sides at his office in the Municipal Building , assisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in an effort to end the strike . Mayor La Guardia injected himself into the situation late in the afternoon after Mr. Isaacs - had reported to him that the disputants were deadlocked on various points , particularly the matter of hours . While most of the conferees remained in Mr. Isaacs 's office , a group representing the union , h , eaded by Mr. Bambrick , and one for the Realty Advisory Board , headed by Mr. Rawlins and Mr. Merritt , went to City Hall , accompenied by Mr. Isaacs and Mr. Meyer , and conferred with the Mayor . The conference was brief . Shortly before 6 P. M. , the representatives of the owners and workers were assembled by Mr. Isaacs in the room of the Committee of the Whole , where Mayor La Guardia appeared and demanded immediate settlement of the strike " in the interests of the public , " stressing the responsibility of both sides in the situation . As the Mayor left the room , Mr. Meyer took the chair and addressing the conferees , grouped around a table , declared : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's wishes will regret it . This is a command . I am using these words deliberately . I hope every one will take this as a serious moment and that no one will dare to inconvenience the public after this . " Taken aback by these words , no one ventured to make any reply until Mr. Isaacs spoke up and demanded that both sides meet separately at once and return with their answers within fifteen minutes . " The Mayor has offered a reasonable compromise , " he said . " There is now only one side to this question  --  the side of the public . There are 100,000 workers in the garment district unable to return to their jobs because of this strike . " While Mr. Merritt , replying for the employers , agreed to have their group assemble immediately in a room at City Hall and to give ' some sort of an answer " within the time specified by Mr. Isaacs , Mr. Bambrick pleaded that he was not in a position to do so , but had to consult the- shop stewards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Isaacs was adamant and insisted upon quick action . As a compromise , Mr. Bambrick agreed to return within two hours , or at 8 P. M. , with an answer . He said he could not say , however , what the answer would be . The meeting of the union 's shop stewards at the Hotel Center adourned at 8 P. M. with the adopion of the resolution affirming the union 's previous decision that no settlement of the strike would be binding unless it was approved by he entire union membership . At 9 P. M. , with a delay of an hour , both sides reported their respective positions on the Mayor 's compromise proposal to Mr. Isaacs . The city authorities were spurred n their efforts to end the , strike yesterday by continued pleas for action from employers and employer associations in the garment and other industries in the strike zone . Before beginning the day 's conferences at his office in the Municipal Building , Mr. Isaacs received a delegation from the National Dress Manufacturers Association , consisting of I. A. Agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought the strike to an immediate end " the loss of business and the earnings of thousands upon thousands of workers will reach enormous figures . " They pointed out also that hundreds of buyers now in New York would turn to other markets if the strike continued to interrupt business . In a telegram to Mayor La Guardia , the Affiliated Dress Manufacturers , representing 300 concerns employing 35,000 workers , made a similar plea , while the Industrial Council of Cloak , Suit and Skirt Manufacturers , representing 310 employers , wired the Mayor and representatives . of the building owners that " action in iSehalf of peace be taken before the apparel trades lose the entire season . " The Industrial Council estimated that the two-day tie-up had cost the ready-to-wear industry $30,000,000 in production " and a good deal more than that . in orders . "                     