@@703014

txt Neither official quarters nor the usual well-informed circles have given the slightest indication or hint what will be announced to the expectant Italian nation after the special meeting of the Fascist Grand Council tomorrow night , but political and diplomatic circles believe the crowds filling the Piazza Venezia at Premier Mussolini 's command will be told that Italy has decided to resign from the League of Nations . Whether events will confirm this hypothesis is still a matter of some doubt , but certainly all information obtainable today seems to corroborate it . Some think , however , that open intervention in Spain will be the backbone of the council 's decision and that it will coincide with the launching of General Francisco Franco 's final offensive . German sources say thskt the question of Italian membership in the League , together with the relations of the RomerBer/in axis with European democracies , was thoroughly discussed by Mussolini and Chancellor Hitler when they met in September . It is reported that the two dictators agreed that the first object of their combined efforts would be to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retire even further into their shells and Italy would accentuate her solidarity with Germany by resigning from the League . They apparently considered this step not so much as a gesture of defiance as a means of bringing home to Britain that Italy and . Germany were willing to shift for themselves if need be , and that Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain must bestir himself if he wants to negotiate an understanding with them . Hoped for British Accord Italian circles point out that if Italy is about to relinquish her seat at Geneva this step has been delayed as long as possible . They say that Italy had not withdrawn earlier only because she always hoped Prime Minister Chamberlain 's declarations of his intentions to come to terms with the Rome-Berlin axis would be followed by deeds , and she wished to leave the door open for this possibility . If tomorrow , therefore , the council decides Italy should withdraw definitely from the League , it is natural to surmise that Mussolini and Hitler are disappointed with the way London received their advances and have reached the conclusion that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently devised may result in the burning of all bridges between Britain and the Rome-Berlin axis or the ? impressing on Britain of the advisability of coming to an understanding . The Italian claim that the resignation has been delayed to give Britain every possible chance to negotiate an agreement seems to be borne out by the events of the last few months . On the 24th of September Mussolini left for Germany where he undoubtedly discussed with Hitler , among other subjects , the question of relations with . Britain and Italian membership in the League . Almost simultaneously came the Anglo-French step in Rome regarding the Nyon conference . The British Ambassador returned to his post soon after Mussolini returned from Germany but he failed to bring with him authorization from his government to open negotiations with Italy which greatly disappointed Italian hopes . Council Meeting Postponed The council was to meet Oct. 7 but the meeting was postponed for the first time in its history . Many people jumped to the conclusion that Mussolini was ill , but it now appears clear it had been convoked to decide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ postponed . because the time was not yet considered ripe . Italy was , in fact , anxious to participate in the Paris meeting of the admirals , which folloWed Nyon and ended by giving Italy a share in the Mediterranean patrol , wherefore it was not an opportune moment for any action likely to rub Britain the wrong way . The Tripartite Anti-Comintern . Pact was signed in Rome Nov. 6 and only three days later Mr. Chamberlain delivered his Mansion House speech in which he declared his willingness to reach an understanding with the Rome-Berlin axis . The Italian Government was not slow in snapping up his suggestion and the very next day the Informa , zione Dipiomatica , the Foreign Ministry 's organ , called on him to open negotiations immediately . Twenty-four hours later the British Ambassador was summoned to the Palazzo Chigi fora talk with Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano , but though they discussed Italo-British relations and the best means for removing the obstacles , the Earl of Perth was unable to go any further than . promise to report to London and ask for instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were apparently unfavorable to opening official negotiations , for there is no evidence that the first conversation has been followed by others . At the very end of November came the Anglo-French conversations in London and the final communiqu ? announcing the outcome of them was considered very disappointing in . Italy and , presumably , also Germany . It was felt that on what Rome and Berlin consider two vitally important subjects ? German colonies and relations with the Rome-Berlin axis  --  it contained nothing but generalities . This impression was not apparently wiped out by the conversations Count Dino Grandi , Italian Ambassador , had with Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden on Dec. 2 . Most people think Italy 's decision to withdraw from the League was taken as soon as Count Grandi 's report on . what Mr. Eden said to him was received in Rome , but that the announcement was delayed until after the visit of Premier Milan Stoyadinovitch of Yugoslavia in order not to embarrass him . Premier Stoyadinovitch , in fact , left Italy yesterday . almost simultaneously with the convocation of the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              