@@702083

txt Governor Landon persisted today in his decision to confine the advisers who will accompany him on his Eastern trip to a group of Kansans and one man from Missouri . The ' Governor announced one addition to his personal party , former Senator Henry J. Allen of Kansas , now on a speaking tour in Ohio . who will board the special train at Canton Saturday morning . The Republican Presidential candidate resisted efforts to get him to add nationally known members of the party to those who will accompany him on the trip , even after the list of those he has invited was made public . " Have you had any protests about failure to include certain persons in this list ? " he was asked . Governor Landon smiled and shook his head . " Have you had any requests for additions to the list ? " was the next query . " I reckon I have , " he replied with a grin , ' but I guess there wo n't be any changes . " In picking the members of his personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a close connection with the Harding , Coolidge or Hoover administrations , with the exceptions of former Senator Allen . He . also failed to invite any person connected with " big business " or belonging to the " old guard wing of the Republican party . " Old Guard in Background The candidate 's action in selecting only personal friends for his intimate advisory group in opposition to the advice of influential members of the Republican National ' Committee was seen as another indication that he intends to run his campaign in his own way and will try to keep the Old Guard in the background , as far as personal connection with him is concerned . Party leaders , either of the Old Guard or liberal variety , will be welcome on the Governor 's special train and he will confer with them on his trip to Buffalo and return . None , however , will be in the candidate 's personal party , and their presence on the train in each . case is likely to be confined to State boundaries . Governor Landon , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When he boards his special train at La Salle Thursday morning he will find about fifty influential Colorado Republicans already on board and ready to confer with him . Among them will be Charles R. Enos , State chairman ; Raymond L. Sauter , candidate for . Senator ; Charles M. Armstrong , candidate for Governor ; Clarence C. Hamlin , former national committeeman , and Dr. Hubert Work , former national chairman . The Colorado delegation will leave the train at Julesburg , the last stop in Colorado , and a Nebraska delegation , headed by National Committeeman Hugh Butler . will board the train at North Platte . Governor Landon will remain over night at Omaha for conferences with party leaders from all over Nebraska . Similar conferences will be held as the Governor passes through Illinois and Ohio , and through Missouri on the return trip . Stops at New Castle , Pa. , and Buffalo will give opportunity for party conferences in Pennsylvania and New York . A dinner will be held at New Castle Saturday night , after the Governor speaks in the afternoon at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his talk with newspaper men at the ranch this afternoon Governor Landon said he expected to see John D. M. Hamilton , national chairman , before he reached Chicago , but was not certain that the latter would join the party at Omaha Thursday night . Mr. Landon added that Mr. Hamilton probably would not accompany him during the entire trip , as matters at national headquarters at Chicago required the chairman 's attention . Representative Clifford R. Hope , a member of the personal party , is scheduled to speak Thursday at Indianola , Iowa , and will board the train the following day , the Governor said . Former Representative Cleveland A , Newton of St. Louis , the one Missourian in the Governor 's personal party , will be on the train from the start . Governor Landon 's health has been greatly improved by a week 's rest with members of his family on the ranch . He said he felt well , except for-an occasional slight twinge as the result of his attack of pleurisy , and this assertion was confirmed by his appearance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Chautauqua and Buffalo have been corn- , pleted and will be mimeographed for distribution to the press on the special train . The Governor had no callers today except newspaper men , pho-1 tographers and friends already at Estes Park . He will receive a group of Kansas friends tomorrow . He will leave the ranch at 7:50 Thursday morning and go by automobile to La Salle to take the special train , which will start from Denver .                     