@@698629

txt Accomplishing in one month a task which usually requires three months or longer , the Chamber of Deputies today finished voting the budget for the last nine months of 1932 . The Senate is expected to finish with the measure before April 1 when the new financial year begins . Seldom has a budget been adopted with so little debate , and reason for this expedition is to be found in the parliamentary elections which will take place in April or May . Opposition parties in Parliament are no less critical of the Government 's budget proposals than usual , but they have refrained from raising objections and prolonging discussions in the hope that if the budget is voted promptly elections can be held earlier . The Prime Minister , M. Andr ? Tardieu , when he took office declared he would not fix the date of elections until the budget had been voted . Opposition parties , principally the Radicals and Socialists , would like elections in April , thus preceding the Prussian elections which are expected to have some repercussion In France . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Prussia and this can not but have some effect on French opinion . It is the opinion of opposition parties that they would get more votes if the French elections could be held before this anticipated display of nationalist strength across the Rhine , but Conservative and Moderate elements now in control of the Government would prefer not to vote until May , when the result of the Prussian contest may strengthen their hands . Whatever its effect on the date of the elections may be , the prompt voting of the budget is universally welcomed . Receipts are estimated at 41,184,541,481 francs and expenditures at 41,179,808,081 , giving a margin of 4,733,400 francs , or about $189,300 , of receipts over expenditures . In order to obtain even this narrow margin the Government has been obliged to count on receipts from extraordinary sources and the budget 's critics do not hesitate to say it is merely a " paper " budget designed to cover an actual deficit of possibly 6,000,000,000 francs . The budget covers the period from April 1 to Dec. 31 only because the opening date of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Jan. 1 , at the beginning of 1933 . The budget for 1933 will be voted by the new Parliament elected this spring . The Chamber commenced the budget debates on Feb. 9 . They were interrupted by the ministerial crisis lasting from Feb. 16 to 23 and prompt completion of the task was only made possible by holding frequent night sessions.                     