@@698046

txt Two items in the statistics of our export trade for June stand out from the rest . Our sales to Russia were nearly *4,000,000 above the record for June a year ago . In the same comparison , our trade with China increased by some ee ( uu.uuu. ey , v both of these things we had been assured in advance by diplomatists and economists could not possibly happen . Russia would not buy in America unless Washington extended recognition to the Soviet Government . As for China , experts and alarmists about the demonetization of silver have long been crying aloud to the whole world that the " purchasing power " of China has been absolutely destroyed by the fall in the price of silver , and that her foreign trade will therefore soon be reduced to the vanishing point . So high an authority as the Governor of the Bank of England recently stated that the drop in the price of silver , together with the announcement that the Government of India intended to sell a large quantity of silver , would " paralyze trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ours with her . The calmer view of the trouble taken by Sir ARTHUR SALTER has been borne out by the event . He did not deny that cutting in two the price of silver would have serious internal effects both in India and in China . But he did not assent to the notion that it would greatly interfere with Chinese foreign commerce . . ? moreover , be was able to show from the trade figures that , thus far it had caused but the slighteet diminution in the total overseas trade of China . Foreign goods arc still paid for , not in silver , but in native goods . Of course , there is often a balance of settlements that has to be made in money , but essentially foreign trade is conducted , as it always has been , on the basis of barter . That would accgunt for China being able to take more of our goods this June than last , although silver has kept up its precipitate decline during the twelve months . No one supposes that the figures for a single month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future , but they do serve to show how dangerous it is to argue that the fall of silver has definitely taken China out of foreign trade . The large increase of Russian purchases in the United States will have the effect of further irritating the British Government . It has done everything within its pcilver to conciliate Soviet Russia . A Soviet Ambassador is in London . Governmental aid has been extended to British exporters seeking to enlarge their Russian business . Yet the bitter complaint is made in the English newspapers that , in spite of all that Foreign Minister HENDERSON has done to ingratiate himself with the new regime in Moscow , the obstinate Soviets continue to buy more in the United States than they do in England . In this way two birds are killed with one stone . An end is made of the argument of Senator BoRiti and other public men in the United States that if we do not officially recognize the Soviet Government , Russians will not trade with us . The other dead bird is the fluttering confidence of Mr. HENDERSON that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they will presently agree to pay off at /east a part of the loans made by England to Russia . Bit he had sorrowfully to renort to the H.ousteof Commons the othe day that his conferences with th Soviet Ambassador on this subjec had led to nothing . The represents tive of Moscow would not eve vaguely outline to him any possibl plan of settling the debt . Bu " Uncle ARTHUR " assured the Com mons that he would say somethin , very stern to the Soviet Ambassado at their next interview . . This wa greeted by loud laughter in th House of Commons , and ptobabl ; excited still louder and more scorn ful laughter in Moscow .                     