@@698608

txt As usual , the annual report of the Port Authority records little progress in some directions and splendid advance in others . Port development goes forward at a snail 's pace . Belt lines are still largely in the blueprint and conversation stage . The Jersey City marine terminal project has been postponed . The Authority once had its eye on the Hoboken piers , but the Shipping Board 's upset price of $4,282,000 " appears too high for present conditions . " Because of factors which " create considerable doubt as to the future , " the Suburban Transit Engineering Board , to which it lent its encouragement and support , has decided to suspend further consideration of the suburban transit plan for at least a year . The Authority 's very important work for the protection of they port against the wiles of competitorshas been hampered by the dispute with New Jersey over free lighterage . In bridge building it has been farl more fortunate and successful . The crowning achievement of the year was the opening of the George Washington Bridge last October . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient public administration , it was actually completed ahead of schedule . In the few weeks covered in this report , more than a million cars and almost a quarter of a million pedestrians paid tolls to go over the bridge . The Authority expects between seven and a half and eight million vehicles to use it this year . It also completed in 1931 the handsome Bayonne Bridge over the Kill van Kull . The project for the midtown tunnel under the Hudson , between Manhattan and Weehawken , is still at the head of its list of new undertakings , but has had to be postponed until credit conditions improve . The Authority Is going ahead , however , with the inland freight terminal on the west side , in the hope of having it completed by the end of the year . Adverse economic conditions have naturally affected the Authority 's revenues . The Holland Tunnel , which it took over from the old interstate commissions , is still the big money-maker . Last year 12,756,174 " revenue vehicles " used the tunnel ? less than had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous year . Income comparisons with previous years are hard to make because debt charges have now been included in the accounts . But surplus revenues from the tunnel were sufficient to enable the Authority to set aside $1,031,988 therefrom as the nucleus of a general reserve fund for pooled operations . The substantial decrease in operating expenses is a healthy sign . The Arthur Kill bridges did not do so well . Traffic over them actually decreased during the year , with the result that , while operations show a profit even after interest merges , - reserves will . have to be drawn upon to meet this year 's $300,000 maturity of serial bonds . Traffic over the Bayonne Bridge has also been " disappointing . " Thanks to conservative policy , unified operation and pooled revenues , however , the Authority is able to report a " stronger " position financially than it has " ever enjoyed . "                     