@@703537

txt Twentyone Arabs , including two children , were killed this morning and thirty-seven were wounded when a bomb exploded In a vegetable market in Jaffa . Shortly before ' last midnight British constables conducted a thorough search of all persons in the neighborhood of the vegetable market and also ail cafes in that vicinity , which they subsequently ordered closed . At 7 A. M. today a bomb exploded in the market at a time when it was crowded with Arabs selling and buying wares . The detonation was heard for miles . News of the catastrophe spread rapidly and at once all the shops in the town closed . Crowds of demonstrators rushed into the streets . Some of the wounded persons were placed on a truck by Arabs and driven through the principal streets to incite further public feeling . Demonstrators crowding the streets made their way to the police barracks , which they stoned and tried to break into , but the doors held . The demonstrators compelled every shop that had not already closed to do so . They then made their way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They smashed windows and signboards and then poured benzine on the door and set it afire , after which they added wood to be sure - it would burn . The Arab policemen inside the bank fired into the air , but the mob refused to move . Almost an hour after the attack on the bank began soldiers arrived and succeeded ' in dispersing the crowds , which then west on to Barclays Bank , where they burned the Manager 's car standing outside and then set fire to the door of the bank . Arab Policeman Opens Fire An Arab policeman inside the bank made no move until the door was burned , then he opened fire , wounding two . The demonstrators then set out on a campaign of destruction throughout the town , setting fire to a large English-owned grocery shop and also to a Jewishowned bar , a lumber depot , laundry and photography and tailor shops . A Jewish-owned glass shop , the owner of which was killed by Arabs three weeks ago , was also burned . Public telephone booths in the streets were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a revolver from Arab policemen . In combat with the mob , two police were wounded and fifteen of the mob were arrested . Nineteen doctors are attending the wounded in three hospitals in Jaffa . Curfew was declared beginning at 11:30 A. M. till further notice . The Jaffa-Tel Aviv boundary is . now strongly reinforced with armored cars and troops . Tanks and armored cars in Jaffa are now pa , trolling the streets . All banks are heavily guarded by the British police . Arab police are not allowed to circulate in the streets . Also this morning a Jewish-owned bus traveling from Jerusalem ' to Tel Aviv was attacked on the road between Ramleh and Tel Aviv . Shots were fired from an orange grove owned by Arabs wounding seven Jewish passengers . Arab women of Jaffa today sent a telegram to the High Command stating that because the authorities did not punish those who committed the crimes of the last two bombings at Haifa criminals were encouraged to commit today 's outrage at Jaffa . Jews Are Not Blamed Unlike the bombings at Haifa and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives of many Arabs , - when Arabs immediately blamed i the Yews , today 's bomb outrage in which only Arabs were killed and wounded was not attributed by the Arabs to the Jews . The market where the bomb exploded today has been well guarded for the past six weeks by Arab watchmen since the similar catastrophe at Haifa . These watchmen were appointed by the Jaffa municipality and their salaries paid by dealers in the vegtable market . Jaffa Arabs maintain that it is almost impossible for a Jew to get anywhere within the vicinity of that market , which is in the heart of the Arab quarter and where a Jew has not dared to enter for months past . The Arab mobs running through the streets of Jaffa today kept shouting , " Down with the English , it 's their own work . " The fact that on the fragments of the bomb which were found there was written , " Made in England , " and also the fact that British constables just before midnight closed and cleared the area of all people led Arabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They attribute as the motive revenge for the mur ' der twp days ago , of W. S. Moffatt , Assistant District Commissioner of Jenin . Another theory , conceded even by many Arabs , was that today 's crime was perpetrated by Arab rebels in order to arouse Arab masses against the British and Jews . After the bomb explosion at Jaffa anti - government demonstrations were staged in the neighboring Arab towns of Ramleh and Lyddah , where troops were compelled to interfere to disperse demonstrators . The troops were forced to open fire at Ramleh , killing five Arabs . In the course of combat in both towns many Arabs were wounded . Railway Station Attacked Last midnight a large band of Arabs attacked the railway station in the Arab town'of Khan Yunis in Southern Palestine . The bandits ordered the station master and other railway employes to leave the houses adjoining the station , then set fire to all , the houses in addition to the station and forty railway oil tanks . A twenty-four hour curfew was declared there . After the bomb explosion at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ven by Jews . Isaac Greenbaum , a member of the Jewish Agency Executive was riding this morning from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem with another agency officer when near Ramleh Arabs , dressed in rebel khaki uniforms , leisurely stepped from an orange grove and fired two shots , then as leisurely returned to the grove . No one was hit . Driving on some distance beyond Ramleh Mr. Greenbaum came upon a car in which there was a Jewish woman who had been injured . He took her to Hadassah Hospital at Tel Aviv , where it was revealed that she had arrived in Palestine only yesterday and was one of the refugees who had spent many weeks drifting in a boat on the Danube seeking a sanctuary . During an engagement between British troops and brigands in the Tulkarm area , in which three Royal Air Force planes participated , one plane crashed and burned near Tulkarm . The bodies of the airmen were not identified .                     