@@701303

txt Ample funds seemed assured yesterday for the sweeping investigation into Manhattan 's racketeering and planned by Thomas E. Dewey as Special Deputy Assistant District Attorney , despite protests in some quarters against the probable cost of the inquiry , Mayor La Guardia declared that the city would gladly accept the burden of meeting any costs properly chargeable to the city , and from Tammany Hall there came word that the votes it controls on the Board of Estimate would be cast in favor of any " reasonable " appropriation . At the same time , Governor Lehman , who ordered the investigation before a special grand jury at an extraordinary term of the Supreme Court presided over by Justice Philip J. McCook , made public a letter in Albany bespeaking the complete cooperation of Police Commissioner Lewis J. Valentine with Mr. Dewey . Without this cooperation , Governor Lehman wrote the Police Commissioner , it would be " utterly impossible " to destroy racketeering and organized crime . In the letter the Governor espoused the theory that it is the duty of the police to gather evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although he had not received the letter from the Governor , Commissioner Valentine reiterated his promises to cooperate with the new special prosecutor and provide him with as many men as he needs as investigators . He denied that he ever had received any complaints of non-cooperation by the police from the runaway March grand jury , which brought about intervention by the Governor . THE GOVERNOR 'S LETTER . Governor Lehman 's letter to Mr. Valentine follows : Hon. Lewis J. Valentine , Police Commissioner , New York . My dear Police Commissioner : Mr. Thomas E. Dewey has signified his acceptance of the post of special prosecutor in connection with the concerted drive on racketeering and other organized crime within the County of New York ordered by me . On June 28 , in accordance with my previously announced intention , I directed that an extraordinary and special trial term of the Supreme Court be held at the County Court House in the County of New York on July 29 , and to preside at that extraordinary term I designated Justice Philip J. McCook of New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special grand jury . I am enclosing a copy of my official order . There are two principal law enforcement agencies in the City of New York : The Police Department and the District Attorney . The Police Department with its force of more than 18,000 men is charged with the duty of detecting the commission of crime and the apprehension of criminals . The District Attorney has the duty of prosecuting criminals . As you know , the March , 1935 , grand jury concluded that in its opinion racketeering and organized crime were prevalent in the County of New York . As to the degree and extent of the existence of such crime , you , of course , are in a far better position to judge and determine . The appointment of a special prosecutor and the convening of an extraordinary term of the Supreme Court with a special grand jury should prove of very great help in wiping out such crime , However , I am sure you will agree with me that without complete cooperation and coordination of effort between the Police Department and the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieve the results in which we are all Interested  --  the destruction of racketeering and organized crime . I am confident that you as Police Commissioner of the City of New York will give the fullest cooperation in this concerted drive against racketeers . Very sincerely yours , HERBERT H. LEHMAN . Dewey Invited to Albany . Mr. Dewey , it was said in Albany , has been invited to visit the Governor there on Friday to discuss the scope and plan of the proposed Investigation . Both he and District Attorney William C. Dodge , who appointed him on Governor Lehman 's instructions , maintained the strictest silence yesterday regarding their plans . Although he expects to begin selecting his staff within the next fortnight it will be about a month before Mr. Dewey will be in a position to begin gathering evidence . Commenting last night on a report that he had evidence which he believed would place four Tammany leaders in jail , the special prosecutor branded it as " absolutely false , " and said that at the present time he had no evidence against any one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to permit his absence from his law office for a ong period , denied himself to all callers , including applicants for jobs on his staff . There was a steady stream of job-hunters , including lawyers , stenographers , clerical help and would-be investigators in and out of his office at 120 Broadway all day but a secretary advised each one to submit his or her qualifications on paper . The cost of the investigation which Mr. Dewey proposes to conduct has been estimated by persons close to him at about $250,000 a year . It is expected to continue for two years or more . Controller Frank T. Taylor , who controls three Tammany votes on the Board of Estimate , said yesterday that the board would not undertake to finance the whole investigation at one time , but probably would vote funds piece-meal . The funds necessary to carry the investigation between now and January , he said , could be provided by the sale of special revenue bonds . After that , he said , the cost would be included in the budgetary allowance for the District @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city " half a million dollars it undertaken on the scale indicated , " Henry H. Klein wrote to Governor Lehman protesting on behalf of the Property Owners ' Protective League , himself and " other taxpayers , " against the expenditure of such a sum " without any assurance that any worthwhile prosecutions will result . "                     