@@701243

txt The constitutional powers of the Federal Government are amply sufficient to care for  --  any existing emergency , " if faithfully and patiently employed , " Senator Borah said tonight in a radio speech over the Columbia Broadcasting System . At the same time he declared that " those who feel " the States should be shorn of power , in whole or in part , should seek a constitutional amendment from the people , thereby , by implication at least , challenging the administration to a referendum test on the question of executive powers . The Idaho Senator spoke on " How to Meet the Issue , " referring to . the Supreme Court 's decision of Monday invalidating important sections of the National Industrial Recovery Act . " The power to regulate and control interstate commerce is full and complete , " Mr. Borah said , in commenting that the Supreme Court had denied none of the powers which the government has used in the past to control great emergencies . " More Patience Is Required . " " It may be that greater care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country need not doubt , it seems to me , that the constitutional authority is sufficient to meet the emergency at hand . " Senator Borah has been an opponent of NRA ever since its inception so far as concerned any tendency he found in it to foster what he termed " monopolistic practices . " He repeated in his speech tonight the objections he held to the issuance of administrative regulations bearing the force of law and carrying the egal sanctions by which the NRA Codes were put into effect . He acclaimed the Supreme Court for " jealously guarding " the Constitution and the rights of the States . He asserted the criticism of the court 's decision was " wholly without justification . " In apparent answer to President Roosevelt 's statement that the decision carried the country back to the " horse and buggy era , " Senator Borah asserted that the AmeriIcan Constitution , the oldest in the ? world at its present age of 146 years , had served the nation well during the " ox-cart period " of our history . Refers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the political philosophy of General Johnson , Mr. Richberg and Dr. Tugwell , " the Senator remarked , but if the change must come , he continued , it should not come through strained and unnatural constructions of the Constitution by the Supreme Court nor by Congressional disregard of constitutional obligations . " A decision of the court based upon the theory that the court could consider anything other than the terms of the Constitution itself would create a complete judicial oligarchy , " he told his listeners . " It would leave the question of the extent of power to the determination of those exercising power  --  a complete definition of despotic power , The Constitution could be changed by the people alone , he went on , and no theory of emergency could excuse attempts to modify its provisions or to read new powers into ' , it by the executive , legislative or judicial branches of the government . Senator Borah listed three main questions as decided by the Supreme Court in the Schechter case . 1 . That the Supreme Court , in rendering its opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 2 . That Congress alone , under the Constitution as it now stands , possesses the legislative power of the national government . 3 . That the States alone may legislate touching matters wholly within the State . Senator Borah said that in an effort to crystallize the thought of most critics of the Schechter decision he had drafted a constitu-. tional amendment " to get a full view of its hideous legal and moral aspect . " Draft of His Test ' Amendment . " He read the draft , as follows : " The legislative power is hereby vested in the Congress of the United States and in the different executive departments which may be created from time to time . " He added that efforts of the Executive to take over law-making power had been made for a long time and were not characteristic of any administration . He described the movement as " one of the subtle and dangerous demands of bureaucracy made under the guise of efficiency and public interest which nothing less than eternal vigilance can restrain and , apparently , no power can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when he was Govenor of New York , , in support of States ' rights , Mr. Borah said that he was glad to " join with the Presi- , 1 dent in saying that there is no such thing as a Federal union after the ) States have been ? whipped and bullied into cowardly submission . " As long as the Supreme Court preserved the rights of States under the Constitution , it would have thb support and respect of the people ' of this country , he declared . " Those who feel that the States should be shorn of their power in whole or in part owe it to the people to submit their proposals to the people in the way of a definite amendment , " he said . " That is the American way to meet this issue . The assailment of the . court is wholly without justification in this particular instance . " He attacked the " chirping satellites , " who " have not the patience or the ability to frame a statute within the terms of the Constitution " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and constantly about an outmoded Constitution and inadequate institutions . " He praised President Roosevelt for his prompt dismissal of cases pending against alleged violators of NRA codes . He added that ' the President obviously could not oversee local affairs throughout the country " from the farmer 's wife marketing her chickens to the discretion of the husbandman in his planting and sowing . " " I do not wish to be understood as contending that the Constitution is a sacred document never to undergo amendment , " he concluded . " Neither do I wish it to be inferred that the decisions of the Supreme ' Court are above the consideration and criticism of the people . " But I wish to be understood as contending that the great underlying principles of the American Constitution are indispensable to a republican form of government  --  that to strike at those underlying principles is to strike at the life of a representative democracy . "                     