@@700326

txt Transit unification negotiations between the incoming city administration and representatives of the transit companies were begun yesterday with a conference at the City Club , 55 West Forty-fourth Street . At the conference were Mayorelect F. H. LaGuardia , Controllerelect W. Arthur Cunningham , Bernard S. Deutsch , President-elect of the Board of Aldermen ; Raymond V. Ingersoll , President-elect of the Borough of Brooklyn , A. A. Berle Jr. , who is to be the city 's fiscal adviser ; Paul Windels , Corporation Counsel-to-be for the city ; Victor J. Dowling and Thomas E. Murray , ' receivers for the Interborough , and Charles Hayden of Hayden Stone &; Co. , and A. M. Williams for the B. M. T. Earlier Parleys Recalled . Mr. Williams was a representative of the B. M. T. in the transit negotiations conducted under former Mayor James J. Walker . The negotiations under Mayor O'Brien were with representatives of transit security holders , and were generally regarded as a gesture on the part of the O'Brien administration The principal question discussed at the conference last night , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the representati  --  es of the security holders would be empowered to act for all factions in their companies in the conferences . Whether the representation will be widened to include groups that have usually dissented from company policies was not ascertained . The question of representation of the Transit Commission was not discussed at the conference , so far as could be learned . No representative of the commission was present . The Mayor-elect said , on his recent vacation trip to Panama , that he favored direct negotiations between the city and the transit companies as a method of expediting matters . Conference Is Informal . The Mayor-elect 's statement of the ' conference yesterday is as follows : At the request of Joseph M. Price , chairman of the board of trustees of the City Club , I met at the City ' Club this afternoon with other newly elected city officials , representatives o ' ; the Interborough and B. M. T. companies for an informal and unofficial discussion of the initial steps to be taken by the city looking to unification of the rapid transit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myself , Bernard S. Deutsch , President of the Board of Aldermen - elect ; W. Arthur Cunningham , Controller-elect , and Raymond V. Ingersoll , President of the Borough of Brooklyn-elect , Judge Victor J. Dowling and Thomas E. Murray , receivers of the Interborough , Charles Hayden and A. M. Williams of the B. M. T. company , and also Paul Windels and A. A. Berle Jr. , representatives of the new administration . Plans were discussed for the conduct of future negotiations between representatives of the companies and city officials in the hope that early action may be taken by my administration on this subject . Higher Fare Basis . The conferences begun yesterday were the first in several years in which all parties have gone in with the idea that unification might be achieved on the basis of a self-supporting rate of fare . The previous Tammany administration . while held responsible now for an inevitable increase in fare , always refused to discuss it in unification negotiations on the grounds that a higher fare meant political suicide for the administration that accepted it . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed Board of Rapid Transit Control in exchange for the company securities outstanding , their tendency was to regard the offered bonds as " counterfeit money , " - on the theory that interest and amortization charges on a unified system could not be met on a five-cent fare , and that a direct pledge of city credit to back the bonds would be necessary . The danger in the present negotiations , according to informed observers , is that the company representatives , cognizant that a higher fare now is inevitable , may increase their selling price with the higher fare as a talking point . The Interborough , in receivership , may not prove as much an obstacle as the solvent B. M. T. corporation , according to informed quarters . Meanwhile , the Mayor-elect announced yesterday the appointment of Dominick A. Trotta , of the Bronx . as a member of the Board of Taxes and Assessments . It was believed that Mr. Trotta might be appointed to the post now held by Thomas W. Whittle , Bronx Republican district leader . Mr. Whittle was named at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to succeed George Henry Payne , ousted " because of the row between Mr. Knewitz and Republican State Chairman W. Kingsland Macy , supporter of Mr. Payne . Mr. Trotta , a real estate man , lives at 2,772 Bainbridge Avenue , the Bronx . It became known yesterday that Mr. LaGuardia had offered the post of Commissioner of Corrections to Sanford Bates , of Washington , director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons . Mr. Bates . in Washington , said yesterday that he appreciated the offer , but that he considered the work of the Federal Bureau of Prisons of more importance , even though the salary was less . Major LaGuardia revealed that he had sought Mr. Bates 's advice on the prison situation , as well as having offered him the post . " When I announce my commissioner , it will be evident to what extent I conferred with Mr. Bates , " Mr. LaGuardia declared . Among Mr. LaGuardia 's callers during the day were Mrs. Charles H. Sabin . Charles C. Burlingham , James E. Finegan , William Loeb. and William R. Wilcox . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Charles Evans Hughes .                     