@@699959

txt Negotiations which have been In progress for some weeks between Polish and Danzig authorities here have now resulted in an agreement on . the question of the treatment of the Polish minority . in the Free City 's territory . Danzig 's refusal to grant full treaty rights to the small community of Poles here is one of several questions which have embittered relations between the Poles and Danzigers for many years . Consequently the agreement is regarded as highly significant , - especially as negotiations are also in progress on practically all contentious miestions at issue here , including importation'of officials from Germany , control of customs , the postal regime and extent to which Poland is obliged to use the'Port ? of Danzig in preference to its own new port , Gdynia , 15 miles away . Details of the new arrangement about the Polish minority here have not been published yet . Indeed , the agreement is not expected to become definitive until a solution has been found to the problem of an equitable division of Polish trade between Danzig and Gdynia . Poles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two questions for about 10 days . The remaining three problems are being dealt with by a committee of the League of Nations consisting of E. H. Carr of England , chairman , Albert Calmes of Luxembourg and-Ivan Subotitch of Yugoslavia . The committee after a preliminary session in London in June has been studying , the problems on the spot since early in July . It returned July 23 from a ? four-day visit to Warsaw where considerable progress was madOt expects to report to the Assembly of the League of Nations when , it meets in September . Significance of the present direct negotiations is regarded by . both Poles and DanzigerS as considerably enhanced by the fact that Danzig is now under control of the National Socialist Party . It is therefore ' axiomatic that any agreeinent DitOig makes with Poland ' " sighed . after consultation with Beiiiii : ' , That the strongly nationalistic government in Berlin should be ready to make concessions to Poland in regard to Danzig was totally unexpected in Warsaw . And it is pointed out in the Polish capital that now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a German Government able to make an agreement with a foreign , country to which no German will take-exception . It is therefore felt that now is the time to try to come to terms with Germany . Consequently if Chancellor Adolf Hitler decides to pursue a.moderate foreign policy he will And a strong disposition toward concessions on the part of Poland , provided they do not involve major sacrifices .                     