@@699079

txt President Hoover personally ordered reinstatement to the postal service today of Ben H. Kerr , clerk at Gary , Ind. , recently dismissed on charges of " repeated delinquencies , " one being that he had introduced a bonus resolution at an American Legion post meeting " contrary to the expressed wishes of the President . " Mr. Hoover took a personal hand in the case after he had been assured by Thomas E. Campbell , president of the Civil ? ervice Commission , that no general civil service order concerning bonus activities of employes had been promulgated . The President declared that he had never made a suggestion as to the bonus or any other public question in relation to the conduct of government employes , adding that the fact that views of Federal workers might differ from his own did not itself constitute " political activity " under the terms of the law which forbids it . The Kerr case , with the attendant publicity in the press , was the subject of an extended discussion at a Cabinet meeting this morning , immediately following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be reinstated at once . Text of President 's Letter . Later , the following letter from President Hoover to Mr. Brown was made public : THE WHITE HOUSE , Washington , Sept. 2 , 1932 . The Honorable , The Postmaster General , Washington , D. C. My dear Postmaster General : In the press this morning it is stated : " Government employes and their families are prohibited ' from expressing publicly their views on the soldiers ' bonus , under a new regulation promulgated by the Civil Service Commission . " Upon seeing this I addressed the attached letter to the chairman of the Civil Service Commission , and have the enclosed reply from him . It is apparent therefore that no such action has been taken by the commission . The press article further states that in removing one Ben H. Kerr from the Postoffice at Gary , Ind. , the charge was made against him " that he introduced a bonus resolution at a meeting of the American Legion at Crown Point , Ind. , on March 6 , contrary to the ex- pressed wish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country at this time . " As you are aware , I havd never made any such suggestion as to this or any other public question in its relation to the conduct of government employes . The fact that they differ with my views does not necessarily constitute " political activity " under the law which forbids such action . In order that . there may be no misunderstanding or misrepresentation in this matter , I consider that Mr. Kerr should be reinstated in the postoffice service at once . Yours faithfully . HERBERT HOOVER . Brown Answers Order . Mr. Brown replied as follows : The Postmaster General . Sept. 2 , 1932 . My dear Mr. President : Replying to your letter of the 2d instant . relative to the dismissal of Clerk W. H. Kerr from the Postal Service at : Gary , Ind. , I have the honor to inform you that the file in the Kerr case discloses several serious infractions of the . postal laws and ? regulations warranting severe disciplinary , action . However , since the record raises the right of postal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right as to which there should be no question . I am directthe reinstatement of Clerk Kerr . Sincerely yours , WALTER F. BROWN . The President of the United States . President - Hoover read in some morning papers that government employes and their families had been prohibited from expressing publicly their views upon , the soldiers ' bonus , under a new regulation of the Civil Service Commission . The published reports - told of Kerr 's dismissal from the Gary office and of the allegation in the charges against him that he had introduced a resolution concerning the bonus at a meeting of the Crown Point ( Ind . ) Post of the American Legion on March 6 . On reaching his office the President began an Immediate inquiry . He dispatched a messenger to the office of the Civil Service Commission with the following letter : THE WHITE HOUSE . Washington . Sept. 2 , 1932 . Hon. Thomas E. Campbell , President . Civil Service Commission . Washington . D. C. My dear President Campbell : I notice in the press this morning a statement that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their views on the soldiers ' bonus , under a new regulation promulgated by the Civil Service Commission . " I can not believe that this is true and would be glad to have a statement from you upon it . Yours faithfully . HERBERT HOOVER . Commission Had Not Acted . ? A little - later the following answer was received from Mr. Campbell : THE UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION . Sept. 2 , 1932 . My dear Mr. President : I , too , noticed in the paper this morning the statement quoted by you in note of even date that " government employes and their families are prohibited from expressing publicly their views on the soldiers ' bonus , under a new regulation promulgated by the Civil Service Commission . " On behalf of . my colleagues I wish to state that the commission has not promulgated a new regulation in this matter and that in fact there has been no submission to the commission of any case which would require decision as to whether activity by government employes at American Legion meetings in favor of bonus legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roosevelt against certain classes of political activity by classified civil service employes of ? the Federal Government . I have the honor to be . Very respectfully . THOMAS E. CAMPBELL , President . Other Counts Against Herr . Aside from these formal communications , President Hoover learned that Kerr had been dismissed on a number of counts and that the charge of bonus activities was only one of them . The dismissal was signed by Assistant Postmaster General Arch Coleman on recommendation of a postal inspector , the President learned . This inspector apparently considered the bonus question to be in the class of public questions which civil service employes are forbidden to discuss publicly under laws and departmental regulations . Mr. Campbell at first considered the bonus a matter which might easily come within the interpretation of the non-political activity regulation as originally interpreted by President Roosevelt . Mr. Campbell had promulgated no order relative to the bonus question , however , and there was doubt today that he would , now that the question had caused a controversy . The White House made public President Roosevelt 's original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but made no comment as to the view of the present ) administration of the subjects it might cover . President Roosevelt 's statement on the regulation read . " Political activity prevented under the civil service act and rules has as a question of general interpretation been regarded as any active participation in obtaining legislation of a general public nature concerning which there is a more or less widespread difference of opinion . Political activity need not be partisan in a party sense to be prohibited under the rules . "                     