@@702411

txt Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin told the House of Commons tonight that the British . Government would push ahead " in the immediate future " toward pacification of Europe , with a regional pact in the , west as its first objective . It was the first official clue to the Cabinet 's foreign policy since Chancellor Adolf Hitler brought diplomatic efforts to a standstill by his Reichstag speech of Jan. 30 . At the same time Mr. Baldwin 's statement was assurance from the best possible source that the British Government would not allow all its thoughts and energies to be absorbed in the coming weeks by its colossal ? 1,500,000,000 rearmament program . This program passed its first legislative hurdle in the Commons tonight by a vote of 329 to 145 . Says Hope Is Not Lost " The government has not lost hope , " said Mr. Baldwin , " and is devoting its efforts to maintain peace by a pact to take the place of the old Locarno pact with the old Locarno powers . I think it may well be in the immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regional pact . " It is worth anything and everything in Europe today to get ' a feeling of security ? at any rate in one part  --  from which that security , if once attained , may spread to other parts of the Continent . Were there a pact ? I am not speaking of collective security through the whole of Europe  --  for mutual assistance against aggression between the nations of Western Europe , I hold and believe that such a pact could maintain peace . " If one can take Mr. Baldwin 's words at their face value , they dispose of rumors that the Prime Minister is ready to sit back and do nothing more in the field of foreign policy until he retires soon after the coronation of King George VI . They also confirm the impression that Mr. Baldwin and his Conservative colleagues are willing to leave Russia entirely out of account for the time being and join Germany in a Western pact as the first step toward a general European settlement . Overture to Berlin Likely Before making any new approach to Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full significance of Britain 's new rearmament program . But it was clear from Mr. Baldwin 's speech that another overture from London may come before long ? probably before the change in Prime Ministers takes place . Mr. Baldwin tried hard tonight to prove that there was no inconsistency between the gigantic expenditure on armaments and the ideals of collective security that his government had professed for so long . Labor speakers who had preceded him had expressed no real opposition to the arms program itself , but had complained loudly of the method of financing it and had accused the government of having " betrayed " the League of Nations ? a charge all the angrier because Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , had not even mentioned the League In his speech yesterday . " We want to put ourselves in a position to deter aggression , " the Prime Minister retorted . " Deterrence is one of our main objects , and if you believe deterrence is possible you will believe ineffective deterrence is worse than useless . It will neither insure our safety nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part in securing the peace of the world . " The object of all parties alike in this country has been and remains a single one  --  to maintain peace . We have sought to build it up through the League . We have done our best . If it has failed , we do not accept the failure for good . Tells of League Difficulties " But the House must recognize that the League today differs from the League originally contemplated , and the difficulties that will lie in the way of those who try to work for collective security in a League in which some of the most powerful and most highly armed nations of the world are outside are almost inshperable . " One of the most cogent causes of unrest in Europe in the last two or three years is due to the want of equilibrium between the obligations and liabilities of our country and the material strength of our country . It has been much more difficult to do what we would than we should find it in a heavily armed world if we had stronger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Baldwin continued , there is no need to exaggerate it . Even under the 1937 program , he said , the army will be smaller than in 1914 and the FOR NEw LocAmin navy willwnaill bien 7haer se frn% e tbheaitngwothrde V was used in 1914 . " The chief expansion , he said , will be in the air force , anti-aircraft defenses and war supplies . Fortunately , said Mr. Baldwin , Britain is able to afford colossal defenses without affecting her social services or seriously affecting her standard of living . " There is no antithesis between collective security and national security , " he went on . " What we want to get by collective security is that the forces of order shall be stronger than the forces of disorder  --  and more than that . It is not merely to win a war , should one break out . " If war broke out in Europe it would not be localized . It would run through Europe and be the most terrible thing we could conceive , and if the forces were fairly even there might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The idea of collective security is such an overwhelming force on one side that no aggressor could start . There must be no doubt if there is fo be any security of that kind . " Would Bear Shock of Air Raid Even in a collective war , Mr. Baldwin reminded the House , the brunt of the sea fighting and the first shock of air attack must fall upon Britain . For this reason , he declared , the government is determined to make the nation and the empire overwhelmingly powerful . " I have for many years ? in fact ever since I became Prime Minister ? tried to make the people of this country proud of their democracy , " Mr. Baldwin concluded , " and I have tried to make them realize that it is n't a system that can be preserved without sacrifice . The time for sacrifice is now . I believe what we are doing will have its effect . It is a sacrifice , but it is a sacrifice worth making . " To all of us who believe the spirit of freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve it is to make our country strong , so that no one who holds opposite views in these matters shall ever consider it worth while to make any wanton aggression on this country . " Inskip Details Program Earlier in the debate Sir Thomas Inskip , Minister for Coordination of Defense , had impressed the House with further revelations of the thoroughness with which the rearmament program was being carried out . Taking the coast and anti-aircraft defenses as an example , Sir Thomas said the general principles of defense had first been settled and then applied to every seaport and other locality that might be concerned . Reserves of ammunition , he said , have been calculated so as to provide against any shortage between the outbreak of war and the attainment of full new production . The whole productive capacity of the country has been surveyed , allocated to the various service departments and supplemented by the building of factories for more actual or reserve productive power . He hotly denied there was waste . All contracts , he said , are by competitive bids or are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Young officers of fresh outlook and exceptional ability have been added to the Committee of Imperial Defense , he said . Moreover , plans have been worked out , he went on , to meet a whole series of requirements , such as the composition of the high command in war , the distribution of food imports , reserves of raw materials and even the control and rationing of food . What the House approved in the end was a financial resolution as a forerunner of a bill that will empower the government to borrow ? 400,000,000 in the next five years . The bill will come up for debate next Thursday and the government will have another opportunity to show it is in dead earnest with its colossal rearmament scheme . New overtures may be made to-Germany , as Mr. Baldwin intimated tonight , but from now on the keynote of British policy will be " deeds , not words . " .                     