@@698351

txt Herr Adolf Hitler explained his views on leading pending political problems of interest to Germany to British and American correspondents yestet day . Summarized these views ate that Germany can not , pay both epat a- ( ions and commercial debts without collapsing ; that Germany a ? d France can not become friends until France changes Its attitude toward Germany ; and that the Polish Corridor problym can not be solved by force , but only with the aid of France . Herr Hitler stated he would not stage a revolution and that he sees his main mission in fighting Bolshevism . The National . Socialist leader explained which measures his patty would take to revive Getman economies If it rides into power , namely , narrowing of government expenditure , holding down imports , mad greater consideration of the home market , by German industry . Ills party , he stated , would never sign an international agreement it believed It could not fulfill . No Need of WT01011011 Herr littler pointed out that he need not stage an open revolt as the growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hint into power . Whether it would come tomorrow , in a month or a year , the future would show , but nothing , no person , no force could hold up this event , he said . Referring to plans for a revolt discussed by local party heads in Darmstadt , Herr Hitler explained he could not be made responsible for actions of every individual of his party . Of his party organization he said that no other party except the Italian Fascists is ruled so much by one will , namely , his will , as his party . Franco should not complain about his party 's growth , Herr Hitler declared , because no nation would silently accept such treatment as that accorded to Germany by France during the last 12 years . The outcome of the General Disarmament Conference , in his opinion , will , decide the future of Franco-German relations . Viewed by Government The Reich 's Government regards Herr Hitler 's explanations its statements such as any party leader is permitted to make . It will not teply to them . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparations and commercial debts coincide with those of the Government . His ideas about cutting imports and exports and thus making of Germany an isolated island in the economic world are viewed with skepticism . The public manifests considerable interest in Herr Hitler 's words as belief is widespread that his party has no little chance of riding into power , either in conjunction with other parties or possibly alone , unless a sweeping change for the better takes place in Germany 's economic affairs In the very near future .                     