@@704281

txt Hoover Views Approved Criticism of Former President 's Article Held to Be Unwarranted To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The statement of Maurice Leon , in your issue of Oct. 29 , criticizing Mr. Hoover 's recent article in The Saturday Evening Post , should not , for the sake of accuracy on public affairs , be allowed to pass unanswered . For instance , Mr. Hoover holds the view that America had no culpability in the events prior to 1914 , and that the failure of the Treaty of Versailles to produce peace was not the fault of the United States . Mr. Leon 's view to the contrary is , after all , an opinion , and one with which most Americans will not agree . In any event , Mr. Hoover 's argument was not so much a question of culpability or responsibility but an argument based upon concrete experience that the conflict of ideals , government and geographic relations made America wholly unfitted for such responsibilities . Mr. Leon 's contention that the United States was not swept with allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not bear inspection . The confessional books already published by English propagandists themselves In , eulogy of their own work is sufficient answer to all of that . The Matter of Propaganda Mr. Leon is not quite accurate in his separation from its context of a quotation from Mr. Hoover as to one phase of propaganda . Mr. Leon says : " Dealing with present conditions , Mr. Hoover makes this general statement , which I submit is utterly unwarranted : ' There is not a dispatch out of Europe that is not tainted by half-truth or untruth . ' " This is a gross injustice to American correspondents abroad . In this instance Mr. Hoover takes an exception for the rule . " Mr. Hoover 's full statement is ample answer . He said : " Every nation at war clamps down strict censorship . It is not alone censorship to prevent leaks of military information . One great object of censorship today is to control the news and create propaganda . There is not a dispatch out of Europe that is not tainted by half-truth or untruth , And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conditions imposed upon them they do the best they can . " Mr. Leon takes Mr. Hoover to task for his statement in reference to money loaned before we entered the Great War . " We loaned money recklessly to warring nations which would never have been repaid , even had we not gone into the war . " Mr. Leon insists that those loans placed during the period of American neutrality were all paid back . He overlooks the fact that they were paid back to American private lenders , but with money lent to the Allies by the American Government . Then the debts to the American Government were repudiated on the obvious grounds that the foreign borrowers were not able to pay their debts . Debt Repudiation Mr. Leon enters into the usual long argument about the reasons for the debt repudiation as due to inability to sell enough goods and make enough money transfers to the United States with which to meet the debt payments , but overlooks the clinching statement made by Mr. Hoover which must be the final answer to all of this old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that , since the allied governments ceased the payment of their installments on the debts , either their governments or their citizens have accumulated balances in the United States in gold or in the purchase of American securities of a minimum of four or five billions . That is their reserve today for purchase of war materials in the United States . That amounts , in other words , to perhaps twice the amount of the installments that are overdue on their debts . If they were able to transfer money to the United States for purposes of investment and reserves , it is the answer once and for all to the contention that they were prevented from payment by American trade policies . I can sympathize greatly with Mr. Leon 's natural belief that the United States should come to the aid of his mother country . But I can not accept his argument that the United States by its failure to maintain military forces and other methods of repression in Europe has contributed to build the present situation . Rather would I go back to the obvious facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been the very repressions exerted by the former Allies which have sowed the dragon teeth of dictatorships which now again plague Europe and the world . WM . STATtR MYERS . Princeton , N. J. , Oct. 29 , 1939 . Providing Medical Schools TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In comment upon your editorial " A Doctor 's West Point , " based upon suggestions of Dr. Gregg of the Rockefeller Foundation and Dr. Bowen of the Pennsylvania Hospital , whereby " poor but able " young men " may receive the highest medical training , then to be sent out to battle with disease , " the writer feels that although post-graduate schools for this purpose are very necessary , the suggestion of establishing a full course medical is not at all necessary . There are sufficient well-established medical schools in the country to furnish the groundwork for any specialized medical work . Herein it would be proper and even expedient that the government pay the expenses of " poor and able young men " and prepare them later in a post-graduate school for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York , Nov. 1 , 1939 . Windshield Wipers Wanted TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Why are the trolley cars in our city not required to take the necessary safety precautions in rainy weather ? No driver of an automobile wculd think of driving without a windshield wiper . Visibility during a rainstorm , especial- ly at night , is cut at least 50 per cent . The motorman on a trolley car , proceeding almost as fast as an automobile , does not have full control of his car when he must peer through a glass covered with rain drops . That this is a hazard was proved tonight when an old man was run over by a trolley car near where I live . The motorman could not see the man until he was upon him . Certainly this could have been prevented had the motorman had a windshield wiper to clear the glass in front of him . In the interest of the safety of our . citizens , should not some precaution along this line be made a requirement on all trolley cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 . The Case of Mr. Rheinstein His Reappointment as Chairman of City Housing Authority Suggested TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Permit me to commend the exceedingly able letter over the signature of Harold Phelps Stokes . No one knows better than he all the ins and outs of the housing situation in New York and no one knows better than he the rare abilities of our fighting Mayor . In defense of the Mayor let it be said that a man at the head of a city administration must expect his subordinates to carry out his avowed policy , and the Mayor 's policy has been to accept the conditions imposed by Washington in connection with aids , whether for housing , public works or work relief . The case of Mr. Rheinstein , however , differs from that of a department head . Mr. Rheinstein had already resigned as Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Buildings and retained solely the office of chairman of the New York City Housing Authority . True , he was art appointee of the Mayor , but he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State law , the New York City Housing Authority was constituted as an instrumentality of the city , and through it and it alone the city was compelled to act to perform housing services for its citizens , whether these services constituted the clearance of slums or the construction of dwellings for persons of low income , or both . When the Mayor wrote to Mr. Straus disclaiming the article in Harper 's Magazine . he might have pointed out that Mr. Rheinstein 's responsible position as head of an independent corporate body gave him the right to speak for himself . Furthermore , it is extremely important that the very criticisms which Mr. Rheinstein has brought up should he made . Unless there is transmitted to Washington full knowledge of the very varied conditions in the different cities of the United States , it will not be possible for Washington intelligently to adapt its program and rulings so that the greatest possible good may he achieved with the resources that Congress has set aside for purposes of the clearance of slums and the construction of housing for persons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rheinstein felt it necessary to resign , but it was only a matter of courtesy to the Mayor and in deference to the latter 's policy that the resignation was offered . Out of deference now to public opinion and to the long-range good of housing progress , the Mayor has it in his power to reappoint Mr. Rheinstein . Happily the Mayor is a big enough man to do it . ARTHUR C. HOLDEN . New York , Oct. 31 , 1939 . Protecting Car Fenders Urged To THE EDITOR OF the NEW YORK TIMES : Recently I attended the Motor Show held in this city with a few of my friends . We spent hours looking over every automobile at the show , the styling , the interior and the motor . Everything seems to he so much improved over the models of last year ; the new style headlights are certainly one improvement that will be greatly appreciated both by motorist and pedestrian . One thing my friends as well as myself noticed , and have noticed for the last few years , is the lack of protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fenders are left entirely exposed to scratching and unsightly marring when the car happens to come in contact with any other object . The front as well as the back of the car is well protected from any damage , and yet the side portions of the fenders are left entirely without protection . Surely the automobile manufacturers can affix something on the edge of the fenders to stop this unnecessary damage to them . J. H. FLETCHER . Toronto , Ont. , Oct. 31 , 1939 . Tribute Paid to Police TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I , a recent visitor to your city and the Fair , pay tribute to the unfailing courtesy and friendly service received from the New York police . Good luck to them . JESSE SCRUTON . Malverne , England , Oct. 21 , 1939.                     