@@701865

txt With a southwest gale raging across the North Atlantic ship lane , two freighters , the St. Quentin and the Ivanhoe , of British and Norwegian registry , respectively , were reported in distress last night , with the liners Pilsudski and Washington speeding to the rescue . A third craft , the British freighter Rushpool , was also reported disabled in the same general area , but the distress call concerning it was later canceled , the United States Coast Guard said . The Pilsudski of the GdyniaAmerica Line , and the Washington of the United States Lines , were making for the position given by the St. Quentin when the distress call of the Ivanhoe was received . The Washington continued on the original errand , expecting to reach the St. Quentin before noon today . The Pilsudski turned aside at the second call to go to the assistance of the Ivanhoe , which she expected to reach by daybreak . No word was available as to the number of men aboard either of the two damaged vessels . The plight of the St. Quentin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared to have failed soon after her S 0 S. One message received here by the Radiomarine Corporation of America said that the St. Quentin 's steering gear was disabled , and that water had entered the radio room . Another message , received later by representatives of the GdyniaAmerica Line from the Pilsudski , said that water had entered the engine room of the St. Quentin . Bremen Relays Message The first call , which reached here at 8:30 P. M. , was relayed by the North German Lloyd liner Bremen , which left New York last Thursday . It said that the St. Quentin was in distress , and gave the position of the freighter at Lat. 49.8 N. and Long . 37.25 W. This would place the stricken ship nearly in mid-Atlantic . A second message from the Bremen added the particulars of the damage to the steering gear of the freighter , and mentioned water in the radio room . The same dispatch said that the Pilsudski and Washington were steaming toward the St. Quentin , the latter at sixteen knots . The Coast Guard said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seas were running . The Washington , in a message to the United States Lines at midnight , reported her position as Lat. 43 , Long . 30 , about 1,400 miles at sea , and officials of the line expressed the hope , despite earlier estimates that a longer time would be required , that she might reach the St. Quentin at dawn . The radiogram was signed by the master of the Washington , Captain Giles Stedman , hero of other sea rescues . The first message to the GdyniaAmerica Line from Captain Mamert Stankiewicz of the Pilsudski was received before news of the plight of the Ivanhoe became known . A second message , received by Charles Krebs , operating vice president of the Gdynia-America Line , from the master of the Pilsudski said : " After proceeding for hours direction of St. Quentin received S 0 S from second steamer in distress . Norwegian steamer Ivanhoe , who also lost rudder . As steamer Washington already radioed proceeding St. Quentin am now changing course proceeding to Ivanhoe . Present position Pilsudski at midnight , 51.50 North , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West . " The positions of the two vessels indicate that the Pilsudski is sixty miles distant from the Ivanhoe . She was steaming at twenty knots and was expected to reach the Ivanhoe in three hours . The Ivanhoe was reported in distress at about 10:45 P. M. A message received by Mackay Radio said that the ship was disabled by a broken rudder at Lat. 51.30 N. , Long . 33.04 W. The Pilsudski , at the time she changed her course to go to the assistance of the Ivanhoe , was reported to be about seventyfive miles away . The same mes-1 sage confirmed that the Washington was continuing on her course to the St. Quentin . The St. Quentin is a ship of 3,526 tons , 349 feet long , with a 49.9-foot beam . She was built in 1915 . Her destination on her present voyage was not reported . The Ivanhoe is listed as of 4,668 tons , 371 feet long , with a beam of 54.4 feet . She was constructed in 1919 . The Pilsudski was outbound from New York to Copenhagen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 0 S. The Washington ' was returning to New York from Hamburg . The message received from the Bremen , which left New York last Thursday , did not indicate that the German ship was joining in the rescue attempts , and from this it was inferred here that the Pilsudski and Washington were nearer to the two ships . No details were received in the first message concerning the Rushpool . This message also arrived at about 8:30 P. M. Her position was given as about 400 miles southwest of that of the St. Quentin . At the Coast Guard communications it was said after the cancellation of the Rushpool call that the original message was believed to have been due to an error which confused the Rushpool and the St. Quentin , despite their difference of position .                     