@@703696

txt The eighth Pan-American conference was formally launched on its way today following a declaration by President Benavides of Peru that the Western Hemisphere " wishes to be strong in order to be respected , " President Benavides ' assertion before the conference at the opening ; ceremony last night'eame as Adolf A. Berle , Jr. , Assistant United States Secretary of State . told'a radio audience that the United States was not seeking , any military alliances with Latin-American nations . " It is said by some that military alliances will be sought , " said Mr. Berle , a member of his Government 's delegation to the Conference . " Of course . this is only a rumor and is obviously out of the question . " . There was nothing in the Berle ' speech to rule out the possibility , however , that a frank Pan-American declaration in - favor of mutual assistance in case of foreign aggression in this hemisphere could be made . Mutual consultation The first concrete proposal for in ; creased inter-American co-operation was submitted by the Argentine del , egation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American countries through annual meetings of their Foreign Ministers or representatives . The Argentine delegation after sounding out other groups decided to revise their plan before formally presenting it to the Congress . It was understood the modifications were only a matter of details of terminology and possibly would provide that the meetings be less frequent than once a year . President Benavides told the gathering of statesmen from North . Central and South America that " there is not and there can not be continental imperialism , neither in economic , nor in spiritual , nor In political spheres of the Americas " Closer Bonds Urged He appealed to the conference to make a new effort toward closer bonds and " for the preservation of the system of international pacts that as gone so far ahead in recent years . " He was careful In stressing units , among the American States not to cut the Western Hemisphere oft from the rest of the world , " The eyes of the world are fixed on the present Conference , " he said . " We feel the spiritual presence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political and juridical cohesion of the 21 countries that have organized themselves to cover together the uncertain journeys of the future . " President Benavides pictured the American Republics as " united by the tame - senthnents and directed by a solid collective conscience . " As the delegates put on their ear- phones to take their choice of President Benavides ' Spanish or running translations of his speech In English , Portuguese , and French , it was learned from a most reliable source that Brazil expected to take the initiative on the much discussed defense nlan . Brazil Expected to Lend Brazil , it was said , ' would offer a resolution whereby the conference would declare the nations of the Americas ready to stand together to lend each other assistance in case of outside interference . Further , it was learned , the resolution would mark the intention of the 21 nations to combat the propagation of political concepts designed to destroy national institutions , This was the closest thing to President Roosevelt 's continental defense plan to conic out of pre-conference meetings and was considered especially significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been flooding the Americas in the past few years . Brazil 's position as reported sponsor of the resolution was-understandable because some of its recent internal disturbances were believed by many persons to have been inspired by 9ff-continent influences . No ' Military Alliance Mr. Berle , in his radio broadcast : said the countries of the western hemisphere " have not lived under a system of military alliances , nor so far es I know does any of them care to start such a system now , " He added that the United States " has never thought of proposing a military alliance . " " It is perfectly plain that the American Continent does not feel that a system of military alliances IS needed to protect it ; and on that I think everyone agrees , " he said emphatically , The New World , he said , has something of its own to contribute to international relations , " namely , the phenomenon of co-operative peace . " The Assistant Secretary of State said this was " a contribution no less great because it is spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He decried the rumor that the United States " is working here to advance her own trade and commerce and that other American nn- Lima Conference : Actions in Brief Lima Conference summary : President Benavides of Peru opens conference ; bars imperialism ; affirms the " solid collective conscience " of the Americas . Adolph A. Berle , Jr. , U. S. delegate . denies military alliances will be sought . Argentina formally submits its non-military mutual consultation plan , designed to counter the military continental defense project of President Roosevelt . Brazil is reported taking the initiative in sponsoring the Roosevelt plan . Argentina 's delegate calls for united cultural defense against subversive propaganda from abroad , lions ought to beware of American penetration , " Praise U. S. Delegation " We are happy in having et the conference probably the most distinguished group of American statesmen ever assembled and in having among them men who have been experienced for years in this kind of work , " he concluded . Under the Argentine mutual consultation plan American Foreign Ministers would meet annually at different capitals , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest to them . " In addition , Foreign Ministers of neighboring countries would hold " such regional meetings as their consider convenient . " If Foreign Ministers could not attend the sessions , they could be represented by special delegates , possibly diplomatic . representatives in the countries where the meetings would be held , The first general meeting would be in 1939 , at which a drawing would be made to determine the sites of subsequent sessions . The Govetnment acting as host would set the date for each meeting and the foreign minister of the country where the meeting was held would act as nresidine officer . Curb on Propaganda Alfrania de Mello Franco , Former Foreign Minister of Argentina , suggested last night that American nations unite to defend their institutions against subversive propaL gentle organized abroad , The Argentine delegate pointed out that though American nations had opened their territories to peoples of all nationalities " these foreigners do not constitute minorities . " He said peoples of the American nations were " politically homogeneous , " and that in each nation " nationals and foreigners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Senor Mello Franco urged amplification of existing resources for consultation among the American nations . An explanation of how the conference does its real . work in committee rooms was made by Mr : Berle . Committees are the conference 's principal working instruments " just as in Congress or Legislatures , " he said . All proposals are referred to committees and there voted on after a subcommittee has reported on various aspects of the proposals . All Renrcsented u Since every nation is represented on each committee , the voting in ' committee is . tantamount to final rejection or acceptance of any proposal , with action by the full conference session usually a formality . The inaugural session of the conference was brief . President Benavides spoke for 40 minutes and finished by declaring the assembly open . The Peruvian President was introduced by his Foreign Minister , Carlos Concha , who will preside during the conference . The United States delegation . headed by Secretary of State Cordell Hull , sat in 11 seats to the left facing the speaker . Diplomats of the 21 countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Representatives , where the sessions will be held for the remainder of December . A blare of trumpets signalled the arrival of President Benavides who marched to the rostrum through long files of troops standing at rigid attention , A cordon of police held back huge crowds jammed outside between the Government Palace and the entrance to the congress Hall . The outside of the hall was surrounded by smartly uniformed cadets who stood beneath the flags of the 21 nations represented , At the conclusion of Benavides speech the congress adjourned until late today with Hull , Concha and Jose Maria Cantilo , Argentine Foreign Minister the speakers .                     