@@703808

txt The Senate Military Affairs Committee decided today to lift , at least partially , the cloak of secrecy which has shrouded its consideration of President Roosevelt 's emergency national defense programs thus far . The action was forced by a group of members who believe that the mixture of foreign policy , neutrality and national defense which has been discussed at its meetings should be made known to the public . Committee members said that future hearings would be held behind closed doors , with members of the committee at liberty to discuss testimony publicly afterward except for portions which the full membership decided should be kept in confidence as military secrets . There were conflicting versions among some members as to other decisions by the committee . Senator Sheppard , chairman of the committee , did not seem enthusiastic abou : the new plan . He said that only a trial would demonstrate whether it would work or not . Senator Austin , ranking nenority member , offered a motion to throw future hearings open to the public . It lost by a tie vote , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " splendid . " He said it would accomplish three things , which he considered valuable in the public interest . Austin Sees Fear Dispelled " It will do away with the fear of the public , " he said , " that we are evolving during these discussions of neutrality , foreign affairs and national defense , a policy which will affect their lives and interests without letting them know of developments . " The new procedure will permit us to get expressions of public opinion in regard to phases of any policy we work out while it is still in the making . We like to hear from the folks back home , and we ought to hear from them . " It will act as a healthful influence on the administrative side of the question by letting the people know what mistake : , if any , have been made , so that responsible officials can guard against them in the future . " Senator Nye , who has been one of the principal critics of secrecy , expressed himself as pleased with the committee 's decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached to make public the record of past testimony , including that of Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau , Secretary of War Woodring and General Malin Craig , Chief of Staff , but this view was not shared by other members . Motion to Publish Testimony Each member of the committee has in his possession the printed transcript of the testimony so far . He is expected to read it between now and Monday , when the committee will meet again , with a view to determine how much , if any , of it can safely be made public . The motion offered by Senator Clark to publish the testimony , with only such deletions of military secrets as are agreed to be necessary , was not brought to a final decision today . It will probably be disposed of on Monday . Mr. Clark said that he favored , for the future , immediate publication of the transcript of hearings , with military secrets deleted , and Mr. Austin said he understood this had been agreed . Mr. Sheppard , however , held that the committee had reached no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would make public a witness 's testimony before he had time to reconsider and revise it . Today 's deliberations of the committee were concerned only with its own actual record and not with the conversation at the White House between President Roosevelt and the committee which caused an outburst of debate on foreign policy on the Senate floor . The members of the committee apparently still take the position that they are bound not to disclose anything that took place at the White House , unless they are specifically and personally released by the President . Vote on Open Session Motion By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Feb. 10 . ? The 8-to-8 vote on Senator Austin 's mo- tion to open future hearings of the Military Affairs Committee was as follows : For the motion  --  Lewis , Democrat , of Illinois ; Reynolds , Democrat , of North Carolina ; Thomas , Democrat , of Utah ; Austin , Republican , of Vermont ; Nye , Republican , of North Dakota ; Bridges , Republican , of New Hampshire ; Gurney , Republican , of South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Against the motion  --  Logan , Democrat , of Kentucky ; Minton , Democrat , of Indiana ; Lee , Democrat , of Oklahoma ; Schwartz , Democrat , of Wyoming ; Hill , Democrat , of Alabama ; Clark , Democrat , of Missouri ; Downey , Democrat , of California , and Sheppard , Democrat , of Texas . Senators Johnson , Republican , of California , and Lundeen , " armerLabor , of Minnesota , were rbsent . Chairman Sheppard announced that . those who testified in the plane-sale inquiry had been requested to indicate what portions of their testimony they thought should be held secret . Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau , one of the witnesses , said today he had asked that incidental remarks of his be deleted , but that this would not conceal the Treasury 's part in the transaction .                     