@@700569

txt General Hugh S. Johnson arrived here this evening for a conference with President Roosevelt on plans to further the work of the NRA . He brought reports and surveys , he said , showing that there is a definite upturn in business , with the NRA backed by public opinion , which makes unnecessary continuance of the licensing powers that expire on June 16 . With General Johnson came Donald R. Richberg , general counsel of the NRA , and Miss Frances M. Robinson , secretary to the administrator , all of whom took rooms adjoining those in a local hotel used as temporary White House offices . General Johnson was uncertain whether he would fly tomorrow to the yacht Nourmahal , on which President Roosevelt has been taking a fishing cruise off the Bahama Islands , but he indicated that he probably would join Mr. Roosevelt when the latter boards a special train on Thursday to return to Washington . " Then I expect to have a good long talk with him , " General Johnson added , " such as has been impossible in Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Nourmahal indicated that the President spent most of the day in relaxation . In one message Vincent Astor stated that yesterday afternoon , after a visit aboard the yacht by White House correspondents , the President , Gus Gennerich ; his personal bodyguard : Hermann Gray , a fishing guide , and Mr.1 Astor went fishing and caught about fifty mackerel and snappers . Again Denies He Will Quit . When General Johnson was asked by newspaper correspondents if he had any disquieting reports to give to the President , he replied in the negative . He was emphatic in denying reports that he planned to resign soon . " I think the recovery situation is very good , " he went on , " and there certainly is a business upturn . " " What is principally responsible for it ? " he was asked . " There are a number of things , " he said . " Of course , the Recovery Act did considerable , but that is only one element . There is a lot of heavy construction going on , which helps many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so have the rises in prices of bituminous coal and oil . Of course , these changes have been reflected in other lines . The rise in auto production actuated steel , which also now is being actuated by many other lines where production has been increased . " When he was asked his reason for not pushing continuance of the licensing provisions of the NRA , General Johnson said : " It is a weapon I never used and never intended to use . We do n't need it any longer , even as a reserve power . Public opinion has taken care of that . " He stated that another step has been taken in furthering the purposes of the NRA , through the sending out of questionnaires to industries asking whether they can comply with the President 's request for further shortening of hours of labor . If an industry replies in the negative the questionnaire asks that reasons be given . Sees Small Business Aided . The Recovery Administrator also said that he has as yet received no reports backing rather general complaints that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board headed by Clarence Darrow , which was established to investigate such complaints , " has not reported anything to me . " " We have made a real effort to find out about these complaints , " he said , " and we have n't found anything at all . On the other hand , we have come across numerous instances where small business men and small industries have been greatly helped by the NRA . After all , our principal job has been to raise prices . We have raised prices , and when you do raise them you help small business , which has a larger overhead than large industries . " There have been numerous cases of code violation , General Johnson stated , but he added that " these fold up when you start to prosecute them , and then we drop them , because there is no point in pushing such cases just to make examples . " Commends Wagner Bill . General Johnson endorsed the principles of the bill sponsored by Senator Wagner to set up a permanent board to review labor disputes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated , " but I 've seen a lot of digests of it and reports about it , and it would seem that the bill would establish what amounts to a Supre-le Court of labor . We already have labor boards for each industry , but there will have to be a court of review , which is the function of the Wagner set-up . " Despite the business which he said he had brought with him , General Johnson insisted that he had come to Miami principally for a deferred vacation , which was originally planned to coincide with the time the President was aboard the Nourmahal . However , the one day that he will be here will be devoted , he said , to working with Mr. Richberg on the material they have ready to give to the President aboard the train .                     