@@703983

txt Several hundred planning experts from all parts of the United States , England , and Canada , opening a three-day conference at the Hotel Statler today , concurred with Norman A. , director of the Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associations , in the opinion that municipal planning , if extended from spending for physical improvements to saving in administrative practices , could halt the 20-year-old migration of New England 's industries . Other speakers urged credit tax reserves for municipalities and a system of industrial self-government . Upwards of 500 representatives of State and private agencies heard and applauded Mr. 's call for an extension of planning to fiscal problems . Planning for physical improvements , while entailing gloat savings to the State and community in the long run , also requires an outlay of funds which in some cases is not immediately urgent , according to Mr. . Emphasis , he believed , could very well be shifted from the spending ' side to the saving side , thus help , ing to relieve the burden of excessive taxation that seems to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To Salvage Industry " This is a highly constructive program I offer you , " said Mr. , " under which plan , ning agencies already in existence can turn more effectively to the aid of government in its efforts to salvage New England 's industries . " The need for definite retrenchment along the lines reterred to by Mr. , that is , through learning government 's actual needs and opening its ' treasuries in those directions only , was emphasized by Carle C. Zimmerman , Department of Sociology , Harvard University , who said that scarcely an industrial town in New England has escaped the wastefulness of industrial migrations . The cause of the precarious financial conditions in which these communities find them-I selves , according to Professor Zimmerman , is irresponsible in ! dustrial management trying to eke out the last dollar from particular locations and unwise community government raising taxes so high in good periods as to make depression taxes seem far more burdensome than they actually are . Professor Zimmerman told the delegates that New England 's problems could be met only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by autocratic interference of State and Federal Government agencies . Unwise public expenditures , he said , constitute at least one half of the troubles experienced by New England communities . Credit Reserve Recommended William S. Parker , former member of the Massachusetts State Planning Board , had another solution for New England 's industrial problems , namely , the establishment in all municipalities of a credit reserve built up during good times and made available in had times to permit the maintenance of normal activities without requiring inereases in the tax rates . Why does the nation need plan ' ning ? W. Elmer Ekblaw , professor of geography of Clark University , answered that question thus : " To prevent our modern civilization from engulfing us . " The measure of mankind 's progress , he said , has been proportionate to its ability to , co-operate . Greetings of the Commonv.ealth were extended by Victor M. Cutter , chairman of New England Regional Planning Commission , and John F. , Fitzgerald . former Mayor of Bus . ton . Responses were made by Tracy B. Augur , president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , president of the American Planning and Civic I Association ; Harold S. Buttenheirn , pi esident of the American Society of Planning Officials , and George I Soule , chairman of the National Economic and Social Planning Association .                     