@@703188

txt Called as the final witness in support of the administration 's $1,100,000,000 naval-construction program , Charles Edison , Assistant Secretary of the Navy , told the House Committee on Naval Affairs today that the future peace and tranquillity of the United States was " directly dependent " upon the maintenance of a navy so strong in ships and with a personnel so expertly trained that no other nation in the world would hazard " a war with us . " Mr. Edison was the only high civilian official of the Navy Department to appear before the committee . He was subjected to a sharp cross-examination by Representatives Brewster of Maine and aiurch of Illinois , who with Representative Shannon of Missouri are the only members of the committee known to be opposed to the bill . Mr. Edison appeared ready to reply frankly to all questions he deemed proper . The committee was in a continuing wrangle , the " Big Navy " majority resenting the nature of some of I the questions , particularly such as involved the confidential files of the navy . Calls Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions been so threatening , said Mr. Edison . For the near future he could see no improvement in these conditions . The naval problem of the United States was local , he asserted  --  to guarantee the adequate protection of the United States and its posessions , the protection of American commerce and of American citizens . A two-fleet navy , one for the Pacific , the other for the Atlantic , he said , would be complete insurance , but such a navy now would cost too much . Chairman Vinson of the committee announced that the hearings would end Monday and that the committee would meet in executive session Tuesday to consider a motion to report the bill to the House with the recommendation that it pass . Mr. Vinson said that he would propose an amendment which would provide a 10 per cent differential in favor of the Pacific shipbuilding industry , the differential to apply to all the ships authorized in the bill  --  forty-seven combatant and twenty-two auxiliary vessels . The amendment undoubtedly will be written in , along with another by Mr. Vinson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of available sites for airplane , destroyer and submarine bases on the Pacific , Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and to report to the first session of the next Congress . The bill may also be amended to include certain additional auxiliary vessels which were recommended by Admiral Leahy , Chief of Naval Operations . Edison 's View of World Conditions " The political conditions in the world at the present time are far more threatening than they have been at any time since 1918 , and I see no improvement in sight for at least the nekr future , " Mr. Edison said in beginning his testimony ' . " The political unrest in all Europe and the civil war in Spain continue with ever-increasing activity , and with the threat of embroiling all of Europe in a general melee . The conflict in China , . which is progressing to major proportions , has resulted in grave incidents involving sovereign rights and interests of the United States and other ' third powers . ' " In the face of all these international political conditions , it is certain that our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers . " Naval strength should not only consist of combatant vessels alone , but it must comprise adequate personnel to man the ships , and the active material readiness of every unit of the fleet . It must comprise an efficient and adequate aviation arm ; reserves of men , munitions and sup : lies , and also , of not the least importance , a sufficient number of auxiliary vessels and merchant marine manned by loyal crews to support the fleet . " We of course have to have , in addition , suitable bases located at strategic points for the repair and maintenance of our vessels and aircraft . " I might mention here that the outlying possessions , such as the Hawaiian Islands , Guam , Panama , Samoa , Canal Zone , Puerto Rico , Virgin Islands , and also the Philippines , until their independence is complete , are all strategically important outlying possessions . The defense of these islands is directly dependent upon not only the local force and fortifications but largely upon the control of the sea , maintained by units of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has previously been stressed that our navy is maintained for two essential reasons . One is the prevention of war , and the other is the readiness to engage in a war with a force so effective that the conflict would be brought to an early close with the minimum loss of personnel and resources . Must Keep War at Distance " The navy of course should Insure national integrity and support of our policies , and when all human effort to avoid conflict has failed , and there only remains the horrible result of going to war , we must then have a fleet which will bring it to a successful conclusion ; and this should certainly be done at as great a distance as possible from our shores . " I am not going to dwell on the navy 's needs in the many different types of ships , but will only refer to this highly technical side of our defense problems in repeating again that I wholly and sincerely endorse the recommendations that the various naval officers have made in their testimony before this committee . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future peace and tranquillity of this country of ours are directly dependent upon our maintaining a national force sufficiently strong in numbers of units , and so expertly trained , that other nations would not risk a war with us . " " Have you full information as to the naval building programs of other nations ? " asked Mr. Brew-. ster . " No , not all of them , " said lifr . Edison . " We have very little information as to what Japan is doing . We have a treaty covering exchange of information with Great Britain and France . " " If Great Britain , France , Germany and Italy should enter a fourpower agreement , would you consider such an agreement as a move that would make world peace a , much more likely proposal ? " Mr. Brewster continued . " I must say that I have not very much confidence in the sanctity of treaties , " the Assistant Secretary declared . " They have not proved to be very effective or lasting in recent years . I think the United States should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fleet Second to None " And your position is we should have a fleet second to none , a fleet equal to any in the world ? " Mr. Brewster asked . " It is . " " Admiral Leahy testified that we would require a fleet three times the size of the one proposed to wage an aggressive war in Asiatic waters . Do you agree with him ? " " I do , very definitely . " " Do you favor an Atlantic as well as a Pacific fleet ? " " As a matter of adequate defense , yes , " said Mr. Edison . " But I do not think the country should afford such a fleet now . My opinion is that , if we want complete national insurance , we should also have an Atlantic fleet . It is purely a matter of cost , whether or not the country could afford to pay the price . " And I want to say that , if we had such a two-ocean fleet , it would still be a non-aggression fleet . " Mr. Edison said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the event of an emergency , one privately owned and the other government owned . These sources of ? supply should be in localities easy to defend , and the navy " was now working out a program along these lines . Of the aviation situation , Mr. Kldison declared himself in favor of the best aviation service that could be organized . A navy without an adequate air arm would be like an army without a coast defense arm , he said . Without airplanes and coast defenses the whole national defense picture would be out of balance . Service Did Not Like Spying Representative t3rewster seemed anxious to find out why the Naval Intelligence Service had been unable . to get any information concerning the Japanese naval program . Mr. Edison said he thought the service had to work with insufficient funds ; nor did the navy or the American people like to operate a spy organization . " One reason that we do not know what is going on in Japan , " Representative Maas of Minnesota interrupted , " is that they do not have hearings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not know the Japanese program was no reason , said Mr. Edison , why we should slow up the building of an adequate navy for the " sole protection of the United States . " " Our national defense problem is a local one , a problem for ourselves to solve , " he insisted . Mr. Edison said that he did not think the United States needed any intelligence service to find out what Great Britain and France were doing . " Do you think Great Britain lives up to her treaties ? " asked Mr .. Church . " I do , " said Mr. Edison . " Why did the American cruisers go to Singapore ? " Admiral Leahy was the officer best able to answer that question , said Mr. Edison . " However , I would say it was a gesture of good-will . " Necessity of Defense Secrets Questioned as to the policy of not disclosing to the public various facts ' relating to the national defense , such as the results of bombing practices ashore and afloat and ordinance details , Mr. Edison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interest of national defense , should be kept secret . If the officers charged with the defense of our country are worthy of trust , they should be permitted to keep secret matters vital to our national defense . If they can not be trusted , they should be displaced . " As to the efficiency of naval aviation , Mr. Edison said he had no doubt whatever but that the American naval airmen had " the edge " on any other aviation arm in the world .                     