@@699920

txt Trade Parley Developments . Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , told the House of Commons the fall of the dollar was artificial and would probably be reversed by conditions in the Autumn . He also said Britain and the Dominions sought to raise wholesale prices as a primary policy . When the dollar dropped to $4.85 to the pound in London buying from New York and commercial buying was reported and the rate rose to $4.7914 . The steering committee of the parley met and reached no decision on its future . It will meet again today and the leaders expect the conference to continue at least ten days . Senator Pittman obtained a tentative agreement on his silver resolution and planwd to put it . before the full monetary commission this week . Progress was made on the wheat pact , as the Danubian countries agreed to some limitations of exports . The chief French delegates prepared to depart from London , leaving only experts to continue discussions . Commons Debates Parley . By FERDINAND HUtiN Jr . Special Cable to Tee New Yosa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Exchequer , tried to assure the House of Commons in the first important debate on the World Economic Conference today that the present violent depreciation of the dollar probably would reverse itself by Autumn . He said the primary objective of the British and dominions ' policy was the raising of wholesale prices . The slump of the dollar is not the result of any intrinsic weakness , he declared , but " an unnatural , artificial phenomenon , " caused chiefly by speculation . In consequence he begged members of Parliament not to be rushed off their feet by the " temporarily disturbing " situation and warned that It would be dangerous for Britain to let the pound follow the dollar downward . Leaders Praise Roosevelt . But it was President Roosevelt , not Mr. Chamberlain , who dominated Parliament in this remarkable debate . One by one the leading members of all three parties expressed their sympathy with the President 's policy , their hope that his experiment would succeed and their desire that something of the sort be attempted in Great Britain . Not a single speaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference continue , despite the present deadlock over currencies . Winston Churchill , who as Chancellor of the Exchequer brought the pound back on the gold standard in 1925 , demanded that Britain follow the United States , though " at a safe distance , " in easing her debtors ' burdens . George Lansbury , leader of the Labor party , added his tribute to Mr. Roosevelt for a genuine attempt to raise the living standards of the American masses . Sir Robert Horne- , another former Chancellor of the Exchequer ; ' Sir Edward Grigg , former Governor of Kenya ; Leopold Amery , former Dominions Secretary , and a score of lesser lights demanded that Britain declare and pursue an active expansionist policy of her own . Defenders of the gold standard were silent and the old-time cries for economy and more economy , which have dominated every economic debate in Commons in the past two years were not heard . For Full Parley Discussion . Mr. Chamberlain announced that nothing ? not even stabilization ? would be ruled out from possible discussion at the conference . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his implied reproaches of Mr. Roosevelt for rejecting stabilization now , although he was careful to say every one appreciated and understood the immense difficulties- of the President 's task . A. comprehensive summary of Mr. Chamberlain 's speech is printed on the following page . Mr. Lansbury said tie was uncertain whether the conference as a. whole was proceeding and that the Whole question of currency and monetary stabilization was to be left to one side when Mr. Chamber/aim  --  interjected : " In case , there is. , a misunderstanding I would ; say that is not quite accurate . At'eemeeting of one of the subconernissions upon this subject it was decided by a majority that none of the subjects should be excluded from the agenda of the commissions . How far it will be possible to make progress with each individual item on the agenda V'TsiOcannot say now , but it would be a sunderstanding to suppose that nsion. " g le cut out from possible he thing may be possible but net probable , " retorted Mr. LensAiry area laughter . " The inquest eing h @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the breakdown of capitalism throughout the world . Cheers and laughter . The Labor party wants the conference to consider how best it can raise the standard of life for the masses . " The only commissions which have done anything have been those which considered how to restrict production , to cut down the supply , not how to expand consumption . The one idea of the government seems to be to cut down the production of wheat and other commodities . That is sheer lunacy . " Hear ! Hear ! " Sees Move for Dividends . Rationalization and reorganization of labor-saving machinery , he said , are being employed not to raise the standard of life but to obtain dividends . " Until the statesmen of the world face that  --  and Roosevelt in some of his statements seems to be doing so  --  and consider how mankind as a whole can benefit by the reorganization , the problem will remain unsolved , " he went on . Mr. Lansbury said Walter Runciman , president of the Board of Trade , had said nobody could understand the gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all that lot of geniuses pretending to administer a system they do not understand ! " he exclaimed , and laughter again interrupted him . " Does the government believe the welfare of the world depends upon how much gold can be burled in the vaults of a bank ? " " he asked . " What ought to be done is to distribute the goods in the world and raise the workers ' standard . " Roosevelt has a policy which , rightly or wrongly , the President is following . I wish to know whether . our government has a pylicy . Britain does not want to be crucified on a cross of gold . / " It was a profound mistake to hold the Ottawa conference and reach agreements before the world conference . We Laborites believe in international cooperation but we also believe that cooperation , like charity , ought tie begin at home . Exchanges ought to be controlled and the government ought to remove money transactions once for all out of the sphere of gambling . " Churchill Praises Roosevelt . Winston Churchill said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers of the experiment on which President Roosevelt had launched himself in the United States . He rejoiced in President Roosevelt 's abandonment of gold and was certain that results had followed which were beneficial to Britain or might be made so . " Primarily the gold bloc , bereft of American support and confronted to a certain extent with unconscious American antagonism , becomes incomparably weaker as a world force , " he continued . " The countries of the gold bloc play nothing like the part in world business that non-gold countries do , nor possess a vast , varied territory and immense reserves of raw material . " We must embarrass the gold bloc , but I am doubtful whether they will be able to adhere to the system the United States changed . The gold countries have no grounds to reproach the United States and Britain . " We have shown we can manage a currency detached from gold with sober , sedate self-control . Will the United States yet prove that , having escaped from the gold hoarder , they might not fall victim to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would strike a note of despair throughout the world . " It seems to me likely that , once gold has been dethroned , sterling will become the world 's most trustworthy measure . How much more will the strength and solidity ' of sterling be apparent when gold is no longer set up anywhere in the world as an anchor ! It is a great responsibility for us , but also a great opportunity which has come to us when we have a stable goVernment possessed of enormous powers . " It is quite beyond human cornprehension that President Roosevelt on the morrow of taking his tremendous plunge , and in the full tideeof his successful experiment , having just severed his country from gold and launched himself on the revaluation a currencies , Would agree to tie himself , up again to gold out of love for France . " Mr. Churchill then urged that the government start on a plan of revaluation , endeavoring to raise prices in relation to sterling as far as possible without losing touch with the Dominions and those foreign countries which are keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ought to follow the general movement of the United States convoy at a prudent distance with every possible precaution which is open to experienced navigators . It might well be that the whole armada , American and British , would be united at no distant date and advance together in one majestic array at one uniform speed . " Samuel Hopes We Succeed . Sir Herber Samuel , Liberal leader , said 13resident Roosevelt 's experiment was the " largest , most vigorous and most significant economic experiment yet tried in any country with the exception a Soviet Russia . " " We hope it will succeed , for if it fails the results may . be disastrous , " he continued . " If it is necessary for any country to take defensive measures against competing depreciated currencies an all-round general tariff is not the proper weapon to adopt . It can seldom be high enough to meet the case and we might have to adopt far more drastic measures . " Sir Robert Horne said he did not think the form in which President Roosevelt addressed the conference was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to anticipate that the President could not possibly conform to the suggestions made to him . " " The truth is , " he went on , " that we and the United States realize any further fall in prices of agricultural products , for example , would destroy the agricultural industry throughout the world . Although our liturgical language is different , our religion is the same . Temperamentally , Americans are much more impulsive and naturally their activities will be greater , but I beg the government not to divorce itself Irene the action of America , but to put itself alongside her . " If the world were assured we were working along the same lines as the United States , nothing could be so effective in achieving our purpose as the fact that the United States , the whole British Empire and the sterling areaeare acting together . The stronger Britain is the more formidable will be our help to the nations of the world . " Denies Depressing Pound . Mr. Chamberlain , in closing the debate , again vigorously denied charges that the exchange equalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pound , " nor would anybody in his senses make such an accusation against the United States . " He cheered the members by announcing that Britain 's unemployment figures had dropped 144,700 in a month to 2,483,108 and that the budgetary prospects were " certainly encouraging , " in particular " customs revenue showing more favorably than budget estimates . " " We are more than holding our own , doing better than many countries are and I feel we really at last see signs showing unmistakable improvement , not a fleeting one but on a solid foundation that may be expected to continue , " he asserted . He warned , however , there was no real analogy between the dollar and the depreciation in Continental currencies after the World War . " The depreciation of the dollar , " he said , " is largely due to speculation and there enust , therefore , be a great deal of uncertainty about the future course of dollars . Hence it would be unwise for the government to attempt to commit the country to , a course following America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Lansbury 's speech he said : " There are only two ways of reestablishing equilibrium between costs and prices . Either we must reduce costs , which means reducing wages , or we enlist take that other method and raise prices . It is for this reason that the government is in agreement with the majority " of delegates to the conference who are determined on a policy which will effect the raising of prices . "                     