@@697335

txt A. formal attack under the auspices of Cardinal Hayes was launched throughout the Archdiocese of New York yesterday against what the Roman Catholic authorities call " obscene plays " in this city . Mgr . Michael J. Lavelle , rector of St. Patrick 's Cathedral , who is the active head of the campaign , in a letter to his parishioners , which was copied in the Summer bulletin of the Catholic Theatre Movement , declared that the stage in New York this Sumner had sunk so low that it had become an " outrage of public decency " and the " dishonor of America 's finest , noblest and most hospitable city . " Cardinal Hayes is honorary president of the Catholic Theatre Movement and Mgr . Lavelle is its director . It is under the auspices of this organization , which has been working quietly for eighteen years , that the campaign will be waged . It Is believed that the crusade at this time was prompted largely by the proceedings against participants in the " Earl Carroll  - -  Vanities " on the charge that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Cathedral . Fifteen hundred copies of the Catholic Theatre Movement 's Summer bulletin were distributed at the dears of the Cathedral yesterday ; 1,500 more were shipped for distribution to the Catholic Summer School of America , Cliff Haven , Lake Champlain , N. Y. Others were mailed to the regular supporters of the organization , which has a membership of between 2,000 and 3,000 persons who pay $1 a year dues for the printing of the quarterly bulletin containing a " white list " of plays . The officers of the organization besides Cardinal Hayes and Mgr . Lavelle are : The Rev. Robert E. Woods and the Rev. Francis A. Fadden of the cathedral staff and Alfred Young , a Catholic layman . The Bulletin contains an editorial headed " Classic and Modern Animalism Exploited . " It was admitted at the cathedral rectory last evening that the first paragraph referred to " Lysistrata , " the adaptation of Aristophanes 's comedy by Gilbert Seldes , now being played , and that the second paragraph referred to the " Vanities . " Text of the Editorial . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as audacious an assault upon public decency as has ever been perpetrated on our stage , can not it seems be reached by the police . " Another production , speciously claiming to be artistic , but which , in the words of a prominent critic , is meant to be " nude and leering and close to the mood of the gutter , " has actually come within the clutches of the law . " Playgoers . who hold by Christian ( and at least one-time ) American traditions of decency will regret that in the first of these cases the law : mild not function , but will gratefully realize that , in the other , there was found sufficient warrant to hold Lip the offenders to public opprosrium . " It is to be borne in mind that in these two instances there is only thown the logical outcome of teniencles in the theatre which have frown stronger year by year . " If now more flagrant and bolder attempts are made to test how far : ommercialized obscenity and de ; eneracy on the stage will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instincts , without whose patsmage no production can succeed , Oil be aroused to a sense of their esponsibility and refuse to play into he hands of the panderers . " Lavelle Deplores Shows . The message from Mgr . Lavelle fol-3WS " This month usually brings to our ity a large number of visitors . They re very welcome , and we hope they rill derive pleasure and profit from heir coming . Apart from a few overot days , on which we must always alculate in Summer , it is likely that Tew York is one of the finest vacaion resorts in the world . With its iany local attractions , wonderful caches , and other suburbs , it offers opportunities for health , rest and recreation that can scarcely be surpassed.But right-minded people can not avoid deploring the low character of many theatrical shows which are , presented at this time , apparently for the purpose of inviting patronage from our visitors . " These performances are not a credit to our city 's fair fame . And they manifest a very inferior opinion of the taste and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here for their holidays . The law does what it can to preserve decency and decorum . But the law and its officials must always wrestle with the difficult question of liberty . Liberty reminds one in some respects of free will . The latter is a great gift and the only source of merit . But it is very capable of abuse , and this makes it a cause of misery to many . Similarly , it is not without cause that we have to say so often : ' 0 Liberty , what crimes are committed in thy name ! ' " It is probable that this evil will never be remedied except by the gradual crystallization of a sound , widespread public opinion , determined first not to patronize and then to prevent , this outrage of public decency and the dishonor of America 's finest , noblest and most hospitable city , as well as the discourtesy to our guests involved in lascivious performances . " The Catholic Theatre Movement , whose August bulletin is just appearing , has been laboring for years to promote this fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been considerable . But very much remains to be done . It calls upon all our Catholic people , and upon all others who think with us , to set their faces and their influences against stage obscenity . ' Truth crushed to earth will rise again . ' Though right be worsted , error can not eventually triumph . Most people in New York , residents and visitors , are decent . When they make their honest convictions known , nothing can withstand them . May it be soon ! " It was explained at the cathedral rectory , whence the bulletin is , issued , that the only reason copies of its attack on the New York stage were not distributed yesterday at the doors of all Catholio churches was because . the organization had not sufficient funds for the printing . The bulletin contains only two plays on its " white list , " as of July 15 . These are " The First Mrs. Fraser " and " The Green Pastures . " The policy from the beginning has been not to give any " black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rather , it prints adverse criticisms from the secular press on plays not on the " white list . " In accordance with an established rule , representatives of the Catholic Theatre Movement who report upon plays can not accept tickets or other favors from managers . The bulletin contains a statement declaring : " In the eighteen years of its existence the movement has gained country-wide recognition as a Catholio activity for which there has been , and is , and will be , an urgent need . " The movement does not deserve any imputation of narrow-mindednes . It , however , does all It can to persuade our people confronted by problems growing out of the character of plays on the stage and on the screen , even at some sacrifice of pleasure , not to sacrifice what is infinitely more important  --  their own Catholic inborn sense of what is decent and wholesome . " How perplexing are these probIems  --  presented by plays and movies ? is evident from communications from clergy and laity from all parts of the country . " The Catholic Theatre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entangling alliances . ' Its sole obligation is to the individual playgoer who seeks to be informed as to the moral value of the plays he is called upon to countenance and to patronize . " The Catholic Theatre Movement was organized by the late Cardinal Farley in 1912 . ' In addition to propaganda through the printed page , the leaders of the movement conduct fortnightly talks on " Current Plays " over WLWL , the Paulist Fathers ' station . Father Woods will speak Friday on " Grateful Memories of the Drama " ; Mr : Young , Aug. 29 , on " Calderon , the Great Spanish Dramatist " ; Mgr . Lavelle , Sept. 12 , on " A Message from the Director , " and Father Fadden , Sept. 26 , on " A Hopeful Outlook . "                     