@@699186

txt Solution of the liquor question will come not from the political arena , but from the college and.university classroom . Outstanding leaders of opposing wet and dry forces already realize that the final determination will rest with the rising generation pr its Successors , alit that the processes of education will shape the public opinion of tomorrow . Leaders in higher education are beginning to give ear to the , cries for attention coming ' from this problem . Denominational and privately endowed colleges , ? supported , for the most part by groups and individuals ' I who refuse to falter in the struggle for national prohibition ? are taking the leadership in giving attention to the study of the liquor question in institutions of higher learning . The history of efforts made by the federal bureau of prohibition to carry on a program of education for prohibition enforcement has made , it evident that political pressure , will not permit the expenditure of mOney , raised by public , taxation for such purposes . Organized Research Council This bureau organized a research council in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Eighteenth Amendment . It also sought to carry on other educational efforts to mold public opinion which would assist in the enforcement of federal p'rohibition laws , through the use of a special congressional appropriation of $50,000 . Had the bureau of prohibition been permitted to carry out its plan , the entire course of the struggle over ' ' the Eighteenth Amendment might well have been changed and the present status of public opinion on the question vastly altered . However , a point of order raised on the floor of the House of Representatives by a wet leader blocked the , educational program . This provoked only minor discussion at the moment , but viewed from the perspective of the present , appears as a turning point ' in the decade of struggle to direct le nation 's opinion for and against he amendment . With their characteristic understanding of the proper handling of ropaganda. the wet forces had ' locked a nation-wide publicity camniign favorable to prohibition despite the fact that the Congress in iuestion had recorded Itself overwhelmingly dry . And so the scene changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leaders in two great groups of church colleges are studying the problem of instruction in the field of temperance and prohibition . Back of their interest is the conviction that the liquor question will be for many years an issue upon which useful citizens must be informed , and that the problem involves moral ns well as economic and social ' considerations . Dr. Edmund D. Soper , of Ohio Wesleyan University . president of the iMethodist College Association , believes that the Christian college has a duty to its clientele to see that its students are informed concerning prohibition . " Despite its present eclipse In public opinion , prohibition is more important than its opponents admit , ' declares Dr. Soper . " Its importance is less than that of economic and social reconstruction but is greater than either of the major political parties realize . " The Christian colleges must show their students the nature of this prohibition problem and bring them to a realization of the fact that it is not merely economic and social but moral . Thinks Drys Erred " Prohibitionists have made a mistake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal aspects of the question and overlooking its educational phases . The gains which the wets have made in controlling public opinion since the enactment of the amendment are due to the lack of proper educational effort by the friends of national prohibition . " Dr. S. E. Stockwell o ! the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church is studying the problem and is engaged at present in examining the various methods for the academic study of prohibition and temperance which have been attempted . He hopes at the conclusion of his investigation to suggest plans for including such studies in the curricula of Presbyterian colleges throughout the United States . The liquor control problem already is receiving much incidental attention in courses primarily devoted to other purposes in the tax-supported universities as well as in the privately endowed schools . Historians , political scientists , sociologists , economists , and physiologists can not avoid it for the ramifications of the question extend into the fields of each . Schools and departments of journalism offering courses in current events and their interpretation are contributing also to the college student @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three more specific efforts to bring the study of prohibition definitely into the college field have been made , however . Its first formal introduction Into the curriculum came at Yale University under the direction of Prof. Milton Conover of the department of political science . In this ease , several weeks of the course in ' governtnental problems were devoted to the study of prohibition . A second effort is the outcome of the organization by the Bureau of Prohibition of a research council of academic specialists to which refer - once already has been made . When federal aid for the project was cut off , the council decided to continue its work , using its own funds and such other money ifs one of the educational foundations could provide . The original council has been reorganized as the Advisory Council Upon the Operation and Effects of the Eighteenth Amendment and is in no way connected with the Government . Dr. Emory R. Johnson of the Wharton School of Commerce and Finance is chairman of the council 's executive committee . Its other members are Dr. Samuel McCune Lindsay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale University . The council seeks to promote study of prohibition by graduate students engaged in research and has furnished selected graduate schools with a bibliography and suggested subjects for study . Wesleyan Course Lead . All The first real college course devoted to prohibition and the most exhaustive academic study of the                     