@@702737

txt Developments within Tammany Hall this week were regarded last night as likely to govern the course of the coming Mayoralty campaign . The attitude taken by a majority of the district leaders will decide whether United States Senator Royal S. Copeland will stay in the Mayoralty race , it was believed . Mr. Copeland is the choice of Tammany Leader James J. Dooling . In. informed quarters it was declared that Senator Copeland would enter both the Democratic and Republican primaries , or neither . Republican leaders who look with favor on the Senator as a possible Republican nominee would regard his chance as hopeless if he failed to stay in the race on the Democratic side , it was said . Influential Republicans now are considering the Senator and Mayor La Guardia as the only two men in the field from which the Republican organizations might pick their candidate for Mayor . No further developments in the Tammany revolt against the primary fight now scheduled between Grover A. Whalen and Senator Copeland were reported . However , between now and late Thursday night , when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reach a climax . To Announce Other Candidates Meanwhile , the four other county leaders , Edward J. Flynn of the Bronx , Frank V. Kelly of ? Kings , James C. Sheridan of Queens and William T. Fetherston of Richmond , are to meet again this morning in Mr. Flynn 's suite at the Hotel Commodore , and announce their candidates for Controller and President of the City Council to run in the primaries with Mr. Whalen . It was regarded as virtually certain last night that the selections would be Frank J. Taylor of Brooklyn for Controller and Max Jay Schneider of the Bronx for President of the Council . Mr. Taylor is the incumbent , and he will be opposed in the primaries by former Deputy Controller Frank J. Prial . Mr. Schneider is president of the National Safety Bank and Trust Company and of the Textile Refinishers Association , of which Mr. Prial is the impartial chairman , or arbitrator . Mr. Schneider is also president of the Hebrew Institute and has been active in Jewish philanthropic work . The week is expected also to bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will stay in the race for the Mayoralty nomination . President Levy to date has denied persistent reports that he would withdraw . New Booms Get Under Way Meanwhile , dissatisfaction on the part of separate groups within the Democratic party with the existing situation resulted in two separate booms for compromise candidates being started . One boom was for former Mayor James J. Walker , and the other for former Mayor John P. O'Brien . The Walker boom was started by Sidney S. Levine , former License Commissioner in the O'Brien administration , who , in a telegram to Mr. Walker at Northport , L. I. , said : " You have probably observed in the public press that our once glorious city Democracy is now hopelessly torn to shreds , headed for disastrous defeat for want of a leader behind whom all can unite . There is but one man who is popular among all factions of the party ; who has the confidence of all ; who can be trusted by all Democrats ; whom the public adores , and that man is none other than Jimmy Walker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that if you expressed a willingness to enter the primaries , the present designees would with- draw in your favor . You are the only man who can save the situation . " Hylan Aide Backs O'Brien The boom for Mr. O'Brien was started by Robert Charles Moore of Forest Hills , who served as campaign manager for John F. Hylan when the latter attempted to run for Governor in 1934 , but failed to get a place on the ballot . Mr. Moore addressed his communication to the five county leaders and in it deplored the lack of party harmony . " The Democratic party in the coming campaign must stand on the record of its last administration of the Mayor 's office , " Mr. Moore wrote . " The party has every reason to be proud of John P. O'Brien 's administration , viewed after four years and freed from the bitterness of factional fights . John P. O'Brien stands forth as the logical candidate upon whom you should unite . He , better than any other man , can weld together the warring elements within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends of the Mayor were attempting to induce Alderman Thomas J. Curran to withdraw from the fight for the Republican Mayoralty nomination . Mr. Curran has been put forward by the Republican Committee Against La Guardia , but he has not announced his candidacy himself .                     