@@704144

txt A wave of immigration is piling up behind the dams of the United States Immigration Act as hunH dreds of thousands of persons flee I ' from racial persecution in Central i Europe and from the shadow of war . Immigration quotas from some countries are filled for hopeless numbers of years . From Hungary , for instance , an applicant for an American immigration visa , although accepted as such , may have to wait a quarter of a century , or more , before entering the United States . Quotas , which in recent years were far from being filled . now are over-applied tens of times . 1 Countries whose backlog of , applicants under immigration quotas are piled especially high are all in Central Europe and are all affected by some form or threat of anti-Semitism . They are Germany , Czechoslovakia ? the old Czechoslovakia which has been absofbed by Germany but whose quota has pot yet been , mergerf with that of Germany  --  Hungary , Poland , and Rumania . German Quota Med Although the German quota is 27,370 a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ainerican consulates at the end of the fiscal year , June 30 . On the face of it , this would mean the German quota already is filled for , 11 years to come . But about half the applicants , or more , are rejected on physical , mental , or other grounds . Even so , the quota is filled for over five years to come . In Poland , applicants now number 114,000 , compared to a quota of 6,324 . However , the percentage of rejected applications from Poland is higher than from Germany The most pitiful situation , perhaps , exists in Hungary , where 30,000 have applied under an annual quota of only 869 . It is rendered all the more difficult because Hungarians have a smaller percentage of rejections than almost any other country . At the present rate , it will take from 25 to 30 years to exhaust the eligible applications now on the rolls . Prior to and following Reichsfuhrer Hitler 's occupation of Czechoslovakia , there was a rush of visa applicants to the American consulates so that , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lists , . with a quota of only 2,874 . Perhaps 15 years may be necessary to exhaust the present backlog . Rumania has the smallest quota among the nations with large Jewish populations , and yet its backlog of applications is , in proportion . among the highest . Against a quota of only 377 there are already 19. - 000 applications . One curious development is that the rush also - . A. as started flora Russia . The quota for that country is 2,700 but applications nom number 11,000 . A large number of thee , hov. ever , are from Russ.ans who live outside Russia . Indicat , ions that may be drawn from the huge backlog ; are : Immigration from Central Europe , whim was well under the quota for those ? - ountries for some years , will now completely fill those quotas ; Proportionately , this immigration will of erbalance immigration from other parts of Europe and thus run counter to the intentions of writers of the Immigration Act of 1924. who desired that the majority of immigrants should come from Great Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us the majority of all our immigrants : This overbalance from Central Erope probably will continue for many years because of the backlogs of those countries ant : because of the fact that quotas from Great Britain and Ireland , Belgium , France , Holland , Switzerland , and ; Scandinavia are far from being filled .                     