@@698576

txt The Stimson note to Senator Borah has reverberated through Orient and Occident , and brought important repercussions from all parts , In Washington , legislators of all parties have shown a unanimity , rare in the halls of Congress , in supporting Mr. Stimson 's strong proclamation of America 's policy regarding China . It is also believed that the statement will make authorization of the Hale-Vinson Naval Construction bill certain . In the Far East , where the Chinese have launched a surprise attack and won back territory that the Japanese had taken after expensive bombardment , the Stimson letter haS been received with gratification by the Chinese . At Shanghai the press indicates that the foreigners largely regard the Japanese as the sole aggressors and are desirous of the earliest possible cessation of hostilities . Stimson Letter Causes Widespread Interest In Far Eastern Circles Dy Coble to The Christian Science Monitor SHANGHAI , Feb. ** the Chinese forces were regaining lost ground from the Japanese troops in a surprise counter-attack around Mattawan , the Stimson letter to Sonator Borah attracted widespread attention at Shanghai , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared that tile letter Indicated the possibility of American intervention to prevent continuance of Japan 's violation to the treaties , which Mr. Stimson admitted . The Japanese Minister , Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu , while declining to comment directly before seeing a complete text of the letter , told the representative of The Christian Science Monitor that such action as the League 's recent note to Japan was definitely harmful , because it encouraged the Chinese to hope that the powers would intervene , thereby making more difficult Japan 's efforts to settle the Shanghai incident quickly . " Japan , " he said , " must , compel evacuation of the Shanghai area , voluntarily or otherwise . If outside encouragement had not been given , the Chinese might have withdrawn voluntarily previously . Apparently the world is unable to understand that the Japanese could not live in Shanghai before any military action was taken , and even less would they be able to remain if the action were incompleted . Anything encouraging Chinese resistance merely prolongs the disagreeable task . " Mr. Sun Fo , recently chairman of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter comes belatedly , it Is nevertheless very welcome since it indicates that Japan can not indefinitely continue its aggression , and stirring a hope that the United States will influence the powers to check the unprovoked warfare which Japan Is waging In defiance of the solemn treaties It signed . " The American-owned Shanghai Evening Post , In a front page editorial , expressed the opinion of one section of Shnnghni opinion ' " The Japanese Govetnment through Mr. Kalstiji Debuchl notified the American Government that/ it is sending more troops to Shanghai , because ' Shanghai 's safety demands that the Chinese armies menacing that city be driven beyond cannon range . ' This unceasing claim that the Japanese are fighting on behalf of the citizens of this city must be challenged as often as made . " We deny that they ate fighting our battle . We deny that our city is menaced by anyone except the moss-fire of battle between the Chinese and Japanese , in which Shanghai has no part except that of innocent bystander . This battle is being fought on our doorstep only because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely held , it portion of the Shanghai foreigners , till support the Japanese contention that they must complete the military operations , once begun , or the Chinese armies will become a gt cater danger . However , Chinese sit ai nt has gained many support-cis since the outbreak of hostilities and growing business losses have itienated many who mcviously apptoved of the Japanese action , Prospects of Lengthy Struggle at Shanghai Begin to Disturb Tokyo b Coble to The Christian Science Monitor TOKYO , Feb. 2.1 ? Unfavorable tractions at Geneva , Washington and London to the Government 's , statement in reply to the League Council 's appeal are not surprising , according to the Foreign Office , Well feels that anything Japan may say will call forth criticism , l'ecause " the prevailing ground a hi OA is not very fertile for arguments to take root . " Despite its unyielding pride , Japan iq no doubt hopeful that the : 111- , ounce:tient that it is unable to sece  --  unze China as an . " organized peo- ple " may give a clue to enable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China situation which may help Japan to escape the Shanghai mess The Foreign Office admits that the announcement implies an ination to the powers to intervene in China , which project was entertained by British circles previously , though Japan is unable at present to suggest a concrete method for the formation of a neutral zone mound Shanghai . It is realized , leveler , that any foreign intenennon , however formulated , would be unable to prevent the present tight-me , which apparently must continue until Japan drives the Chinese be and the range of Shanghai . But the aftermath presents equally comp:ex problems , which perhaps require foreign assistance . Though it may be easy to gain a foothold , it Mil be more difficult to ithch aw , Parties in Congress Unite in Approval Of Stimson Note to Borah Special from Monitor Bureau WASHINGTON , Feb. ** the first time In many weeks separate and usually discordant groups in Congress stand in practical unanimity in support of the Angel lean Far Eastern policy as outlined by Mr. Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State , In his letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee . The accord runs through the Democratic ranks , and even brings approval from Senator Hiram W. Johnson ( R. ) of California , an Insurgent who has been a bitter opponent of the Administration ill the past . One immediate effect of the Slimson statement was to stimulate Interest in the Hale-Vinson Naval Construction bill , and observers who did not believe the proposal would pass , a few weeks ago , now consider it has a strong prospect of approval by Congress . The Hale bill authorizes the United States to build naval vessels up to the maximum permitted by the Washington and London naval treaties , but does not appropriate money for such construction . More frequently than not in the past , Congress has not appropriated money for warships , even when such construction has been authorized . Advocates of the bill argue that its passage would assist the State Department at the present Juncture , and even give the American delegation at the Geneva alinement limitation conference a baS15 for bargaining with other countries . Boycott Proposals The Stimson letter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese goods . An ' unofficial boycott " got under way when Moultrie of the Washington Chapter of Kappa Alpha Theta , national college society , urged women of America to boycott Japanese silk , and sent out appeals to all parts of the country . The United States takes more than a third of all Japanese exports , It was said , and 90 Der cent of these exports are sit ) ; The boycott Is accordingly directed against this commodity . This independent campaign for a boycott by women is going on quite outside of the State Department 's Ariscliction and apart also from the appeal by Mr. Newton D. Baker , former Secretary of War , Dr. A , Lawrence Lowell , president of Harvard , and others , that the United States officially align itself with any economic pressure imposed by the League of Nations against Japan . Representative Edith Nourso Rogers ( ft. ) of Massachusetts gave her support to the proposal for an immediate spontaneous boycott of Japanese silk today . She called on women to refuse to buy Japanese silks in order to deter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Committee on Naval Affairs stresses the at aliment advanced by Mr. Stimson in his Borah letter , that the United States agreed to scrap battleships at the Washington conference in return for the Nine Power and Four Power Treaties , and that if these treaties arc to be abrogated , as Indicated by Japan , then the whole situation must be reviewed . Japan 's Big Navy The Senate committee says that the United States scrapped 20 capital ships , built or building , at the Washington conference . It declares that by 1936 present plans will put Japan 's navy at the Nil strength permitted by the London Treaty ; that at present , the United States , Instead of keeping its treaty ratio of five to three and one-quarter with Japan , is on practical equality ; and that by 1936 , unless more Amer .. icon ships are built , a tonnage parity will exist . Japan , it is declared , will have 150 modern ships to 138 of the United States . The committee adds that passage of the bill authorizing , but not appropriating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a better bargaining position In negotiations seeking further disarmament , " and that " our influence to bring about fin ther disarmament -- rather than being lessened by lack of a building program  --  will be enhanced . "                     