@@702021

txt The National Socialist Government in the Free City of Danzig staged this afternoon what amounts to " a cold Putsch " that will have far-reaching consequences . It virtually abolishes the democratic Constitution guaranteed by the League of Nations , effectively paralyzes the still extant opposition parties , ostracizes the League and its High Commissioner and lays the basis for the introduction of the " leadership principle " and the final coordination of Danzig with the German Reich . This was done by the simple method of passing a series of ordinances " for the maintenance of public security and order , " measures which , it is officialy explained , had become necessary because of " unscrupulous activity on the part of opposition parties . " Opposition Dissolved The principal measure provides as follows : " All associations , including political parties , must be dissolved whenever any of their members , with the governing board 's knowledge , propagates reports likely to endanger the State 's interests . " This applies not merely to the publication of such reports , but also if they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the expressed view of the National Socialist Government in Danzig , all attacks on the National Socialist party , either in Danzig or in the Reich , are actions endangering good relations between Danzig and Germany and therewith the State 's interests . Under this principle , virtually all opposition papers already have been suppressed and many members of the opposition have seen arrested . This same motivation will hereafter suffice to dissolve Opposition parties entirely . All complaints from Opposition parties to the League or to its High Commissioner have been denounced as " treason . " Under the last section of the new ordinance any prohibited communication of news endangering the State 's interests through " the political author-ties " or any further complaints to the League by Opposition parties will also lead to their final suppression . This carries out the statement of Dr. Arthur Karl Greiser , the Senate President , made after his recent visit to Geneva , that henceforth the League 's High Commissioner , Sean Lester of the Irish Free State , would be completely ignored by the Danzig authorities . It also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Courts Lose Review Power For the effective carrying out of these measures the following is pro-vided : " All police ordinances of a political nature are exempted from judicial review . " This applies to_the police action affecting the right of assembly , the right of association , freedom of the press , the right to carry arms and also to " protective custody . " The possible duration of the lastmentioned device is prolonged from three weeks to three months . No Deputy in the Danzig Volkstag ( Parliament ) may hereafter be the responsible editor of any newspaper on pain of suppression of that newspaper . Thus Deputies may not edit newspapers under protection of their Parliamentary immunity . Simultaneously as the beginning of a National Socialist campaign to " liberate Danzig from the Jews , " a decree has been issued forbidding Jewish ritual slaughter . In 1935 Anthony Eden of Great Britain as the League 's spokesman , declared : " The League of Nations Council will not tolerate that the Danzig Senate annul the implications of the League of Nations ' guarantee of the Danzig Constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it shall be accused of treason . " Today 's Danzig Senate decrees make a mockery of that assertion while reducing the Danzig Constitution to a scrap of paper and the suppression of all opposition to a mere formality . Opposition has been outlawed . The decrees give actuality to repeated declarations by the Vorposten , the official National Socialist organ in Danzig , that Danzig repudiates any intervention by the League in its domestic affairs and that " Danzig is German , and therein rules the Fuehrer 's will . " Austria 's Fate Forecast Coming at a time when Germany is supposedly " normalizing " her relations with Austria on the basis of non-interference in Austrian domestic affairs , this new movement seems to show that Danzig is being utilized to keep flying the banner of German racial unification , thus covering up an official if merely technical lowering of that banner in respect to Austria . But Danzig supplies a foretaste of what may be in store for Austria as well . As for Danzig itself , what has happened is plain . The League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in the process of abandoning that guardianship and that freedom just as the League abandoned its weak member , Ethiopia , to its more powerful member , Italy . The reason in each case is the same . The League escapes responsibility and continues to maintain a nominally united front for that greater emergency which sooner or later it expects to face . Ethiopia was sacrificed under League forms by the League 's going through the motions of imposing upon Italian aggression strictly limited sanctions to which Premier Benito Mussolini did not greatly object , although he made a great fuss about them . They enabled him to convince his people that half the world was united against Italy , wherefore they must steel themselves against hardship in order to endure . Then sanctions failed and aggression succeeded , and the League dropped sanctions altogether in order that the aggressor might remain in its fold . In Danzig when the Nazi majority openly defied the League and its High Commissioner by opposing democratic minorities , the League ignored the challenge and finally escaped responsibility by inviting the Poles to adjust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a dictatorship . The Polish Government , no less than the German , regards as its enemies the very democratic minorities thus abandoned to its charge . These minorities fought the Poles to prevent Danzig from becoming Polonized , and the Polish Government has no love for them . The only possible question in the recent negotiations entered into between the Poles and the Danzig Nazis , therefore , was what the Poles would get from the Nazis in return for permitting them to attain an objective with which both were in sympathy . What the Poles have got is at present in doubt , but that the Danzig Nazis have been permitted to continue their course is evident front the new laws now adopted by the Nazi Senate .                     