@@699602

txt With ( vidence of growing opposition to President Roosevelt 's farm relief meastne developing on both sides of Capitol Hill , it appeated today that the new President will shortly face conditions of dolor end obstruction-Ism in securing passage of the balance of his program . The end of the Legislative honeymoon , if it develops , will mean a slower rate of progress for the ( awn bill , now in committee stage and for unemployment relief , transportation reform and other proposals which are now being prepared at the White House . This does not mean that the President will be unable to obtain legislation he wants . There is too big a majority of Democrats in both House and Senate for that . But the almost unprecedented speed Stith which banking , economy and the beer legislation went through Congress In the ( list two weeks can scarcely be expected in the future Being held up by the crystallization of opposition also is relief foi state banks , which are omitted h om the original emergency bank bill The House , under suspension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the original Robinson bill already passed by the Senate But the wide divergence between the ' two measures forecasts conferences between the two chambrs and the probability that it will not be enacted before the end of the week , if at all , Not avowedly an Administration measure , the state bank tenet bill lacks the whole-hearted support of Administration forces in both chambet s . It is opposed by Senator Carter Glass ( D. ) of Virginia , who Is understood to feel that state banks unable to take care of themselves should be liquidated by the Federal Government in the interests of a more unified and stable national banking system . The farm bill has a good chance of passage through the House without material change . But the more liberal rules of the Senate make the amending process easier , and it may be entirely changed before it secures the approval of the upper chamber . The House Agricultural Committee continued consideration of the measure today , but no meetings were scheduled by the Senate Committee , giving rise to the impression that no further Senate action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Is directed primarily at the domestic allotment provisions which constitute the backbone of the bill . Millers , packets and other processes who would be taxed for the put pose of raising funds with which to compensate producers lot reduction in production are maintaining that it would put a but den of about $800,000,001 on consumers . inking the cost of foodstuffs at gi ? eel les by this amount . Even Senatot Edison D Smith to I of South oatouna , whose cotton option bill is included in the Adminish ation measure almost verbatim , has indicated his dissatisfaction with other portions and is expected to suppolt amendments which may change it drastically , Uncertain , Says Pittman Senator Key Pittman ( D. ) of Nevada , president pro tempore of the Senate , summed up the situation as being one of extreme uncertainty . He said the bill cat rind so many different Ideas that it Is certain to ovoke opposition , and calls for conservative action to make It effective . " As introduced , it is the foundation for arguments and amendments , " he said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I doubt whether it wilt look anything like the piesSlowing Up of Pare ent bill . It must be understood that It is not a Democratic proposition . It is pot pourri , the suggestion of everybody . Out of It will come something sane and satisfactory , I hope . " The bill , in its present form , provides an elastic method for raising farm commodity prices to the level of their pre-war parity with Industrial commodities . Both the domestic allotment , and the land-leasing plans are provided and the Secretary of AgrIcultme is given discretion to choose either method for all or any one of the basic commodities named in the bill . lie is Maher empowered to enter into agreements with processors and groups of producers of any oho commodity to control its market . That this would involve a breach of the Sherman Antitrust Act is the basis for considerable opposition . Senator William E , Borah ( Di of Idaho is dLsappointed in the failure of the measure to provide for refinancing of farm mortgages and Senator George W. Norris on of Nebraska , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bertrand H. Snell , Republican of New York , floor leader in the House , is nIso dissatisfied with the bill in its present form .                     