@@698648

txt At Shanghai the fundamental terms of peace have been agreed upon . Japanese troops are being shipped home . The armed forces of the other Powers are released from emergency duty . The League of Nations commission of inquiry is conducting its investigation on the spot . Nor is there lacking the sad testimony which regularly signalizes the suspension of military operations on Chinese soil  --  the familiar reports of starvation and disease following in the wake of the armies . It may be said that the Shanghai chapter in the extraordinary tale of the last six months in the Far East is drawing to a close so far as the probability of new developments is concerned , though there is the making of interesting chapters in explanation of past events . The official version at Tokyo , as given by Foreign Minister YosmZAWA before the Diet , holds to the story of Chinese aggression against a small force of Japanese marines landed to protect the lives of Japanese residents of Shanghai . Until corroborative evidence comes from the League of Nations commission the outside world will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than satisfactory . It is now obvious that a considerable body of opinion in Japan regards the Shanghai enterprise as by no means the simple business which official apologia would make it out to be . A widespread feeling of discontent is reflected in rather wild predictions of a militarist coup d ' ? tat and in soberer anticipations of a non-partisan emergency Government . This is a way of passing judgment on the Shanghai enterprise as probably ill-conceived and certainly as clumsily executed . The Far Eastern crisis thus shifts back to Manchuria and the home front . Japan 's tactical situation may be thereby said to have improved . Her legal and moral case stood far better before the Shanghai episode . From the first outbreak of fighting at Mukden , to be sure , it was an open secret that the military party at Tokyo was staging a demonstration against the civil power . But in Manchuria the advocates of the strong hand could plead provocation , necessity , national interest . Shang hai threw doubt on the argument It raised the question whether th Japanese Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily actuated by the desir to show the world what it could de With Shanghai retiring into th background , and the prestige o Japan 's armed strength " vindi cated , " it should be easier for thE civilian elements at Tokyo to asser themselves . Whether they will suc ceed in doing so is the question at anxious world is asking . This few is expressed in the stories of Russo Japanese tension , which have multi ? plied as tension between Japan ant China has relaxed . That the Governments at Tokyo and Moscow dc not want trouble lies on the face of things . Communist Russia can take no chances on a foreign war foi years to come . Japan has enougt to do in assimilating Manchurian gains . This plainly is the view of the political leaders . It should also be the view of the military party at Tokyo , unless it has cast all prudent considerations to the winds .                     