@@697102

txt Operators of air transport systems are in a readJustment period of airplane passenger rates . Having reduced their fares at the beginning of the year to where they compare favorably with or are below railroad fares , they find themselves in a position where , in spite of greatly stepped-up schedules , extra sections on some of the routes , and the employment of planes with almost double the carrying capacity of those used last year , they are unable to accommodate the constantly increasing number of passengers desiring to travel by air . Due to this great demand , the majority of operators feel that they can afford to raise their rates a trifle above the low schedules established recently , without impairing traffic . The present low rate , which in certain instances is 5 cents a mile , does not permit operation at a profit despite the fact that traffic over the majority of the lines increased from 300% to 500 ' in the first month of the low charges , with a substantial rise in operating income . Five-Cent Rate is Profitless That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cost of operating the multi-motored equipment in use is somewhere between 90 cents and $1.15 a mile . Assuming that the average passenger capacity of these , planes is 14 under the present rate scale of five ' cents per passenger mile , the plane can gross at capacity only 70 cents a mile . causing the operator to lose between 20 cents and 45 cents a mile . If the passenger rate could be raised to 61= cents a mile without reducing the traffic volume . the companies could gross on planes around 90 cents a mile . Even at that rate , operators would be unable to show profit under present conditions . Hence , the solution to the problem lies in lowering operating costs , or.ua indirect subsidy by the government . Companies recently have been taking decisive steps toward applying the first remedy . They have succeeded in diminishing the ratio of accidents to miles and passengers flown by prohibiting pilots to fly under conditions that are not absolutely safe . Increasing the use of the radio , by which re - pilot is ; able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the routes , enabling him to determine the exact location of a storm area , will further tend to reduce the number of accidents . Operating Costs Being Lowered Companies are learning the best methods of obtaining efficient ground service , and several have reduced personnel and made working agreements with other companies , employ the same group of mechanics and cut down overhead without loss of efficiency . Experience has taught them that the general policy of writing off equipment has been wrong . Heretofore , companies have written off the large passenger planes , costing in the neighborhood of $50,000 , in two years or under . That procedure was a large factor in causing companies to show operating deficits However , actual experience has shown that planes can be , written off every three years , conservatively . That practice undoubtedly will improve the showing of the majority of companies in 1930 as compared with 1929 . A further aid to operators in gettting full service out of their airplanes before obsolescence makes it necessary to scrap them is the increased traffic brought about by the low fares @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it necessary to dispose of planes flown less than half their mechanical lifetime , the enlarged volume of business now is counted upon to make it possible for operators to get a good measure of service out of each machine before new models come along to compel scrapping the old . At present approximately 65 , " : - of the cost of operating an airplane is represented by obsolescence , insurance and depreciation . Larger Planes Also Help Use of larger equipmenc , toward which passenger companies have been Isnding , gradually . also will aid in lowering operating costs . For instance , the new Fokker F-32 , now being used on certain lines , carries 32 passengers . which is more than three times the carrying capacity of the majority of Fokkers in operation This greater carrying capacity is made available for only one-third more operating cost . Government subsidy of passenger lines which is the practice in Europe , is possible in an indirect way through the transportation of air mail Postmaster General Brown 's recent proposal for the establishment of air mail rates on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mail permitted on regularly scheduled passenger flights , is regarded as very favorable for passenger lines . Under Mr. Brown 's proposal , companies would he paid from 30 cents to $1 a mile for providing space for from 100 pounds to 1,500 pounds of mail . Passenger Volume Increases Over 300 ; . A recent survey of the effect of low rates on air passenger volume of prominent lines revealed that no company reported increases less than 300r , and one company reported that in the first month of operation under the lowered fares , traffic over its lines had increased SOO ' , over a corresponding period under the higher rates . Reduction of rates over the routes of the Aviation Corp . has increased traffic to a marked degree , not only on its lines in the eastern part of the country , particularly between New York and Boston . but also in the Middle West and Southwest . Passenger rates on the corporation 's system , including the lines of Universal Aviation Corp. , Colonial Air Transport . Southern Air Transport and Embry-Riddle were reduced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on January 22 and the response of the traveling public was immediate and so large that several of the lines put on larger planes or ran two or three planes where only one was flown before the new fares became effective . Passenger traffic over the corporation 's entire system is estimated to have increased on an average of 400r ; - . On the lines of Colonial Air Transport . operating between Boston and New York , more than 230 persons were carried in a single ss eek . Transcontinental Air Transport-Maddux Lines , Inc . operating a toast-to-coast planetrain line in conjunction with the Pennsylvania Railroad , provides an outstanding example of the effect of reduced rates . Operating since last July , company gradually has reduced its fares until it now maintains through coast-to-coast passenger service for $159 52 a person , which is lower than de luxe train fare . From December 15 to January 13. company carried 3H passengers over its routes . On January 14 , the new fares were inaugurated and between that Limy and February P , 1,297 passengers were transported . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the route to use three sections to accommodate demand . A big increase in traffic was particularly noticeable over the western section of the coast-to-coast route . Between Wvanoke . Okla . ant ' Columbus , 0 , 76 passengers , or an average of 91. , a day , were carried in the first two weeks of January under the high rates . In the second two weeks , atter the low fares were introduced . 475 persons were transported over this same route , or an average of 31 , , z a day . Daily revenue in the latt. period showed an increase of more than 20 , , c over the first two weeks . Company has acquired four 1S-passenger Curtiss-Condors to accommodate increased traffic . Even with the use of these larger planes , as compared with the 11 and 14-passenger Fords which It generally has used since it began operation , and with the employment of extra sections , the company has been forced to turn away passengers almost daily Lines Announce Passenger Traffic Gains Another outstanding example of increased traffic under reduced fares is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating in the southwest part of the country . In the first two weeks of operation under the low rates , passenger volume increased 300 , ? - and company purchased six additional Ford planes to accommodate demand . About 100 passengers were turned away in one day . Western Air Express reduced its rates on December 35 . Although no figures have been announced as to operations in 3930 , it is reported generally that reduced fares have increased traffic materially , especially on the West Coast route .                     