@@701497

txt Heavy copper buying in both foreign and idomestic markets featured Friday 's metal markets . There is gossip about a rise of at least 1/2-cent in domestic copper price by next week . As in the past there are those who desire to see the price advance no matter what the reason , and others who feel that no advance should be made unless it is determined that demand will absorb an increased price . In view of the huge purchases of copper in July , August and September it would seem that the present buying is based more on expectation of a price rise rather than on actual consumptive demand , although fabricators continue to report good demand from their customers . Judging from past performances , if the foreign price continues to march closer to the domestic , and if domestic consumers rush to anticipate the expected price advance , and should September 's statistics reveal a further decrease in stocks with no large increase in production being manifested , it would seem probable that sellers in self-defense will advance the domestic price of copper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that much foreign buying has been inspired by existing war conaitions , nevertheless industrial demand for copper both in England and on the Continent is steadily increasing . Furthermore , it is expected that September statistics will reveal a further improvement in the statistical position of the copper industry , and while it is not - believed that stocks have declined as sharply as in August , the decrease will be large enough to show a firm maintenance of demand over production . On the large foreign buying , export copper prices climbed to a new high of 8.85 cents a. pound c. 1 . f . European base ports , an advance Of .02% from Thursday 's high , and the hightst since July 21 , 1933 , when the price stood at the same level . The export price is now within 15 points of the domestic . Practically all local sellers reported sales at the high and those who did not , were quoting a range of from 8.80 to 8.85 cents . Indeed . one large seller declared that bids of 8.80 cents were being declined . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1.85 cents a pound since January 1 of this year . Domestic Sales HeavyFired primarily by the strength and activity of the foreign copper market , domestic copper buying Friday was in large volume with the market very firm at 9 cents a pound . It was generally believed that practically alt of the domestic buying of the past two days has been based on the hope that the approach of the foreign price to the domestic would boost the domestic price . - It was learned on good authority that several custom smelters were forced to withdraw from the market due to the fact that demand was larger than they cared to satisfy and also because a shortage in certain shapes threatened . Domestic copper sales on Thursday as reported by the industry totaled. 5,850,000 pounds against 4,606,000 pounds on Wedngaday brought sales for the first three days of ffhhlfss month to , approximately 11,698,000 pounds . Thursday 's sales more than equaled the combined transactions of Wednesday and Tuesday . Lead Market Active For the past several days , domestic lead markets have been exceptionally active , despite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points in price . Dealers reported that Friday 's sales were heavy and one large seller , for the third straight day , declared that his day 's intake had been covered and that a waiting list for today and Monday had formed . Prices , however , are firm and unchanged at 4.50 cents a pound , New York , and 4.35 cents , St. Louis . Recently released statistics reveal that lead stocks in United States on September 1 totaled 316,041 tons , against 320,951 tons on August 1 and 313,172 tons on September 1 , 1934 . This improvement in the statistical position of the industry together with the fact that shipments are running well ahead of last year has evidently caused consumers to , reenter the market . Since January 1 last the domestic price of lead has advanced 80 points , and dealers poir " . : out that on the London Metal Exchange lead prices Friday spurted to a new high for the past four or more years and that since January 1 have scored an advance of practically 90% . Cable Demand Light Lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers , and pipe and sheet makers heading the list . Cable and wire consumers are still taking very little , but dealers feel that sooner or later this source of demand must open up , resulting in large increase in lead consumption . Despite the activity , interests feel that the situation is not ripe for an immediate price advance , but should demand hold at present levels and possibly increase , then a rise in price would naturally follow . Domestic zinc markets were also more active Friday with the galvanizers leading the demand . Since the first of the year the price of zinc has advanced 1.02 cents a pound and the statistical position of the industry has steadily improved . However , there are no indications of an immediate price advance and prime western is firm and unchanged at 4.75 cents a pound East St. Louis .                     