@@698677

txt House vote Monday on the Hare bill for Philippine independence appeared assured today , when Speaker Garner said that he would recognize Representative Hare to move for a suspension of the ) House rules as soon as formal business was out of the way . The announcement that the longargued question might be settled in the House immediately brought a statement from Representative con of New York attacking the " parliamentary manoeuvre " suggested by Mr. Garner . " This is a high-handed procedure , to say the least , coming as it does from a man who professes himself an advocate of liberal rules , " Mr. Bacon said . He charged that the bill would be brought out when least expected , and when a number of interested memberg would be absent . Mr. Hare , who is chairman of the House Insular Affairs Committee , was loath to believe that his plan to ask for unanimous consent under the regular rules would be opposed . " That would give us plenty of time for debate and for amendments , " he said , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize myself or some one else to move that the rules be suspended . In that event debate will be limited to forty minutes , and I believe there will be sufficient strength to pass the bill . " Committee Promised Action . " Those who attempt to prevent passage will be taking the responsibility on their own shoulders , " he added . " If they block us Monday we already have the prom* of the Rules Committee that a special rule will be given , so that a vote is certain to be had within the week . " In his comment on the plan Mr. Bacon said : " The country will receive with astonishment and consternation the unexpected and sudden statement of Speaker Garner that he will recognize a move to jam the Philippine independence bill through the House on next Monday by the parliamentary manoeuvre of suspension of the rules  --  a procedure which would only permit of forty minutes of debate and which denies any amendment . " This is a high-handed procedure , to say the least , coming as it does from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mr. Garner 's statement that the Insular Affairs Committee of the House is unanimous on this proposal is not correct , according to my in- formation . Not only that ; it is my firm belief that the majority of the House have had absolutely no opportunity to study the measure and give it the consideration it deserves . It must be remembered that the report of the committee was made when every member of the House was being absorbed in the discussion of the tax bill . Time Is Declared Inadequate . " Mr. Garner is willing that the welfare of 12,000,000 people under the protection of the United States , and the entire interests of our country In the . Pacific Far East , should be decided with absolutely no real consideration being given to the proposal by the representatives of 125 , - 000,000 Americans . " This arbitrary proposal by Speaker Garner merits the strongest condemnation . And it has been suggested at a time when the membership of the House generally did not expect any immediate consideration of the measure and when members will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are 1 attending the funeral of the late Rep ' resentative Vestal of Indiana . " It will be interesting to note the reactions of twelve millions of Filipinos on the proposition that the subject of their emergence to independence and their future welfare is only important enough to warrant forty minutes of indifferent speech-making by the American Congress . " Provisions of the Measure . The salient provisions of the bill are : 1 . The Filipino people are authorized to adopt a constitution and institute the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippine Islands , which will exist pending complete independence . Under such government , they will enjoy complete autonomy as to domestic affairs , subject only to certain reservations to safeguard both the sovereignty and the responsibilities of the United States . 2 . Pending final relinquishment of American sovereignty , the free importation of certain Philippine products into the United States shall not exceed specified limits based upon the status quo as represented by estimated ' Importations from existing investments . 3 . Pending independence , Philippine Immigration to the United States is limited to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fourth of July immediately following the expiration of a period of eight years from the date of the inauguration of the Government of the Philippine Commonwealth , complete independence of the Philippine Islands will be formally recognized . 5 . The United . States reserves the ' right to maintain military and naval bases and other reservations in the Philippine Islands . Findings of the Committee . The basic points in the committee report submitted on March 15 are : 1 . When the United States assumed sovereignty over the Philippines it disclaimed any intention to colonize or exploit them . 2 . The United States , through Executive pronouncements and a formal declaration made by Congress in 1916 , has pledged itself to grant independence to the Philippines when a stable government is assured . 3. ' t is believed that a stable government now exists in the Philippines . 4 . Every step taken by the United States since the inception of American sovereignty over the Philippines has been to prepare the Filipino people for independence . As a result , they are now ready for independence politically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urging protection from the unrestricted free entry of competitive Philippine products . 6 . American labor is seeking protection from unrestricted immigration 3f Filipino laborers , especially at this time of widespread unemployment . 8 . The present free-trade reciprocity between the United States and the Philippines is the basis for the major industries of the islands and can not be terminated abruptly without injuring both American ' ' and Philippine economic interests .                     