@@703644

txt New domestic orders booked by machine tool builders in October were greater than in September and highest for any month since upswing began in June . survey of a representative cross-section of the industry in this area indicates . Executives of tool companies here believe that domestic business will show further gains in November and December . While foreign business varies widely from : iompany to company in this section , October foreign volume , taken as a whole , probably was about as good as September for tool buildeis It is uncertain what trend of foreign orders will be during next two months , but field representatives of companies here report that there Is still a considerable amount of business pending from England , Russia and Japan . Backlogs of tool builders in England have been cut to around eight months ' business from over a year . Rise in Index Likely If experience of companies here extends to other sections . and it probably does , index of machine tool orders for October . which will be released in about a week by National Machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure of 117.4 and 120.9 for August . peak for present rise . Index reached low of 66.7 in May and has moved up every month since with exception of September . Index of machine tool orders , especially domestic , has proved in the past to be an excellent Indicator of the trend of general business activity . While Machine Tool Builders ' Association discontinued breaking down figures into domestic and foreign two months ago , experience of companies here indicates that in September both divisions participated in decline . Checking of this decline in October . both in domestic and total orders , tends to confirm the upward trend of general business activity . Companies in Cleveland and nearby northern Ohio cities make every important type of machine tool including turret and engine lathes ; milling . Ihucking , boring . planing , shaping and grinding machines and such specialized tools as various types . of multiple spindle machines . These tools go into almost every branch of industry . Accordingly , the experience of a representative group of these companies gives a Please ' turn to page 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pant ) good cross-section of machine tool industry gen-erallyInquiries Heavy Optimism of machine tool executives here for next two months is based on large number of inquiries being received and contracts awaiting release , for many companies more than at any time this year , and a pick-up in orders for repair and small replacement parts which tends to precede increase in orders for machine tools . While opinion is that orders will continue to Increase during the balance of year , it is believed in most cases that the upward trend will be gradual rather than sharp During October . business booked has come from widely diversified sources , including the government . parts makers . petroleum industry and concerns dependent on building industry . Buying of tools by automobile manufacturers remains at a low level with large number of inquiries , but few actual orders . Opinion here is that most automobile companies are holding back on orders until public reaction to 1939 models can be judged more accurately , but that Lf buying of new cars is satisfactory a considerable amount of business will be placed . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing number of specifications are being received from Navy and Army for tools to be used in the armament program . Lathes will probably form the bulk of this business which is now being ordered . Order backlogs of most companies here still remain at or near minimum requirements for operation . One tool builder , however , reports that October orders exceeded shipments . Some firms with standardized machines of parts , are producing in anticipation of better business in next few months .                     