@@701897

txt A dramatic attack on the use of " twilight sleep " for painless childbirth was made here today by several of the country 's leading obstetricians at a symposium in the section on obstetrics and gynecology at the annual session of the American Medical Association . A storm of protest broke loose after Dr. Howard Kane and Dr. George B. Roth of George Washington University , Washington , D. C. , had reported the development by them of what they declared to be the nearest to a perfect drug for painless childbirth yet found , consisting of a mixture of paraldehyde and benzyl alcohol , with which more than 1,600 infants had been delivered in Washington . In nearly 90 per cent of the cases , they reported , the mothers had no memory of the event , while at the same time the drug had proved to be completely harmless to the infants . Their report followed two others on modern painless birth methods . The first was on twilight sleep proper , a combination of scopolamine and morphine , the use of which in 4,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dr. George L. J. Wulff and Dr. Heiman C. Wasserman of St. Louis . The second was by Dr. Charles E. Galloway , Dr. Robert M. Grier one . Dr. Robert Blessing of Evanston ( Ill . ) Hospital , who described their use of pentobarbital-sodium and scopolamine with 1,800 patients . This method , they asserted , was " simple and highly effective . " The attack was led by a woman obstetrician , Dr. Gertrude Nielsen of Oklahoma City , herself the mother of three children who had been born without the use of modern painless methods . Several leading male obstetricians came to her support , including Dr. Joseph B. Delee and Dr. J. L. Baer of Chicago , Dr. Buford G. Hamiltonof Kansas City and Dr. Nicholas J. Eastman of Baltimore . One of the physicians stated that Dr. Nielsen bad given expression to sentiments that many male obstetricians had been thinking for a long time , but had not " dared to speak up . " The discussion reached its climax when Dr. Rudolph Holmes of Chicago , who first introduced " twilight sleep " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rose and expressed regret for what he had done : " I was the man who first brought scopolamine to America , " Dr. Holmes said . " I did n't know what I was doing . I have found out since . " " We must protest vigorously , " he added , " against making the human mother an animated mass without any mentality . " Dr. Nielsen for " Normal Course " " Childbearing is so essential an experience for a woman . " said Dr. Nielsen , " that the thwarting of its normal course by the excessive use of analgesics may cause great damage to her personality . " If she is carried through delivery in an unconscious state , she is deprived of the experience of giving birth to her child and in some cases will pay for this escape from reality by nervous disorders . " Dr. Nielsen stated her belief that physicians could do much to overcome the fear that makes women demand short and painless childbirth . Much damage was done , she said , by " irresponsible allusions to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone so far as to advocate Caesarean section as the only humane method of delivery . " " In my observation , no woman ? whether intelligent or unintelligent , modern or old-fashioned  --  wants the birth of her baby a blank in her memory , " she said . " Certainly , none will wish to be relieved of pain at the risk of harm to her baby . " Dr. Nielsen gave her opinion that the much discussed high maternal mortality rate in the United States was in large part a result of the great increase of the use of analgesics in childbirth . " An analgesic that is perfectly safe for both mother and child has not been discovered , " she dedared . " The use of anything that deadens sensation distorts the natural process of childbirth and depresses the respiratory functions of the child . " The pains of childbirth had been grossly exaggerated in the minds of American women , Dr. Nielsen said , so tlest they were in deadly fear of the approaching event , a fear which in itself was largely responsible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fear were to be removed , she contended , the pain would vanish also . because much of the process of childbirth went on independently of the autonomic nervous system conveying pain impulses . The obstetrician , Dr. Nielsen stated , could allay the prospective mother 's fears by explaining to her that the pain was largely in the minds of magazine writers . In doing this , she added , he might be largely aided by trying to preserve in the mother the natural feeling of elation that is a concomitant of prospective motherhood . Drugs delayed birth , she asserted , and psychoanalysis had shown that many of the nervous disorders of adult life in women could be traced to the psychic injuries of unnatural birth . Dr. Hamilton said that " American obstetrics seems to be becoming a competitive practice to please American women in accordance with what they read in lay magazines . " He added that interference with normal childbirth was taking an unnecessary toll in the lives of American women . Use of " Suggestion " Is Urged Dr. Delee agreed with Dr. Nielsen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological , saying it was not illogical to assume that the condition of the mind affects the muscles active in the childbirth process . The best and safest aid to mothers , Dr. Delee stated , would come when the obstetrician learned how to use suggestion . On occasion , he said , he had given women small doses of an innocuous substance , assuring her in doing so that the substance would put her to sleep . In such instances , he said . the woman actually did go to sleep , pure suggestion taking the place of drugs . Dr. Baer said that the present vogue for painless childbirth started about twenty years ago after an American tour by two European doctors who were sponsored by a magazine . It was at this point that Dr. Holmes pronounced his dramatic recantation . Every woman in labor , Dr. Baer said , was potentially a major surgical case and it was bad practice to mask her symptoms unless a competent obstetrician with all needed facilities were constantly at hand . Dr. Eastman told of recent experiments in Baltimore which showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cats , dogs and monkeys began breathing before birth . When drugs such as morphine or any of the barbiturates were given to the animal mother , these breathing movements of the unborn young had been observed to stop . Asserting there was every reason to believe that the same phenomenon occurred in human mothers , he said that if that were so it was likely that a premature infant would be born dead as a result of the administration of these drugs . Brain Records for Diagnosis Further advances in the study of electrical potentials of the brain , with results which promise new diagnostic aids in the treatment of epilepsy , were reported by Professor Hallowell Davis , Dr. Pauline A. Davis , Dr. Frederic A. Gibbs , Dr. William G. Lennox , Dr. Erna L. Gibbs , all of the Harvard Medical School , and Dr. George Kreezer of Vineland , N. J. In demonstrating their findings at the scientific exhibit , the Harvard investigators presented an apparatus which records the brain waves from four different parts of the brain simultaneously . This apparatus was said to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobe of the brain . The larger fits , hotvever , known as grand mal , are believed to have their origin in the deeper parts of the brain . A feature of the exhibit was a woman subject to small epileptic fits , of which she is barely aware . The recording apparatus , attached to her scalp by means of four electrodes , with a common ground electrode in an ear lobe , registers on a moving roll of paper the occasional electrical " brain storms " characteristic of the condition . Another electrical apparatus , which may serve as a robot diagnostician for some ills , was exhibited by Dr. E. Spiegel , Dr. M. Spiegel-Adolph and Dr. M. G. Wohl of Temple University School of Medicine , Philadelphia . The apparatus measures the electrical potentials of the skin . It was said that the electric potentials of the skin above regions in the body which were not functioning normally or contain hidden diseased parts showed a much higher voltage than the skin above normally functioning parts . In this way , it was added , conditions such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Heyd as Acting President Dr. Charles Gordon Heyd , surgeon of New York City , former president of the Medical Society of the State of New York , was today elected vice president of the American Medical Association , to take office immediately . Dr. Heyd will assume office as acting president , as Dr. J. Tate Mason of Seattle , who was inaugurated president in absentia here Tuesday night , is dangerously ill . Dr. John Howell Janeway Upham , dean of Ohio State University College of Medicine , was chosen president-elect of the association to take office at next year 's convention , for which Atlantic City was selected . Dr. Heyd was born in Brantford , Ont. on Aug. 27 , 1884 , and was graduated from the University of Toronto in 1905 . He took his M. D. degree at the University of Buffalo in 1909 . He is a Professor of Surgery at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital . During the World War he commanded Mobile Hospital No. 7 in France . Dr. Upham Was born in Trenton , N. J. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the University of Pennsylvania in 1894 : He also studied in Prague , Leipzig and Berlin . He is a member of the judicial council of the American Medical Association and was chairman of its board of trustees from 1933 to 1935.                     