@@702547

txt The stabilizing influence of the Americas " in a world which is woefully in need of sanity and balance "  --  a phrase from Secretary of State Hull 's Pan-American Day speech  --  stands forth today as an epitome of American foreign policy at this iunchirp The declarations of President Roosevelt and his Secretary of State upon this inter-continental occasion reflect an increasing desire to spread Pan-American doctrine to Europe . " We must continually and unremittingly use the full strength of our continental solidanty , " said Secretary Hull . " to advance the cause of peace and to improve the welfare of our peoples , insofar as that is possible through international efforts . If we in the Western Hemisphere can persevere and succeed , we can make a vitally important contribution to world peace . " Many Contacts It is evident that while the Administi ation prosecutes its relationships with the European situation through many contacts with British and imperial statesmen , with the mission of Norman H. Davis and the special diplomatic activities of Ambassador William C. Bullitt , there is going on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to preserve as large as possible an area in the world where the rules of international law are respected , where peace prevails , and where the canons of international civilization are still valid . Secretary Hull set up the list of requisites for decent international living in his speech , marking them as achievements of the inter-American conference . They were : To sustain all elements of relationship which are essential to a peaceful , orderly and progressive world . To trust m each other . To reject all policies which would shake trust or undermine mutual pledges of peace . To abstain from interference in the affairs of others . To observe international agreements if peace is to prevail . To live in accordance with revitalized and mutually accepted rules of international law . as the essential foundation for a peaceful community of nations . Pledge This code of morals impinges at many points upon the danger zones in Europe . For instance , the pledge to refrain from interference in the affairs of others touches the current interventionist movements in Spain . or the threats of intervention in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought or are threatened on the basis not of direct conflict between nations , but of civil war and intervention . The contribution of the Americas to world peace , said Secretary Hull . is possible " because the influence of this Hemisphere is completely disinterested . " We wish to live and let live . We covet no man 's land or property . Our influence can therefore be exerted without ulterior motive in , or of the causes we hold most precious , and which we feel are essential to the preservation of our civilization . I believe we would be shirking our responsibility if we did not continuously strive toward these ends . Through devotion to peace , in principle and in deed , our countries can properly exert an urgently needed stabilizing influence in a world which is woefully in need of sanity and balance . " This call to action to save world peace is new and striking . It indicates the quickened awareness of the Ameriban administration of overseas threats , and may point the way to more tangible steps when a , precise program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               