@@697144

txt For the first time in more than two years the California output of refinable Crude is below refinery needs and the state is drawing on stocks of crude in storage . Estimated refinery need 's within the state have been placed at 609.000 barrels daily by the general state oil operators ' committee . Figures released March 28 show the output at 612.000 barrels daily , or within 3,000 barrels of the mark set . Actually , daily output is now slightly below the 609,000-barrel mark . The committee does not intend to publish figures again until April 15 and by that time output , based on the natural decline at Santa Fe Springs , will be close to 600,000 barrels daily . Meanwhile the state 's allow-aole production has been reduced by the committee to 603.289 barrels daily , while the state 's potential output is placed at 1.031,362 barrels daily . The result just obtained in the producing fields of California . the balancing of the new crude supply with requirements , follows more than a year of active effort by the producing interests as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing of the state 's natural gas conservation law and the upholding of this act by the state courts did a great deal to bring about conservation of production in the state . Another factor , of recent origin , has been the declining yield of wells in Santa Fe Springs field . the largest producing area 121 the state . With the state 's yield down close to 600,000 barrels daily . California refiners apparently are making sizable reductions in stored crude oil for this total yield includes upward of 130.000 barrels of non-refinable crude oil . crude sold direct as fuel oil . while refiners of the state are running about 530,000 barrels of lighter crude . -3 daily . It is not regarded likely that refinery operations in the state will be stepped up materially due to the recent suggestion of the Federal 0 1 Conservation Board that refinery operations be reduced one-seventh so as to avoid any additions to gasoline storage . Stabilizer for Ga .. loline With California producing fields being kept 4 , -t a of around 600,000 barrels and ' refinery runs ' stabilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It ought to stabilize gasoline markets on the Pacific Coast as well as on the east coast and parts of continental Europe . California refiners for several years have been shipping increasing quantities of gasoline , via Panama Canal . to the eastern seaboard and to Europe . Last year they sent about 24 000,000 barrels to the eastern market and about 12.000.000 barrels abroad . Understanding is that intercoastal gasoline shipments to eastern seaboard market will not exceed those of 1929 and may go 1,000,000 or more barrels under that figure . When the zero hour for , obedience to the court ruling on gas wastage at Santa Fe Springs arrived . every company in field was found doing its best to meet requirements of the gas proration schedule issued early this week . Kettleman Injunction Continued Two or three of the smaller companies whose wells show abnormal gas pressures , due to their location on top of the structure , opened up their wells for a couple of days and it was reported they intended making a test case of the order , but apparently it was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wells were cut back . The chief objection to killing the wells centered in the belief , apparently well authenticated , that it might be impossible to bring them back to production . The State of California injunction against Kettleman Hills gas wastage has been ordered continued until April 16 in the hope that some agreement may be re-ached which will obviate the necessity of a protracted court battle . During the period of continuance the operators are placed on their honor to do everything possible to control and curtail the flow of gas from theft wells in the interest of the pubic good .                     