@@702592

txt Thirty-seven gentlemen who discovered upon their arrival in Louisville that they had no money to bet on the Kentucky Derby and no railroad tickets home doubtless will be interested in t h e fact that Archie Goldstone missed only one of his 39 engagements Friday , but was keeping one yesterday with the Chicago detective bureau . Suave Mr. Dr. Archie Goldstone . Goldstone is the faultlessly tailored f e 11 o w who slapped each of the 37 Derby fans upon the back at some time during the trip down ? if Lieut . Dan Healy 's hunch is correct . Uncle Sam Is Disappointed . Mr. Goldstone , or Dr. Goldstone , as he prefers to be known , had engagement No. 1 Friday with Uncle Sam , who wished him in federal court about some wallets that disappeared from the pockets of passengers on a train from South Bend to Chicago recently , but he did n't show up . Engagements No. 2 to 38 , Lieut . Healy believes , were tentative ones with affluent gentlemen on their way to the Derby , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 39th was with a bookmaker . Lieut . Healy is quite certain he kept all these without the knowledge of the other parties . Interested in 37 Wallets . Anyway , when Dr. Goldstone was met in Louisville Friday afternoon police there said they 'd like to talk to him because of his distinction as a doctor of film-Elam . They were particularly interested ) in the 37 wallets that he was carrying. , Because there were pickpockets abroad in the Derby crowd , the police said , they took the wallets and Dr. Goldstone 's 8400 away from him for safe keeping , and put him in jail , likewise for safe keeping . Yesterday Dr. Goldstone , who says he lives at 4008 Clarendon avenue , was brought back to Chicago and taken to the detective bureau showup , where he explained everything . The wallets ? Well , they 're just . souvenirs . He has been carrying them with him everywhere for years , he said . The railroad tickets back from the Derby , and the cards of Chicagoans found in them ? A mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold him so that he may keep his engagement with Uncle Sam , even if he 's a little late . Dr. Goldstone has a record , they said , that goes back to 1906 . Wallets are always vanishing from other people 's pockets just after he slaps them on the back . He won on the Derby , even though he was in jail  --  borrowed some money while locked up and persuaded some one to take it out and put it on War Admiral 's nose .                     