@@700366

txt Federal Coordinator of Transportation Eastman . after a detailed inspection of railroad freight cars and locomotives , reported there were no grounds to fear a freight car shortage nor fully to justify railroad claims of a large surplus of equipment . " Find the anticipated increase in fall business been realized , it is probable that the supply of serviceable cars would have been fully absorbed , although the surplus was apparently sufficient , at least numerically , to have averted a serious shortage , " Coordinator Eastman said The Coordinator 's report is based upon a survey covering a large portion of the cars reported as stored in serviceable condition and most of the locomotives . The railroads whose cars were inspected showed 118,854 stored cars fit for the transportation of all commodities for which they are designed . " The inspection developed that 53.5 ; ' e of these cars were fit for the service for which they were designed and were found unfit for any service until given repairs estimated to cost $350 per car . " Mr. Eastman declared . " A further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to the year 1920 . " The cars covered by the survey did not include those definitely classed as " bad order . " The coordinator said that the check of locomotive conditions was somewhat less assuring than that of freight cars . The railroads reported 5,549 locomotives stored in serviceable condition of which ? , 162 were inspected . Of those inspected 3.275 or 78.7 , , were actually ready for service while ** were in need of repairs requiring three days or more time and the expenditure of 5150 or more . Mr. Eastman further reported that pre-1910 ilocomotives constitute 41.95 , of the stored I power inspected , while an additional 39 , , ranged from 13 to 23 years of age . This left but 19.1 , , less than 13 years old " From the standpoint of tractive power , " Mr. Eastman concluded . " the adequacy of the locomotive reserve is still further out of proportion to the numerical ratio of stored locomotives to total owned . Of the units reported by the railroads ' stored serviceabe , ' 41.3 , , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rate less than 30.000 pounds . " Equipments Need Steady Buying While the extent of the recovery in the rail , road equipment industry is still in doubt , being contingent upon railroad traffic in the next several months . sufficient inquiries are now on hand to assure an early restoration of activity . if not an early restoration of profits , for the major companies in this-field . The initial orders will not be important from a profit standpoint , for overhead costs in the industry are high and more volume will be needed to be sure that the initial profits are not soon lost . Unquestionably , there is considerable overcapacity in the locomotive and car building industry . It is difficult to measure the extent because of the irregular buying habits of the railroads . In the past , manufacturers at times have found themselves unable to turn out orders fast enough for the carriers . Present facilities therefore apparently must be maintained . In the meantime , some division of the orders for a time , based upon the capacity of the manufacturers , would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government money is being employgd to finance these purchases . It may not prove practicable to divide each order among the various builders . for the location of manufacturing plants may make this uneconomical . In addition , where specially designed cars or locomotives have been built in the past by some particular builder , the railroad purchasing the equipment may find it desirable , if not necessary , to place additional orders for this type of equipment with the same builder . Over a period , nevertheless , and as far as the plan can be carried out , the capacity of manufacturers should influence the trend of orders . No official figures are available on the capacity of the leading manufacturers . The six leading companies , however . may be placed in the following order , based upon past division of the orders , which is used partially as a basis for estimating capacity : Details of a code for the industry are still to be worked out and approved . Any increase in costs resulting from a higher wage rate for labor probably will have to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms upon which car and locomotive orders are taken amount practically to a cost plus profit basis . Factors Affecting Profits in the past the profit has been figured at about 10% after all charges . While this usually has proved satisfactory as a basis of arriving at terms for individual contracts , it is of little importance as a guide to the investor in securities of the equipment manufacturers . The actual profit over the course of the year is so involved in the overhead costs for the full year and in the volume of orders for the longer period that wide variations may be shown from this rate of return . It is also difficult to estimate the volume of business which these companies may receive in the course of the next year or two . Some equipment men feel their prospects today are as good as they ever have been in the past . The chief argument against a major revival in the industry is the large surplua of cars and locomotives above present requirements . But 80% to 90% of this surplus is represented by extremely old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern equipment . The test will come when railroads are forced to call upon this old equipment and put it into service along with the comparatively modern equipment which is now being operated . Then the efficiency of the entire railroad service , it is contended , particularly in the case of locomotives , will be brought down to the level of the least economical unit in service . If this condition materializes a rush of orders is bound to follow in the opinion of equipment authorities . Average Freight Orders 116,000 Cars Over a period of 30 years freight car orders have averaged 116,000 annually . The total within a year has ranged from less than 2,000 cars for 1932 and a similar total for 1933 , to 341,000 cars in 1905 . Locomotive orders have ranged from zero in 1932 to upwards of 2.000 annually in several years . The only consistent trend in the figures on orders by years has been the tendency for the volume of business to jump sharply after several years of extreme curtailment . Some of the larger companies have attempted to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Car &; Foundry Co. makes carburetors for the motor trade on a profitable basis . Its motor boat division is understood to be generally unprofitable . The manufacture of busses has been unprofitable for years , due ' largely to the constant changes in design which were necessary . More recently the company has managed to bring this division of its activities closer to a paying basis . The company also has a large block of American Locomotive stock , which of course is not now paying any dividend return . American Locomotive Co. makes oil refinery equipment through its subsidiary , the Alco Products Co . This subsidiary has been doing a good business in the past year or more and probably has been in black ink . the other major divisions of American Locomotive Co. are identified with the railroad transportation industry . Baldwin Diversifies Output Baldwin Locomotive Works also has diversified production in recent years , although a good part of the diversification has been within the railroad supply field . However , the Midvale Co .. which is slightly over 50% controlled . makes bar steel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Southwark Foundry &; Machine Co. makes hydraulic presses and machinery . Lima Locomotive Works and Pressed Steel Car Co. confine their activities almost exclusively to the railroad field , although the former a few years ago started making a steam shovel which in good business years should pay well and help to cut down the overhead cost of making engines . Pullman confines itself largely to the railroad field and finds an outlet for its surplus funds in liquid investments The financial position of the six companies mentioned above at the end of 1932. which is the latest balance sheet available for the group , is indicated below : Some shift in passenger car business eventually may result from the present experiments with lighter weight passenger ears . However , this is a situation which may take years to work out and no definite conclusions can be reached at this time on which companies may benefit most . Pullman at the moment is showing the most aggressive interest in the light weight passenger cars , although the other builders are prepared to turn out similar cars if the demand arises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard to change and each road has its own ideas on what type of material it wants Steel rails , for instance , are generally considered standard equipment , yet about 119 different types of steel rails are in use in this country . In the past year the American Railway Association , through the cooperation of the car builders and the railroads , developed a light weight freight car which was hailed as the answer to the problems of most of the roads . There are now about 19,000 freight car inquiries before the builders , but none of them calls for the new car  --  they are the same type cars which have been In use by the roads for years .                     