@@697683

txt In both branches of the State Legislature a bill has been introduced amending the public offices law so as to make acceptance of a public office a waiver of a witness 's constitutional privilege against self-incrimination , " in relation to " any act or omission affecting his " appointment , nomination , election " or promotion to or in such public " office or position . " The term " public officer " includes a deputy , clerk , assistant or any subordinate in the office of a public officer . The reasons for the introduction of this amendment are only too well known . The excellent intentions of its sponsors are beyond doubt . But the Committee on Criminal Courts , Law and Procedure of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York finds this bill of doubtful constitutionality . Article XIII of the State Constitution prescribes the form of the oath to be taken by members of the Legislature and all officers , executive and judicial , and expressly ordains that " no other oath , dec " laration or test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " public trust . " Section 1 of Article I provides that no member of this State shall be disfranchised or deprived of any of the rights or privileges secured to any citizen thereof , unless by the law of the land , or the judgment of his peers . The courts have held that these constitutional provisions do not prevent the Legislature from enacting reasonable qualifications for office the tendency of which is to cause the choice of intelligent and upright public officers ; but the means taken for this purpose must be suitable . In the opinion of the committee , the courts might find unreasonable the surrender of the constitutional guarantee against self-incrimination . The cardinal aim . of that guarantee is to shield the innocent and make the State prove its charges by extraneous evidence : Under this bill a public prosecutor without a shred of evidence could hale before the grand jury any public officer and call upon him to explain ? every official act . It might result in reckless harassment of public officials and most serious interference with public business . If it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it certainly seems unsound to require that a public officer should be obliged to surrender that right . Nor would the bill , if it became a law , necessarily fulfill its purpose of eliciting the truth in regard to official acts . Since the waiver is limited to official acts or conduct , the defendant would always claim that the conduct or act in question was not official ; nor could he be forced to answer unless there was " overwhelmingly clear " evidence that the act or conduct . vas official . What the State should do and can do with no infringement of any public officer 's constitutional right is to enact that any such officer 's refusal to testify about his official acts in a lawful judicial proceeding shall be ground for his removal from office : An officer who can not account for his public stewardship is no longer fit to hold his office . It is obvious that by exercising his privilege he loses the confidence of the public , and consequently his usefulness is destroyed . If he can not answer without jeopardy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public officer 's refusal to answer grounds for his removal would not result in depriving him of his constitutional right , nor would it be contrary to the basic principle in our administration of criminal justice that the State must prove its charge by competent extraneous evidence .                     