@@702325

txt The Whatcom county jail was blockaded today ? an unusual precaution  --  after two federal agents questioned a prisoner concerning the Charles Mattson kidnap-murder case . For several hours last night the agents quizzed Lee Haskell Fowler , 36 , sentenced Tuesday to 20 years in the penitentiary for a holdup . Fowler then was placed in solitary confinement and the agents left here with a woman , said to be Fowler 's sweetheart , who also was questioned . Following their departure the heavy iron grilled outside door to the jailer 's office was locked , completely blockading the jail . Fowler , it was learned from an official source who declined to be quoted , refused to account to the federal men for his whereabouts from the time of the kidnaping until his arrest at the home of his father near East Stanweed last Thursday . This same source disclosed suspicions of the government agents who were aroused when Fowler pleaded guilty Tuesday to a robbery charge . Fowler is a paroled convict . SHACK YIELDS CLEWS Tacoma , Wash. , Jan. 14 . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the investigation of the wanton Charles Mattson kidnaping murder . State patrolmen , who sped late today to a shack five miles from the spot near Everett , Wash. , where the child 's battered body was dumped , were reported to have found there a quantity of boy 's clothing , apparently bloodstained , and a sack containing a man 's stained apparel . Dr. W. W. Mattson , father of the young victim , was disclosed as having seen two men , believed to have been the kidnapers , during the futile ransom negotiations . Federal authorities plainly indicated they are seeking more than one person for the brutal crime . Auto Held as Evidence . Authorities at Everett held a knife that might have been used to stab Charles and an automobile which yielded bloodstains , evidence of a possible woman occupant and further clews Indicating it might have been used by the kidnapers . Sacramento police arrested an escaped inmate from a hospital for the insane who had scratches on his face and who said he had been treated by Dr. Mattson . The latest development in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stained clothing in the shack near Everett , an area that has drawn attention throughout the case as the district where it is believed the 10 year old boy was held pris. oner . It was said the clothing appeared slightly larger than that of the young kidnap victim , but investigators suggested the theory it might have been given to Charles after he was stolen the night of Dec. 27 . They said it included underwear and other articles . The shack was found by patrolmen late this afternoon in their intensive search of the area where the boy 's nude and battered body was found lying in the snow Monday . Bolster Accomplice Theory . Concrete support for the theory the bewhiskered man who ? took Charles from his Tacoma home had one or more , accomplices was given by federal authorities . J. Edgar Hoover , head of the federal bureau of investigation , strongly hinted that more than one ' person is sought when he made public in Washington , D. C. , a description of the actual kidnaper . Commenting on his agents ' policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't discuss the case until we catch him . " Then he added quickly : " I do n't mean him ? I mean him or . them . " It also was pointed out by an at : tach ? at the office of United States Attorney J. Charles Dennis that the conspiracy charge in a " John . Doe " warant issued to outlaw formally ; the kidnap-slayer " can be positively interpreted to mean more than one is involved . " He said the law- provides that conspiracy can be proved only if two or more persons have taken part in it . Ransom Trip Related . The assertion that Dr. Mattson saw two men , believed to be his son 's kidnapers , in an automobile on Beacon Hill in Seattle during a night attempt to ransom the boy was printed in the Seattle Times . An unnamed friend of the Mattsons was given as authority for the information . Following instructions in the ransom note , Dr. Mattson waited in his automobile on a dark Seattle street to pay the $28,000 demanded for his son 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an automobile passed the Mattson automobile twice and were approaching a third time when a passing oil truck slid off the road . The strangers fled when the truck driver called to Dr. Mattson for assistance . Federal agents were given a description of the suspicious automobile , fife friend said , but it did not come close enough for Dr. Mattson to get a description of its occupants . The knife held for investigation by Everett authorities was found several blocks from the place where the stolen and abandoned bloodstained automobile was parked there early Monday . An autopsy established that Charles was stabbed nearly through the body with a long , thin knife before he was killed by blows on the head . The Everett automobile 's connection with the case was reported by several sources as becoming more evident hourly . Stolen from an Everett resident Friday night , pos1 sibly about the time Charles was killed , it was found impounded by police yesterday . Authorities admitted that stains found on a tire chain and a handkerchief in the car were human blood , but it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of Charles . The owner of the car , Verne Williams , was unable to account for a lipstick found in snow on the running board . Its discovery led police to investigate the possibility of a feminine accomplice . It was believed the car may have been used to transport Charles ' body to its last hiding place . It was parked in front of an Everett home sometime between midnight Sunday and dawn Monday . Charles ' body was found Monday in a clump of bushes seven miles south of Everett , where it apparently had been thrown the previous evening . Suspect Answers Description . The suspect held by Sacramento police , one of several held in western cities , was said by police to answer the description of the man who stole the Mattson boy . Regarded as highly suspicious were scratches on the man 's face and his statement that the young victim 's father was his physician while he was in Tacoma . The fugitive sought was expected by some to have scratches on his face , for examination of Charles ' body showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was tortured and stabbed before being killed , The child 's body was covered with bruises and scratches and the fingers were spread stiffly apart as though he had scratched his attacker with all his strength . The possibility that the terrible crime was committed by a former insane patient of Dr. Mattson , who was bent on avenging some fancied wrong , had been considered at the outset and frequently has been re ? vived in the case . Indications that the kidnaper was either insane from fear or a permanent mind impairment were seen in the needlessly brutal treatment of Charles , together with his incoherence when telephoning Dr. Mattson about the ransom , Sacramento police arrested the man , whose name they declined to disclose , in a hotel in that city on a tip from a Sacramento bank . Police said the man admitted he was once confined in a hospital for the insane in Washington and that he had escaped . Reward Posters Mailed . The justice department mailed posters from Washington , D. C. , announcing the federal government 's $10,000 reward for information leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were sent to every law enforcement agency in the country . Legislation prohibiting payment of ransom for the release of kidnaped persons was proposed in Washington , D. C. , by Chairman H. F. Ashurst Dem. , Ariz.3 of the senate judiciary committee . " So long as persons pay ransom there will be kidnapers , " he declared " If kidnapers know they can not col ? lect ransom there will be no kiee naping . " Tile senator 's bill , which provides a fine of not more than $5,000 or two Years ' imprisonment , or both , would make it illegal to pay or agree to pay ar to give anything of value for the return of a kidnaped person .                     