@@698551

txt Mongol leaders , who have made Peiping their headquarters since the Japanese occupation of Manchuria , admit that negotiations have been started between Mongols and Japanese for the establishment of an independent Mongolia . separated entirely from any Chinese Government , but frankly under Japanese influence . The Japanese approached the Mongol leaders last September , suggesting an independence movement , and promising support for IL Many Mongols welcomed the idea even then , feeling that any change would improve their lot . Their experience with Chinese imperialism during the past few years has been unpleasant . But the Mongols dared not act so long as there was any prospect that a Chinese military government would be restored In Manchuria . On two previous occasions , they had acted too hastily , the last time in 1929 under Soviet-Russian persuasion , and the Chinese put down their rebellions with a derisiveness which inspired caution in future . Now the Mongols have been convinced that the Japanese intend to remain In Manchuria , permitting no Chinese government which they can not control . But the Mongols are still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansu , in Sinkiang , and In northern Hopei , all bordering on Inner Mongolia , all hostile to Japan . To the north the fierce tribes of Outer Mongolia , under Soviet influence , are equally , if not so openly , hostile . The Japanese have promised the Mongols that they will be protected If they set up an independent state . But the Mongols are accustomed to promises which are not kept . They require more definite assurances , and Japanese military movements , since the occupation of Chinchow , have been directed , in part at least , toward nicking Mongolia safe for the Mongols . The Japanese believe this can be done by agreements with the bordering Chinese military governments which actually are entirely independent of the Chinese Central Government . Japan has constantly emphasized , in formal declarations , its " special interests " in Manchuria and Mongolia , always linking the two together . Manchuria and Mongolia are actually more closely linked than the map reveals . For generations Mongols occupied most of western Manchuria , building villages and cultivating the land . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steadily westward , out of their rich lands into the desert . They feel that this land has been stolen from them . Now the Japanese offer them an alliance . They promise the Mongols the western Manchurian lands which have been taken from them , and agree to provide them pith arms and ammunition for self-protection . In return , they ask that the Mongols unite under an independent government separated completely from China , and that this government be friendly to Japan . Mongol leaders In Peiping declare that such an alliance would be satisfactory , and is likely to be completed in the near future . They have no Illusions about Japanese control , and do not anticipate true independence . But most of them have decided that a change of masters would work out to their advantage . Tho Chinese have proved undesirable in every way , they say . They took everything and gave nothing .                     