@@701598

txt The Kings County grand jury indicted Meyer and Morris Luckman , cousins , and others not yet in custody for the murder of Sam Druckman , and handed up a presentment yesterday to County Judge George W. Martin in Brooklyn , asking permission to continue their investigation into charges of malfeasance against police and other officials connected with the case . With Governor Lehman preparing to take a hand in the politically revived case today , Judge Martin granted the grand jurors ' request and then held the two Luckmans without bail after Joseph Solovei , their counsel , had entered pleas of not guilty for each defendant and had served notice that he intended to move for a change of venue . Meyer Luckman , in whose garage at 225 Moore Street , Brooklyn , the body of Druckman was found last March 3 , has been in custody since just after election day , when District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan reopened the investigation into the case , which he had insisted was " closed , " when Joseph D. , his Republican-Fusion opponent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morris Luckman , who previously had figured only as a witness before the grand jury , was arrested in the County Court House a few minutes after the grand jury reported . Names of Others Withheld . The names of the others accused with Morris and Meyer Luckman of strangling Druckman to death " with a rope " were not made public . The police have been hunting for Fred Hull and Harry Luckman , a nephew of Meyer Luckman , ever since the reopening of the investigation . The search was continued yesterday . Meyer Luckman , Hull and Harry Luckman all were arrested immediately after the murder but were released when the April grand jury failed to indict them . Morris Luckman , whose address was given as 544 Eleventh Avenue , Paterson , N. J. , is 50 years old . In contrast to his cousin , Meyer , who smirked through his arraignment , his face was solemn when he appeared in court in answer to the indictment . He was said to have been the owner of the automobile in which the body of Druckman was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owner and the surrender of checks and other exhibits in the case upon the failure of the April grand jury to return indictments were the basis for charges of laxity and hints of bribery which the recent bitter political campaign between Mr. and the District Attorney brought to light . It was these matters , it was understood , that the grand jurors wished to investigate further . It was these charges also , it was believed , which prompted Governor Lehman to invite Mr. Geoghan and Police Commissioner Valentine to confer with him at his home at different hours this morning . There was considerable speculation in political circles yesterday regarding the probable outcome of the conference at the Governor 's home . 820 Park Avenue . Mr. Lehman was silent on his plans when he arrived here from Albany last night . The indictment and the present- ment were handed to Judge Martin just before noon by Edwin S. Frost , foreman of the grand jury which for the past seven days has been hearing evidence in the reopened murder inquiry . Just before that Magistrate Gasper Liota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charging Meyer Luckman with murder on the assurance of Assistant District Attorney William that the grand jury was about to report . Judge Martin read the indictment and the presentment , which he explained could not be made public because it contained the names of individuals who were involved in the crime but who were not in custody . He indicated clearly , however , that it was in substance a request for more time to investigate aspects of the case other than the actual crime of murder . District Attorney Geoghan joined the grand jurors in asking that their term be extended . " The grand jury in the course of its deliberations , " he said , " has had before it other matters which at the time might be considered extraneous , particularly regarding this indictment . They have had before them reports and certain other rumors regarding questions of bribery and laxity and other matters , and I particularly request Your Honor to continue this grand jury so that it may make a thorough and complete investigation . My desire is that the grand jury will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , saying : " I read your presentment before the District Attorney commented on it . Of course in such an investigation , because of its length and importance , other matters have crept into it and I am very glad to have you continue your work until Dec. 16 . " At the invitation of Judge Martin the grand jurors Who voted the indictment were in court when Meyer Luckman and his cousin , Morris , who had been taken to Police Headquarters for fingerprinting after his arrest , were arraigned . Mr. Solovei asked for ten days in which to prepare motions for dismissal of I the indictment and for a change of venue , but Judge Martin limited the time to five days . " I 'm asking for ten days , " Mr. Solovei said , " because the District Attorney will not be ready before then . " " Well , " replied Judge Martin , " he ought to be . This is the type of case that should be disposed of right away . Five days is enough for the District Attorney to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know he will be . I 'll give you five days . " Assistant District Attorney Hyman Barshay said that the District Attorney would be ready " when the other defendants are apprehended . " " That 's problematical , " Judge Martin interrupted . " The others may never be apprehended . It may take a month or two months to catch them . These men should go to trial right away and the District Attorney should be ready . " " I doubt if this case will ever go to trial in the County of Kings , " Mr. Solovei commented . " It . . . " " I know what you are going to say , " Judge Martin cut in , interrupting Mr. Solovei . " But this case will not be tried in the newspapers . It will be tried before twelve men and the facts of their guilt or innocence will be presented . Newspaper trials mean nothing . "                     