@@700778

txt Colonel Henry Breckinridge , Assistant Secretary of War in the Wilson administration , announced yesterday that he would run at the general election in November as an independent candidate for United States Senator . Petitions for his nomination have been in circulation for several weeks . In his announcement that he would run as the candidate of the " Constitutional party , " Colonel Breckinridge criticized the New Deal policies of the Roosevelt administration and expressed opposition to the formation of " a powerful bureaucracy in the name of emergency . " " The Tammany rule on the City of New York has been devastating . " he declared . " We shall resist the Tammanyizing of the United States . The billions of relief money taken by taxation from people willing to bear every reasonable burden of a program of recovery must not be used for the erection of a gigantic national Tammany machine . " Likely to Hurt Copeland . Colonel Breckinridge 's independent candidacy would seem likely to draw votes from Senator Royal S. Copeland , whose renomination by the Democratic State Convention is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieutenant Governor and loyal supporter of President Roosevelt , is also a candidate for the Democratic nomination . As yet there is no outstanding candidate for the Republican nomination for Senator . Friends of Colonel Breckinridge have suggested to W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State Chairman , and other Republican leaders that they would do well to make Coloned Breckinridge the nominee of the party , but so far these suggestions have had no definite result . " Throughout the State , citizens are circulating petitions for my independent nomination as a candidate for the United States Senate , " Colonel Breckinridge said in his announcement . " The law permits a direct appeal to the people for such a nomination and this appeal is being made . " My name will go on the ballot is an independent candidate under the name ' Constitutional Party . ' The Pine Tree of Liberty has bee. ; chosen as the emblem . " Among the principles set forth by Colonel Breckinridge were the following : " We stand for constitutional government , equally opposed to reaction or socialism . We would cooperate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But not one bit of our constitutional liberty would we surrender into the hands of bureaucrats itching for a limitless power over the daily lives of citizens . We shall support constructive measures to repair the dislocations of our economic life . We shall not tolerate the destruction of our constitutional rights in the name of emergency , recovery , reform or upon any pretext . " We shall retain our liberties as our birthright and not by the concession of any public official . We shall endeavor to keep the power of officials restricted within the scope of the American tradition . We do not believe that the economic or spiritual well-being of the people lies in the centralization of the control of their lives in Washington bureaucrats . " The roots of liberty can live only in the soil of self-reliance and in the virile political life of the States , the cities and the countryside . We lay it down as a proposition , as true today as ever , that the people in the States should not be deprived of their right to independence in local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the independence , dignity and efficiency of the courts . We shall oppose the transfer of the functions of judges to the bureaucrats in the executive departments . We shall oppose the transfer of legislative functions to the Executive . We shall endeavor to strip the bureaucrats of their new-found legislative and judicial powers accorded to them in the name of emergency contrary to the spirit of our institutions . Assails New Deai Principles . " We do not accept the new government economic philosophy of prosperity through scarcity . Scarcity is the gaunt mother of unemployment . Plenty makes employment . Food to eat , clothes to wear , goods to transport  --  these are the elements of prosperity . The central problem is distribution and consumption . Government can not bring back prosperity by manufacturing famine . " With all the material elements of prosperity at hand the real pumpprimer is confidence born of mutual faith . He who continues to stir class hatred is an enemy of recovery . The team that is the nation must stop slugging each other and pull together with a spirit of unity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We believe in the American system . On the twin foundation of free institutions and universal education our people have built in a rich territory a civilization at once the inspiration or envy of the world The edifice of our national life was not the result of chance . Its foundations have withstood both economic depression and civil war . The true spirit of the nation was born at Valley Forge . Ragged , underfed , ill and freezing , a handful of heroes , inspired by Washington , incarnated the deathlessness of American liberty . If liberty is to surrender to want and privation , Washington would have quit once and for all at Valley Forge . " We must come through the present trials with our liberties intact . ' We repudiate the fiction that temporary economic gains should be bought at the sacrifice of political freedom . We believe that political freedom and economic freedom go hand in hand and that without one the other can not exist . We shall stand unyielding on the great American doctrine that the officials of government are the servants and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is legal adviser to Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh , has law offices at 39 Broadway and lives at 455 East Fiftyseventh Street . A lifelong Democrest , he supported Mayor LaGuardia and the Fusion candidates in the last city campaign . The number of signatures required for an independent nomination for United States Senator is 12,000 , with at least fifty from each county in the State .                     