@@702037

txt The British Government is ready to transform the provisional consultation of general staffs , now proceeding , Into a permanent military agreement with France and Belgium when it becomes honestly convinced that all attempts to conciliate Germany have failed . The French Ministers were aware of this before they came to London , and this explains their readiness to waive demands for immediate stern action . The object of Premier Leon Blum and Foreign Minister Yvon Delbos now is to maintain Anglo-French unity and practice patience while the British finally make up their mind . International conferences became popular during the post-war period when people were inclined to ascribe magic power to the covenant of the League of Nations . This acquired habit continues through inertia , but the center of gravity of international relations is now brought back into the channel of ordinary diplomatic exchanges , which insure better secrecy . Important Decision Reached This is why a one-day meeting in London of British , French and Belgian Ministers for the useful results achieved could as well have not been held , for the important decisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for a long visit to the British Museum . Still , one point that the meeting achieved is of importance , although this was riot mentioned in the communiqu  --  namely , as regards the problem of Central Europe . This sudden development was not due to careful diplomatic preparation but to the fact that the details of Chancellor Hitler 's plan to put pressure on Czechoslovakia became known . Just before the meeting the British Foreign Office received a visit from Konrad Henlein , leader of the German minority in Czechoslovakia . This politician has lately contracted the habit of coming here for the object of acquainting the British political world with the alleged oppression of his fellow-nationals by the Czechoslovak Government . He had been so far successful that Anthony Eden , British Foreign Secretary , had warned Prague to give attention to these minority claims . This time Mr. Henlein let the cat out of the bag by revealing the conditions that his chief , Hitler , offered for leaving the neighboring republic in peace . First , President Eduard Benes of Czechoslovakia and his government must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coalition against their present ally . Secondly , districts with German majorities must separate from the rest of the country , forming autonomous States administered according to Nazi laws . It is evident Prague will reject this proposal , stamped with Hitler 's will to impose his overlordship on a ' weak neighbor . President Benes has already let it be known in London and Paris that , the republic will fight to the last gasp to resist ' , such tyranny , aimed at destroying its independence . Thus it is nec-1 essary to expect an acute crisis in Central Europe in the not far distant future . The British , French and Belgian Ministers , with decisions taken in advance , found enough time to attend to this definite menace . Mr. Blum pointed out that the situation in Europe had been entirely altered since 1925 . Then it was thought possible to insure the peace of the whole Continent when the Locarno treaty was concluded . Today Germany is heavily arming and she menaces peace in all directions . It would be unfair to implement the Western pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is contrary to the principles sponsored by the British Government , which insisted on the inclusion in the communiqu ? of a declaration protesting against the division of powers into warring camps . Therefore , said Mr. Blum , Central Europe can not be excluded from the proposed general settlement . In fact , no part of the Continent should be left out . Mr. Eden , speaking for the British Government , concurred entirely with this view . The morning after the meeting Mr. Delbos , before leaving London , clinched the matter by informing the representatives of Russia , Italy , Czechoslovakia and Rumania of this decision . Another result of the meeting has been to confirm the importance that the British Government attaches to a good working agreement with Russia . London has reason to be displeased with Moscow . The latter 's preparation of the Communist movement in Spain is severely condemned here . That the Russian Government is itself now frightened by the results of its action can not be accepted as an excuse . Anglo-Russian trade has been hampered by the petty quibbles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international policy oblige the British Government to desire Russian cooperation , and the Franco-Russian alliance is viewed as a link in the chain . For the same reason an Italo-Russian agreement on a common policy in Central Europe would be welcomed . Now , to come back to the issue mentioned in the opening sentences of this message , it is important to point out that the provisional consultations of the general staffs have made good progress since they were initiated last March . It is possible to say that the technical preparation of military cooperation is well on the way . The ports for landing a British expeditionary force on the French I coast have been designated . Trans port facilities have been estab- I lished . Airdromes have been selected . Supplies of petrol and lubricants have been foreseen . Communications by telegraph and telephone have been prepared . StaffI cooperation has been organized and innumerable details generally have been discussed .                     