@@697410

txt Prices on the Stock Exchange continued their steady drift to low levels from the opening gong with the movement gaining intensity as the session progressed . Early in the day several pivotal issues violated their previous lows for the year to date . They were soon joined in this performance by U. S. Steel , the recognized market leader , a development to which more than the usual significance was attached , attracting professional selling and liquidation to all sections of the list . After dropping to a new low for the year early in the trading , Steel became the center of a persistent attack to break its last indicated support point at 150 which marked its low during the panic days of 1929 . Steady absorption of the stock above 150 held prices firmly for a protracted period . But there was no let-up in the volume of selling which poured into the floor from all quarters . The stock yielded gradually to a fraction below 150 at which point volume of trading increased . For the time being little additional progress on the decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sections of the list . Representative of the many issues which declined to new low ground for the year were such recognized leaders as New York Central , General Motors . American Telephone . Westinghouse Electric , General Electric and Chrysler The decline brought the Dow-Jones average for 30 industrials below the bottom reached during the collapse of the bull market in the fall of 1.929. an the drop to new low territory , the industrials have followed the railroad averages which for some time have been below their 1929 lows . ? ? ? . Notwithstanding the succession of unfavorable tape developments , the market at times furnished impressive resistance to the steady selling . Offerings were absorbed in an orderly manner on the decline , but constructive forces had little chance to rally adherents . With prices dragging around their lowest point , announcement was made of the suspension of a prominent stock exchange firm . Further offerings poured into the market driving practically all the leading representative issues still further Into low territory . There were plenty of bids under the market , however , and except in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were no wide-open breaks . The volume of trading and the decline in the leaders assumed the largest proportions witnessed to date , indicating that the final clean-up stages of the selling wave had been reached and that an overdue rally was in the making . Prices closed at the bottom in a weak market . ? ? ? At the lowest point on Wednesday , the DowJones average for 30 industrials had broken through the closing low set in the demoralized selling which took place in November . 1929 . On November 13 last , following the collapse of the bull market , the industrials closed at 198.69 . At the low on Wednesday , the industrials touched 198 61 . Close Thursday was 192.00 . The 20 railroad issues have for some time averaged lower than at any time in 1929 . On Thursday the close was 117.34 another new low mark for the year to date . Despite all the selling of the utility group recently , the average of 20 leading utilities held stubbornly above the 1929 low . These averages closed at 73.93 on Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the close was 69.91 . Reports from tire trade circles in Akron arc to the effect that manufacturers are now working out their October list prices and that the prospect is for little change in either price levels or discounts . In view of unsettled trade conditions in the industry , a stabilized price level at this time would be considered a marked departure from previous practice in the industry . Following the recent tacit agreement to end the abuse of established trade practices . it is considered further evidence of a constructive undercurrent among the leaders . Importance is attached to the preparation of the October lists as they cover the spring dating system and therefore practically assure prices into the spring when substantial recovery in tire sales is anticipated . At present the trade IS at a comparatively low level , due to the falling off in demand from automobile manufacturers for original equipment . Dealer sales are picking up and cancelling some of the declines in manufacturers ' business so that on the whole the business compares more favorably than with a year ago . The outlook indicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in the coriesponding period of 1929 . ? . ? A better showing in next week 's carloadings report is indicated by results of Pennsylvania Railroad System for week ended October 4 with loadings and receipts from connections showing a decline of 19.8% from the corresponding week in 1929 , compared with a decline of 24 2 , r in the preceding week . Pennsylvania loadings for the week ended October 4 showed an increase over /he preceding week of 3,136 cars , to a total of 147.270 . In the September 27 week there was a drop of 4,240 cars . Pennsylvania covers such large territory that it is fairly representative . In recent weeks its loadings have been an accurate barometer of the carloadings report for the country 's roads which comes sax days later . For the three consecutive weeks ended September 13 , 20. and 27 the total carloadings showed declines of 16 2 , a , 18.40 , and 21.0 , ; from the corresponding weeks of last year . For the same period , Pennsylvania showed declines of 18.0% , 20.3'i and 24.2% . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 147.270 cars , compared with 144.134 in the preceding week and 183,594 in the like week of 1929 . Announcement of lower prices by Nash Motors on its 1931 models is the forerunner of the program of greater values to be offered by the motor industry to the public this fall either In the form of lower prices , or materially improved product at the same price , or both . At the beginning of this year some manufacturers attempted to hold profits by advancing prices . In general those who held the low level or reduced took the better share of the business and earnings . Recently drastic price reductions by several large manufacturers on old models to clear stocks have shown the public willing to enter the market for bargains . The 1931. program of the industry is to induce greater buying of cars by the same procedure . There have been many economies and savings injected into the industry this year which with lower prices for raw materials . etc .. should make such a program a benefit to earnings if it succeeds in bringing in a sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Richfield Oil dividend , there have been some constructive developments on the property . Completion of the Belridge Oil Co. well in the north Belridge field , California , is regarded by engineers of the Richfield Oil Co. as definitely proving the 480 acres held in fee by Richfield in the same field , as well as 10,000 acres in Lost Hills field , which lies between Belridge and Kettleman Hills and is considered of similar structural character . Richfield is drilling a well on top of the structure , less than one mile northwest of the Belrklge Co. well . At depth of 5.063 feet , the log of the well checks exactly with that of the new Belridge well .                     