@@703655

txt Kemal Ataturk , President alicl creator of modern Turkey , died today at Dolma Baghche Palace at the ' age of 58 . He had survived thirteen wounds received in battle and a number of assassination attempts , but succumbed to cirrhosis of the liver . It is expected that General Ismet Inonu , former Premier and President Ataturk 's comrade-in-arms , will be chosen tomorrow morning by the Republican People 's party , to succeed the dictator-soldier , hero of the reborn nation . The bulletin announcing the death of Ataturk and signed by bight doctors read : " The President 's general condition , the gravity of which was announced in a bulletin published last night , grew steadily worse . On Nov. 10 , 1938 , at 9:05 A. M. , our great chief , in a deep coma , breathed his last . " Three minutes after his death Salih Bozuk , former aide and one of the President 's closest friends , unsuccessfully attempted suicide by shooting . He was seriously wounded . Premier Stayss-at Bedside Throughout the night Ali Fethi ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his adopted daughter , Sabihi Gueukschehn Ho- 1 noum , the latter a famous airwo- z man , remained - near the bedside . The first indication of the President 's death came at 11:30 A. M. , when it was noticed that the flags on government buildings were at half-staff . Soon the flags of ships in the harbor were at half-mast : - and gradually all shops and houses ex : hibited similar signs of mourning . Later , however , the authorities requested the withdrawal of flags except those on government buildings . Although the flags were at half staff the appearance of so much color gave the impression that Istanbul was en fete . All places of public entertainment were closed and no intoxicants will be sold in Turkey until further notice . The government 's communiqu ? is- : sued this morning states : " By Ataturk 's death Turkey has lost her great creator , a nation its great Chief and humanity a great son . We offer our people deepest condolences in their great loss . Our only consolation in our affliction is our attachment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country . We declare that before all things his immortal work is the Turkish Republic . " Your government is at its post at this grave time through which : we are passing . The great Turkish nation will , without doubt , work as one body with the government to preserve order . " In accordance with the Consti- : tution Abdullah Haik Renda , president of the Kamutay National Assembly has assumed the interim Presidency of the republic and the Kamutay will proceed forthwith with the election of a new President of the republic . The government , the glorious Turkish Army with all its might and the whole people , which form an unshakable entity , will gather around whoever is elected to fulfill the highest office in Turkey and to maintain her greatness . " Ataturk , whom we mourn today and always , had the confidence of the Turkish people . The continuation of his work he bequeathed to the Turkish nation . The Turkish people , which is eternal , will make it live eternally . Turkish youth will always defend the Turkish republic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ataturk traced . Kemal Ataturk will live always . " Besides General Inonu , Marshal Fevzi Cakmak , Chief of Staff , and Mr. Okyar also are in the running for the Presidency . The Marshal , as Chief of Staff , holds a position of great authority , in the new Turkey and he is uniiversally respected as the father of the army . However , he is essentially a soldier and he is known to be reluctant to play a political role . It is said that before President Ataturk became seriously ill he asked the Marshal whether he would stand for the Presidency if Ataturk resigned . The suggestion was declined . Mr. Okyar , once Prime Minister of Turkey and lately Ambassador to London and an experienced diplomat , has been Ataturk 's most intimate friend . Since the suppression in 1930 of the short-lived Liberal party , of which he was a leader , he never joined the Republican People 's party and it seems unlikely that the Kamutay , composed almost entirely of adherents of the party the principles of which were lately embodied in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , neither Marshal Chakmak nor Mr. Okyar is a member of the Kamutay , from which a president is elected . Inonu Is Likely Choice It seems , therefore , that the choice will fall on General Inonu . For many years he was a close collaborator and lieutenant of President Ataturk and until twelve months ago he had been Prime Minister continuously for twelve years . No man in Turkey possesses his experience , and that is perhaps more important than his popularity , which for long has been second only to Ataturk 's . Much has been said about their estrangement last year when General Inonu resigned the Premiership , but in light of subsequent events it now seems clear that it was the result chiefly of temporary mutual irritation . President Ataturk was a sick man and General Inonu was suffering from the strain of the long , arduous years in office . Ever since it was agreed between them that in the interests of the country the partnership should be dissolved , the general deliberately kept in the background , but the Turkish people , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regard him as the natural successor to his former chief . Even if none of the three is elected to the Presidency and the Kamutay decides to choose another who has not played a prominent part in the life of the republic , the loyal cooperation that is now manifesting itself between Marshal Chakmak , Mr. Okyar and General Inonu , toward Jelal Bayar , the present Prime Minister , should be sufficient to guarantee a peaceful transition to the new era . Change in Policy Unlikely ISTANBUL , Nov. 10 CO. ? There were unconfirmed reports today that Kemal Ataturk had left a polities ' . testament to guide his successor in his own rigid doctrine of westernization and nationalism . No one expected Turkey 's new leadership to turn in the immediate future from the domestic and foreign balance that Ataturk achieved for his nation , strategically situated between the East and the West . Before Ataturk became gravely ill in mid-October he was borrowing money for Turkey with little discrimination from both Britain and Germany , although his early struggle for power was tinged with bitter hatred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Foreign Offices were known to have keen interest in his successor and the future course of Turkey .                     