@@698500

txt Divided into four squadrons of three planes each Japanese airmen are now intensively bombarding the Chinese forces in the Chapei and adjacent districts of Shanghai . Conflagrations have started so huge " in extent that the billowing clouds of smoke are blowing into the International Settlement . As the flames circle and wheel they repeatedly fly over the heart of the Settlement 's business district . The roofs of the buildings in this district are crowded with appalled onlookers despite the danger of whizzing rifle and machinegun bullets which come continuously overhead . The Japanese are seemingly repeating Monday 's tactics of firing upon onlookers on roofs and in windows of the Capitol Theatre , missions and other tall buildings on the west bank of Soochow Creek , giving the excuse offered Monday of suspected snipers harboring there . Chinese forces are vainly attempting to bring down the airmen , using rifles , machine guns and various forms of artillery shooting skyward . The streets are filled with ambulances , tanks and trucks carrying the foreign defense forces and Shanghai volunteers corps to the defense lines . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chinese guns began soon after 8 o'clock this morning after an artillery duel yesterday . Shanghai is terror-stricken , and some of the shells are falling at the edges of the International Settlement . A big fire of undetermined origin broke out just before noon immediately behind the general postoffice . Correspondents crossed the Soochow Creek at the Kiangse Road bridge and penetrated the burning area down narrow Chinese alleys , filled with eddying gray smoke . Although this area supposedly was virtually evacuated by civilians three days ago , from garrets , basements and small lean-tos there poured an enormous flood of human beings hastening toward the supposed safety of the central downtown portion of the International Settlement , which , however , was highly unsafe . Countless incidents were witnessed which in times of peace would have had a comic element but today were embued with deep tragedy . A whitehaired grandmother , her feet bound , was hobbling along with a raw cabbage under one arm and a blue bowl of rice soup in the other hand , spilling at every step . Near by a toddling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand a fresh-water crab . These pitiful salvages probably were the only worldly possessions of these penniless folk . Further along three coolies were attempting to carry to safety a small office safe slung on ropes from bamboo shoulder poles . Everywhere throngs were staggering under rolls of bedding , leather trunks and assortments of household possessions . Crisis in Hospital Facilities . The settlement is facing a crisis due to lack of hospital facilities to care for the enormous number of civilian wounded because twenty-five of Shanghai 's forty-three hospitals are in the area now subjected to bombardment and most of them have been evacuated into the area thus far free of shells . Hopes of the foreigners and the Chinese are placed in the arrival of the American fleet , which . with the British , French and Italian warships now here , will bring the four-power fleet to a strength exceeding the Japanese fleet and in the expectation that the nations of the world then will issue to Japan an abrupt and forcible order to cease hostilities . The Chinese and Japanese forces here fought an artillery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . in which the Japanese guns bombarded the Chinese fortifications for four hours , seriously damaging their lines . At 8:10 A. M. today two Japanese planes droned over Chapei and resumption of the bombardment was expected at any moment . Planes Leave and Return . ( Later ) . From 12:30 to 1:10 three Japanese planes circled steadily over Chapei , occasionally bombing , then at 1:10 all headed down the river to the carrier ships . For five minutes Shanghai relaxed in a brief throbbing silence , but soon the hum of fresh relays of Japanese airplanes coming up the river revived appre-hensions By ones and twos they came , and every indication was that the afternoon would be a continuation of the morning 's daylight nightmare , with the air rocking from explosions and filled with the nerve-wracking sounds of rifles and machine guns , while a pall of smoke from the burning areas drifted more heavily under the dense , low-lying masses of gray Winter clouds . Foreign observers from the region eastward of Soochow Creek report crowds of civilian Japanese shouting " Banzae " as new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While these sanguinary ' episodes were under way three Chinese river steamers , their decks black with people , felt their way slowly up the river , bringing thousands of panicky refugees from Nanking , where an enormous exodus continues . despite the fact that no renewal thus far of the Japanese naval bombardment there has been reported here . Presumably the Nanking refugees jumped from Nanking 's frying pan into the Shanghai fire because of not daring to proceed up the river where Communist hordes practically encircle every important city . Reaction Against Japanese . The repercussion of the events in Shanghai upon the enormous area in Central China where the Reds control practically everything except the garrisoned cities presents a problem staggering to the imagination , for a land surface is equivalent to almost half of Europe is certain to be profoundly affected . One of the remarkable developments resulting from this continuation of ruthless aerial bombardment of China 's largest unfortified city is an astounding revulsion of feeling against the Japanese on the part of almost the entire foreign populace of Shanghai . A fortnight ago , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dubious eye , more than 60 per cent of the foreigners here felt that Japan was fighting a lone-handed battle for the protection of foreign interests in China , Today* , ** even Japanese civilians , although known to deplore the present situation are shunned by most foreigners while the Chinese , even of the foreign educated classes , can not mention the Japanese except in voices shaking with emotion and faces livid with hatred . The long-range fighting yesterday was begun at dawn by the Chinese and desultory firing continued until 3 P. M .. when the Japanese cut loose with heavy artillery and continued firing until 7 P. M. Foreign military observers assert the air was literally filled with hot lead during that period and estimate that not less than fifteen heavy artillery and field pieces were in action . In the first half hour , is was said , 120 shells were fired by four field pieces . Forty-five minutes earlier Japanese bluejackets began moving forward , but apparently neither the Japanese nor the Chinese actually advanced their lines in the course of the day . Truce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes before the bombardment started , Admiral Koichi Shiozawa , the commander of the Japanese forces , sent a telephone message to Mayor Wu Te-chen that the technical truce between the opposing forces was officially ended . At that hour the Japanese Minister , Mamoru Shigemitsu , apparently uninformed as to the intentions of the navy , was telling this correspondent that negotiations with the Chinese for a settlement were still actually proceeding . Earlier in the day the American , British and Italian commanders of the defense forces of the International Settlement complained to their respective consuls that Japanese bluejackets were repeatedly attempting incursions into parts of the Settlement held by agreement by other forces . The American , British and Italian commanders express fear that a clash with the Japanese is Inevitable if these tactics continue . Chinese Bombard Japanese . The fighting yesterday began with artillery fire by the Chinese , lasting forty minutes . Machine guns and rifles then took up the fight and rattled almost incessantly until the heavy bombardment at 3 o'clock . Four Japanese field pieces concentrated on a strong Chinese position on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . destroying a fortified strong point sheltering six Chinese howitzers . At 5:30 Chinese shells began falling in the Japanese lines and at 6:20 Japanese field artillery near the North Szechuan Road replied briskly . At 7:30 there were two more artillery detonations , of lesser violence , strikingly punctuated by rifle and machine gun fire . The Chinese admit that the Japanese shell fire seriously damaged their defensive positioqs east of the railway tracks in Chafe ' , but up to 11 o'clock last night the Japanese had not advanced into the zone demolished by their shell fire . The Chinese feared , however , that the Japanese would begin extending their lines into this region at daybreak today . Planes Over Chapel . Two Japanese bombing planes circled continuously over Chapei yesterday afternoon , apparently making detailed observations , for they did not drop any bombs . At 1:15 hundreds of thousands of persons milling abmkt is the stkeets. henrd , , tlig ; krone of the planes , which passed over the Japanese Consulate garden and the . British Consulate , heading for Chapei . Most of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Japanese bluejackets , their faces gray and tense with fatigue , have been on duty almost continuously since Thursday night , with no rest period of longer than an hour , in between tours of duty of two hours at the barricades . On both sides are evidences that a major battle is brewing . The Japanese consulate asserts that it has authentic information that the sudden exodus of Chinese junks and house-boats from Soochow Creek and civilians from its eastern bank is due to the fact that Chinese authorities instructed them to withdraw before noon yesterday . Banks Give Armored Cars . Chinese banks of the International Settlement have donated the armored cars used for the transport of money to the Chinese Nineteenth Route Army , and Chinese civilians have bought 500 cases of gasoline and enormous food supplies from private funds for the Chinese troops . On the other hand , signs are multiplying that the Japanese . angered by their check at Chapei , which they fear will disgrace them at home , are planning stronger measures . Mayor Wu of the Chinese city has transmitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials here a protest declaring the Japanese broke the truce " and utterly disregarded the lives and properties of Chinese and foreign residents by resuming hostilities . " Chinese headquarters also alleges that the planes which flew over Chapei yesterday afternoon raked with machine guns the Chinese positions around the ruins of the North Station : Warning Given to Foreigners . Chinese " racketeers " and plainclothes men who have filtered into the International Settlement have put up posters announcing that they will take " drastic action against the enemy " if the Settlement authorities do not immediately force all the Japanese soldiers In the northern area of the Settlement to evacuate . This area is isolated from the main zone of Japanese operations and adjoins the defense sector held by United States Marines . The original Japanese excuse for taking it over was that a number of Japanese-owned cotton mills are located there . Chinese sentiment in general is hardening against the fact that the treaty powers and others interested in the International Settlement are not moving effectively to prevent Japan using the Settlement as a military base . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground that they are undisciplined and ill-behaved , and they are now making the countercharge that the Japanese bluejackets and armed civilians are behaving with an inhumanity and lack of discipline that matches anything that could possibly be charged against the Chinese , yet the powers are refusing to order them outside the Settlement , despite the alleged breaches of neutrality . Chinese Reinforcements Reported . A Japanese announcement last night said 10.000 troops of former President Chiang Kai-shek 's bodyguard had arrived at Cha.pei , ? while Chang ** Ironsides and Li Tsung-jen 's Fourth Army are on the way . The Japanese also assert that Chinese sniping continues and that " unless the Chinese cease and refrain from assuming a challenging attitude toward the Japanese , the Japanese may be compelled to take firm action . " The whole situation is menacing to the International Settlement , but in the meantime enormously powerful American and French forces are hastening here across stormy Winter seas , and British reinforcements arrived this afternoon from Hongkong . The cruiser Berwick anchored in the Whangpoo today and landed a battalion of Argyll @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement in trucks from the Bund to be put in the defense lines . The American Thirty-first Infantry with 300 additional marines , eight destroyers and Rear Admiral M. M. Taylor 's flagship Houston are due from Manila today or tomorrow , and the French are sending a battalion of marines from distant Tonkin . preceded by the cruiser Waldeck-Rousseau and a regiment of infantry from Tientsin .                     