@@700749

txt Albert Goldman was appointed today as Acting Postmaster of New York City , effective Sept. 1 . John J. Kiely , who retires , at his own request , will be retained as Assistant Postmaster . Mr. Kiely , in a letter to Postmaster General Farley- , said his term of office as Postmaster had expired on I Jan. 19 , 1933 , and that he had been permitted to hold over until the present time . " 1 feel that I would like to be relieved of the responsibilities of the postmastership and suggest that my successor be appointed at your convenience , " he added . " I would . however , like to remain in the service as assistant postmaster until I reach the age of compulsory retirement , which will be June 29 , 1936 . I feel that because of my long experience in the New York Postoffice I can still be of service , and I assure you that my successor will receive the same loyalty and support that I have given since I entered the postal service . " Farley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kiely : " The records of the department show that you were first appointed as a junior clerk in the New York office on Aug. 3 , 1885 , and progressed step by step through the various clerical and supervisory grades until January , 1925 , when you were appointed Postmaster . The files also show that you have a clear record as an employe and as , Postmaster . " You have administered the affairs of the New York Postoffice in such an efficient manner as to command the respect and admiration of the postal service generally . Con-gratulations ! " Your resignation as Postmaster will be accepted , effective at the close of business Aug. 31 , and I am most happy to say to you that you will be retained as Assistant Postmaster , in accordance with your request . " As a fellow-citizen of New York City , I want to thank you not only for the service you have rendered to the people of that great City , but also for the loyal cooperation you have given the department . " Goldman Active in Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Structures , has made a unique place for himself in the public life of New York City because of his wide participation in industrial , civic and philanthropic activities . Born in Manhattan fifty-two years ago , Mr. Goldman was educated in the public schools . He did not go to college . He started his career as a messenger boy in the office of the New York Edison Company in the Bronx , his salary being $6 a week . Mr. Goldman remained in the employ of the company for twentyfour years . Promotion came to him rapidly , and he soon found himself in charge of the company 's commercial affairs in the Bronx office . He . was one of the prime movers in the establishment of the New York Electrical Board of Trade and was made a Member of the board of governors on its inception . He served also as president of the Bronx Board of Trade . Mayor Walker , on his election in 1925 , named Mr. Goldman Commissioner of Plant and Structures . This department Is a $1,000,000,000 concern . Its activities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are valued at more than $250,000,000 . Mr. Goldman not only had a distinguished record as head of this department , but he found time to carry on his activities in forty-two associations . For more than two decades he has been one of the hardest working citizens in behalf of charitable and civic organizations . At the beginning of his career the Bronx was his chief zone of activity , and he early became known as " The Human Dynamo . " It was while he was Commissioner of Plant and Structures that the plans for a triborough bridge to link Manhattan , Queens and the Bronx were first completed and construction of the bridge was begun . He was responsible also for the opening of the upper-deck roadway on the Queensboro Bridge , which has done much to relieve traffic congestion there , and for the carrying out of many other improvements . In 1930 Mr. Goldman suspended his first deputy , Martin ' J. Healey , on instructions from Mayor Walker after Healey had been accueed ? of receiving and depositing $10,000 in his bank about the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action followed an investigation by United States Attorney Tuttle , who told District Attorney Crain a witness had testified before the Federal grand jury that Ewald had admitted paying $12,000 for his appointment . After the ? resignation of Mayor Walker Mr. Goldman continued in office . He remained also after the election of John P. O'Brien to fill Mr. Walker 's unexpired ter . L. During the last campaign , however , Mr. Goldman threw his support to Joseph V. . As a result , he was ousted in the Tammany " reprisal campaign " and Charles V. Halley Jr . was appointed in his stead . His appointment as Postmaster did not come as a surprise to Mr. Goldman . Word came from Washington two months cgo that Edward J. Flynn , Bronx Democratic leader , would be permitted to select the man for the post , and it was known that Mr. Goldman had been selected .                     