@@703308

txt Under the conference report on the tax bill the New Deal principle of corporation taxation is rejected . True , a shadow of that principle is retained , but the substance has gone , and there should be no difficulty , consequently , in winning the Senate 's adherence to the change . This new principle was represented by taxing undistributed profits instead of income . The object was to force profits into the spending pockets of stockholders . If profits were all distributed , the Treasury got its revenue from the increased income of the stockholder . The Senate in its bill reverted to the old system of taxing corporation income . The House retained the new system , but lessened the burden , particularly on small and debt-encumbered corporations . Under the conference compromise a modest sliding scale of reimbursements on the tax rate will be offered to corporations according to their dividend distributions . This is the , retained shadow of the New Deal tax principle . Moreover , small and debt-encumbered corporations will get the benefits accorded in the House draft . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is known as the over-savings theory . Its most distinguished exponent is the English economist , J. M. Keynes . As I showed a week ago , the experience in the ' 20 's gave the reformers a plausible argument against allowing corporations to accumulate profits in fixed capital . That was a period of gross over-capitalization . But the extreme from which the country is suffering today  --  wader-capitalization ? is even worse . The economic system can function only upon growth . But the 1936 tax penalized growth and froze business initiative , in that it impeded the plowing back of profits into new plant , which makes progress and jobs . By no means do all economists agree with the over-savings argument . Even the left-wingers are divided . Here is a comment which I chanced upon the other day from a British Socialist publication . It is the report of the new Fabian Research Bureau on Taxation Under Capitalism , This report says ; The results of a failure to invest afresh , or of a failure to keep old capital efficient and up-to-date , are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely erroneous doctrine we have just discussed namely , that all our troubles arise from an excess of saving and of fixed capital , it is clear that the ability to offer more employment and higher wages depends upon the existence of factories which are up-to-date and properly equipped , and this in turn depends upon the adequacy of the supply of new savings , and the complete reinvestment of moneys set aside for depreciation . Equally , the exploitation of our increasing power over nature , and provision of employment for those set free by the increasing mechanization of the older industries , depend alike on the investment of savings at an adequate rate in the development of those new industries which , in a progressive society , are always springing up . In the spring of 1937 this " failure to invest afresh " was experienced in the American economy . New capital issues up till that time had been devoted to necessary replacements . I do not say that the lack of follow-through from replacement to expansion was due altogether to the new tax on undistributed profits . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in corporation reports within the last 12 months make it clear , I suggest , that the tax was one of the responsible agents . It has plainly proved to be a tax on business enterprise . How is society going to maintain a balance between capital development and consumption development if this check on the former is removed ? In several ways . Most of the profits that went into new plant in the ' twenties were derived from too-high prices . The consumer did not get as much benefit as he should from the savings produced by technological change . I can think of at least four methods alternative to taxing enterprise which would prevent over-capitalization . They are : tariff changes , a renovation of the monopoly laws , an end to the congeries of internal price-fixing laws , and real collective bargaining .                     