@@698736

txt Tonight is the night Now for to think about the Daylight clocks . Daylight savSaving. ing , officially , unofficially or anti-officially , goes into effect throughout most of the territory which enjoys that warm-weather blessing , at 2 o'clock tomorrow morning , to last until the last Sunday in September . No longer is the main object of daylight saving to cut the costs of fuel and light , as on the Continent during the war . It still has that effect , but most of its advocates prize it rather for the increasing enjoyment it affords of the leisure hours at the end of the day . It is a boon to cities and suburbia ; the agricultural community remains hostile to its spread . Daylight saving is widely observed throughout New York , New Jersey , Massachusetts , Rhode Island and other States , with Connecticut and Maine legally in opposition , but with the new time widely " bootlegged " even within their borders . Among the larger New York State communities Rochester is the only important backslider this year . When a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it Is likely to treat Bureau . its customers in rather cavalier style . Not so the French Government monopoly of tobacco . Though Americans may not like the flavor of the cigarettes in its little red , yellow and blue packages , they must admire its method of dispensing them . If any one finds that a package of French cigarettes purchased at his tobacconist 's is badly sealed , stained by moisture , or torn , he may send it immediately to M. BLONDEAU , Director General of State Manufactures , at the Ministry of Finance , Rue de Rivoli , with an explanatory letter . M. BLONDEAU will register the complaint , order an investigation at the factory and at the shop from which the cigarettes came , and , as a graceful gesture of apology , send his dissatisfied customer two packages of cigarettes in-perfect condition . Complaints about cigars or tobacco are handled in the same way . The aordskee is more than honedo , It goes one better than the familiar slogan : " Satisfaction or your money back . " The names of 2,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear on a chart Family . prepared by ' order of the Surrogate 's Court as a practical step to facilitate hearings . There is something ironic in the thought that a life so secluded and apparently removed from human contacts and affections as that led by the late owners of the Wendel fortune should be followed by the emergence of a veritable army of kinsfolk from two continents . Two thousand names on a family tree reaching back not quite 150 years are a restatement of the sufficiently familiar fact that every human being can amass a host of ancestors by going back far enough.1 It is a caution against overstressing the element of heredity as against environment in the explanation of human traits . What virtue or vice or oddity in a person ? can not be " traced back " by the eugenists with thousands of predecessors to trace back to ? Despite annual Responsible changes of student College staffs , a. few colJournalism. lege newspapers in this country have acquired a definite character . One of them is The Daily Cardinal of the University of Wisconsin , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anniversary was celebrated recently by a special fiftysix-page edition ? an extraordinary achievement In itself for collegiate journalists . The Cardinal is proud of its liberal tradition . It is an old critic of overemphasis on intercollegiate football and social injustices ranging from international war to inefficiency in the university library . Because it fights cleanly and with a sense of responsibility , its youthful passion for righteousness does not burn less brightly . President GLENN FeArac renewed The Cardinal 's charter of freedom with the following : " I hope The Daily Cardinal will always be a student newspaper ( rather than an administration newspaper ) , proving that it appreciates its unhampered freedom by mastering the art and amenities of a clean , courageous and critical journalism . "                     