@@700002

txt The Cuban deadlock continued through the day , reports to the State Department indicated . Oscar B. Cintas , the Cuban Ambassador , followed his visit to Hyde Park yesterday by a two-hour conference with Secretary Hull and UnderSecretary Phillips today . He planned to leave for Havana before dawn tomorrow . Ambassador Cintas said , on leaving the State Department conference , that the discussion had dealt wholly with economic m , atters . Mr. Hull and Mr. Phillips did not disagree with him , - but it is regarded as likely that the political situation came in for a share of the two hours of discussion . Climax Is Expected Today . Unofficial opinions were expressed that President Machado will definitely refuse the peace plan worked out by the opposition factions and submitted to him by Sumner Welles , United States Ambassador , who has been serving as mediator . It was felt that a climax will be reached tomorrow and that the United States policy will be determined soon thereafter . Among the steps under consideration is the withdrawal of Ambassador Welles , should his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would leave the United States without proper diplomatic representation in Cuba and might be construed as a refusal to recognize the Machado government . Observers here say it is difficult to conceive how Mr. Welles could continue to serve as an Ambassador accredited to the President who refused to consider his good offices in a crisis . Armed intervention is , of course , always a possibility , but a remote one in the present temper of officials dealing with the Cuban problem . It is felt that this country would have nothing to gain and would fall heir to much abuse from Latin-American countries in the event of intervention . Thus far the problem has been considered as one of purely Cuban concern . This country is willing , in the official view , to help Cuban : arrive at a Cuban solution of a Cuban problem . If the Cubans re ? fuse to let us help them , a situation will be created calling for a nem decision . Ambassador Cintas said tonighi that no particular importance wal to be attached to his hurried visit to Havana . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capi tal , and that he naturally wishec to inform himself at first hand o : the events of the past few days there . Conjecture here , however , traced a connection between the Cuban Ambassador 's call at Hyde Park yesterday , his long talk with the two heads of the State Department today , and his trip home . The obvious conclusion was that he was the bearer of a personal message from President Roosevelt to President Machado and that this message had been amplified at the State Department today . Reports that the British Minister 4In Havana had lodged protests with Ambassador Welles were minimized at the State Department . It was said the British Minister called on Mr. Welles yesterday , but confined his conversation to inquirids as to developments . It was denied that he protested destruction of British property . The State Department has made no requests of the army or navy for preparations for intervention , it was said today . Army and navy officials , however , were busy taking stock of their facilities . The army transport Chateau Thierry has postponed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was reported here . This ship ' could take about 2,000 troops , it was estimated . A division , numbering abaut 7,000 men under peacetime o ? ganization , is easily available in the New York area , an army officer said . Most of these troops are in the vicinity of Peekskill . The navy could muster nearly 8,000 men within a few days , it was estimated . This would complete the 15,000 men believed to be necessary for a complete occupation of the island . Sugar Parley Threatened . Withdrawal by Cuban representatives from further negotiations on the proposed sugar marketing agreement with the Agricultural Adjustment Administration and the complete breakdown of efforts to obtain an accord were threatened tonight following a definite stand by domestic beet growers against any restriction ' on their output . Ambassador Cintas is expected to ask authorization from President Machado for Cuba 's withdrawal from further participation in conferences on the proposed agreeinent . This had been indicated during a hearing before adjustment officials today on the agreement , which would limit the importation of Cuban sugar to 1,700 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of annual Cuban sugar sales in this country , the agreement would not grant the island industry a vote on the Sugar Stabilization Board for which it provides . The Cuban delegates have demanded an annual quota of 2,525,000 tons and they were represented authoritatively tonight as being ready to withdraw rather than accept a less amount . In view of the stand of domestic producers , making impossible the quota allotment which Cuba seeks , representatives of Cuba were preparing to take their plea direct to the State Department and.Presidenti Roosevelt for decision . Should this course be approved by the , Cuban Government , the course would be to ask for an increase in the tariff differential on imports of Cuban sugars into the United States . Even should such overtures prove fruitless , it is the belief of the Cuban representatives that more could be accomplished in the direction of an enlarged market here by remaining outside the proposed agreement than by submitting to a quota of 1,700,000 tons . Representing the Cuban sugar industry at the hearing before adjustment officials , George Rublee , formerly associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a stable government on the island until the United States could provide an outlet for a larger portion of its sugar production .                     