@@702179

txt The Repub-lican National Committee today demanded from the Columbia Broad-casting System a rebroadcast of Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg 's . Saturday night " debate " with the recorded voice of President Roosevelt which became involved in a welter of confusion . The debate was carried by some stations , carried in part by others and cut off from still others . The broadcasting company response was to rebate the charges fol . Saturday night 's broadcast and declare that it would not sell or donate time on the air for use of a recorded transcription of the President 's voice or that of any other speaker . Mr. Vandenberg 's innovation In political campaigning was a halfhour 's " debate " in which he used an orthophonic record of the President 's 1932 pledges and offered detailed comments on them . Just before the broadcast was to start it was annnounced that it would not be put on the air because it violated network rules . Then suddenly it went on many stations , but was cut off from twenty-two of the sixty-six Columbia stations . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discontinued and music was substituted . Telegram Sent to Paley Today Hill Blackett , director of the Public Relations Division of Republican Headquarters , sent the following telegram to William S. Paley , president of the Columbia Broadcasting System : " Because of conflicting Columbia decision on whether to carry or cut Senator Vandenberg 's address of last night , which caused interruptions and blocked the address out of certain sections of the chain , we request that the broadcast be repeated by your network free of charge at the same desirable time and over the same network originally scheduled . " Also , in view of your stated policy , I can not understand a telephone statement to me by your vice president , Leslie H. Atlass , that the broadcast would have been permitted without question if it had been made by one of the major candidates . Senator Vandenberg , as a Republican leader in the United States Senate , certainly should command your recognition as an outstanding Republican spokesman in this campaign . " This request for a new broadcast of the original address also is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all mechanical facilities of the key station for reproduction by electrical transcription of President Roosevelt 's voice to insure accuracy and fairness in a discussion of his addresses . " As I understand it , Columbia 's original policy against use of transcriptions on your network was made to protect artists against use of their talents without pay . This is a political campaign , in which it is not contemplated that the artists involved will ever seek remuneration for air appearances . " Hamilton Makes Attack Mr. Blackett , in a supplementary statement , asked : " Can it be true that this broadcast was kept off the air through the intimidation of all broadcasters by the New Deal adminstration ? " After Mr. Blackett 's telegram had been sent to Mr. Paley and its text made public , John Hamilton , Republican National Chairman , issued a statement attacking the treatment accorded the broadcast . His statement read : " It is difficult to determine the reasons for the nervousness of the Columbia Broadcasting System toward carrying an address by Senator Vandenberg over the radio network . " Considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address out of certain sections of the country and barred it entirely from others . The conflict apparently arose because of the use of phonograph records reproducing the voice of President Roosevelt when he made some of the outstanding promises of his career during 1932 and 1933 . " As far as the use of phonograph records featuring President Roosevelt is concerned , Columbia need not have been nervous at all . Radio systems bar the use of electrical transcriptions on the grounds they infringe the rights of composers and artists . Obviously such rights must be protected . " Mr. Roosevelt , however  --  smooth radio artist that he is  --  is in no sense a member of the organized craft of artists and actors , and I can not imagine that he would claim a copyright on his words publicly uttered as a candidate or as a President . " The rights of the radio performers certainly are not violated by mechanically reproducing the President 's voice , which was recorded as he made his speeches and his promises three and four years ago . " The address by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President Roosevelt 's own spoken promises in his own familiar voice are so essential to an understanding of the issues in this campaign that the public is certain to demand that this broadcast be repeated under perfect conditions . " The full statement by Mr. Blackett , supplementing his telegram to Mr. Paley , read : " The several false starts in the broadcast and the frequent ' off again , on again ' interludes on various sections of the chain showed that the Columbia officials were uncertain as to their own policy . " Because of this uncertainty , the Republican National Committee did not get value received for the money spent and the time allotted for the broadcast . " Inasmuch as this uncertain policy was no fault of the committee it is reasonable to ask that another half hour 's time be allotted by Columbia executives , so Senator Vandenberg may repeat this address over the same network . " In the repeat broadcast the remarks of President Roosevelt on which the address is based would be reproduced by electrical transcription to emphasize the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain promises to the country . Free Records Offered " Incidentally , recordings were made of Senator Vandenberg 's original address last night and these recordings will be given by the Republican National Committee to any radio station in the country desiring to broadcast the address over their local areas . There is no ruling , even under the broadest construction of any of the regulations , which prevents any station from using recordings locally . " There is no desire to enter into controversy with the radio people . But the radio services should be as free as the press in broadcasting information of importance to the public , and in quoting the public utterances of the President . " Before the program was sent out Saturday night , we made a careful investigation of all the rulings on the use of electrical transcriptions in connection with broadcasting . This rule against transcriptions was adopted essentially for the protection of artists . We believe that we in no way violated this rule , as we did not use an electrical transcription and the recorded part of the program was but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumed . " The President 's voice did not come from electrical transcription but from a phonograph placed near the microphone . We have been unable to find any ruling against the use of the phonograph in this manner and know of instances in the past where it has been done without interference . " However , in the repeat broadcast we insist that direct electrical transcriptions of the President 's voice be used from the network 's own equipment . " Radio stations must renew their licenses every six months and , naturally , must exercise care in refraining from any practice that would jeopardize their standing . We have every desire to cooperate with the stations , and on the basis of past experience and our knowledge of what the stations have done with phonograph records and transcriptions , we feel that we have broken no rule and demand another program similar to the one that we sent out Saturday night . " If we did not violate any regulation and if Columbia 's uncertainty as to their own policy is not to blame , it is fair to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Did the order to cut come from Washing-ton ? " We violated no rule or regulation of the Federal Communications Commission . We considered the Columbia Broadcasting System 's policies carefully and complied with the letter of those policies . " Can it be true that this broadcast was kept off the air through the intimidation of all broadcasters by the New Deal administration using the law which says that each and every station in the United States must apply for permission to continue operations every six months ? No previous administration ever used this law as a cudgel to curb free speech . " One of the requirements is that a station 's operations must be in the public interest . Is it possible that the New Deal administration considers the Roosevelt party the sole judge of what is in the public interest ? " Who gave the order to cut Senator Vandenberg off the air ? Can Columbia say who did it ? ' They have not to date . " We asked for no special equipment from Columbia for this broadcast . In order to put electrical transcriptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There was no mechanical connection whatsoever between the orthophonic reproductions used and the broadcasting apparatus of the Columbia network . The microphone used for Senator Vandenberg simply picked up the President 's recorded voice . Method Held " Ultra-Modern " " There was no apparent reason for Columbia to have been nervous . This is simply an ultra-modern use of the most modern means of dissemination of information , the radio . It was the fairest possible manner of presenting candidate Roosevelt 's position in his own words , his own inflections , and his own oratorical intonations , thus making it impossible to distort what he said . " But you can hardly expect , I suppose , any station or any network to carry without fear such a devastating exposition of candidate Roosevelt 's broken promises . These stations and networks remember that they must go to Washington shortly to apply for permission to continue broadcasting . " We have done the networks a favor by bringing this issue into the open . Now the public can see how a party in power can cut free speech . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of radio in America , but is also a perfect example of what the word ' regimentation ' actually means . " It is entirely possible for our opponents to either reverse this broadcasting technique and reproduce the words of Governor Landon or follow it with what they consider to be the proper excerpts from the Roosevelt speeches which we took apart . " In the light of this , the statement of Vice President Atlass of the Columbia Broadcasting System is pointless . Atlass said to me on the telephone last night that our program would have been acceptable if one of the candidates had wanted to do the broadcasting instead of Senator Vandenberg . " How , under Columbia 's policy , could this consistently be done ? Is the network broadcasting policy dictated from Washington ? " Rebroadcast Refused Replying to the Republican National Committee 's demand for a free rebroadcast of Senator Vandenburg 's speech ? of Saturday night , Edward Klauber. executive vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System , said last night . " We will neither give time nor sell time to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's voice , or any other person 's voice , is either reproduced on a phonograph record or simulated by an actor . " We will neither give time nor sell time to any other party for similar use . We intend to maintain the completely non-partisan attitude which has marked our network throughout its existence . " Mr. Klauber added that Columbia has always refused to broadcast phonograph records or electrical transcriptions . He said that while in the haste and last minute confusion of the Chicago office on Saturday the program was permitted to go on the air , " calm review today of all the circumstances convinces us that our policies are right and fair . " ' " There is no issue of free speech here , " Mr. Klauber added . " Senator Vandenburg may quote from President Roosevelt 's speeches or writings as much as he pleases . He may make any comments or criticisms he pleases . So may any speaker or any party so long as the speaker and the party refrain : from dramatization or simulation which , in the case of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the public . " The Columbia system will cancel the charge for Saturday 's broadcast , Mr. Klauber said , " since Mr. Blackett has expressed the opinion that in the confusion with which Columbia handled the Saturday night broadcast  --  confusion which we both admit and regret  --  he did not get value received . " Protest to Washington A protest to the Federal Communications Commission was telegraphed yesterday by Ralph Beaver Strassburger . Pennsylvania Republican , the Progressive Republican Committee for Roosevelt announced . Mr. Strassburger telegraphed George Henry Payne : " Is the Federal Communications Commission going to tolerate such abuse of the radio as was indulged in Saturday night by Senator Vandenburg ? As a member of the public in whose interests presumably the radio is operated , I protest vigorously against the chicanery and deception bordering on fraud upon which Senator Vandenburg 's program was based . " Mr. Strassburger continued in his wire that the use of phonographic records was a " flagrant attempt to deceive the public into thinking that an actual debate was in progress . " He added that the prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light of inconsistency and hypocrisy . This was malice  --  a new low in campaign misrepresentation . " Mr. Payne said last night that he had not received the protest but would place it before other members of the commission . He explained that the commission has no power of censorship or punishment . He said : " It seems to me a very serious matter if a large section of the public was given the impression that the President was conducting a debate with a United , States Senator . The President was not there and they were using material which the President had spoken at other times and in connection with other matters . " Certainly I do n't think it was ethical or particularly high class . Whether we agree with the President or not , he is the President of the United States and entitled to a certain amount of respect . "                     