@@701313

txt Editorial Correspondence , THE NEW YORK Tram ; OTTAWA , July ** sixth session of the seventeentd Parliament of Canada , the last before a ganeral election is held in the Autumn , closed this week with a diminuendo passage in which the political ear discerned a note of discouragement for the government . What was to have been a session rendered memorable by the introduction and debate of Prime Minister Bennett 's reform program ended with an admission by the Prime Minister , in acknowledging congratulations on his sixty-fifth birthday , that the condition of his heart made it impossible for him to stand the rough and tumble of politics . This confession of physical frailty came a day after Mr. Bennett had made a long speech in the House of Commons declaring that Canada was threatened with serious danger of revolution organized from international Communist sources . To the bulk of his hearers the Prime Minister 's view had sounded like a striking overstatement of the significance of the Dominion Day clash in Regina between relief camp strikers and city and Dominion Mounted Police , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public is yet to be classed as Communist . Possibly it was this that inspired Mr. Bennett 's admission next day that : " I am conscious  --  yesterday perhaps more than I have ever been ? of my impairment of health and strength . " If the high expectations of those who sit opposite are realized , my next birthday will be much happier . " New Cheer for Liberals . The high expectations to which he referred are the Liberal hopes of victory in the coming elections , strengthened almost to certainty by last Saturday 's overwhelming defeat of the Conservative Provincial Government in New Brunswick Province . Ever since the equally sweeping overturns last year in Ontario and . Saskatchewan , W. L. Mackenzie King , the Liberal chieftain , and his followers have regarded themselves as the people 's choice in everything but name and denounced the government for clinging , as they said ignominiously and vainly to office . These rapturous expectations were chilled by a slight breath of uncertainty last January when Mr , Bennett with magnificent audacity proclaimed a new deal . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a sequel to the Prime Minister 's severe reception of a delegation of relief camp strikers removed all such doubts , and Liberal members left for their homes this week proclaiming and believing that " it wo n't be long now . " They were also inclined to be selfcongratulatory on the subject of parliamentary tactics . They had met the threat offered by Mr. Bennett 's reform program by refusing to oppose it , and were of the opinion that the government , when election time rolled around , would prove to have fallen through this open door . King Also to Use Radio . Now that Parliament is over , it is understood that Mr. King will follow the Prime Minister 's example by delivering a set of radio speeches in which be will enunciate a reform program of his own . It is believed unlikely , however , that in the face of probable victory he will burden himself with too many promises . It was not only Liberal refusal to oppose that made the session just closed the dullest that ever preceded an election in Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its own program . In one breath a Minister introduced a reform measure and in the next attacked It . Finally , in deference to Liberal opposition , the government emasculated its bill for the nationalization of Canada 's export grain trade , reprieving the Winnipeg Grain Exchange after it had been sentenced to death and apparently substituting for the policy of withholding Canada 's surplus wheat one designed to get rid of it at the best price it will fetch .                     