@@703825

txt With only a few " relatively unimportant details to be ironed out , according to informed circles , an agreement between Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp . officials and representatives of New York City on a price for the system under unification probably will be announced before the end of this week . It is expected that the deal will involve purchase by the city of the B -M T. system trolley and bus lines , as well as the system 's rapid transit lines . While the B.-M . T. negotiations are being carried forward , discussions between city representatives and the Interborough-Manhattan Railway interests have been temporarily suspended . The primary reason for the suspension is understood to arise from the Manhattan lease dispute and other important questions now before the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals for adjudication . Formal Conference Thursday Announcement of an agreement for purchase of the Brooklyn-Manhattan Transit Corp . properties may follow a formal conference between rapid transit negotiators for the city and B.-M . T. representatives scheduled for Thursday . Should the deal include the B.-M . T. surface lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably would bring the price to be paid for the entire system up to approximately 5173.000.000 . Of this amount about $148.000.000 is said to be assigned to the rapid transit lines and $27 , - 000,000 to the surface lines . Since the latter figure is less than the amount of funded debt which Brooklyn &; Queens Transit Corp. ? operator of the surface lines  --  has outstanding , it is evident that bondholders in this subsidiary will have to make sizable sacrifices if anything is to remain to preferred and common shareholders . A large part of the preferred and a majority of B. 8 . Q. T. common are owned by B.-M . T. Even the B -M . T. collateral trust 41-as of 1966 are likely to receive less than par . It is believed in some quarters that holders of this issue would be willing to take , say 90 , in the form of City of New York 3 , - , 4 bonds with full tax exemption in order to permit a fair share of the purchase price to pass along to stockholders and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that only holders of hangs County Elevated Railroad first 4.3 and Brooklyn Union Elevated first 56 seem assured of receiving par Since - the indicated over-all price for the entire B.-M . T. system suggests that holders of virtually all of the securities must make sacrifices , any agreement reached between B.-M . T. officials and the city will have to be ratified by bondholders as well as by stockholders . Serious opposition by more than a small percentage of B.-M . T. bondholders to taking less than par might , for instance , mean that stockholders would refuse to go along with the plan . In other words , the amount of the total purchase price passing down to B -M . T. stockholders will be governed to a large extent by the sacrifices which bondholders are willing to make . A price of $175,000,000 for the B -M . T. system would represent a large portion of the $315,000.000 in bonds which the city may issue outside its debt limit for transit unity purposes Only 5140.000,000 out of the authorized amount would then be left for purchase of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , plan to place a portion of the cost of obsolete elevated lines in both systems on the real estate owners that would stand to benefit from the eventual demolition of these lines . Among the elevated lines that have been earmarked for demolition as soon as practicable after unification are B.-M . T. 's Fulton Street elevated line in Brooklyn and Manhattan Railway 's Second and Ninth Avenue lines . Meantime . prospects of both BrooklynManhattan Transit Corp . and Interborough Rapid Transit Co. securing a large share of direct World 's Fair passenger business seem to have been enhanced by the Board of Transportation decision to impose what amounts to a 10-cent fare on passengers using the municipally-operated Independent Subway to the Fair grounds . Under the B. of T. decision , all passengers originating their trip on the Independent Subway wIll'pay the ordinary fare of live cents but must deposit an additional nickel at the World 's Fair terminal in order to reach the grounds . For the return trip special 10-cent turnstiles will be installed . Difficult to Estimate While B.-M . T. and I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to and from the enlarged Willets Point station , the extent to which the privately owned systems will take direct Fair traffic away from the Independent Subway by reason of the differential in rates is difficult to estimate . The fact that the Independent Subway terminal is more convenient to the grounds is considered by many as assuring the municipallyoperated route of its full share of the Fair traffic , notwithstanding the 10-cent charge .. Coincident with its other traffic arrangements , the Board of Transportation also plans a direct through service to the Fair grounds from the Independent Subway station nearest the Hudson &; Manhattan Railroad terminal in downtown New York , providing the volume of business justifies such a step .                     