@@702601

txt Discoveries which push back the earliest history of civilization an estimated 500 years and show the painted pottery peoples of ancient Mesopotamia to have been as advanced in some respects culturally as European civilization of the Middle Ages , more than 5,000 years later , Iwere reported today at the University of Pennsylvania Museum . At the site of Tepe Gawra , in Northern Iraq , where successive seasons of excavating had yielded several " world 's oldest cities , " a joint archaeological expedition of the university museum and the American schools of Oriental research has found the oldest musical instruments and lanscape paintings known to mankind , has unearthed a hoard of the first datable gold and laid bare the earliest closed pottery kiln . Still as excited as a schoolboy over the results of the season 's digging , Dr. Ephraim A. Speiser , Professor of Semitics at Pennsylvania and head of the American School pf Oriental Research in Baghdad , said the variety and historical signifi- tcance of the finds were so , " absolutely unexpected and startling " that members of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " " We could not believe what we found , " he added . Down to Sixteenth Level Reluctant to put a date on any discovery known to be older than 3000 B. C. , Dr. Speiser said that the excavators during the past season doubtless were working with remains of a civilization that had flourished " around the turn of the sixth millennium B. C. " With the expedition down to the sixteenth level at Tepe Gawra , and with a test shaft sunk six more cultural levels to the virgin soil , representing perhaps another thousand years , it was thought that the civilization represented at this ancient mound dated back to about 7,000 or 7,500 years ago . " At least we can say with absolute certainty , " Dr. Speiser declared , " that the area of Ur of the Chaldees and . Babylon were well over 1,000 years later in getting started than Tepe Gawra . " The expedition leader , who discovered and first investigated the site of Tepe Gawra more than ten years ago , emphasized that when he spoke of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people whose culture could be studied through the evidence they left behind them . Before the 1936-37 season the expedition had completely cleared ten levels and partially excavated others . Before returning to this country recently the members completed the work through the sixteenth level , penetrating to a depth of nearly 100 feet from the original top . A preliminary report on the finding of an acropolis at the thirteenth level was mage public in February . Temples Plastered White Dr. Speiser pointed out in an interview today that previous expeditions had " taken us successively through the earliest historical periods , including the beginnings of writing and metallurgy " and that there had been no expectation whatever of finding anything more than the remains of a primitive culture at the thirteenth level , representing " the very heart of the fifth millennium , B. C. " " We expected to find no architecture , or at best some mud hovels , " he said . " Instead , we found beautiful architecture , with structural details such as piers and pilasters as far advanced as the Middle Ages . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Renaissance architecture . " Those three temples in the splendidly designed acropolis , for instance , on which the February report was based , would have been considered remarkable had they been built thousands of years later . They were painted red on the inside and plastered white on the outside , and their walls were subdivided with piers and pilasters . Moreover , the entire material culture of that period was in keeping with its architectural advance . The pottery showed graceful lines , splendidly painted designs and a wonderful balance between shape and decoration . " Most remarkable of all , the painter apparently was no slave to any definite school or tradition . He might repeat a certain design several times , it is true . But inevitably he would rebel against such monotony and produce something fresh , bold in conception and executed with vigorous , daring strokes . " Thus the artist who painted pottery in that period was a thorough individualist , like his colleagues in the other arts , and it is this thorough modernism , found both in levels twelve and thirteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a remote prehistoric era to span the distance of more than 6,000 years and , without benefit of writing , to reach the present with a message of youthful spirit and appealing beauty . " The painted pottery peoples made their music with shepherd 's playing pipes , several of which were found by the expedition beginning with level fifteen . " Made from the bones of animals , these are the oldest musical instruments known to mankind , " said Dr. Speiser . " One of the bestpreserved of these pipes , or flutes , was found in the grave of a child and was clutched in the tiny hand in the very position in which the little music lover must have been buried 6,000 years ago , or 1,500 years before the harps of the royal tombs of Ur were to be buried . Painting in Twelve Panels " Not less interesting , and equally old , is a large vase we were able to reconstruct from its scattered fragments and which bears the decoration of the earliest example of landscape painting ever found . The painting is divided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two great rivers  --  the Tigris and the Euphrates  --  with hunters stalking the wild beasts which follow the course of streams . " Dr. Speiser related tiat the stratum in level sixteen had been yielding unusual pottery with a " magnificent porcelain-like finish which aroused considerable curiosity for a time among members of the expedition . " The secret of the unusual pottery was solved when a building was uncovered with a circular shaft seven feet deep , leading to a series of underground chambers . " These chambers were closed pottery kilns , " the expedition leader went on , " and the shaft made possible indirect firing with perfectly controlled temperatures . Thus , the painted pottery peoples must also be credited with another first  --  the construction of the earliest closed kilns which have thus far been found anywhere . " Other material uncovered includes thousands of beads , some of the earliest datable gold , others of lapis lazuli ; beautifully cut seals , implements of various kinds and perhaps the finest collection of prehistoric pottery ever obtained . " Evidence of a Gold Hoarder The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a floor against a wall . Dr. Speiser suggested that they had been the possessions of a stone age " gold hoarder " and he answers affirmatively a query whether this was the first evidence ever found that value had been placed upon gold . ? The gold beads , he said , constituted the earliest examples of any " worked metal , " this civilization at Tepe Gawra having existed apparently at least 1,000 years earlier than the metal age . Magnificent examples of painted pottery were obtained in levels down to the virgin soil by means of the test shaft . One striking piece was a painted terra cotta figuline of the mother goddess of the painted pottery peoples . This race , with its unusually advanced culture ; disappeared in some undetermined manner at the twelfth level of Tepe Gawra . Dr. Speiser said some sort of " world-wide upheaval " might have been responsible , since evidence indicated that the painted pottery era came to an end all over the ancient Near East at about the same time . Inhabitants a Tall People These early Tepe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been unusually large of stature as well as greatly advanced culturally , he suggested . The only two persons the expedition could measure on the thirteenth level , for instance , were more than six feet tall , while in other levels representing more recent civilization the measurements were several inches shorter . The people living between the virgin soil and the thirteenth level were of a " distinctly different race from those following , " Dr. Speiser declared . The architecture , even down on the sixteenth level , was far advanced over that of some of the upper levels . The expedition leader compared level six of Tepe Gawra , from the standpoint of architecture , with the civilization at Ur . The inhabitants , he said , must have lived at a " fast , killing pace , emphasizing speed , mass production and efficiency . " This period was put at 3000 B. C. , corresponding roughly to what many scholars refer to as " the beginning of history . " Members of the expedition found at the thirteenth level chunks of red ochre used by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " same paint pot " of the original artist , Alfred Bendiner , the expedition 's artist , mixed the ochre , some 6,000 years old , with water , got a satisfactory water-color paint and found that it could be used as successfully today as the painters of ancient Mesopotamia , had found it . Historical Importance Stressed Part of the material found during the past season will be retained in Iraq as the property of the government there and the rest will come eventually to this country to be added to the permanent collections of the university museum . " Wherever they rest , however , the finds will have historical signifi - canoe that can not be overestimated , " Dr. Speiser declared , " for through their discovery at least 500 years , marking the earliest progress of settled mankind , have been brilliantly , and most unexpectedly illuminated . " This year 's work can not be spoken of in the same breath with the excavations of previous seasons . A. parallel might be if Gene Venzke and Glenn Cunningham ran the mile faster than anybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more until , say , they were 50 or 55 years old , and then went out and ran the same distance in three and a half minutes . " The expedition was the seventh at Tepe Gawra in which the university museum has participated . The scientific staff , in addition to Dr. Speiser and Mr. Bendiner , included E. Bartow Muller , architect , and Arthur J. Tober , recorder . All are graduates of the University of Pennsylvania .                     