@@703870

txt A general decrease in the price of milk in New York goes into effect today as the result of decisions by the Sheffield Farms Company and the independent distributors to follow the lead of the Borden Company in reducing the cost of Grade A and Grade B milk to the consumer 2% cents a quart . This reduction , coupled with a proportional cut in the prices of cream and other products sold by the milk companies , will lower New York City 's bill for milk and dairy products by more than $100,000 a day . The independents have made their price reductions under strong protest . Milk Industries , Inc. , which says it represents 90 per cent of the city 's independent distributors , announced last night that its members had to meet the new prices , but it condemned the actions of the big companies as trying to squeeze them out of business and " bring chaos into this milk market . " Cut to Farmers Foreseen Neither the Sheffield Company nor the independents announced new price schedules for producers , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their payments . A meeting between the Sheffield Company and the Sheffield Producers Cooperative Association is scheduled for this week , at which the matter of new producer prices will be taken up . In announcing the price reduction Friday night the Borden Company said that new prices were being negotiated with the Dairymen 's League , and the independents are expected to work out new schedules with their producers this week . As the announcements were being made here . novements were started up-State for and against proposed new legislation to meet judicial objections to the recently invalidated price-fixing legislation . The price of Sheffield 's Grade A milk beginning today will be , like Borden 's , 14//2 cents a quart , and Grade B milk 111. : , , cents , delivered to the home . Heavy cream has been reduced 4 cents a half-pint . L. A. Van Bomel , president of the Sheffield Farms Company , in announcing its price cuts at noon yesterday , said that the company was following its " customary policy of distributing quality products in accordance with market conditions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to meet new competitive conditions in the industry , which has been unregulated since the marketing agreements were invalidated . It stressed the existence of a large surplus of milk , plus the fact that this is the " flush " season , with excess production . Independents Assail " Trust " ' The independents , after a long session yesterday afternoon , asserted that they opposed the program of the two major companies and the Dairymen 's League . The statement of their organization , which represents fifty-three milk companies , voiced their confidence in the support of the consumer and the independent farmers " in our fight against the monopoly . " " The independent dealers are opposed to starvation pay for farmers , " the statement read . " We are prepared to pay a fair price to farmers , but the milk trust has always prevented this by starting price wars . The present case is not new . " We stand back of the independent farmer in fighting the milk trust for a fair price for milk . We are certain that no one will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its stooges who speak in the name of the farmer . " A short period of cheap milk now is planned as part of the program to destroy competition , so that there will be no opposition to high consumer prices for all time . " We know that we have the support of the consumer and independent dairymen in our fight against monopoly . Of course we must meet the new prices all the way through . " The new prices of the unadvertised brands of milk sold by the distributors in stores will be reduced to be kept 1 cent cheaper than the advertised brands sold by the big companies . The Borden announcement indicated that reductions in wholesale prices similar to those for home-delivered milk would make it possible for stores to sell Borden 's milk at proportionately lower rates . The advertised brands generally sell for 1 cent lower in the stores than for home delivery . Increased Consumption Urged Mr. Van Borne , in making his announcement for the Sheffield Company , said that besides the milk and cream reductions , proportional price decreases would go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company 's customers had received the following notice : " This saving in costs should make milk and cream available in greater quantities to those who have curtailed their purchases below their needs . It should help move the surplus production that is available at this time of year . These reductions will permit of much greater usage of these excellent food products . " The amount of the decrease started by the Borden Company was a surprise to the dairy industry . In most quarters a cut of 1 cent had been expected . The 21/1. - cent cut was the biggest single reduction in more than twenty years . The Renken Dairy Company of Brooklyn . third largest distributor in the city and not a member of Milk Industries , Inc. , said that its prices would go down to the Borden and Sheffield level today and that the farmers would receive a proportionate cut . The Morrisania Farm Products Company and the Dellwood Dairy Company , affiliated organizations in the Bronx , and also outside of the independents ' organization , announced similar reductions and said that the producers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by members of the Buffalo Milk Distributors Association yesterday received cards to be mailed to legislators at Albany opposing new legislation to replace the invalidated Rogers-Allen Milk Bargaining Law . Peter Hagner , president of the association , said that 50,000 cards had been distributed . ' le asserted that milk dealers had " steadily lost money " under the old law and would do so under the proposed new one . At the same time , he added , they would have to charge consumers an unnecessarily high price . A campaign in behalf of the proposed new State milk law was organized at Batavia , N. Y. , by the city 's Chamber of Commerce . Edmund R. Gamble , chairman of the chamber 's committee , said the movement was based on the belief of " retail business and industry that business in general would suffer in the event of a bad break in milk prices and reduced income for farmers . " He said that efforts would be made throughout the State to interest business men . The price cuts were announced after up-State dairymen had voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court review of the invalidated legislation . The Milk Consumers Protective Committee charged last night that the price cuts were intended " to prepare the way for a return to a marketing order favorable to large distributors . " The statement , made by Miss Susan Jenkins , chairman of the committee , asserted that because the Dairymen 's League decided on the first reductions , the competition Borden 's officials said they were meeting " is that created by themselves . " Miss Jenkins added that it was significant that the independent distributors did not lead in the price-cutting movement .                     