@@701463

txt The League of Nations committee of five announced this afternoon it had " adopted the text of suggestions capable of serving as a basis for negotiations " in the Italo-Ethiopian dispute , and Salvador de Madariaga , the chairman , submitted this text to Baron Pompeo Aloisi of Italy and Tecle Hawariate of Ethiopia this evening . They transmitted the text to their governments . It can be stated that this text , which , though official , is withheld until the parties answer , provides under eleven headings for thoroughgoing and far-reaching international assistance through the League to Ethiopia , with four chief foreign advisers for her police force , economic development , finances and other public services ? justice , education and health  --  and above them a chief League delegate to coordinate their work . Offer Sea Outlet . All five would be nominated by the League Council with the consent of Emperor Haile Selassie and would report yearly to him and the Council . No mention is made as to their nationality . The text concludes with two proposals by the French and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea outlet to facilitate territorial adjustments with Italy . By the second and more important they recognize " Italy 's special interests in the economic development of Ethiopia so long as her own recognized rights and interests are safeguarded . " The text makes Ethiopia 's consent to the whole thing a prerequisite as protection for her independence and sovereignty . Ethiopian quarters guardedly hint that this text , or framework , may lead somewhere if the governments stick to it , but they fear that at the last minute the British , French and Italians will get together and impose an Italian chief adviser on the Emperor . They doubt , however , that , even so , Premier Mussolini will accept the plan . Mr. de Madariaga strongly appealed to both parties to hasten their reply . Most informed quarters seem to expect neither to answer before Saturday . It became known tonight that both Mussolini and Premier Laval of France would preside at meetings of their Cabinets on the Ethiopian question Sat , urday . The fact that Saturday is often a day chosen for a decision capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mussolini will reject these suggestions even as basis for discussion , ending all hope of conciliation , or will merely manoeuvre to keep it alive until he is ready to invade Ethiopia . Hope Slightly Raised . Compared with the pessimism of last night , however , the hope that he will accept or at least agree to discuss the suggestions is somewhat greater now . This is mainly because of the way the British , with a technique that is arousing the admiration of other diplomats , balanced judiciously the sword and olive branch before Mussolini today . While the corridors talked of the British home fleet coming to Gibraltar and announced the visit of seventy-one British men-of-war between Sept. 25 and Oct. 15 , to Corfu ? that island of unhappy memory for Mussolini  --  the British behind the scenes here were making retreat easier for Mussolini by offering him still more of what he demands of Ethiopia . There were important overnight changes in the plan of the committee of five . Last night the commit- tee 's suggestions , it is understood , excluded British , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Ethiopia . This ban disappeared after this morning 's committee meeting . Proposal Held Generous . As for the substance of the plan , one European Foreign Minister ? who , however , is not too friendly toward Mussolini  --  estimated that Britain and France were now ready to give Italy , under cover of League assistance to Ethiopia , SO per cent of what Mussolini has asked  --  much more , he said , than France got in Morocco at Algeciras . In the Foreign Minister 's judgment  --  though Mussolini or another might judge the same facts quite differently ? the plan as secretly interpreted fully safeguards Mussolini as regards economic rights and assures him control of the military and police of Ethiopia and does not exclude military occupation by Italy of parts of Ethiopia . This , however , is far from the official British view of the plan . Moreover , strong League supporters who are judging the scheme mainly from the framework the committee of five has prepared do not overlook the Anglo-FrancoItalian bargaining behind this scene and say that " nothing essential has yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ text is concerned . They consider Mr. de Madariaga won a guarantee and that nothing incompatible with the spirit of the covenant will be done , though some fear he may be surprised by the way some provisions would work out in practice if ever they get that far . Aloisi to Stay in Geneva . Still more hopes were aroused early in the afternoon by a wellfounded report that Baron Aloisi would make a flying trip to Rome to talk over the plan with Mussolini . After receiving the text from Mr. de Madariaga , however , Baron Aloisi decided to remain here and the Italian delegation denied that any member of it would go to Rome . The committee of five will meet tomorrow morning here and Mr. de Madariaga will report on his two conversations . A foreign source friendly to the British declared the plan advantageous to both Italy and Ethiopia . This source said it ended all threat to the security of neighboring colonies or foreigners living in Ethiopia and reorganized the economic side of Ethiopia , opening up the country to increased settlement and trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially benefit . As he put it : " There is no certainty that any of the foreign advisers to Ethiopia would be Italians . " As to Ethiopia , he said the plan gave her the foreign assistance she had requested , " with no possible danger that this would be a cloak for military or political control by Italy or any other country . " He held incorrect the idea that the plan provided an international police force , but agreed it included a reorganization of the Ethiopian Army under foreign officers . He stressed , as do all those closest to the committee 's work , that its text provided only a very close framework , with nothing laid down definitely .                     