@@700753

txt Although Illinois Central System has been hurt by the drought , favorable offsetting influences are relatively greater on the average in the case of this road . Illinois Central 's own territory is on the whole in pretty fair shape , and ultimate adverse effects on traffic seem more likely to show up in smaller receipts from connections than in loadings on its own lines . Currently traffic is making an improved showing , stimulated by higher grain and cotton prices , by demand for feedstuffs from areas of shortage , and by shipments of livestock into the road 's territory for feeding . In a country whose economic life is so closely interdependent the road does not expect in the long run to escape its share of the unfavorable consequences from a major disaster such as the western drought , but the exact effect on its traffic from the general economic rearrangements which will be made necessary can not now be estimated with any closeness . For the two weeks ended August ' freight traffic ran above 1933 after six consecutive weeks of decreases beginning with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an important factor in this improvement , but this will probably dwindle once surplus feedstuffs have been moved out of the road 's territory . Higher cotton prices , however , will furnish more-lasting stimulus . Lumber movement has picked up to some extent following clarification of the lumber price situation . Gain in freight traffic continued in the past week , and early August figures point to possibility of an increase for the month over a year ago after decreases in both June and July . Cotton Crop Promising With plenty of rainfall throughout virtually all the cotton-producing territory along the Illinois Central , prospects for this major crop are good . Acreage has been seduced under the government program , but indicated yield pet acre is promiing . The cotton crop setup this year gives Illinois Central a strategic position in this respect , since present indications are that the central valley states will have a better crop than to the West . where there has not been enough rain , and to the East where there has been too much . With the total crop outlook low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure of credit in the South . prospect for sales of manufactured goods in those states Is good The grain situation is spotted . Wheat production in the road 's territory was sharply curtailed , but this grain is not a major item on the Illinois Central , amounting last year to less than one-fourth of corn tonnage and to less than 1% of all freight tonnage . Oats are a virtual failure in most of Illinois and Iowa , but this situation does not differ from 1933 . Corn Depends on Weather Most of the corn is late and still in the making , and a good deal depends upon weather this month . Illinois prospects in the road 's territory pre good . Iowa corn condition varies , but is better along the Illinois Central than is reported from some other parts of the state . With a large amount of old corn in storage , the market price has more influence than production upon tonnage offered for movement , and , with recent upturn , grain movement ( principally corn , on the road has been of late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feed and pasturage , there has been little distress movement of livestock from immediate Illinois Central territory . The road is participating in movement of government cattle from distress areas into the South . Movement of green fruits and vegetables from Illinois Central territory is now about completed for 1934 . Production has been unusually good , and total movement has been about one-third above 1933 . Relief Cash Aids Busimms In those sections of the road 's territory where drought conditions have intruded and become severe , the relief program together with the cotton , corn and hog programs have provided ready cash-and helped maintain business activity . When it comes to estimating the long-run effects of the drought on traffic , a more uncertain field is entered . For the country as a whole , reserve feed supplies have been depleted and will not be replenished from this year 's crops . Movement of feed from Illinois Central territory will therefore probably endure only so long as farmers have surpluses to sell , since they will want to keep enough to make sure of their own requirements . Livestock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of moisture in the road 's territory north of the Ohio River is bound to have a continuing effect into 1935 . In addition there is the - prospect of increased taxes to help pay the cost of drought relief , to say nothing of other parts of the government 's program . CHICAGO  --  During the week ended August 11 Illinois Central System handled a total of 26,788 revenue freight cars as compared with 24,772 in like 1933 period an increase of 8 .1% . In preceding week loadings of 27,231 cars were 8% above a year ago . Most of the increase over last year being recorded now is due to enlarged grain movement which in the past week amounted to about 30D% more than in the like 1933 period . Loadings last week showed a drop of 443 cars from the total of the week ended August 4.                     