@@703049

txt Within a few days after the end of holiday fes1 tivities brings the world back to 1 grips with stern reality , the British Broadcasting Corporation I will begin a series of programs in Arabic , Spanish and Portuguese that will be far more ' mportant to diplomacy than to radio . Great Britain , which has the reputation at least of winning more outside sufvort for her efforts than any other , denies that these " news broadcasts " will be propaganda . But it is admitted that they are intended to check Italian propaganda , particularly anti-British propaganda , and it will be a miracle if they do not aggravate already strained Anglo-Italian relations . The increase of bad feeling between Rome and London , in fact , has been one of the most significant events of the year now closing . At this time a year ago the two governments were putting the final touches on a " gentleman 's agreement " intended and expected not only to end Italian intervention in Spain but also to prepare for the return of the firm AngloItalian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Dissipated It may not be true that the very day the agreement was signed several thousand additional Italian " volunteers " arrived in Spain , but in a few weeks the rather forced atmosphere of friendship was dissipated and subsequent events only made matters worse . This trend is all the more significant because strenuous efforts to revive the old friendship were made by Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain as soon as he took over the government . In fact , thanks to his personal appeal to Premier Benito Mussolini antiBritish propaganda from the Italian radio station at Bari was stopped during the critical weeks after publication of the Royal Commission 's report recommending the partition of Palestine . But not only have radio attacks been revived recently , but as I Lieut . Comdr . Reginald Fletcher , a Laborite , phrased it in the House of Commons last week : " Italy , or the head of the Italian Government , has now become the poison pen of Europe and poisons the whole of the world of international relations . " Thus Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's announcement earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grandi that Great Britain was unwilling to hold ! ' friendship " talks until Italian propaganda ceased , has been better received than any other act of foreign policy within recent years . It would be a mistake to make too much of this anti-Italian feeling , which seems to be , fully reciprocated by the average Italian . Viscount Cranborne , Under-Secretary for . Foreign Affairs , ? replying to Commander Fletcher , in fact avoided inflammatory statements and insisted there had not been sufficient time ? to know whether Britain 's latest protest to Rome would be heeded . Hitler Danger Held Worse In fact , British official quarters see far more danger to Britain from Chancellor Adolf Hitler than from Mussolini , and agree that , with Italy lacking all basic raw materials , it would be the simplest task to shut off her fleet in the Mediterranean and starve her out . Even though Mussolini is credited here with the firm intention to seize complete control of the Mediterranean , Britons , high and low , still refuse to take him seriously  --  which may be one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any case , although Mr. Eden the ether day was talking about Japan , he referred to " the mistake " of sanctions and asked if it should be repeated . Britain is strangely ungrateful to Italy for the lesson that sanctions are not only useless , but dangerous . Rightly or wrongly , Britain considers Italy , rather than Germany , the chief offender in Spain , partitularly in view of the mysterious pirate submarine ? attacks last Summer . The danger of the Spanish war 's spreading has now diminished , but there have been plenty of other things , notably Italy 's adhesion to the Berlin-Tokyo antiCommunist pact and her spectacular resignation from the League of Nations , to annoy the Foreign Office . For the man in the street , who learned thorough dislike of Italy during the Ethiopian war , the most annoying gesture by . Mussolini recently was his assertion that Britain and other former allies ought to give up the former German colonies  --  without saying a word about surrendering any of Italy 's World War gains . Italy Studiously Left Out Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem logical for Britain to seek to break up the Rome-Berlin axis from the south , Italy is being studiously left out while Britain , after finding out what Germany wants , talks the matter over with her firm friend , France . Mr. Chamberlain , it may be remembered , soon after he became Prime Minister did in fact seek to come to terms with Mussolini with an exchange of personal letters , and Mr. Eden announced for the benefit of Rome that there was no English equivalent of the Italian word ' vendetta . " Mussolini , - busy with his Spanish adventure and his anti-British propaganda in the Near East and ' his new friend Chancellor Adolf Hitler , paid no heed . A result is that the state of mind in both countries is accurately reflected by Italian broadcasts and by ironical references to Mussolini like Winston Churchill 's allusion to the sudden disappearance of the mysterious pirate submarines after Britain and France sent out their fleets in pursuit : " Since the days of Caesar himself , there has been no more , salutary clearance of pirates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would appear that the English equivalent of " vendetta " has been found . At least it will be a long time before %he ill-reeling re . sulting from Italy 's conqqest of Ethiopia disappears .                     