@@700302

txt JAMES G. , as German League of Nations coinRefugees missioner for German refNumbered. ugees , has made the first authoritative estimate of the size of the- problem . It would appear that the Hitler government has made progress in settling the Jewish question . Mr. states that 60,000 , persons have fled from Germany since HITLER took charge , and of these more than 51,000 are of the Jewish faith . This is one-tenth of the entire Jewish population of Germany . The proportion of fugitive Jewish intellectuals and business men is exceptionally high . A policy of group repression is easier to enforce if the natural leaders of the proscribed group have been driven into exile . Ten thousand German Protestants and Catholics are among the fugitives and are sharing in the relief extended by Jewish organizations in nearly a dozen countries . Between 10,000 and 15,000 persons are apparently in immediate need . Yet relief agencies since the war have successfully dealt with bigger tasks . But the nation hardest hit is Germany . Upon her are focused the eyes of an amazed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to call of forth the predicted Celebrations , orgy . The demise of prohibition was signalized by a marked absence of celebrations . Later developments must show how far this was due to the lack of an adequate supply of raw materials for celebrating , but on the whole it is safe to say that the celebration habit is passing . These last four years people have not been much in the mood for celebrating . But beyond the economic crisis there have been long-time trends at work . The movie theatres on a festal night now welcome scores of thousands of young people who once roamed the streets with tin-horns and ticklers . The radio on religious holidays brings into the home the services and music for which people thronged to the churches . New York has been surfeited with celebrations ever since distinguished guests began marching up lower Broadway to the City Hall . The notion persists that Engineers the job of running a. goyMay ernment is like building a Disagree . skyscraper or digging a tunnel , only even more scientific . A plea for handing over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the outgoing president of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers . Hitherto the business men have been in charge of the distribution of social goods , and they have made a mess of it ; now let the trained men show them how to do it . Unfortunately for this argument , another engineer at the same meeting insisted that the only way to get . back to prosperity is by inflation under Federal control . Now inflation , as we all know , is a highly controversial issue . " Engineerocracy " would substitute the rigid principles of science for the hit-and-miss methods of our selfish and ill-educated business men . But what happens when two engineers differ sharply on inflation ? When people speak of Technician social control by engiInto neers or technicians they Politician , have a picture of a group of trained men getting together , pulling out their reference books , multiplying the diameter by 3.1416 , by 1120 , by 79 degrees 45 minutes north latitude , and getting the only correct answer for national policy and well-being . They think of engineerocrats as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  pride of opinion and lust of power and just plain human cussedness . There is one country in which the profit motive has been eliminated and where the entire life of a nation is being managed in accordance with Plan . That country is Soviet Russia . But in Russia there is always a fight under way in the ruling Communist party about plans . Some want to go fast and some want to go slow . STALIN 'S engineers think the peasants can stand a little more hunger . The opposition engineers think it is morally wrong and ultimately suicidal to starve the peasants . But what has all this to do with engineering ? It is not technology . It is politics .                     