@@702217

txt In submitting their unification plan to the Transit Commission , Messrs . SEABURY and BERLE estimated that it would result in savings amounting to something like $9,000,000 a year . It is now established , out of the mouth of competent witnesses , on the whole friendly to unification , that there is little hope of realizing any such material gain . Professor LINDSAY ROGERS , analyzing the plan some time ago for the Chamber of Commerce , pointed out that under unification wage adjustments , added pension costs , increased maintenance charges and other similar items would just about wipe out the savings indicated . Now the Citizens Budget Commission submits a series of studies by Luttor T. HARKNESS which cast doubt on the ability of the several lines to make even as favorable a showing under unification as they are making today . Interest charges viiould be lowered and working conditions improved , but the city would not get any larger return on its investment ; the wastes of public operation might even diminish that return . In the days when SAMUEL UNTli21-MYER was special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to denounce the " iniquities " of the Dual Contracts , running to 1969 , under which the Interborough and B. M. T. lines are still being operated . He was particularly found of pointing out the alleged " joker " whereby payments into the sinking funds provided for the retirement of the companies ' indebtedness were to continue for several years after all their investment had been repaid . He figured the total of these excess payments at $86,000,000 . Turning the tables on such critics of the existing contracts , Mr. HARKNESS , who was one of those who negotiated them , now presents an elaborate study showing that under the new plan , with its extra-long-term bonds ( designed to permit slower amortization and thereby lower carrying charges ) , the city in 1969 will owe $284,000,000 more than if the present contracts are allowed to ' run to expiration . He contends that insistence on the five-cent fare has likewise compelled the present negotiators to allow abnormally high interest charges for a public undertaking of this character . While the Budget Commission 's studies thus bring fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fare on the city 's rapid transit lines is an expensive luxury , they do not render unification any less desirable , or even seriously impair the foundations laid by Messrs . SEABURY and BERLE . They were probably too sanguine , but some of the increased expenses listed by Professor ROGERS and Mr. HARKNESS will ultimately have to be met in any event , unification or no unification . Even if no advantage were to ensue in either current or capital economies , other considerations ? removal of the elevated structures , avoidance of a fare differential between the public and semi-public lines , subordination of private interests ? would still warrant continuance of the pending efforts to bring about unification . Chamber of Commerce and Budget Commission are agreed as to that . Their criticisms of some of the detailed provisions of the plan , however , are exceptionally well-informed . and deserve full consideration at the hands of the State board .                     