@@703588

txt The automobile Industry , normally the most important single outlet for industrial materials and supplies , is likely to resume its accustomed role during the next three months after an extended period in which the usual stimulus of automotive demand has been lacking . Current data indicate that the industry has completed working off large field inventories of cars and large factory inventories of materials and supplies which existed at the start of the year . Operating in the face of a 50 , e shrinkage in actual retail sales , the industry was compelled to limit its production even more drastically than the decline in consumer sales in order to carry out this program As to automotive consumption of raw materials , the effect was even more drastic since in large part , the output of 1938 cars was carried on from materials already on hand at the first of the year Dealers to Be Stocked During the current quarter , on the other hand . the industry 's production probably will run about 25% larger than its retail sales so that dealers may be stocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the raw material and equipment markets to supply its requirements for new model output . Aside from the important improvement in the internal position of the industry , two factors which will govern the degree of expansion in operations this quarter will be , first , the retail demand for the new cars and , second , the extent to which labor problems may curtail production . On the first point , a clear test will not be possible until next month . The initial reports on sales of 1939 models already in the market indicate an enthusiastic reception by the public , according to Alvan Macauley , president of the Automobile Manufacturers Association . Best Quarter of Year Seen On the second point , even if continued disturbances are encountered by individual manufacturers , it appears definite that fourth quarter output will be at-the best level for this year Although representing mainly final sales of 1938 models and reflecting a shortage of field stocks in numerous areas , the General Motors report for September gave considerable confirmation to the general impression that the improved trend of retail sales which began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Motors cars and trucks last month were 40.796 units , a seasonal decrease of 37.2% from August . This decline from August compared with correspondirg declines of 43.3% a year ago . 36.3% in September , 1936. and 47 7% in September . 1935 . With operations of the industry confined almost entirely to 1939 models and with initial volume output of the new cars developing more slowly than had been expected , September output in the United States and Canada was only 53.220 cars and trucks . according to the estimate of the Automobile Manufacturers Association . This compared with 96.936 in August and 175.630 in September . 1937 . For the first nine months of the year . output was 1.638,632 unite as against 3.954.480 in the like period of ! set yea r . Dealers ' Stocks Reduced The liquidation of dealers ' inventories of new cars and trucks , which has been under way since March , was climaxed last month by a final reduction of around 30,000 units or more . This reduced the total field inventory of new vehicles at the month end to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the field inventory existing at the end of September , 1935 , and compares with 307,000 units on September 30 , 1937. and 201,000 units on September 30. 1936 . The peak in field inventories was 506,0n0 at the end of February this year . Cars Well Received DETROIT  --  First reports on the sales of the 1939 automobiles already on the market clearly indicate that the models are being received enthusiastically by the public . However , manufacturers probably will not know until after the auto shows , starting November 11. the complete public reaction to the design and mechanical improvements built into the 1939 cars , according to Alvan Macauley , president of the Automobile Manufacturers Association and of Packard Motor Car Co . Pointing out that because the industry in the past has proved to be a self-starter in get-ting general business going toward better times , Mr. Macauley said public interest now is centered upon the new cars . now ready or rapidly being readied for the retail market . Reporting on behalf of the industry the makers ' current situation and outlook , the Packard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cars of such worth and appeal that the public can no longer stand out against the purchase of much needed new automobiles . If potential buyers look upon the 1939 cars " with favor great enough , and ability to purchase As not further curtailed , new car buying v.-11.1 accelerate . The return of more nearly normal buying of motor cars could and unquestictiably would provide the little push which is all that is needed now to take advantage of the start toward greater prosperity already evident and to accelerate the pace into a real recovery movement , " he said . Thus , not in many years . has the new model period carried greater potentialities : because the making of cars benefits all industry . public reaction of the new models is important to all industry , Mr. Macauley declared .                     