@@698883

txt President Hoover announced today that he would limit his part in the Presidential campaign to a few addresses and that the conduct of the campaign would be entrusted entirely to Chairman Everett Sanders and the Republican National Committee . Mr. Hoover will devote his " undivided attention " to the duties of the Presidency , his statement declared . It was unlikely that he would go to Los Angeles for the opening of the Olympic Games the last week in July The President said that the offices of the national committee would be removed to Chicago and New York and that Chairman Sanders was due here in " a few days " to complete arrangements . Hoover Statement on Plans . The announcement , which was designed to sLt at rest reports that Mr. Hoover would conduct the campaign from the White House , read as follows : I have informed Republican leaders that except for a few major addresses expounding policies of the administration-I will not take part in the forthcoming campaign , as my undivided attention must be given to the duties of my office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Sanders and the Republican organization . It has been settled that the offices of the Republican National Committee should be removed from Washington and established at Chicago and New York . Mr. Sanders will be visiting Washington in the course of a few days to complete these arrangements . In accordance with the tradition since their beginning that heads of States should open the Olympic Gaines , I had hoped to avail myself of that pleasure and I had also hoped to spend a few weeks at my home at Stanford University , but at the moment this seems-improbable , as my paramount duty is here . Stays in Capital for Week-End . President Hoover did not go to his Rapidan camp for the week-end , and this gave emphasis to reports that Mr. Sanders might arrive from Chicago - by tomorrow and go to the White House to map campaign plans . The set-up broadly outlined by the President in his announcement is in line with the political ideas of Mr. Sanders , who , according to views expressed here today , may have influenced Mr. Hoover 's decision . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a political standpoint the best tactics for a President comprised devotion of energies to the conduct of the government . The arrangement also fits into Mr. Hoover 's ideas in that , according to his close advisers , he is confident that the American people will endorse his administration when they have had an opportunity to apply a cairn judgment to his record in office . His intention is said to be to explain the measures he has taken in the years of economic depression and to lay down his program for the future in the national emergencyRemoval of the committee headquarters from Washington , it is felt , will emphasize a singleness of purpose in carrying on the duties of the Presidency . Politicians also pointed out today that placing the committee offices in Chicago and New York would have a strategic value because of the importance of the Middle West and the East in the election . Cabinet Men to Take Stump . Moreover , it is felt that the transfer of the offices will eliminate chances of crossed wires between the Inational committee and Mr. Hoover 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of plans . It was recalled today that during the 1928 campaign , when Mr. Hoover had his own organization here and the national committee was also situated in the capital , there were instances of confusion and misunderstandings . The new plan does not mean that President Hoover and his official family will be indifferent to what takes place . General policies will be outlined by the President , but details will be left to Chairman Sanders , who will maintain close contact with the White House . It is expected besides that some members of the Cabinet will be active in the campaign and appear on the stump . Among these are Secretaries Mills , Hurley and Hyde . President Hoover will also have the services during the campaign of his former secretary . George Akerson , who will serve as contact man with the national committee this week , it is understood . Pending the arrival of Chairman Sanders , President Hoover devoted most of his attention today to governmental problems , but during the morning Walter H. Newton , one of his secretaries , arrived from Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign plans . Mr. Hurley also returned from Chicago and conferred at length with the President this afternoon . He will begin active campaigning early next week , when he goes to St. Louis , and thence up the Missouri River . officially opening the new six-foot channel . - In speeches en route he will praise the administration 's public                     