@@703771

txt Prime Minister Chamberlain declared in a letter yesterday that Britain would stick to nonintervention in Spain and would maintain the embargo on arms because any other course would be dangerous to European peace . He was pleased with the results of his visit to Rome , particularly his reception by the people . Page 1 . The French Cabinet also decided to continue non-intervention . It took a strong position on the necessity of fulfillment by Premier Mussolini of his pledge to quit Spanish territory after General Franco has won . It was understood France had a British pledge of support in this aim . Sending of a French envoy to the Burgos Government was expected . Follows the above dispatch . The Insurgents , in a comparatively quiet day on the war front , captured Pons , an important mountain town , took some peaks in the center and said they had crossed the Gaya River in the south . The Loyalists were reported moving up 60,000 troops from the Madrid zone . Page 4 . Foreign Minister Alvarez del Vayo . of the Barcelona Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilian populations . Page 5 . Chamberlain Is Unmoved By FERDINAND KUHN Jr . Special Cable to THE NEW YORE TIMES . LONDON , Jan. ** from his visit to Rome , Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain made plain tonight that Britain would stick to the non-intervention policy and maintain her embargo on arms for Spain in spite of recent InsurgentItalian military victories in Catalonia . Mr. Chamberlain did not budge an inch from his government 's contention  --  expressed at least a hundred times since the start of the Spanish civil war  --  that it would be dangerous to European peace to allow arms to be sold to either side . " In the opinion of His Majesty 's Government , " the Prime Minister wrote to Clement R. Attlee , leader of the Labor party , " such a course would inevitably lead to an extension of the conflict , with consequences which can not be accurately foreseen but which would undoubtedly be very grave . His Majesty 's Government are not , as at present advised , prepared to adopt such a course . " The letters by Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implication Mr. Chamberlain thus argued that it would be unwise and dangerous for France as well as Britain to supply arms freely to the hard-pressed Loyalists in Spain . If the French Government should seriously consider such a step , this would be the advice it would get from London at the present time . So far there is no indication that the British have exerted diplomatic pressure on Paris to prevent the opening of the Pyrenees frontier . Indeed , it is felt here , no pressure is needed as long as Georges Bonnet is Foreign Minister . If any such urge may be felt in Paris , the British think , the French Ministers will resist it of their own free will , just as they resisted any impulse to help Czecho-Slovakia last Autumn or to intervene openly in Spain on previous occasions . Mr. Chamberlain 's statement gained weight from the fact that it was issued after the Cabinet had met for the first time since his Rome visit . The Prime Minister took much of the Cabinet 's time in reporting on what he had found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his return from Rome say he is satisfied with his visit and firmly believes it was a good thing . Pleased by Crowds ' Reaction Apparently he believes the friendly demonstrations of the crowds in Rome were enough to make the visit worth while , regardless of what may have happened in the private talks with Premier Mussolini . " They liked me ! " Mr. Chamber-lain told one visitor , and there is little doubt that he took the same attitude of pleased surprise in reporting to his colleagues around the Cabinet table today . Mr. Chamberlain 's statement on Spain was in reply to a letter from Mr. Attlee , who had demanded the immediate summoning of Parliament to deal with the Spanish situation . On grounds of " the honor and interests of this country , " Mr. Attlee had argued that it was no longer justifiable to deny the Spanish Government 's right " freely to purchase the arms and supplies necessary for its defense . " Moreover , Mr. Attlee asserted , there was " grave danger " of famine in Loyalist Spain and he called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief . Dtir . Chamberlain flatly refused to call Parliament , which in any case will reassemble on Jan. 31 after its Christmas recess . As to relief schemes , he told Mr. Attlee that the government had already been in touch with other countries , " particularly with the Government of the United States of America , " but that there was no chance at present of organizing a relief scheme on an international basis . At present Mr. Chamberlain and his advisers see no ground for anxiety in the Insurgent successes near Barcelona . The Rome talks destroyed any hopes that Italian troops would be withdrawn from Spain until the end of the war ; yet Mr. Chamberlain professes full confidence that they will be withdrawn as soon as the war is over . Moreover , the government seems to have no qualms whatever over the prospect of a complete Insurgent victory , although the opposition parties and a growing body of Conservative opinion fears that such a triumph will mean Italo-German military and economic domination of vital points on Britain 's chief trade route to the East . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to THE NEW YORE TESES . PARIS , Jan. ** the course taken by all its predecessors since the Spanish civil war began in July , 1936 , the French Cabinet decided today to continue the policy of non-intervention . It will be in terms of that decision that Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet will reply on Friday to those who during the Chamber of Deputies debate on foreign policy have been demanding that France change her policy in reply to Italy 's action in continuing to support the Insurgents . In fact , as the outcome of the whole debate it is considered likely and indeed inevitable that a reliresentative of France will be sent to Burgos , and such a representative may be nominated within a very few days . The Cabinet took a strong attitude today regarding the necessity for defending in the future the communications of the empire  --  a phase that may be interpreted as a warning to Rome that Premier Mussolini must keep his promise to Prime Minister Chamberlain to evacuate Majorca and all other Spanish territory as soon as the war isended . M. Bonnet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Geneva with Viscount Halifax , British Foreign Secretary , and the latter 's version of the Rome conversations . It is understood that he was able to assure the Cabinet of full British support in any action that might be necessary later to remind Premier Mussolini of his promise and to assure the return of the Balearic Islands to Spain . Opposition Is Expected While there is little doubt that the government will be able to carry a majority in the Chamber in favor of continuation of the non-intervention policy , M. Bonnet must expect the opposition of the Communists and the Socialists and even of some Radical Socialists . The government will be compelled once more to rely on the Right for support , and a good section of the Right , in voting for non-intervention , will take care to make it clear that it is really voting for the Insurgent regime and for sending a French representative to Burgos at once . Speaking today before a mass meeting that demanded opening of the Pyrenees frontier , former Premier Leon Blum avowed that he had himself originated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been observed and is even cynically violated officially , " he said , " conditions that I approved no longer exist . " Deputy Gethore , representing the Radical Socialist party , charged Generalissimo Francisco Franco was taking orders from Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini . Maurice Thorez , Leon Jouhaux and Paul Perrin , representing a French veterans ' organization , all spoke in favor of active aid to the Loyalists .                     