@@703589

txt Soviet Russia 's leading airmen today solemnly denounced Col. Charles A. Lindbergh in a statement accusing him of weeding what they called lies about Soviet air strength to give Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain of Britain arguments for the surrender of Czechoslovakia . 1The Soviet statement apparently arose from unverified reports in two London newspapers that Colonel Lindbergh had been critical of the Soviet air force . Colonel Lindbergh has made no comment on the repo ts . Ile and Mrs. Lindbergh took off from Le Bourget , France , today . Airport officials said they were bound for Berlin . Fog was said to have forced them to land enroute at , Rotterdam . The statement , published in the Communist , Party newspaper Pravda , was signed by 10 Russian air heroes and Civil Aviation Chief Vastly Molokoff . It accused Colonel Lindbergh of telling gilests of Lady Astor in London that Germany 's air fleet was powerful enough to defeat the combined air strength of France , England , the Soviet Union , and Czechoslovakia . His purpose , the statement said , was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of Czechoslovakia to Retells- ( Wirer Hitler . The statement characterized Colonel Lindbergh as a " has been " among aviators , who recently took advantage of Soviet , hospitality toward Americans by barging into Moscow without , an Invitation , to attend the Aug. 18 demonstration of the Soviet air force . At that time ho was enthusiastically feted by Soviet al-cialej The statement , replied to alleged assertions in London by the American aviator to the effect that the Soviet air fleet Was weak and disorganized . The statement also claimed that Colonel Lindbergh said that during his stay ' In Moscow he was offered the job of chief of Soviet Civil Aviation . " Such so-called pilots , and even former pilots , " the statement declared " will not be permitted to come within cannon shot of our leadership . " The Russians also attribute to Colonel Lindbergh a declaration that the Soviet air Ileet , " 1s without leadership and is in a chaotic condition . " " Soviet aviation holds a majority of world records , " It added , " The Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know how to fly but at any time could be perfect , organizers and leaders . " Lindbergh plays the role of stupid liar , lackey , and flatterer of German Fascists and their English , aristocratic protectors , . . . He had an order from English reactionary circles to prove the weakness of Soviet aviation and give Chamberlain an argument for capitulation at . Munich in connection with Czechoslovakia . "                     