@@698760

txt With constitutional authorities still differing on the power of the President to pardon a person convicted of crime in a territory , Repr e s e n tat ive Charles R. Crisp introduced a bill in the house today providing for a congressional pardon of the four persons convicted of manslaughter in the Massie case in Honolulu . The text of the bill follows : " Whereas , The United States of America exercises complete sovereignty over its territory of Hawaii ; and whereas , under acts of congress the governor of the territory is delegated the authority to grant pardons to convicted persons in criminal cases , but such delegated authority in no wise prevents congress from exercising its complete sovereignty and will over the said territory of Hawaii and its courts and officials , therefore : " Be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the United States of America in congress assembled that Lieut . Thomas S. Massie , Mrs. Granville Fortescue , Albert 0 . Jones , and E. J. Lord be and they are hereby granted a full and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge of the unlawful killing of Joseph Kahahawai , for which offense they were recently convicted in the territorial court at Honolulu , territory of Hawaii . " Bingham Bill Passed . The senate , without a record vote , passed the Bingham bill , under the terms of which a disagreement of a jury in a criminal case in the Ha-walian islands will not operate to acquit the defendants . This legislation is aimed at such instances of lawlessness as the Massie rape case , the trial of which resulted in a disagreement . The Bingham bill provides : " No disagreement of any jury , regardless of the number of disagreements previously existing in any criminal case now or hereafter pending in Hawaii , shall operate as an acquittal of the accused , or shall empower the court to discharge the accused from custody . " THREATEN MASSIE JUROR .1 HONOLULU , May 2 . ? UP )  - -   - -  A boy cott threatened Honolulu business to day as a result of the conviction last week of Mrs. Grace Fortescue , New York society woman , and three men on charges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Walter Napoleon , Hawaiian member of the jury which found Mrs. Fortescue , Lieut . Thomas H. Massie , E. J. Lord , and Albert 0 . Jones guilty but recommended clemency , told police he had received telephone threats , and asked protection . John O'Loughlin , who employs Napolean as a meatcutter , said several customers had threatened to boycott his store unless he discharged the Hawaiian , one man telling him he stood to lose 250 patrons . O'Loughlin said Napoleon would stay . Napoleon worked today as usual , despite threats . Boycott - Hard to Trace . There were reports persons planning to sail to the mainland on ships of the Matson line , with which John F. Stone , white foreman of the Fortescue jury , is connected , had canceled their bookings , but this was formally denied by the Matson agency here . The boycott was hard to trace , as much of it was unorganized and unpublicized . Willy Beyer , juror of German ancestry who makes most of the potato chips consumed here , admitted he had : not received any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , he did not consider that evidence of a boycott , as the orders from Pearl harbor  --  the island 's big naval base  --  came irregularly , four or five times a month . 1 In official circles interest shifted to pending cases against men charged with assaults upon women , including that of the four youths who with Kahahawai were charged with assaulting Mrs. Massie , wife of the lieutenant and daughter of Mrs. Fortescue . Horace Ida , Japanese ; Henry Chang , Chinese ; David Takai , Japanese , and Ben Ahakuelo , Hawaiian , will be retried , probably this month , for the Massie assault . Their first trial , along with Kahahawai , resulted in a deadlocked jury , 6 to 6 , with all racial elements on the jury divided . Kaluthiv wal was lynched two months later . Joseph Young , 22 , Corean , charged with assaulting a young Chinese girl , goes to trial tomorrow . The next move in the slaying case will be made Friday when sentence is to be passed . The defense has anflounced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fails , appeal to the Hawaii Supreme court and , if necessary , to the federal appellate courts will be taken . Maj. Fortescue to Join Wife . New York , May 2 . ? Special.  - -  Maj . Granville R. Fortescue said today that he will sail from Los Angeles on the steamship Mariposa next Saturday for Honolulu to join his wife , who , with her son-in-law , Lieut . Thomas H. Massie , and two naval enlisted men was convicted of slaying Joseph Kahahawai . He returned late last night from Washington , where he spent the Week-end conferring with federal officials regarding the case .                     