@@700560

txt Far from the dignified reaches of the capitol , two representatives from Ohio ? members of a delegation of 100 on a week-end visit here  --  decided this evening to indulge in a hoax at the expense of their fellow members . Two hours later the following were under arrest in the Hotel New Yorker : Representative Warren J. Duffey of Ohio . Representative Martin L. Sweeney of Ohio . A reporter of an evening newspaper who was innocently involved . Several other persons were under suspicion and three police detectives and the house detective of the New Yorker were being goaded into making other arrests when Representative Sol Bloom extracted a full confession from one of the prisoners . Thereupon all were released and the case , both officially and unofficially , was closed . Blow to Southern Honor . It began late this afternoon in a room of the hotel where Mr. Bloom and Col. Francis W. Perry were discussing the next item on the program of the legislative forum under whose auspices the group of representatives are visiting the city . Upon them descended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slip containing the fol. lowing message received by telephone for him during his absent " Your son , Allard , " it read , " is detained at police headquarters for passing spurious checks on complaint of Gimbel Brothers . Please arrange for ball and an attorney Monday morning . Signed P. J. O'Brien . " Inquiry by telephone at police headquarters revealed that there had bee7 , no snob arrest . Bloom Tries Direct ' Action . At that moment Mr. Bloom 's phone I rang and some one describing himself as " Mr. Watson , a reporter , " sought more details concerning the Gasque case . Mr. Bloom softly inquired where " Mr. Watson " was . " Room 640 , " was the reply . Mr. Bloom went into action . He called the newspaper and discovered It had no Mr. Watson on its staf . Next he summoned the house detective and three city detectives from the West 13th street station . They came on the run . " Arrest Mr. Watson in Room 640 , " Mr. Bloom ordered . The detectives made for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see if he could identify " Mr. Watson . " When the detectives broke In they found only two representatives from Ohio and the reporter . Just a Jolly Joke . The arrests followed . Later explanations were forthcoming and everybody joined In laughing off the joke . During their stay here the con. gressmen , most of whom were accompanied by their families , visited the stock exchange , the federal reserve bank and two newspaper offices .                     