@@701023

txt After a week-end of re-forming of lines , helped materially by President Roosevelt and his administrative aides , Senate Democratic leaders were encouraged tonight in the belief that they would reassert control over the $4,880,000,000 relief resolution and obtain its passage before present relief funds are exhausted . Until this measure Is disposed of , the whole administration program will be held as in a log-jam . For that reason , in addition to the necessity of providing relief funds quickly , the President 's field marshals propose a relentless drive for final and favorable action on the resolution before next week-end . Their optimism tonight was based first upon their own prediction that the damage already done to the relief resolution will be repaired in the Appropriations Committee tomorrow , and , secondly , upon the broader and safer assumption that Mr. Roosevelt will get substantially what he wants from the Seventyfourth Congress , despite any haggling . Change in Committee Line-Up . That the revived administration forces would be able to delete from the bill the crippling " prevailing wage " amendment , forced into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong possibility . They had been definitely assured that Senator , one of the twelve who voted originally for the amendment , would move for reconsideration when the committee reconvenes . The original vote on the amendment was 12 to 8 . With Senator changing his vote , the count would be 11 to 9 . The Administrationists hope , however , to switch the vote of Senator Russell , another of the original twelve , in which event the count would be 10 to 10 . In addition to these switches , the President 's friends were counting upon Senators Tydings and , two committee members who were absent on the first vote , and they had reason also to hope that Senator Nye would side with them . This would give the administration an affirmative majority even though Senator Overton of Louisiana , devotee of Senator Long , should appear or send his proxy to register an anti-administration vote . Glass to Present Roosevelt Views . The President 's views on the " prevailing-wage " amendment will be laid officially before the committee tomorrow . Strangely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chairman , long a critic of the administration . Mr. Roosevelt finally turned to Senator Glass last week , and , calling him by telephone at his hotel , personally solicited his influence to prevent altering the relief measure in such a way as to " defeat its very purpose . " Over the week-end a mass of data has been sent by administrative officers to Senators relative to the effect of the " prevailing-wage " amendment . Figures cited indicate that should practical operation of the amendment compel payment of wages on the new works projects equal to prevailing private wages the ** appropriation could last but a few months . The administration ' - effort is being opposed by union labor , and the next week may witness another struggle between the New Deal and the organized workers . The latter . through their legislative agents at the capital , say they will fight to the last ditch in an attempt to assure " prevailing wages . " Strength Against Dole Proposal . The President and his Senate spokesmen were far more concerned with the " prevailing wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . namely , the movement to cut the appropriation to $2,880,000 , - 000 , thereby forcing the President to continue the present " dole " instead of starting the works program . Senator Adams of Colorado , author of the " dole " amendment , said that he would offer it again-to the committee tomorrow . It was beaten last week only by a 10-to-10 tie . Senator Adams had high expectation that it would be adopted upon reconsideration . The floor leaders , however , have much more hope of stopping this amendment than the " prevailing wage " proposal in the Senate proper . They know now that a movement is taking shape definitely to end the dole after expenditure of $880,000,000 of the $4,880 , - 000,000 appropriation . With these two elements warring against each other , the strictly administration forces believe that they can hold the balance of power . Elements of Uncertainty . This would not hold necessarily for the more popular " prevailing wage " amendment , especially as this will be backed with one of the most effective lobbies in Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , really fear the wage proposal . The attitude of the Republican minority toward the troublesome amendments has not fully crystallized and probably will not do so until a party conference is held after the committee reports the resolution . Administrationists have noticed with considerable irritation , however , the actions of the majority of them in committee . For instance , the two menacing amendments come from opposite poles , the " prevailing wage " being offered by the " radicals " and the " dole " by the conservatives . Yet a majority of the Republican members voted for both of these proposals , indicating a tendency to " play politics . " Social Security Secondary . Committees on both sides of the capital will continue this week with the Social Security program in an effort to prepare it for parliamentary action at the earliest possible moment . Leaders realize fully , however , that until the relief program is adopted nothing else of a substantial nature can be safely submitted . These leaders have made it clear they will resist any general tax legislation this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been notified by the President in his budget message that the administration will seek re-enactment of $500,000,000 in special excise and miscellaneous taxes which end by law with the fiscal year . If a tax bill is presented , even to extend these levies , it now seems certain that a determined effort will be made to delete the income tax publicity features written into the law in 1933 . The basis for such a drive has already been laid by Representative Bacon of New York , who introduced a bill last week to repeal the publicity clause . He calls the published income tax lists " a Who 's Who and a list of prospects for every gangster , racketeer and kidnapper in the country . "                     