@@704069

txt Vermont does not believe in building the world of tomorrow on a foundation of debt , Governor George D. Aiken declared yesterday in dedicating the exhibit of the State at the World 's Fair . He appealed for general acceptance of the Vermont custom of living within one 's means . Governor Aiken spoke at the leading event on the Fair 's program yesterday , but there were several other special events of interest , including a visit by 4,500 General Motors employes ; a concert by 3,500 massed voices of the Associated Glee Clubs of America in the Court of Peace , and the observance of National Catholic Laywomen 's Retreat Day . In addition to those who attended these events , a large crowd of week-end pleasure seekers turned out to see the Fair and enjoy its attractions . They were fortunate enough to have an ideal Summer 's day for their fun , with a cool breeze relieving the warmth of the bright sun overhead . Banner Week Expected The size of the throng served to give a flying start to what is expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the aid of the Fourth of July holiday tomorrow and the long weekend many persons are enjoying . Fair officials are hopeful of a continuing upturn over the average attendance thus far , now that the vacation season is in full swing . Governor Aiken and his official party arrived at the Fair in the morning and were escorted to Perylon Hall , where the Governor signed the register for distinguished guests . He proceeded to the Court of Peace , where he reviewed detachments of the United States Army , Navy and Marine Corps . Then he and his party were the guests of Grover A. Whalen , president of the Fair , at luncheon in Perylon Hall . The residents of Vermont are the kind of people who " make up the backbone of America , " Mr. Whalen said at the luncheon . He praised its scenic beauties as well as the qualities of its inhabitants , where- , upon Governor Aiken promptly responded with a warm invitation for visitors to come to his State . Drawn up before the New England exhibit in the Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , was Company K , 172d Infantry , Vermont National Guard , when Governor Aiken arrived for the dedication in the afternoon . The Governor inspected the exhibit and the full-rigged ship Yankee which forms part of the New England show . Foundations Held Important Governor Aiken was introduced by Esme A. C. Smith of Rutland , a member of the State 's commission to the Fair , who also presented Mrs. Aiken , Lieutenant Governor William H. Wills and Mrs. Wills , and Mortimer Procter , president pro tern of the Vermont Senate . Several hundred persons were present in the courtyard of the exhibit . The happiness , prosperity and security of the people of tomorrow depend on the foundations that are now being built , Governor Aiken said . He declared that in Vermont " we are keenly conscious of the necessity for building that foundation right . " " That is why we have persisted , in the midst of a nation of unparalleled public spending , in doing without those things we could not pay for , " he continued . " We do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of debt . " Also we have steadfastly refused to delegate the authority and responsibility for our personal and local affairs to an all-powerful central government . We do n't believe in building the World of Tomorrow on a foundation of dependency or subservience . " We believe in the self-reliance and self-respect of the individual , in the duty and privilege of each worker to be self-supporting , to own his own home and to endure hardship if necessary to preserve these rights . We do not believe that time will ever dim the desire of our people for these things . " The part Vermont is taking in this exposition is small , but we are keeping within our means . It is our belief that by general application of this principle the World to Tomorrow will find its foundation securely laid and ready to receive the weight of our future progress . " A concert by the Vermont Symphony Orchestra followed in the Hall of Special Events . The seventy-five members of the orchestra , many of whom made their own instruments , come fror.1 all sections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York branch of the National Society of New England Women at a tea and reception given by the Vermont Advisory Committee on Women 's Participation in the Fair . Governor Aiken left Flushing Airport for Albany in his private plane at 5 P. M. , accompanied by Major Willett Foster , a member of his staff , who is his aviation instructor and who brought the Governor 's plane to the airport . Mayor La Guardia , Mr. Whalen and Charles M. Spofford , assistant United States commissioner to the Fair , will speak at an Independence Day program at 11:30 A. M. tomorrow at the foot of the statue of George Washington . The Mayor , Eddie Dowling and Dr. Stephen S. Wise will appear at an Independence Day ceremony under the auspices of the Council Against Intolerance in America in the Court of Peace at 8:30 P. M. tomorrow . Military forces from Camp George Washington , including army , navy and marine troops and bands of the Sixty-second Coast Artillery and the navy , will parade through the exhibit area at 3 P. M. , starting from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along Constitution Mall , around the Theme Center , and south to the Court of Power and Plaza of Light , and thence across the Empire State Bridge to Camp George Washington . The Royal Canadian Northwest Mounted Police will perform their musical ride in the Court of Peace at 4 P. M. , and at 4:30 P. M. there will be an aerial exhibit by planes of the Naval Reserve and the New York National Guard . Unusually elaborate pyrotechnical displays are being arranged for tonight and tomorrow . There also will be a fireworks display on Fountain Lake each night at 10:10 , marked by some exceptionally large set pieces . A trylon and perisphere set piece more than 100 feet in height will change into a massive head of George Washington , and an American beauty rose set piece will change into an American flag . A new area with seats for more than 5,000 spectators and standing room for 10,000 more has been set aside by the Fair management for these displays along the shore of Fountain Lake south of Washington Hall . Today will be Esperanto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dancing and singing , which will include the singing of " Yankee Doodle " in Esperanto .                     