@@703204

txt Important - changes both in government personnel and in methods have been made in Latvia . Vice-Premier Margers Skujemeks has resigned and is now appointed Dlicctor of the State Statistical Department . President Karlis Ulmauls has named in his stead Gen. Janis Balodis , who has up to now been Vice-President of Latvia and Minister for War , positions which he still holds . General Balodis is very popular and his services as leader of the Lettish Army during the War of Independence ate still remembered . Martial law has now been discontinued but Government control of public movements and affairs is to be continued under strict civil laws which have been passed by the Cabinet . State Council Set lip A State Economic Council , which replaces Parliament . has been founded bete . It , consists of 76 members , taken from Commissions of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry , the Chamber of Agriculture . the Chamber of Crafts , and tile Chamber of Labor . The body is to examine economic bills presented by the Cabinet . The Government has complete control over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is appointed by the Cabinet , and the Chairmen of the various Commissions of the Chambers are appointed by the Directorate of the Chambers . Moi cover the Chapman of the meetings of the Council is always one of the Chan men of the various Chambers . The oi ganization of political parties is foi bidden . All societies in Latvia have to be re-registered . The Minister cf Public Affairs has the right to refuse the registration of Societies considered as undesirable . No society is allowed to exist which has less than 20 members but these small societies are entitled to join others with the permission of the Ministry of Public Affairs . Police Power Increased Vilis Gulbis , Minister of Interior . has been given increased power to enable him to maintain older in the country . The Minister has the right to control all enteitamments. gatherings and processions and to punish any nelson or persons spreading , rumors which might be harmful to the State . Further , strikes and lockouts arc forbidden . The Munster of Intmor has also the right , subject to agreement with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangerous to the State . The Munster of Interior has also the right to forbid the residence of anyone considered undesirable in a given city , Under this latter provision , for instance , a journalist . resident , in Riga , may be rendered " harmless " by be- ing exiled to some small place in the provinces . Under press laws now obtaining , all responsible editors of newspapers and other periodicals appearing in liatvia must be Latvian citizens and more than 25 years of age . Responsible editors or publishers of periodicals published in the Lettish language must be of Lettish nationality . Press Instructed The press is told to form a " healthy , constructive public opinion , " to support national aims and to promote the unity of the nation in accordance with the ideas which led to the political turnover in Latvia on May 15 , 1934 , when President Ulmanis established the totalitarian State . To accomplish this , Latvian newspapers and periodicaLs will have to devote the greatest possible attention to local affairs and the political , economic and cultural life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to laws are forbidden . Any article " adverse to State , people , laws , lawgivers , the army or the Civil Guards and police " is equally forbidden . Furthermore , It is forbidden to misrepresent the cultural and artistic affans of the Lettish people and to spread " false news " about the state , history , literature , or the people of Latvia . News affecting the church , ieligion , or the family , which tends to undermine these institutions or to defame or bring them into contempt , is forbidden . The same is the case with any political news which might tend to damage the relations of Latvia with foreign States . Also harmful statements in regard to the heads of friendly foreign Governments , members of such Governments , or diplomatic representatives are not to be tolerated . As a matter of course , indecent articles and pictures arc prohibited . Criminal action is not to be described in such a way as might lead to imitation . First Bill Presented The first bill of importance placed before the Council concerned the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 56,800. - 000 ) to cover about two-thirds of the construction costs of the 30,000 h. p. power plant , now tinder construction at Kegums . At its first session . the State Economic Council sanctioned the loan , declaring the erection of the Kegums Power Plant desirable and advantageous from an economic point of view . Therefore , it was stated , all classes of the population should support this loan by purchasing state bonds .                     