@@702895

txt The Committee for Industrial Organization today renewed its offer of peace with the American Federation of Labor , but on the basis that it must continue to insist upon recognition of its industrial union principle in mass production industries " Delegates to the conference of leaders here unanimously authorized the executive officers to call a national convention to represent all of the 32 national and international unions , the 600 local Indus-Witt unions and the city and state industrial councils , Philip Mm say , C. 1 . 0 . vice-chairman , explained that while the fit st scheme of the committee was " to organize all the unorganized mass production scot keis and then present them to the American Federation of Labor , " the pi esent policy of the federation , " that no one who belongs to the Committee for Industrial Organization may go into the federation , " made it necessary for the committee to form its own mganization . The r enewed offer of peace proposed that a committee of 10 from the C. I. 0 . meet with 10 born the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington . This was defined as a " preliminary meeting " to work out the details , procedure and number of representatives on each side for a later fall conference . The C. I. 0 . originally proposed a Committee of 100 front each side , which the A. F. of L. declared unwieldy . Say Green Should Know Speakers today asserted that William Green , president of the federation , ought to remember from his own experiences as head of the United Mine Workers of America that " democratic union procedure " was for a group of 150 to 200 to start the conference with the operators , giving all a %Mee , and then to reduce the number to workable size as the negotiations progressed . Mr. Murray , in presenting the committee 's compromise reply on the peace meeting with the federation , made it , emphatic that " we want the nation to know that our offer of unity is sincete , " but that the C. I. 0 . continues to Insist upon recognition of tio industrial union principle in mass production industries . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union dominated tenets of the federation . Crystallization of sentiment for a boycott of Japanese-made goods appealed as an outstanding teatime of the committee 's conference on at the President Hotel here , and the consensus was that it would be adopted with few , if any , dissenting Dotes before the meeting closes . Four resolutions have been In committee for most of the week , aid veteran labor men among the leaders have been working over every detail of their provisions , condensing them into one . Not a line of its text has been resealed , but many things have Indicated that it will place the neatly 4.000,000 C. I. 0 members on record for a general boycott of Japanese products and for using all power to prevent shipment of war materials to that nation . The American Federation of Labor , temesenting nearly 3.000,000 other unionists , already has taken such a stand . Another development expected is a definite statement by John L. Lewis , chairman of the C. I. 0. , or by Philip Murray , chairman of the Steel Votkers Organizing Commit- tee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. F. of L with regnid to the C. I. 0 . bid for a peolce parley Some leaders here expressed hope that the C I. 0 . offer of a peace conference , ( list flatly rejected by the A. F. of L executive council , had so impressed the federation rank and file that pressure from below was forcing the A F of L. leaders to reconsider Others . particularly older heads , were skeptical . These leaders declared that the A. F. of L standing committee on labor peace never has had any authority to act , and that its first reported welcome of the peace offer was promptly countermanded by William Green , A : F. of L. president . In addition , they asserted , repeated private conferences between C. I. 0 . and A. F. of L. leaders have found the latter unwilling to recede an inch from their opposition to industrial unionism . These spokesmen also recalled Mr. Green 's recent declaration that the C. I. 0 . must be crushed , and they repeated the charges that the A. F. of L. had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a result of the efforts of Heywood Broun , president of the American Newspaper Guild , who is one of the delegates to the conference hem e , the C. I. 0 last night toted to thrpw its full strength behind the strike by members of the New Yolk city branch of the guild who are on strike against the Brooklyn Daily Eagle                     