@@700726

txt Production schedules of the Bethlehem Steel Corp . ' s steel plants are averaging only about 25 ' , , at present , and the management again is confronted with an employment problem . This is stated in the " Bethlehem Review " an official bulletin issued to the employes of the company . The review adds . in part : " The drop in business necesss-ily means fewer hours of work , and the best method of adjusting this problem is being developed by the superintendents with the elected employes ' representatives . Broadly speaking , these principles have been evolved as expressing the wishes of the employes : " Long service men , the men with families . and the most responsible and efficient workers will receive first consideration as the active force with the available work divided among - them . Some of the newer men and those less necessary-to current operations and those with lesser dependency will be placed on the waiting list . not terminated , to be given work as soon as it is available . Employes on Waiting List " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the company . His cheek will not be lifted , or his account closed , unless he desires it , and he can enjoy the various benefits available to Bethlehem employes . " By adopting this policy , wholesale layoffs are avoided and the men for whom there is no regular work at present are nevertheless eligible for duty as soon as business improves . " - Eugene G. Grace , president of the company . in a statement in the bulletin , says : " Sixteen years ago Bethlehem formulated with its employes a broad program of labor relations , the purpose of which was to afford a greater measure of economic security to employes and their families . As we now look hack we realize the distance we have traveled . Over these years there has been a constant improvement in relations between employes and management . Plan Adopted by Others " It is encouraging to note how industry generally is taking hold and adopting these same principles . Much of the new labor legislation has the same objective which our plans accomplish . One of the best ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to continue to maintain the close harmonious relationships which exist between employes and management , settling our problems as they arise from day to day within the company and not allowing them to grow to serious proportions through inattention or delay . " Right now die steel business is experiencing a decided slump , Therefore , the most pressing problem at the moment is the question of employment . At the beginning of the depression four years ago Bethlehem scrapped the old policy of wholesale layoffs . Through the employes ' representation plan the employes ' employment needs were constantly kept before the management . Now we are facing another business recession and every employe may be assured that our policy will be to give our employes as much work as we can , sharing It among as many as possible and thus keeping intact the forces which will be needed when business improves "                     