@@697611

txt South American revolutions have no pity for the repose of the State Department at Washington . Within a little less than two years there have been in seven Latin-American republics attempts  --  of which six were successful  --  to overthrow the existing Government . The result was to throw upon Secretary STIMSON the duti of deciding when and how to recognize the new regime , and also to act so as to inspire faith in the good intentions of our Government , and to maintain friendly relations With the republics to the south of us . ? An official review of all the questions and incidents involved was fitting at this time , and Mr. STIMSON did well to come to New York last night and make it before the Council on Foreign Relations . His brief discussion of the general policy of the United States toward our neighbors to the south , and of the spirit in which we have sought to maintain the Monroe Doctrine , Was merely preliminary to the more important things which he had to say . These have to do with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been guided during these two troubled years . When ought the United States to recognize a foreign Government , at least as de facto ? What are the credentials which a Government in another country , suddenly coming into power , should offer as a ground of admission into the society of nations ? For many years the settled policy of the American Government was that it had no right to meddle in the internal affairs of another country , nor to endeavor to impose upon its Government , as a condition of being recognized by ours , any political dogma of our own . If the new Government was able to keep order and to execute its international obligations , it was regarded by the United States as one that we could do business with upon the basis of friendly relations . As is well remembered , President WILSON , in his anxiety to do something to prevent or cure the revolutionary habit in South America , set up another standard . It was what might be called the standard of " constitutional legitimacy . " The aim was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they succeeded at home , they would not be recognized by the United States . Mr. STIMSON quotes the language of President WILSON , stipulating that recognition could be given only to a government " based " upon law , not upon arbitrary or ir " regular force . " He might have cited an even more positive utterance by Mr. WILSON : " The Gov " ernment of the United States will " refuse to extend the hand of wel " come to any one who attains " power in a sister republic by " treachery or violence . " This was a theory which could have been upheld only with difficulty during the frequent revolutions of recent years , and Mr. STIMSON frankly announces that it has been abandoned by the Department of State . The basis of recognition is now made the same as the test which JEFFERSON applied . It is scarcely correct , however , to say that the Wilson idea was entirely given up as soon as he was succeeded by a Republican President . From November , 1921 , to March , 1923 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , demanding first acceptance of a treaty promising to " safe " guard American property rights in " Mexico . " And President COOLIDGE waited nearly three years before detiding to recognize the new Government of Ecuador , which came into existence through a revolution . But it is true that the events of the past two years brought the radical change in policy of which Mr. STIMSON speaks . The special treaty of the Central American republics , to which the United States gave tacit assent by Executive action , prevents recognition of a revolutionary government in any of them ; but eLsewhere the Washington Administration has gone . back to the Jeffersonian idea . Secretary STIMSON was speaking solely about Latin America . He had not a word to say about Russia . Would the guiding principles which he lays down dictate recognition of the Soviet Government at Moscow ? Not necessarily . For among the conditions for recognizing a new regime in South America , or anywhere else , is " ability and willingness to dis " ' charge international and conven " tional obligations . " Inability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reason consistently given by Secretary COLBY , Secretary HUGHES and Secretary KELLOGG for refusing to recognize the Soviet Government . If it desires to be recognizedby the United States , it has not been left in ignorance of what it I must do .                     