@@699343

txt This government believes that the debt payment due from France on December 15 will not seriously disturb world economy and that in view of the large gold holdings France is able to make the payment . The position was set forth in a note which Secretary of State Stimson sent to the French government in reply to the recent French note asking postnonement of the December 15 instalment . The Stimson note takes direct issue with the French as to the French gold holdings . The French note said that the Bank of France gold holdings were not a source of permanent wealth for France but a guarantee of deposits made in France by Frenchmen and foreigners and that their normal redistribution could only follow general economic recovery . The Stimson note " appreciated the significance " of the explanation but Insists that the existence of the gold holdings " does appear relevant " to the problem of meeting the December 15 payment . The note puts into diplomatic language tho general opinion in Washington that France is quite able to make the December 15 payment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the payment will not be accompanied by any economic disturbance . Benefits Greater Than Harm in Bends:Win " The maintenance of these agreements in their operation , pending due opportunity for analysis of all matters bearing upon your request for revision and its consideration by the American Congress and people , still appears to us to outweigh any reasons presented for a delay , " the note said . The reply , which was less than one-third as long as the reply to Britain : was of a different tone . As in the British note , however , Secretary of State Stimson declared that debt payments have a very definite relationship to the problem of economic recovery and there are important avenues of mutual advantage which should be explored , but warned that this does not imply cancellation . kt President Hoover , the note further stated , Is prepared through whatever agency may seem appropriate to cooperate with France in surveying the entire situation and consider steps to bring about restoration of stable currencies and exchange , revival of trade and recovery of prices . In examining the debt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tangible compensation available for expansion of markets for products of American agriculture and labor , said Mr , Stimson . Furthermore , he pointed out that the problem of foreign debts has a very definite relationship with disarmament and the continued burden which competitive armament places upon the entire world . The note concluded with the observation that payment of December 15 interest would bring about a favorable situation for any subsequent examination of the debt problem between the two governments . Interest Payment Can be Managed Opinion as to the effect of the British payment is less rigid but it is still held in informed quarters here that the British can manage to pay at least the $65,000,000 interest . It is held that the really disturbing factor in connection with the British situation involves the possibility of future payments rather than the necessity of meeting the one on December 15 . In other words , if Britain could receive definite assurance that this was the last payment she would have to make under the Mellon-Baldwin agreement , the present necessity would not raise difficulties which could not easily be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought up the question of postponing the payment of $30.000,000 due on principal and there Is the impression that if it is brought up necessity for transferring that amount will be waived . However , this government can not act without a request coming from the British .                     