@@702262

txt Former President Hoover , in an address last night at the Hotel Astor before a large group of distinguished fellow engineers , warned that the United States is headed for a debacle like that of 1929 , " unless we can bring the intelligence and courage of the engineer into industrial statesmanship . " " I am convinced , " the former President said , ' that when we fully understand the economic history of the period of the Twenties , we shall find that the debacle which terminated the end of another apparently highly prosperous period was largely contributed to by a failure of industry to pass its improvement ( through labor-saving devices ) on to the consumer ; and I leave that subject for the moment with just this one word , and that is , we are headed in that same direction again today unless we can bring the intelligence and courage of the engineer into industrial statesmanship . " If increased wages and profits are to absorb the savings which the engineer produces through his labor-saving devices and renewed and new methods , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essential to increasing consumption , thereby we are ourselves by our own neglect producing that mass of technological unemployment . Increasing prices merely because there is a rising demand defeats the very end which statesmanship requires in our industries at this time . " Pays Tribute to Swasey Mr. Hoover spoke at the annual dinner of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers after the presentation of the Hoover Medal , named for the former President , to Ambrose Swasey of Cleveland , 89-year-old builder of giant telescopes and other astronomical and optical instruments and one of the most beloved figures in scientific and engineering circles . Mr. Swasey will be 90 on Dec. 19 . The medal is awarded by the four national engineering societies known as the " Founder Societies , " which include the American Society of Mechanical Engineers , the American Society of Civil Engineers , the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers . " This medal , " Mr. Hoover said , " was especially dedicated to engi- , neers who have carried the engineering banner of intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was doing his part as a citizen in those functions when we were boys . " But in a larger sense our nation and the whole world today is passing great tests . Most of us believe that our social system must be maintained in its vital and essential principles if human progress is to continue . But the problems which confront us today are , in deed , the problems created by the engineers themselves . " New problems of public service come now into the field of the engineer . With the general rise of the engineer to executive position , the dependence upon engineers for clarity of thinking and planning , provision of works and enormous public services , we have to front the fact that these problems , which lie indeed even outside of government , must find their solution through engineering minds . " We not only have the new problems of human relationship which the expansion of mass production and industry have brought upon us , but we have problems of industrial statesmanship in the conduct of these enterprises which now involve the fate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " These are problems that can be solved only by the processes of engineers  --  the painstaking collection of fact , of experiments , the determination of proportional weight of factor and experience , and , above all , the intellectual honesty that confronts the end . " And these problems today range far from pure engineering over into economics , and the engineer no longer can hold himself to mere design of plan or of administration , but must range out into this area of sociology and economics if we are to find these solutions . " We have one phase of these problems confronting us this day which is peculiarly an obligation of engineers and yet lies more nearly in economics than it does in engineering . " We have gone on and Dr. Swasey has made great contributions to our constant flood of labor-saving devices . For the whole of a century , engineers have been called upon to defend this action of the labor-saving device against the charge that it produces unemployment and human misery . Offers " Economic Answer " " We are confronted today with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced in many years . I scarcely need to state the economic answer to all that . " New inventions and new articles increase the demand , increase the standard of living and of employment , and we know from a thousand experiences that in the older articles of production , through cheapening the costs , we decrease the price for the consumer , expand the consumption to the consumer , and thereby increase the standard of employment and , coincidentally , increase the economics of living , the standard of living . " That is sound economics , but it depends only upon the time element , and , in the main , the increase of employment under the standard of living depends also on reducing the price of goods to the consumer , and here is where the engineer must range in the area of economics . " Mr. Hoover received an ovation from his fellow-engineers . The opening of his speech produced general laughter when he remarked , after the applause : " The thought just flashed over my mind that , not being on a radio hook-up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to introductory remarks made by Gano Dunn , chairman of the Hoover - Medal Board of Award ; who paid tribute to the accomplishments of Mr. Swasey as well as of Mr. Hoover , the former President brought forth further laughter when he said : " I would like to say something about Mr. Swasey also , because I do n't feel that Mr. Dunn has done an entirely adequate job in that direction , although he rather overdid it in my direction . " In addition to the Hoover Medal , Mr. Swasey also received the VDI Medal , given by the Society of German Engineers ( Verein Deutscher Ingenieure ) . The presentation was made by Mr. Dunn . William L. Batt , outgoing president of the mechanical engineers , presided . Another feature of the evening was the calling of the roll of eight engineers who have completed fifty years of membership in the A. S. M. E. They are Matthias A. Beck of Milwaukee , C. H. Foster of Troy , N. Y. ; Norman D. Fraser of Los Angeles , Horace B. Gale of Natick , Mass. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ E. Moran of New York City , John S. Unger of Chicago and William M. Whitney of Winchendon , Mass . Only Mr. Foster and Mr. Moran were present . Another speaker was Dr. Harlow Shapley , director of the Harvard College Observatory , who reviewed the advances made in astronomy during the past ninety years . Professor Shapley , who delivered the annual Thurston lecture , pointed to the coincidence that the planet Neptune was discovered in the year in which Mr. Swasey was born . The spectacular advances in astronomy , Dr. Shapley said , have been made possible by the association of astronomers and engineers , the latter having contributed their knowledge in the building of the giant telescopes , without which modern astronomy would be impossible . Speaking of former President Hoover , Mr. Dunn said : " For reasons which all will appreciate at this time , the acts of his administration as President are not here invoked as instances of the public service of an engineer , but his career since his return to private life has again afforded outstanding evidence of his devotion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has stirred the nation with his contributions to the philosophy of government and with the broad knowledge he has brought to bear in the discussions of recent issues . His devotion to human welfare has again sent him to the front in the role of champion of that personal liberty in support of which our forefathers mutually pledged to each other their lives , their fortunes and their sacred honor . "                     