@@700136

txt French verb , nouns and adverbs flew back and forth like ping-pong balls . Six pretty French women were doing the talking , while six American husbands listened and waited understandingly . It was the happy aftermath of the dinner of the National French War Brides ' Club , held during the American Legion convention here , and attended by about 105 French women and the Americans they married during or shortly after the World War . Mrs. Germaine Anderson of Hillsboro , N. D , formerly of Angers . France , was bending over an account book in which was written , in a flowing French hand , " Depenses et recettes . " She was trying to determine if the dinner had been a financial as well as a social triumph . There is no question that the dinner , attended by French and American notables , has helped to launch the War Brides ' Club which was organized a year ago at the Portland convention of the American Legion . The French girls , many of whom live in small towns and do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding much pleasure in the Chicago reunion , and they hope through the publicity given their meetings here to get in touchwith many other French war brides , so that their organization may grow to large proportions . There are now eight state units , Mme. Anderson said . French women wishing to join are asked to write to her , addressing her simply Hillsboro , N. D. The time is just ripe for the organization , said Mrs. Robert B. Shaw , vice-president and chairman of the Chicago dinner . In the first years after the World War many French brides , failing to adjust themselves to the difficult conditions of a new country , turned about and went home . Those that have stayed for 14 years  --  and there are thousands  --  are pretty sure to be permanent , Mrs. Shaw said . Some of the brides think they are quite " Americanisde . " When they go back to visit in France , how their relatives laugh at their American manners , their American accent ! But to an American the change is hardly observable . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded In teaching it to their husbands The War Brides ' Club has its fin ' roster of officers as becomes a branch of the American Legion . Besides Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Shaw there is Mrs. Marie Mall of Los Angeles , secretary , and Mrs. Maryse Eschbach of Detroit , treasurer .                     