@@704239

txt Those who had expected Hitler to make the dramatic gesture yesterday of announcing his resignation to the Reichstag were not successful prophets . He did not announce his resignation . Instead he asked by implication for the resignation of Mr. Chamberlain and M. Daladier . For it is perfectly clear that , while his terms are to be subjected to the " careful examination " which Mr. Chamberlain promised , it is not within the realm of practical politics for these terms to be accepted in their present form by either the British or the French Government as those Governments are now constituted . If the guns which Hitler ordered to speak in Poland are now to Cease firing on the Western Front , and if the conference which he proposes to convene for the purpose of writing a new peace is actually to be held on the basis of the offer he has made , the British and French delegates to that conference will have to be sent there by other Governments than those which have made the commitments that now stand in the name of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a complete change of front , and new mandates given to new Governments , and no such change and no such mandates are in sight . There is an element of mystery about this Reichstag speech . It is the failure of Hitler , almost invariably a shrewd tactician , to make a more effective play for the achievement of what he must now desire to achieve above all else . That he is sincere when he says that he wants peace is scarcely open to question . Why should he not want peace ? He has already won his prize in Poland ; why risk losing it ? Moreover , he has made it a consistent rule to quarrel only with one adversary at a time ; if he must fight France or Britain , he would obviously prefer to fight them singly , in circumstances which would separate them , rather than when they are linked together in a common cause . There are other considerations also . Hitler needs peace because he has certain large and immediate problems to work out with his new partner , Stalin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt his own confident assertion that Germany can survive a long blockade . He needs peace because he knows that the German people have been schooled in the belief that a real war , and especially a long war , is utterably unthinkable , and because he has good reason to fear the ultimate anger of the German people when they make the discovery that they have once more been taken into the dark valley of disaster and made to suffer as they suffered in the years from 1914 to 1918 . Then why such an ineffective argument for peace as Hitler made yesterday ? The Reichstag speech was not even a clever speech . It was not shrewdly baited . It offered no temptation for the British and French people to abandon the effort on which they have embarked . It suggested no way in which their prestige could be saved if peace were made at once . Instead , it coupled a tediously long and insufferably smug glorification of the force of German arms with a blunt notice to Britain and France that Poland , in whose behalf they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusive " concern of Germany and Russia . If it did not intentionally go out of its way to rasp British nerves , it must have succeeded in this respect by choosing the present moment to demand a return of the former German colonies . There are only two possible explanations of a speech which failed so signally to achieve its apparent purpose and to help prepare the ground for the prompt peace that Germany needs and must desire . Either Hitler , still miscalculating the strength of British and French purpose , has now become convinced , after his heady triumph in Poland , that he can actually have peace on his own terms ; or he has abandoned all hope of peace and made a speech which is intended wholly for home consumption , in the first of what must ultimately be a long series of efforts to stiffen the morale of the German people .                     