@@704315

txt With little more formality than is required in buying a loaf of bread at the neighborhood grocery store , Uncle Sam 's agents in BosIton are raising to citizenship status about 400 men and women each week . Each Monday , hundreds throng the courtrooms on the twelfth floor of the Postoffice Building to take the oath of allegiance and renounce old ties . There is an occasional stir in the otherwise unexciting procedure when , a member of a foreign nobility renounces his station and title .. Lately , with the increasing number of new citizens , the naturalization process has been invested with a little more ritual and dignity . A welcome by one of the local posts of the American Legion Women 's Auxiliary is added to that of the presiding justice . Each citizen is presented with a tiny American flag . Applications Increase Aliens , watching events . abroad with uneasiness , are more than ever desirous of becoming American citizens . With the outbreak - of war in Europe , applications for citizenship jumped sharply . More than 5,800 persons filed applications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nearly 2,000 over the same period last year . Declarations of intentions  --  popularly " first papers " ? increased 100 per cent during the few weeks immediately following the outbreak of hositilities . In addition to the war rush , the local office under Commissioner Mary H. Ward has been working for months with a lot of applica- tions from persons seeking to qualify for social securitiy benefits and Works Progress Administration regulations . In 1938 , the Boston office received 40,584 applications for final papers , in comparison with 22,539 filed in 1935 , until then regarded by the Department as the peak year . The British Empire , as might be expected , is the greatest contributor to the number of new citizens coming in through Boston . More than 7,000 renounced allegiance to the Union Jack in the year ending in 1938 ; about 2,700 renounced Italian allegiance , With 878 from the Soviet Union , .66 ; from Poland and 186 from Finland . The naturalization station here handles applications from all New England States and two counties in New York . Requests to Remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stays . These requests furnish a large number of the human-interest stories which come into the bureau daily . Asked for his reason for wishing to stay here , many an applicant has answered that he is " afraid I will be drafted the minute I land . " On the other hand ; some foreign governments are reported advising their nationals to remain in this country in order to save on foodstuffs at home . A common query these days , naturalization officials report , is whether citizens of foreign countries are deportable in the event their country declares war andrecalls men for duty . The United States takes no steps , however , to deport legally admitted citizens of other countries , Miss Ward declares . One of the most recent problems was presented by an American citizen living in England who married a British air officer . She returned to her former home in one of the New England states a few months ' ago to find that when she wanted to go back to England , United States officials would not approve her passport since she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a citizen of a foreign nation does not automatically cut off American citizenship . Since the young woman did not want to renounce her allegiance to the United States , Government officials refused to assume responsibility , for her return to England. , Other work of the naturalization service involves persons deriving citizenship through naturalization of parent or ' husband or wife and whose status must ' be determined , persons seeking repatriation , those who were misinformed and have been innocently conducting themselves as citizens for years . Delays became so great in Miss Ward 's office  --  and it is considered one of the most efficient units in the Department of Labor  --  that her request for 30 men and women from the civil service lists was granted this month . New workers and old alike are still talking about the applicant for citizenship who came in seeking " neutralization. "                     