@@701903

txt A move which , if upheld . may increase the taxes of- all investment banking firms participating in securities underwrib. ings has been made by the Bureau of Internal Revenue . The action came to light yesterday when it was learned that the Bureau had informed a syndicate of banks , which , under the managership of Chase National Bank . $53,000,000 issue of New York in 1934 , that it must pay taxes poration income tax law . Members Report Individually Previously most underwriting syndicates have regarded themselves as trusts or partnerships . As such , they have reported to each member his share of the earnings , and the members have reported their profits as part of their individual taxable incomes . The action in the New York syndicate case would tax the underwriting syndicate itself as a separate entity . The position taken by the Bureau of Internal Revenue is that the syndicate is " an association " under the meaning of the corporation income tax law and therefore subject to it . Action in the New York case is understood here to reflect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations as a result of Supreme Court decisions handed down at the end of last year . . In the case of T. A. Morrissey vs . Commissioner of Internal Revenue , the Supreme Court held that " business trusts , " which have " the distinctive features of being created to enable the participants to carry on a business and divide the gains which accrue from their common undertaking . " are associations within the meaning of the corporation income tax law and must pay that tax . The court , in this decision , specifically mentioned associations for " dealing in securities . " Similar Distinction Drawn The Board of Tax Appeals in the case of William S. Gordon vs . Commissioner of Internal Revenue has drawn a similar distinction between bona fide partnerships and syndicates in which managers have highly centralized authority . The Board 's decision rested upon the decision of the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the second circuit in the case of Glerunore Securities Corp . vs the Commissioner of Internal Revenue . This decision , the Supreme Court refused to review . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now pending before the tax appeals board . So far as could be learned yesterday , other New York banks and investment houses which underwrite a great majority of both corporate and municipal securities have not been asked by the Bureau of Internal Revenue to file syndicate account returns under the corporation tax requirements . It was believed , therefore , that the request to Chase Bank was in the nature of a test case . Underwriters of both types of obligations were of the opinion that the right of the Government to tax their syndicate operations as corporations would not stand up in the courts . Some legal obstacles to such a move , they felt , would apply to both municipal and corporate syndicates , while others were applicable to one or the other . Might Be Held Unconstitutional Municipal men were agreed that such a tax ( estimated at about 18e : , of profits in the Chase Bank syndicate account ) would add to the future rates which states and their political subdivisions must pay for credit . For that reason . municipal attorneys were of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gretzttt that it would =id to the burden of debt . In this connection one municipal attorney cited a Supreme Court decision ( Willcuts vs Bunn U. S. 292 ) in which the court upheld the right of the government to tax market profits on municipal bonds . In the opinion the court said " ? it must clearly appear that a substantial burden upon the borrowing power of the state would actually be imposed " before the court could restrict the taxing power of the government . The question raised is whether by taxing municipal bond syndicates. the government would not be increasing the debt bur ; den of the issuing authority , and whether this would not be declared unconstitutional on the ground that it would fall within the constitutional prohibition as a tax upon the exercise of the borrowing power of the issuer . Corporate Bond ' Underwritings Corporate bond attorneys. who are experts In matters pertaining to underwriting synchcates , expressed the belief that such groups could not be considered even remotely as corporations because of their temporary nature and their limited control . Especially since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed their nature considerably . Each underwriter buys a given part of an issue in most cases and is responsible only for that portion . Syndicate agreements frequently are so worded . Underwriters , of course , have been aware of the possibility of some tax developments for sometime and certain syndicate agreements contfun a clause providng that members of the group will share in any tax levied thereafter on the operation . It was pointed out that were underwriting syndicates to be taxed as corporations the individual participants subsequently would also be taxed on their own corporate incomes to the extent of their participation in the distribution of profits from the underwriting activities . Prior to the Revenue Act of 1932 , partnerships were not very fully defined , and when syndicates of any sort Were formed the question arose whether participants were taxable on the amounts earned by the syndicates or on the distribution Later the law was amended and the definition of partnerships broadened .                     