@@700898

txt Rear Admiral Richard . E. Byrd dispatched Chief Pilot Harold I. June and a crew in the Condor biplane last night to attempt to extricate the tractor party from a region of numerous crevasses traversing the 81st parallel of latitude . They left with instructions to attempt to locate a safe passage for the tractors . Accompanying June were William Bowlin , co-pilot ; Kenneth L. Rawson , navigator ; Clay Bailey , radio operator , and Joseph A. Pelter , aerial cameraman . The Diane was in the air six hours and forty-six minutes , landing at Little America at 2:16 o'clock this morning and covering approximately 670 nautical miles . The fliers located the tractor party and June reported there was no hope of those explorers making further progress from their present position at latitude 81 degrees 4.7 minutes , south ; longitude 157 degrees 30 minutes , west . Their further progress apparently is blocked , he said , and it will require considerable caution for them to make a cafe retreat . Many Crevasses Clearly Seen . In fact . June and Rawson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tractor party was lucky to get as far as it did . June said the crevasses could be seen more easily from the air than from the ground . Most of them are blind crevasses , he declared , as they are roofed over with snow bridges . " I should say the tractors crossed at least 200 such blind crevasses , " he said , " before they reached their present position . The crevasses ran like waves at right angles to their course . They were big crevasses , too , some being close to fifteen feet wide . " We saw the hole where Demas 's tractor went in a week ago and it looked wider than the tractor . I do n't see how they got out of that . The only thing that saved the tractor was that the walls of the crevasse fell at an angle and not vertically . These fellows have cr:ainly had a tough time of it . " What will be recommended for the tractor group has not yet been decided . For nearly a fortnight the party has be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the newly discovered plateau where the two scientists attached to the party , Dr. Erwin H. Bramhall and Charles G. Morgan , hoped to be able to run a series of magnetic and geophysical measurements . Admiral Byrd and Dr. Thomas C. Poulter , senior scientist and second in command , were considering today whether to recall the party to Little , America and sdnd it to the plateau in an easterly direction from here or take a course found by the airplane crew further to the north . The tractor expedition has been in difficulties since Nov. 1 , when it first reached the region of crevasses near longtitude 162 degrees . The Iparty then withdrew and tried a fresh approach along the 161st meridian . No safe transit was found here , so the men retreated again to the north and on Nov. 10 ran southeast , only to encounter the crevasses again . Since that time they have been endeavoring to work their way through but have made only a few miles . In the tractor party besides the two scientists and E. J. Demas are Joseph Hill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operator . The flight to reconnoiter the position of the two tractors followed Admiral Byrd 's flight of exploration by only one day . Work on the plane to prepare it for its new test was rushed as various small adjustments had to be made . The weather fortunately continued to hold good . The crew had hoped to press further to the south on an exploratory mission , after studying the tractor party 's predicament , but head winds which mounted to gale force and heavy clouds massing in front of them forced them to wheel north and speed for home . The wind had reached a velocity of fifty miles an hour when they turned , June said . Geographically the flight served a useful purpose as it resulted in a fresh extension of the known surface of the Ross Barrier and confirmed Admiral Byrd in his belief of a sea level passage dividing the land masses of the Pacific quadrant . The plane ran south for 182 nautical miles , as Admiral Byrd had instructed June to look for Finn Ronne and Albert Eilefsen , who were homeward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the geological party which reached that point . Four days ago they started back for Little America . The plane then was turned eastward and after covering " 130 nautical miles the fliers were over the two tractors , the crew of which was signaling them with flares and smoke pots . The two machines were hove to a mile or so northwest of where Demas 's machine had plunged through a crevass . After circling , the pilots ran southeast four miles looking for a way through . There was none and the area , they said , grew worse . Fliers Swing Around . The plane swung around , passed over the tractors , and after proceeding some twenty-five miles , flew northeast for forty-eight miles to latitude 80 degrees 27 minutes ; longitude 156 degrees 30 minutes , . west . The fliers then turned east and headed toward the scene of the discoveries of the day before . They flew fifty-eight nautical miles in this direction , which brought them over the low southern frontier or the eastern plateau and across the course of the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice down the slopes to where it apparently met the water-borne ice and these crevasses apparently converged far to the southeast with the main broad melt along the 81st parallel . At 11:20 P. M. the fliers changed their course for due south again , crossing the main belt of crevasses , and held on this course for fiftythree nautical miles until headwinds necessitated a return to the base . This course had carried them sixtytwo nautical miles east of the tractors and there was a safe transit visible through the main broad belt , in June 's opinion . If the tractors hope to get further east they will have to retreat about seventy-three miles on a sweep to the north and then proceed with caution .                     