@@702008

txt Charged with selling confidential papers of the navy to an agent of the Japanese Government more than a year ago , former Lieut . Commander John Seiner Farnsworth was arrested today and held in $10,000 bail by United States Commissioner Needham C. Turnage . The preliminary hearing was postponed two weeks , and the former officer was committed to the District of Columbia jail . The name of the alleged Japanese agent was not disclosed . It was reported that he had once been stationed here , but that he had been relieved of duty and returned to his homeland months ago . As news of Farnsworth 's arrest early this morning spread quickly about the capital , officials at the Japanese Embassy described the charges as " astonishing . " It was said that the first time the embassy ever heard of Farnsworth was yesterday , when some one telephoned twice to ask for money in connection with the recent spy case in which a former enlisted man , Harry T. Thompson , was convicted and sentenced at Los Angeles for selling naval secrets to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in charge of the embassy in the absence of Ambassador Saito , said he first heard of the case when he read of it in the newspapers . Commander Bunjiro Yamaguchi , assistant naval attache , also declared that he never heard of Farnsworth . Secretary Hull told reporters soon after the arrest of Farnsworth became knbwn that he heti fib direct information about the case , and that he had not been approached by any Justice Department agent or other agents of the government . His statement was accepted as disposing of rumors that the Japanese Government would be formally asked to recall an official of the Japanese Embassy , at least not before the trial of the former naval officer . J. Edgar Hoover , Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , whose agents arrested Farnsworth , denied that the arrest was in any way connected with the case of Thompson . The two cases  --  that of Thompson and of Farnsworth  --  were the only two such incidents in the history of the navy , officials said . They were reticent about other phases of the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service record of the former officer . Under Surveillance for a Year It was disclosed by naval intelligence officers and Federal agents that Farnsworth had been underi surveillance for at least a year ; almost constantly in the last few months . This followed an alleged visit to Annapolis , where Farnsworth was reported to have urged the wife of a high-ranking officer to allow him to scrutinize. official ' papers . The incident was reported to Washington by the officer 's wife , and the joint surveillance was decided upon . The warrant upon which he was arrested charged that " on or about May 15 , 1935 , " the former officer sold to the Japanese agent a confidential service publication , " The Service of Information and Security . " Farnsworth was discharged from the navy on Nov. 12 , 1927 , for conduct " tending to impair the morale of the service " and for " scandalous conduct tending to the destruction of good morale . " It remained a secret where he obtained the paper he is charged with I selling last May . Pleads Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brilliant of the navy 's young officers , the accused stood before the United States Commissioner this morning surrounded by Federal agents and reporters and photographers , He nervously mopped his perspiring brow as he fingered the warrant . Commissioner Turnage was patient with the prisoner ; he explained the seriousness of the charge and asked him how he would plead . After a wait Farns- , worth replied in an undertone : " I 'll plead not guilty . " The warrant read to the prisoner charged that on May 15 , 1935. he did , " with intent and reason to believe that the same was to be used to the injury of the United States , and to the advantage of a certain foreign nation , communicate , deliver and transmit to an officer and agent of the Imperial Japanese Navy a certain document and writing relating to the national defense ? to wit , a certain book entitled ' The Service of Information and Security , ' a confidential publication of the United States Navy ' . " Asks for Hospital Treatment The prisoner said that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bond as in being sent to a hospital . He pleaded for medical treatment , saying that he had lost 30 pounds recently because of an attack of gastritis and 1 , ung trouble . Federal agents informed the commissioner that if the jail physician found that hospital treatment was needed , the prisoner would be transferred to Gallinger Hospital . The only official explanation for Farnsworth 's dismissal from the navy after sixteen years of service was that he had borrowed money from enlisted men and committed perjury in disclaiming indebtedness . The record was voluminous , however , and naval officials refused pointedly to allow inquirers to look at the entire record . Born at Chicago on Aug. 13 , 1893 , Farnsworth was appointed to the Naval Academy from Ohio in 1911 . He was graduated in 1915 and in 1916 was sent aboard the S. S. Galveston on duty with the Asiatic Fleet . The following year he returned to the United States and attained the temporary rank of lieutenant , but during part of that period he underwent hospital treatment . Completed Flight Training He was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1922 he completed flight training with pilot ratings on seaplanes and airships . He then was sent to Annapolis for a post-graduate course , so apt had he become in the art of flying . His ability was again markedly demonstrated and he was sent to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and to a college in New York not shown on the record to complete the post-graduate course . When he faced the court-martial in 1927 he had just been relieved of duty with VO Squadron 6 , Aircraft Squadrons , Scouting Fleet . The Naval Academy year book for 11915 described Farnsworth as " daring " and " reckless . " Had he lived lin the days of the old navy , the author of the sketch predicted , he " would have been famous for his ' desperate deeds and hairbreadth escapes . " The sketch closed with this quotation from Milton : " He can , I know , but doubt to think he will . "                     