@@701827

txt Traditionalists planning to participate in the annual Easter parade on Fifth Avenue tomorrow morning would do well to include an umbrella in their Spring accoutrement , for , according to the Weather Bureau , the week-end will be marked by cloudy weather . Showers were predicted for today and tonight , with clouds tomorrow . This gloomy outlook is not confined to the city , for the Weather Bureau declared that " New England and most of the Atlantic seaboard " would also be visited by showers . Only in the western and southwestern sections of the country , where " fair weather " was promised , can paraders be fairly sure of a balmy day . Despite the weather prediction , hundreds of thousands left the city yesterday by air , rail and highway . The holiday exodus , which , according to officials of transportation companies , will reach its peak this morning , was already taxing the transportation facilities late yesterday afternoon , with air and bus lines as well as railroads all reporting " extremely heavy " traffic . The departure of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many incoming visitors from virtually every State in the Union and from Canada . Hotels here reported that out-of-towners , taking advantage of week-end transportation rates , were flocking to the city " in great numbers . " The large department stores and other shops throughout the city reported " unusual " business yesterday , as shoppers staged a last-minute rush to purchase their Spring attire . Fifth Avenue and other thoroughfares in the shopping district were crowded throughout the day . The Pennsylvania Railroad announced that traffic was " quite heavy " during the day , with special excursions to Washington , Atlantic City and Asbury Park especially crowded . The company added fortyfive sleepers and sixty-three extra parlor cars to their regular train service . The New York Central declared that the increased traffic made it necessary to run many of the regular trains in at least two sections , while the Baltimore and Ohio reported that it was adding extra coaches and Pullmans and that the excursion traffic to Washington was " especially heavy . " Similar conditions were also reported on the New York , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lackawanna Lines . The Greyhound Bus Line reported that the holiday traffic had exceeded " our hopes for the Easter season . " All scheduled runs were being made with two or three additional sections and incoming traffic , especially from Canada and upState , was also heavy . Extra sections , both incoming and outgoing , were run by many other bus lines . United Air Lines reported " excellent " traffic on its lines , with a heavy travel to and from the Pacific Coast . Eastern Air Lines were " sold out " to Washington and Miami , while TWA , the Lindbergh Line , was " loaded up " with reservations that exceeded last year to the coast and intermediate points . American Air Lines reported heavy service to all New England points . Unemployed to Parade Preparations for Easter activities continued unabated here , with one of the first announcements to be made public yesterday coming from Mr. Zero ( Urbain Ledoux ) , who declared that he would lead a group of unemployed and crippled men in the Easter parade on Fifth Avenue for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. tomorrow at the Jade Mountain Restaurant , 197 Second Avenue , the men will be outfitted in faultless Easter style ? top hat , striped trousers , swallow tail coat , spats , cane and even a cigar  --  by Mr. Zero . At noon the group will join the paraders on the avenue and then will return to the restaurant where they will be Zero 's guests . Mr. Zero explained that the clothes will be supplied by a second-hand dealer , who , it was cheerfully admitted , will buy them back after the parade . Each man in the group will also carry a rag-pickers burlap bag during the march and will be on the lookout for any article that might be discarded by the paraders . David H. Pyle , president of the United Hospital Fund , announced that child patients in many of the city 's voluntary hospitals will receive Easter eggs , candy chickens and toy rabbits tomorrow morning . The gifts will be distributed by social workers and Girl Scouts . A collection of Easter flowers will be placed on display this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bronx Botanical Gardens . The exhibit will be on view from 10 A. M. to 4:30 P. M. each day until next Friday .                     