@@698775

txt The Fifth Avenue AsFifth sociation was founded Avenue twenty-five years ago Standards , to preserve the high standards of the shopping district . Its sanctions were never more needed than today , when adversity breeds lower standards and deflation sometimes extends even to matters of taste and decorum . Pasters and placards have made their ugly appearance in more than one shop window lately , advertising the cut-rate and liquidation sales long familiar to other sections . Distress signals of this kind do not help the I neighborhood . Captain PEDRICK , president of the association , believes that they actually impair rental Values along the avenue . His warnings should be heeded . The temptation is great , both to tenant and to landlord , but the latter at least should realize that to yield to it would be highly damaging to the prestige of the whole district . MICHAEL BONNEY , A the janitor of City Remarkable College for nearly a Janitor . half century and son of JOHN BONNET , who was janitor before him , was as much a part of the institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was as devoted to its interests . He had always his own views how things should be done , and he had always to protest against change , but , having satisfied his conscience , he accepted the new order . One can imagine that in facing death he acted as in meeting any earthly situation . It is gratifying to pay homage ( as did the entire professorial staff when he quitted office ) to so faithful and efficient a servant of the city and of the college . He was faithful in the days of few things ; . he was faithful in the days when he became ruler over many things . If credentials were needed at the gates of Heaven by him who holds the keys , the tens of thousands of teachers and students who have known BONNET on earth would recommend him for the position . The annual report Improving of the officers of the Camping Camp Directors AssoMethods. ciation , published in a recent issue of The Camping Magazine , shows that efforts are being made to raise the standards of camping activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibility involved in having full guidance over the lives of children for eight weeks . They regard their job as primarily educational . One of the most significant recognitions of the importance of this work is the establishment of courses in camp administration and leadership in such institutions as the University of Michigan and Pembroke College . It is hoped that ultimately rigid minimum requirements for camps and their personnel will be adhered to widely . The emphasis will be on character and program rather than physical activities . Fear is expressed that the number of registrations may decrease this year . But parents who have sent their children to camps in years Past will make every sacrifice to do so again . Few experiences will be of greater value for the child 's later years . The muskrat is a War native American oh the who is proving himMusquash. self a great nuisance in England . About five years ago representatives of the family were invited to emigrate to farms in the British Isles , there to devote themselves to the business of producing musquash fur . But adventurous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon became a menace to river and canal embankments , causing great damage with their tunneling . Extensive flooding on the Upper Severn is said to be due to muskrat infestation over a large area . A special act , effective May I , outlaws musquash unless they are properly confined in licensed colonies . The Ministry of Agriculture asks the help of landowners and the public in reporting cases of " free " muskrats and in destroying them . Since the rodents appear only at night and at some seasons their burrows are below the water level , it is often difficult to discover them until much damage has been done . One expert predicts that nothing less than a fiveyear plan will be needed to kill off the muskrats that are at large .                     