@@699733

txt Demanding the right to become a first-class naval power and to participate in the 1935 naval conference , Germany today presented a new sheaf of amendments to the British draft disarmament convention and intensified the existing deadlock . The conference commission decided that it could not even discuss Any points of conflict before it . It adjourned after a very brief session during which most of the delegates refused to take the floor and debate proved impossible . M. Rene Massigli , of France , spoke of " the enormous question-mark which at the present moment seems to be hanging over all our work . " The leadership and moderating influence hitherto exercised by the British delegation was lacking due to the absence of the Foreign Undersecretary , Capt . R. A. Eden , in London . The chief hope of saving the conference from a complete impasse lies in the fundamental understanding between the British , American and French leaders , when they return here Monday , and some moderation in the German demands for progressive rearmament . Latest German proposals , in return for reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . until the end of 1936 , will not exceed the number of surface vessels now assigned to the Reich , and will not lay down more than one vessel to replace an obsolete capital ship . Submarines are demanded for Germany , unless abolished by other countries . Other German amendments demand abolition of military and naval aircraft and international control of civil aviation . Behind the existing situation in the disarmament conference is the German Insistence on rearmament , coupled with widespread distrust of the Hitler regime in other countries Germany Is practically unsupported in these demands . Whereas Italy , until recently , backed up every German proposal , Signor Mussolini 's spokesman Is now observed to be keeping a discreet silence on practically all points . In spite of the apparent deadlock , the British delegation is making heroic efforts to get something done before the economic conference convenes on June 12.                     