@@701084

txt On the ground that the commercial interests of the United States in the Western Pacific do not call for the creation there of airports , which could be converted into fighting bases , Japanese naval 1 authorities commented in the press today in opposition to Secretary Swanson 's grant of permits to Pan American Airways to construct landing facilities on Guam , Midway and Wake Islands . A Navy Office spokesman , after observing that from the strategic viewpoint he could not criticize Mr. Swanson 's action , pointed out that the distinction between commercial airports and those for naval and military use was not clear . The landing places sanctioned could be converted into naval air bases whenever necessary , he said , and although ostensibly intended for commercial use , would be a potential denser to Japan because of the proximity of Japan 's mandated islands . Extension of American air routes so far into the Western Pacific where the United States possesses no vital commercial interests creates for Japan , said the spokesman , a problem requiring serious consideration . Administration Shifted . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that naval observers here had recently noted that the President had placed Wake and Johnston Islands and Kingman Reef under the administration of the Secretary of the Navy . Midway , Wake and Guam , it is observed , constitute a series of stepping-stones across the Pacific between Pearl Harbor , T. H. , and Manila in a line passing through the middle of Japan 's mandated islands . Wake is a coral reef , sometimes completely under water , but enclosing a lagoon capable of accommodating sea planes . Geographically it lies in the angle of a capital V formed by the mandated Marianne and Marshall Islands , while Guam is right in their midst . The Japanese Navy attaches the greatest strategic importance to preventing the mandated islands from coming under other control . Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu , former commander-in-chief of the fleet , recently wrote : " These islands are Japan 's first line of marine defense . Should they be occupied by an enemy they would at once endanger our defense . The islands are natural aircraft ' carriers , ' affording enemy squadrons ideal places from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their mandated islands , but are not constructing fortifications . Civilian opinion and that of the Japanese Cabinet apparently " harmonize " with the navy , as the Department of Communications has drafted a project for an air service to Palao Island , where it would connect with the Pan American route . The Foreign Office can not say whether formal action will be taken . At present no grounds are seen on which a diplomatic protest could be based . The navy probably hopes this informal objection will have the desired effect .                     