@@704263

txt Signature of the Anglo-French-Turkish Pact at Ankara last night is greeted here as an important Allied diplomatic victory and a corresponding setback to Germany . Le Temps which usually closely reflects the Quai d'Orsay viewpoint , says : " Germany has just been compelled to submit to a diplomatic check to which it will be especially sensitive , since it deprives Germany of any prospect of finding in the Balkans , the Eastern Mediterranean or the Near East appreciable compensations for the exorbitant sacrifices which it was obliged to make to Soviet Russia in Eastern and Northeastern Europe . " New Stability Found Turkish fidelity to the obligations , maintained despite strong Soviet pressure which compelled the Turkish Foreign Minister Sukru Saracoglu to return from Moscow to Ankara Oct. 17 without signing a pact with Russia , was highly praised in the French press and unquestionably introduces a new element in the stability of Europe where the dictators have been redrawing the maps almost at will the last weeks . Germany now can not invade Rumania without adding Turkey to the list of its enemies and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all of which desire to , reniain out of war , can maintain neutrality and independence and perhaps avoid complete economic . subservience to Germany . It is also observed here that Turkey would not have signed the pact without confidence in Allied victory , and Turkish action is expected . to exert a favorable influence on Italy . There is , however , a more disquieting aspect to the background of this pact . This is the Soviet-German diplomatic co-operation which finally stopped , or at least suspended , Mr. Saracoglu 's effort to ' find a basis for agreement with the Soviet Union . Upset by Germany About a week ago , according to reliable . information , a Soviet-Turkish agreement had been arranged for a nonaggression pact , providing for the maintenance of the neutrality and ' integrity of the Balkan States and the Turkish maintenance of its obligations to support England and France in event that aggression in the Eastern Mediterranean seemed imminent . This would hav , e meant that Turkey would serve as a kind of bridge between France and England on one side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding that Russia would remain neutral , contenting itself with its already considerable ' gains in ter-itory and influence . But German influence at Moscow was strong enough to cause the Soviet Government to upset this project at the last moment by the familiar Soviet diplomatic method of putting forward new and unacceptable demands , including the closing of the Straits to British and French warships . This demand would have contravened both the Montreux Convention and existing Turkish obligations to France and England , and led to breakdown of negotiations . No Clue of Breach So while France and England have reason to congratulate themselves on the adhesion of Turkey as a friend and possibly as an ally which possesses a well-trained army of proved fighting quality and enjoys an admirable strategic position , this new evidence of German influence in Moscow would seem to afford little support for wishful thinking occasionally manifested here hoping for an early breach of Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin . The Stockholm conference with its assurance of the moral solidarity of the Scandinavian States and the threatened Finland was 101- lowed with- attention and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are unable to affect the course of events in Northeastern Europe . It is the general impression in diplomatic circles here that Finland while ready to make minor concessions such as the cession of islands in the Gulf of Finland will not unresistingly submit to the establishment of such a.Soviet protectorate as has been established in Latvia , Estonia ; and Lithuania , involving actual occupation of the country by Red troops . Stalin Studies Move There is still no reliable clue as to what action the Soviet Government will take and Mr. Stalin is probably still weighing the respective advantages of seizing whatever is accessible while the other Great Powers are engaged in war or waiting until circumstances aie still more favorable to his designs . One hope finding expression in the French press is that an im mediate threat to Finland and an indirect menace to the Scandinavian countries may make Americans of Swedish and Norwegian origin less isolationist in sentiment .                     