@@698634

txt A fleet of airplanes is rapidly gathering for an invasion of the Great Bear Lake radium field . Today there are 12 planes carrying freight and passengers to this isolated area . These belong to Canadian Airways , Royal Air Force , Prince Galitzine and to other individual prospectors and mining companies . This district is rightly named the rich man 's field , as it requires a minimum of $5000 for equipment , aerial ti ansportation and preliminary development work . Inquiries of this vast mineral discovery are being received from as far away as South America . The Federal Government has announced that , owing to the inaccessibility of this area , and the inrush of prospectors , a radio station will be opened on Great Bear Lake during the summer . This station will enable air pilots to obtain accurate and speedy weather reports . The Government has revised the mining regulations in this area tinder which the Government takes authority to supervise and control the development , production and conservation of ores containing radioactive elements so that there will be no profiteering on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , canoes and tractors will be used to transport the horde ofprospectors and geologists into Great Bear Lake , more than 1500 miles north of Edmonton , where the richest known deposits in the world of radium-bearing pitchblende have been found . The area also contains high-grade silver and copper ores . Governmental analysis places the silver ore at 9000 ounces valued at approximately $3000 to the ton or almost 50 per cent silver and copper running as high as 47 per cent to the ton . Samples analyzed of the pitchblende ore run up to 60 per cent uranium oxide from which radium is produced . The great distance of this field from the end of roads and railroads is a tremendous handicap which prospectors and mining companies are endeavoring to solve . The cost to charter an airplane from to Great Bear Lake via Fort Fitzgerald and Fort Rae and return , a round trip of 2200 miles completed in two days , is quoted at $1440 . This would include a load of approximately 1200 pounds and would likely mean the transportation of two men and sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At pi esent the planes " hopping off " for the sub-arctic field are equipped with skis for descending on the ice and snow and when the ice goes out of Great Bear Lake in the middle of June the planes will be equipped with pontoons . The three points on Great Bear Lake " t which the bulk of the claims have been staked out are at Echo Bay , Lindsley Bay and Hunter Bay Echo Bay itself has been staked completely and the movement of prospectors has taken a northerly direction . So keen has been the interest in this mining discovery that even the Indians , members or the Rabbit Skin tribe who inhabit that territory , are filing on personal claims . The Government has allowed each prospector to file on six claims in his own name and six each in names of two proxies , a total of 18 in all each year and the size of the claims are limited to 1500 feet square . One of the noticeable features of the exodus to this mineral area has been the number of northerners and residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the field to be in the vanguard of those staking claims . In the summer time when there is no snow dogs are still used as beasts of burden for there arc no horses . The load strapped on each dog 's back weighs about 30 pounds , but in the winter when the powerful huskies  --  half wolf and half dog  --  can pull the sleds on the snow and along the frozen river beds , a much heavier load may be carried by the dog team . Many tons . of supplies are going north from Edmonton each week for prospecting parties and it is stated that four parties from Winnipeg and 10 from Toronto are preparing to go to the Great Bear Lake area . New York and Detroit interests are said to be equipping planes which have this far northern area for their destination .                     