@@700893

txt Unless the petroleum industry eliminates waste and prevalent economic abuses , the management of the industry will be taken over by the people of the United States for good and for all . Harold L. Ickes . Secretary of the Interior and Oil Administrator , asserted in a strong criticism of oil practices before the American Petroleum Institute 's annual session here . " I beg of you not to make the mistake that the railroads made in their day and that the public utilities more recently have made , " be said . " If you would escape the heavy hand of the government which , sooner or later , will be charged with the duty of carrying out the grim purpose of the people that such abuses as exist in the oil business shall no longer be tolerated . then set your house in order and do it without delay . This advice is given in a friendly spirit by a man who wishes you well and who would help you if he could . But the remedy lies almost entirely with you " Axtell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a . Kingsbury , president of Standard Oil Co. of California , was reelected %ice president at large . G. A. Hill , of Houston Oil Co. vice president for production . succeednig C. F. noeser : W. G. Skelly , of Skelly Oil / CO. , vice president for marketing , succeeding Howard Bennette ; and C. E. Arnott. of SoconyVacuum Oil Co was reelected vice president for marketing . W. R. Boyd . Jr was reelected executive vice president , while Frank Phillips , president of Phillips Petroleum Co. , succeeded H. L. Pratt as treasurer . Lacey Walker continues as secretary and assistant treasurer . Oppose Oil Exchange The Institute adopted a resolution against establishment of an exchange to deal in crude oil futures , stating that it " would not be a valuable index of crude oil values . " Those who are trying to " pass the buck " to the Oil Administration for the demoralization of the retail market know that the CM Admintsts-ation is in no degree responsible . Mr. Ickes said adding that the code contains no provision for margins for retailers ti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been so stir inefficiently conducted as is the oil business today . Urging a curb on the reproduction of service station . Secretary Ickes stated that the theory of operation has been " to hell with profits . give us gallonage : * Another insidious and destrueLve practice for which the integrated companies in particular are responsible , he said . is that of selling gasoline to competitors with the full knowledge and . perhaps , even with the clear intention , that such gasoline is to be resold at prices that will undersell the service stations of the very company that is dumping the gasoline . " Imagine Henry Ford , " he said . " selling his cars to rival manufacturers so that they might be put on ' he market under different names and at prices below those that he demands . " Government Regulation of Supply Needed " It must be clear to all that the topsy-turvy superstructure built on the oil industry , " said the Administrator , " must be carefully taken down , piece by piece , in such a way as to cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will fall of itself in utter collapse . In that event many thousands of people will be irreparably injured . ? ? ? Some matters , particularly the regulation of the supply of crude oil , it seems to me , on the basis both of reason and of experience , can best be handled by the Federal Government working in close cooperation with the governments of the oil-producing states . " It is up to the oil industry to reform its own marketing practices and come to some reasonable accord with independent refineries and independent service stations , which will allow them to live and make a reasonable profit , he said . Mr. Ickes said that when the petroleum code came to him to be administered , it was not the code he had wanted , but he went ahead with what had been provided . " One reason why I turned away , at least for the time being . " he said , " from price fixing , was because of the difficulty , I might say the almost insurmountable difficulty , of ascertaining what were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price fixing . " Would Stop Excess Production Oversupply of crude in California is down to about he said , adding that he has been urging the Attorney General to bring appropriate suits to put a stop to this excess production . Referring to Texas , Mr. Ickes said that " if a state insists upon the unrestricted exercise of what It claims to be its sovereignty , let it exercise it . " The state , he said , has always had it within its power to stop the production of illegal oil within its own borders . " I wonder whether in this and other organizations of oil men , " said Mr. Ickes , " there arc members who are engaged in this rotten hot oil game . If there are , I respectfully submit that there is a duty to expel them . " Beaty is Facing Facts An appeal to come into accord : to face crude oil surpluses as a present and future problem ; to cease " carping " about government interference with business , and endeavor to mould a law which the industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Beaty. chairman of the planning and coordination committee for the petroleum industry . lie suggested a state statute providing that ? when an oil pool is under proration or restriction upon production by authority of law and any operator during any month shall produce more than his fixed allowable from any well , the owner of the nearest producing well located on other property and the same structure . shall be entitled to recover of the offending operator the full value of the oil so produced in excess of allowable . " Discussing the marketing branch of the oil business , Mr. Beaty asserted tly , t there are too many service stations and the Service generally maintained is too extravagant Mr. Beaty apprehends little future trouble , with gasoline inventories . declaring that the quantity on hand is only 2.000.000 barrels iii cxt ess of an economic storage and this is isolated in Califorrna Farish Sap . Indtp-try Overbuilt W S Farish , chairman of the board of the Standard Oil CO. of New Jersey , said the troi.ble with the oil industry is too much and too many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business in the world today , " he said . " There are three times too many filling stations , two pipelines for every one needed , and refineries never run at more than 60 " ; capacity . " I am sure there is not a refinery or a marketing system that has used black ink on its ledgers in the past year . " Urges State Pacts OKLAHOMA CITY  --  More support for a plan for a compact between oil producing states for control of oil production was pre , sented to the Congressional Committee investigating the oil industry by Warwick Downing , Denver , Col. , who was a member of the 011 States Advisory Committee launched in 1931 by Governor Murray of Oklahoma .                     