@@699621

txt In a renovated old mansion opposite the Central Y. M. C. A. Is the Cleveland Boys ' Bureau , which , in the few months it has been in operation , has made persons familiar with its work wonder how the city ever got along without it . Homeless boys , boys who have been wandering about the ? country in a futile quest for work , boys who are discouraged and ripe for any proposal their older companions may suggest , drift into the bureau . The problem of each is solved . The bureau is a cooperative social project resulting from the work of a civic committee headed by Mr. Edward L. Worthington , a broker who spends most of his time solving emergency situations which seemed out of the field of regular social agencies . The Rotary Club gave $2500 to start the work and help sOport it financially now ; Mr. Wort/Wigton Induced various firms to donate necessary furnishing for the house ; labor unions permitted jobless members to do the work free , and the bureau was opened last spring . Makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registered 870 boys , some of whom are permqnent guests and some of whom have stayed there from two days to six months . Thirty-three boys have been sent back to their homes , 20 were induced to re ? turn voluntarily , 10 were placed in private homes in Cleveland . Twenty-three boys who are more or less " permanent " guests at the bureau regularly attene school , mostly at night . Courses in automobile mechanics , cabinetmaking and printing are the most popular with American-born boys , while those with a foreign background generally choose English and mathematics . All boys coming to the bureau , whether they stay only two days or a year , have an opportunity to gain a good deal of practical knowledge through supervised tours . Frequent trips are arranged through the Museums of Art , Natural History , the telephone company , newspaper plants , illuminating company , and industrial plants of all sorts . Story of Joe and Prank Hero is a typical example of the type of boys who come to the bureau . Joe and Frank , brothers from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their stepfather . For several years they worked on near-by farms . When work gave out , they " hit the road . " Eventually they wound up in Cleveland , footsore , tired , discouraged . They applied at the police station for lodging , as had become their custom . The police turned them over to the bureau . They have been there now for three weeks . An effort is being made to induce relatives in Detroit to take them . If this fails they will remain at the bureau Until some other permanent solution of their problem presents itself . The boys themselves , take care of the bureau and every morning go out looking for jobs .                     