@@700930

txt A program of cooperation with the National Re-employment Service and the State Employment Service to facilitate finding jobs in private industry for persons now on work relief was announced yesterday by Commissioner William Hodson of the Department of Public Welfare in behalf of the City Emergency Relief Bureau . The plan is designed to lighten the city 's relief burden . With the approval of the State Temporary Emergency Relief Administration , Mr. Hodson announced , persons now employed by I the works division on relief proj ? ects are authorized to take leaves of absence up to six months without pay in efforts to obtain employment in private industry . Persons who find such employment will have the opportunity to return to the relief rolls within six months , if they have again become unemployed through conditions beyond their control and if they are still in need of relief . The program is intended to encourage those who are eager to return to normal employment but hesitate to accept such opportunities for fear they might lose the new jobs and find themselves off the relief rolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the works division would work in close cooperation with the National Reemployment Service in this city and the State Employment Service . The 115,000 persons now on work relief and the 214,000 persons on home relief are listed with the two services , which keep a , record of the occupations of all relief clients to assist ' in placing them in jobs . As part of the plan the Department of Welfare has recruited 27,000 I persons now on home relief for , snow-removal work this Winter I under the Department of Sanitation . The recruiting was on the basis of physical condition and past experience . The workers will receive the prevailing rate of pay . For the days on which they are not engaged in snow removal the men will receive their regular home relief allowance . The leave-of-absence order was signed yesterday by Colonel William J. Wilgus , head of the works division . It made clear that workers on the work relief rolls would be reinstated " if they return within the Six months ' period by reason of losing their positions for causes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division , providing , also , that they are eligible for work relief and that the work relief program is still in opera , tion . " Coupled with the effort to facilitate the return of work relief clients to . private employment , Commissioner Hodson announced that the Home Relief Bureau , under the direction of Edward Corsi , was checking the names of persons receiving home relief against the pay- rolls of private concerns and of public departments . He said that as rapidly as it is discovered that a person receiving home relief has concealed the fact of his employment , he is taken off the relief rolls . Mr. Hodson pointed with satisfaction to the fact that of 30,000 names checked on private payrolls only 200 had thus far been discovered to be receiving home relief . In some cases , depending on the circumstances ; such persons have been dropped from the relief rolls and reimbursement has been demanded . In other cases the persons were dropped without demand for reimbursement . In some cases home relief allowances were reduced . Hodson Explains Order . Explaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new order seeks to reach two classes of persons . In the first place , there is a large group on the work relief roll who are desperately searching for regular jobs in private industry . We wish to give these people every possible encourage-1 ment and to assure them that if they get such jobs and later lose them , they will be reinstated so far as it is possible for us to do so and within the conditions laid down . " Then there is another group of people who refuse to take jobs when offered , and who prefer to remain on public bounty regardless of any opportunities for self-support which may be afforded them . With our new regulation in effect , we will dismiss from the work relief rolls all persons who refuse to take decent jobs when they are offered . " The new program will make it possible for any person receiving work relief to leave his relief job in order to accept part-time or fulltime employment elsewhere , of either a temporary or permanent character , on a basis that will enable him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speed his permanent return to normal selfsupport . " The order does not apply to the administrative staff and supervisory staff of the works division , but only to those who are on work relief on the basis of need . Allen Wardwell , chairman of the Governor 's Commission on Unemployment Relief , charged with making a complete study of the financing and administration of relief , announced yesterday that the commission would investigate the ability of the municipalities of the State to continue their present contributions toward relief costs . Hugh R. Jackson , executive secretary and director of research for the commission , explained the work now being done by other committees of the Governor 's group that has a bearing on the New York City situation . He said that an inquiry concerning the efficiency of work relief construction methods was now in progress under the direction of experienced engineers and he said that forty-one projects in the city had been surveyed to date . He also announced that a study was under way on the extent to which work relief had been substituted for normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relative cost of home relief and ' work relief . Fred M. Stein , chairman of the New York City subcommittee of the commission , outlined the plans of investigation . The work will cover an analysis of investigation procedures and social service administration in all relief precinct offices in the city ; investigation of clerical , mechanical and business set-up in the precinct , borough and central offices , and an evaluation of personnel and employment procedures of the Emergency Relief Bureau . Mr. Stein said that all facts disclosed by the investigation would be at the disposal of the Aldermanic and the Mayor 's investigating committees on unemployment relief . The final report of the commission will include a plan for a permanent organization of relief in the State in conjunction with normal welfare services . Pending establishment of a permanent administration , the State Temporary Emergency Relief Administration will be continued .                     