@@704270

txt Tomorrow , in accordance with the automatic provisions in the Federal Wage-Hour Act , the national mandatory minimum wage will advance from the present level of 25 to 30 cents an hour , while basic maximum weekly hours will fall from forty-four to fortytwo . It is not possible to say precisely what the effect of these changes will be . It is not possible , for that matter , to say precisely what the effect of the Wage-Hour Act has been in the year in which it has been in operation . In its bearing on the volume of employment and the total economic situation it is only one factor among many factors , and there is no way in which it can be isolated for study . A few weeks after it went into effect the Administrator of the act contended that not more than 30,000 to 50,000 persons had been laid off as a result of it , and that most of these were in the pecan shelling , tobacco stemming , lumber and bagging industries . It was pretty generally conceded that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exactly what extent it may have hindered employment in the United States can not be determined . The official adjusted index of industrial production had already advanced from a low point of 76 in May of 1938 to 96 in October of that year , the month during which the law went into effect ; it rose to 104 in December and declined again to 92 in May of this year , rising again thereafter . It is perhaps significant that though the unadjusted index of manufacturing production rose from 89 per cent of the 1923-25 average in September , 1938 , the month before the law went into effect , to 103 in November , an advance of 14 points , the unadjusted index of factory employment rose in the same period from 92 to 93 , or only 1 point . This meant that there was a very sharp increase in production with a negligible increase in employment ; but how much of this result can be attributed to the Wage-Hour Act is uncertain . We do know that the law has brought some gains . We do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour and will soon find themselves getting 30 , who previously were getting much less ; while some workers find themselves with Saturday or other half holidays that they had not previously enjoyed . But it can not be assumed that these gains were got without a price . From common sense and experience we know that when the price of a commodity or service is raised the tendency , other things being equal , is to reduce the amount of that commodity or service used or sold , or to prevent it from increasing as much as it otherwise might . This applies as much to marginal unskilled labor as to any other service . As long as our unemployment remains in the neighborhood of 9,000 , - 000 persons , or at any very substantial figure , we can not assume that our wage policies in the last few years are above renewed scrutiny . The great merit of the overwhelming number of State minimum wage laws is that they do not fix any arbitrary mandatory minimum , but allow this to be determined in each case by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in particular Industries . Assuming that a Federal minimum wage law is desirable , it should at least have the flexibility of its State prototypes . The rigid hour restrictions in the Federal law are even more doubtful . Their retention may eventually bring about an artificial labor shortage at a time when maximum production may be not merely attainable but imperative .                     