@@700592

txt Clarifying amendments to the proposed railway labor bill were proposed to the Senate interstate commerce committee by Samuel E. Winslow . chairman of the Board of Mediation . Railroad Coordinator Eastman , in a second appearance before the committee , an ' swered objections against the proposal by railroad spokesmen . Mr. Eastman also took up amendments proposed by national railroad labor unions . company union spokesmen and other interests . The coordinator disagreed with Vice President Clement of the Pennsy-lvania . Railroad , who believes the bill would compel railway workers to join the standard railway labor unions . He said there are two theories of protecting the interests of employes ( 1 ) through national organizations and ( 2 ) through local organizations , confined to particular railroads . The bill gives full scope for both theories , he asserted . Agrees With Objection to ? ? Carrier " Mr. Eastman concurred in objections by rail- roads against the definition of the term " carrier " in the bill . As proposed by Mr. Eastman the term " carrier " would include express and sleeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He denied the railroad contention that present language would cover companies contracting to do construction work for the railroads . It would , however . cover trucking companies performing terminal service for the railroads . He opposed an amendment offered by the railroads to amend language dealing with the National Board of Adjustment , and another touching upon the definition of " representative " as indicating those with whom railroads may deal in labor matters . The changes , Mr. Eastman said . nould lead to confusion . Although subscribing to the principle of majority rule he said in this connection that minority groups should be heard . although he did not favor compelling a railroad to deal with a national union representing a minority . Regional Boards Opposed Mr. Eastman further opposed the railroads ' amendment suggesting a regional or system setup of the national board of arbitration . Objections on this score , he stated , had dissipated what doubt he had as to feasibility of a national board of arbitration . The coordinator also objected to certain amendments sponsored by the National Railroad Union . particularly as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confining of certain restrictions to such unions . Characterizing this distinction as " absurd , " the coordinator said that within recent years the practice of tying up men 's jobs with labor union membership has crept into the railroad industry . " The practice has been largely in connection with company unions , but not entirely . If genuine freedom of choice is to be the basis of labor relations under the railway labor act , as it should be , then the yellow dog contract and its corollary , the closed shop , and the socalled percentage contract have no place in the picture . " No Objection to Porters Mr. Eastman said he had no objection to including sleeping car porters and maids and dining car employes in the bill , but suggested that inclusion of communications company workers should be taken care of in a separate part of the bill . The coordinator rejected flatly the proposal of the American Short Line Railroad Association that the short line carriers be exempted from the general purposes of the bill . Chairman Winslow featured the necessity for legislation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in selection of representatives and the need for a board of arbitration which would decide cases and be in a position to enforce its powers . Mr. Eastman 's rebuttal virtually riddled the amendment offered by the railroads . He favored retention of language forbidding carriers to influence or control employe organizations , and disapproved suggestions that railroads be permitted to subsidize " company unions . " He favored the retention of provision for secret ballots by employes and likewise opposed the suggestion of elimination of penalty features for violations of the law .                     