@@699799

txt BRITAIN 'S proposed arms convention , which has Just been accepted by the German Government , brings the Five-Year Plan into the field of disarmament . It fits all nations into a general scheme for about five years . at the end of which a new disarmament conference would be ready with a new plan . The convention uses both League of Nations and Kellogg pact and replaces the Versailles Treaty . It provides both for keeping peace and for reducing arms . Breach , or threatened breach , of the Kellogg pact brings ( under specified conditions ) a conference of signatory nations to decide on action and to determine the aggressor ; these steps are to be taken through League machinery . For arms reduction . Europe 's land forces are to be fixed at eight to twelve months ' service on a militia basis . Germany is allowed 200,000 efTectives ( double the Versailles allowance ) , France 400.000 ( including 200.000 colonial ) , Russia 500.000 , Italy 250,000 ( 50,000 colonial ) , Poland 200,000 , Roumania , 150,000 , Czechoslovakia 100,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.6-inch , coast defense to 16-Inch . Naval armament to remain as regulated by Washington and London treaties ( the latter to be extended to include France and Italy ) until the coming 1935 naval conference . This provision , while freeing Germany from the Versailles clause , in effect keeps its navy at the present figure until 1936 . Air bombing is prohibited , except for police purposes in outiling regions . Maximum number of war planes for leading powers during the five years set at 500 , as a beginning for the process of abolition . No more dirigibles to be built . Chemical , incendiary and bacterial warfare prohibited . Prohibited material to be destroyed on a basis of one-third within a year , two-thirds within three years , under supervision of the Permanent Disarmament Commission . This commission will spend the five-year period in working out a scheme for complete abolition of naval and military aircraft and for regulating civil aviation so as to prevent its conversion into military , and otherwise preparing plans for the new Disarmament Conference , which in turn would arrange for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , May ** reassuring ' acceptance of the plan as a basis for the Geneva disarmament convention has brought to a relatively calm conclusion a week which began with perilous paroxysms of war alarm . President Roosevelt 's plea for peace , coining precisely at the right moment , is regarded as a determining factor in the favorable volte face of public opinion . Never has Europe since the World War ended experienced such strong emotions as those which came to a head in the general belief that peace efforts had broken down and that hostilities might be provoked by an ; trivial incident . Feelings were worked up by German anti-Semitism , by Foreign Minister Constantin von Neurath 's intimation that in default of disarmament Germany would rearm , by Vice-Chancellor Franz von Papen 's incredible glorification of self-sacrifice on the battlefield , by the Danzig incident and by a general recrudescence of German aggressiveness . Every newspaper in England as well as on the continent - among Germany 's friends as well as its former foes  --  openly declared the issue was clearly that of peace and Wan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained sympathetic reception in France . The difference hi temperature of the two countries can be easily explained . In England , which has more recently become aware of possible peril , there was stronger reaction of relief at hearing the calm call for renewed efforts . In France , where the danger is deeply appreciated and where the mood has turned to skepticism , the instinctive response was one of caution mixed with welcome . What would be the result of full acceptance of the Roosevelt proposal ? Would it strengthen potential war-makers and weaken peace-defenders ? How far would America really go in condemning offenders against treaty engage-ments ? Nevertheless this natural hesitation quickly gave way to warmer approval when implications of the me%sage %vete carefully analyzed , and now considerable satisfaction is everywhere expressed . There is still some doubt whether he Roosevelt ideas can be hanslat-i into practice , and it would be misleading to suggest that there is not criticism of details together with incise for intentions . But whatever may be the subsequent , working out of the Roosevelt proposals regarding aggressive weapons and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Getman situation has been dramatic . Hitler Bars Violence At the beginning of the week it had been apprehended that Chancellor Adolf Hitler might out-Papen Vice-Chancellor von Papen and make a speech which would bring the European crisis to a breaking point . Herr Hitler , unquestionably influenced by the American declaration . decided to express himself moderately . While mainta.aing all German demands , he eliminates the method of violence . He insists it is by peace- , ful methods that he seeks security ' and equality , stage by stage , which final stage Is to be five years hence . Rearmament , he declares , is not his aim , provided there is genuine disarmament . International control on condition that it is applied all around and a conciliatory attitude toward the British plan and the Roosevelt doctrine arc points which are particularly emphasized . Count . Rudolf Nadolny 's dramatic declaration at Geneva , Friday , that lie accepted the DI itish disarmament plan not met eiy as a basis of discussion , but as a basis for the forthcoming disarmament convention , futtIne ca , eti @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is new hope . Yet it would be idle to pretend that anxiety has disappeared As Prime Minister Ramsay remarked at the Pilgrims ' banquet before the Hitler speech was delivered , Germany must be Judged eventually by its deeds . In France  --  indeed throughout , Europe -- it is felt that the fundaniental situation can not be suddenly transformed by the comparative mildness of a single speech . It is noted , too , that there is no renunciation of claims considered disquieting , Consequently there are even sections of opinion , by no means confined to France , which would prefer the frankest showdown . On the whole , however , though Germany 's oratorical demonstration is not conclusive , there is the fullest desire In France as well as in Britain to continue to seek for understanding . Two Main Points Remain It is too early to indicate what will be the eventual French policy . for prudence is regarded as necessary . The French see no point in reducing the disparity between the armaments of the two countries merely in order to give the Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therefore there are still tW3 desiderata . The first is concrete proof of Germany sincerity . The second is a clearer definition of the American stand on security . Before Francs can surrender its vigilant preparedness it must know whether Germany is truly pacific and whether the United States is truly internationally-minded . Yet the outlook has now improved far beyond what appeared possible a few days ago , and Europe at the end of the exciting week again begins to breathe more freely .                     