@@697402

txt OUR STANDARD OF LIVING . Economist Opposes Banker 's View It Is Too High . To the Editor of The New York Times : In THE NEW YORK TIMES of Sept. 30 there appeared an article , dated from Cleveland , in which John W. Barton , vice president of the Metropolitan National Bank of Minneapolis , was quoted as having declared before the American Bankers ASso- ? ciation 's annual convention that the standard of living is too high in America . As a student of the economics of consumption , I hold a contrary opinion . I am convinced that much of the work in the field of economics , whether studied from the point of society or business , suggests that for the bulk of people in the United States the standard of living is too low rather than too high . This study also suggests that the job of business , if it is ever to be on continuous sound ground , is to raise the standard of living of 75 per cent of our population to the point where what is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , involves more than merely maintaining wage scales on a high level . It means also that business operations of all kinds will have to be conducted in terms of economic equilibrium , which so far business has not been able to effect . A similar need exists among our neighbors . However , instead of thinking in terms of reducing our standard of living to meet lower standards now in effect elsewhere , would not business be better off to think in terms of a raised standard among our neighbors ? This would probably make them better customers . A cursory acquaintance with foreign peoples leaves one with the belief that they too wish to raise their standard of living . A higher standard usually means greater consumption and a lower standard smaller consumption . Advocacy of a lower standard of living seems very much like jumping from the frying-pan into the fire . During the past ten years of immigration restriction a higher standard of living as measured by increased consumption has shown a heartening advance in this country . During this same period we have had a high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the greatest foreign trade ever experienced . The past year has seen business depression all over the world in spite of a variety of tariff and immigration policies in force in different nations . The belief seems to be general that we have had too great a production of some goods , which has disturbed equilibrium between the forces of production , resulting in maladjustment of consumption through creating an undue amount of unemployment , thus causing a business depression . Recent political events in Europe and South America suggest that the mass of people are more responsive to the need for social changes , especially when under the pressure of a lowered standard of living brought about by business depression . This would seem to indicate a need greater than ever for an attempted solution of the cause of low standard of living . For more than one reason this is the concern of business . LOUIS BADER . Assistant Professor of Marketing , New York University . New York , Oct. 1 , 1930 . Sea Terms Used by Landsmen . To the Editor of The New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that many phrases in common use today originated in the deep . I have for some years sought the origin of such phrases . I have for " tell it to the marines " an origin different from that which you quote from an English volume . This is not any more so , but for many years both navy men and civilian seamen in sailiog vessels had little respect for soldiers , and sailors of the navy had even less respect for marines , who , when they endeavored to behave in a seagoing way , succeeded only in appearing awkward . The contempt of seafarers for the marines has justly given way to respect and admiration for their achievements ; yet , even now , aboard ship more than on land . the expression " tell it to the marines " is used to document lack of faith when some one tells an impossible yarn . No doubt , the land term of most frequent use on land which has a sea origin is " hello . " When two vessels came within hailing distance , the call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alloa , " which was corrupted to " hello . " A characteristic sea term used on land to document some one 's honesty is " aboveboard . " Old sailors loved things aloft , above deck ( board ) , the things they worked with , things which to them had personality , and were inclined to look with suspicion upon things below board , below deck . C. GRAND PIERRE . Valley Cottage , N. Y. , Sept. 30 , 1930 . From a Rough Rider . To the Editor of The New York Times : On reading the obituary of Colonel George R. Shanton , in which it is stated that he was Captain of C Troop of Roosevelt 's Rough Riders , together with other details relating to the supposed movements of that regiment , I had to ask myself how much the average newspaper obituary is worth from the point of view of accuracy . Nobody by the name of Shanton ever held a commission in C or in any other troop of Roosevelt 's regiment , which was not reviewed at Cheyenne , Wyo. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never left Cheyenne for the good reason that it never was stationed there , but was organized at ** Antonio , Texas The First United States Volunteer Cavalry , more generally known as Roosevelt 's Rough Riders , proceeded directly from San Antonio to Tampa , not Jacl:sonville , Fla . Four troops . among them C , whose Captain was Alcaaader , not Shantou , were left at Tampa during the Sumreer of 1893 , and from there went to Montauk Point in August , and were mustered out at the middle of September of that year . No part of the organization was ever sent to or stationed at Havana . ONE OF THE ROUGH RIDERS . New York , Sept. 25 , 1930 ,                     