@@700991

txt Mayor La Guardia Indicated yesterday that he might be forced to drop Robert Moses from the Triborough Bridge Authority if his continued presence there should jeopardize a grant from the Federal Government of more than $300,000 , - 000 in loans for New York City projects . The Mayor was shown a published dispatch from Washington to the effect that he already was prepared to drop Mr. Moses from the Authority . " I have n't gone so low that I have to answer anything in that paper , " the Mayor said . " But let me make it clear that there will be no irritation with Washington , because there are still too many important things to be done . There will be no friction of any kind and there is none now . " The Mayor 's attitude toward dropping Mr. Moses is understood to be contingent upon whether or not Harold L. Ickes , PWA Administrator , sticks to his Order 129 which in effect directs the elimination of Mr. Moses from the Authority . Persons conversant with the situation believe that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advance bridge funds to the city If Mr. Moses stays but also may refuse Federal funds for other city projects . Mr. Ickes , it was said , is free to take that course under an executive order issued by President Roosevelt on Dec . N , delegating some of his functions to Mr. Ickes . Should that situation develop , advisers of the Mayor said , the Mayor would find it impossible to retain Mr. Moses . Supporters of Mr. Moses in the controversy pointed out that the agreement between the Federal Government and the Bridge Authority by which the former authorized allocation to the city of $35 , - 000,000 gave the Federal Government no jurisdiction whatever over the personnel of the Bridge Authority . This agreement was signed Sept. 1 , 1933 , by Mr. Ickes for the Federal Government and by George Gordon Battle , then chairman of the Bridge Authority . " Secretary Ickes 's order is a clear violation of the agreement , " Mr. Moses said , when this point was brought to his attention . Reading of the agreement showed that nowhere in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the loan . After providing for the issuance of the bonds and specifying how the Bridge Authority shall make its first requisition for a loan of $100 , - ON , for initial expenses , the agreement reads : " 7 . Second Requisition  --  The borrower may at any time thereafter file with the government a requisition requesting the government to accept and pay for such additional block of the bonds to be purchased by it hereunder as , together with the grant , if any , requested simultaneously with such requisition , will provide funds for the construction of the project for a reasonable period , specifying the aggregate principal amount , the principal amount of each maturity ( which in so far as practicable shall consist of principal amounts of each authorized maturity approximately proportionate to the total amount of the respective authorized maturities ) and serial numbers of the bonds of such block , and the date when it is desired to complete the sale , which shall be not less than ten days after the government 's receipt of such requisition . " The regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the personnel of the Bridge Authority . Provision of Safeguards . The provision of the agreement , specifying conditions under which the government would be under no obligations to purchase the Bridge Authority 's bonds , reads as follows : " Cost of Project ? If the government shall not be satisfied that the borrower will be able to construct the project within the cost estimated at the time when the loan was approved by it , unless , in the event that additional funds appear to the government to be necessary in order to pay in full the cost of the construction of the project , the government shall be satisfied that the borrower will be able to obtain such funds , as needed , through additional borrowing or otherwise . " Compliance ? If the borrower shall not have complied , to the satisfaction of the government , with all agreements and conditions theretofore to be complied with by the borrower contained or referred to in this agreement and or in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds . " Legal Matters ? If the government shall not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bonds , the security therefor or the project . " Representations ? If any representations made by the borrower in this agreement or in the loan application or any other data submitted by the borrower shall be found by the government to be incorrect or incomplete in any material respect . " Financial Condition ? If , in the judgment of the government , the financial condition or the business prospects of the borrower shall have unfavorably changed in a material degree from its condition as theretofore represented to the government . " Inasmuch as the agreement nowhere provides for any sort of supervision over the Bridge Authority 's personnel or included objections to one of its members as a condition for release from the government 's obligations to buy the bonds , supporters of Mr. Moses held that Secretary Ickes 's order violated the agreement and should have no force in this instance .                     