@@703899

txt Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's radio-hushed irony for " virtuous England " had an echo today from Montelimar in the Rhone Valley at ceremonies attended by President Albert Lebrun and Premier Edouard Daladier , whose speeches were broadcast without interruption . It was ostensibly the dedication of a monument to one of M. Lebrun 's predecessors as President , Emile Loubet , but the program in reality was a glorification of the entente cordiale between France and Britain . M. Loubet as President worked throughout his term for a close alliance with Britain , and the culmination of his Presidency also was an official visit to London for the framing of accords which ultimately made Britain the ally of France in the World War . The ceremony was a personal ovation for President Lebrun , who is expected to be asked to accept re-election Wednesday so as to unite the French to protect themselves from the threats that every one feels . Both M. Lebrun and M. Daladier spoke firmly and courageously about those threats . " Our duty is clear and imperative , " said M. Lebrun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public safety . We must accept discipline and sacrifices . We must achieve unanimity of hearts and arms , of material and moral strength and consecrate it to the double service of national security and world peace . " Sees Peace in French Unity M. Daladier did not refer to the demands of Chancellor Hitler or Premier Mussolini , but his statement on future policy conformed to M. Lebrun 's . " We can have peace , " said the Premier , " if we deserve it . If Frenchmen unite there will be no war . Every one here and outside who does not despair of France knows she is resolved to give proof of the courage and firmness necessary to force the instigators of disorders and crimes to retreat . " Mindful of the threatening sky and of all the destructive forces that have been loosed over Europe , I still have hope in the destiny of our nation , without which Europe and the world would have no reason for living . " Paris newspapers are not convinced by Herr Hitler 's peace suggestions . The Temps says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other peoples and that he is giving proof in naming the next Nazi congress the ' congress of peace . ' It would be wise to wait for that desire for peace to show itself in acts by the Reich Govern- ment before congratulating the Chancellor . " After all that has just happened in Europe and in view of the threatening words often heard from Berlin and Rome it is certainly not without cause that the peoples who wish to be free take their precautions against possible surprises . " Daladier Praises Lebrun PARIS , April 2 ( P ) . ? Premier Daladier delivered today a glowing eulogy of President Lebrun , which was received in political quarters as an open declaration of government support for his re-election next Wednesday at the National Assembly in Versailles . Both M. Lebrun and M. Daladier spoke at the dedication of a monument and at a memorial banquet in honor of Emile Loubet , President of France from 1899 to 1905 , at Montelimar . The President and Premier entrained for Paris after the broadcast to enter the final phase of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared himself a candidate for re-election , a mapority of the Senate already has urged him to become the Chief of State for another seven-year period to avert an internal political battle . M. Daladier 's praise of the President is expected to give him the support of a majority of members of the Chamber of Deputies when the two Houses of Parliament meet in joint session at Versailles Wednesday for the election . M. Daladier turned to the President at the banquet and said : " I raise my glass in honor of a republican , who , in all the circumstances of his life , has never abandoned the fight for democracy . " I wish to associate in my toast all Frenchmen and all those who outside our frontiers do not despair of France , and turn toward our country because they know that , whatever may be their fatherland or race , France wants peace . " We all want peace in liberty and dignity . " After alluding to the life of M. Loubet , the seventh President of the French Republic , who died in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Daladier last Wednesday , when , answering Premier Mussolini 's declaration a week ago on colonial issues , he declared France would yield neither territory nor rights . The President warned that M. Daladier had defined for Frenchmen a " clear " and " imperative " duty " in language calm , firm , loyal , courageous and human , whose echoes were heard around the world . " " What is this duty ? " the President asked , and then answered : " To subordinate private interests to the idea of public safety , the only one which can at the present time animate the consciences of all Frenchmen . "                     