@@702165

txt Some of the steel companies have entered the final quarter of the year with a larger backlog of orders than they have had on the corresponding date in a number of years . This is I particularly true of sheets and bars , and as a result of this condition , coupled with the persistent steady demand for other products , the outlook for the current three-month period is viewed as unusually satisfactory . Youngstown Sheet &; Tube Co. , for instance , reports its order books well filled for the balance of the year . with substantial business from the automobile industry . And Allegheny Steel Co. ' s bookings in September for stainless steel were largest for any single month in history of the company , according to W. J. general manager . 33ookc , - ' ' cs for stainless steel in the eirzt.t m , , nths efited September 30 also were at a new high level for the company . There are indications that the producers of the heavy steels will do better this quarter . Not only is there a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pipe and plates , but the railroads seem likely to come into the market shortly for rather substantial tonnages of rails and other articles , including track accessories . In addition , the prospects favor a better demand for railroad equipment in the coming months , with a number of roads figuring on putting out early inquiries for quite a number of cars and some locomotives Equipment manufacturers are anticipating a much better demand in a few months at the latest , and if the anticipated business develops for these interests . there vii.11 be a good demand for the steel required . Present Equipment Taxed Steel authorities point out that the continued heavy freight traffic of the railroads is taxing their present equipment to the utmost . There are thousands of cars on railroad sidings which are not in condition for use economically . While it has been the tendency in the past to make some large repairs , the good freight movement its expected to bring the matter of buying new equipment to the front . Tin plate output has held up much better than was predicted only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are working actively and the rate of output for this branch is estimated at around 90% , slightly higher than a few weeks ago . Consumption by the can making . industry because of the new uses found for cans has been exceptionally large and promises to continue on a good scale in 1937 . A. number of companies have carried over orders into the fourth quarter on the products which were advanced as of October 1 , last . This was deemed necessary to permit regular customers to cover their immediate requirements so that they would continue in a competitive position in their own industry . In some instances it is believed that shipments on these contracts will not be completed until the end of the month , and perhaps during the early part of November . Increasing Auto Demands There is a steadily increasing demand for the account of the automobile industry . Sheet makers are booked for a number of weeks ahead , and with the indications that the productions of cars will be . increased sharply as soon as the 1937 models are shown , the prospects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sheet consuming sources continues well maintained . Semi-finished steel is actively in demand . A number of sellers report that specifications against old contracts in September were unusually large , probably in excess of any month in several years . Some non-integrated steel makers who purchase semi-finished are complaining over the narrowed margin between the cost of semi-finished and what they receive for their finished products and there has been talk that some of these smaller steel companies are considering plans for the installation of equipment to manufacture their oven semi-finished.                     