@@701849

txt The Rural Electrification Administration , which soon will be directing a half billion dollar program of bringing electric power to the farms , has committed itself to support of private sale of appliances and wiring installations on its projects . The policy was declared in a letter from Administrator Cooke to G. H. Haskell , chairman of the rural electrification committee . National Electrical Manufacturers Association , describing his " attitude with reference to farmstead wiring and the merchandising of appliances on REA projects . " He said , " We have not approved or advocated any centralization of this business except for certain wiring arrangements . . . which have the effect of putting the wiring business in hands not of the cooperatives but of electrical contractors . " REA. which is now an emergency agency operating with relief funds , will have nearly 5500,000,000 to spend during the next ten years under bills passed by the Senate and House which are now being coordinated in conference . The money , under the new program , would go only to counties , municipalities , political subdivisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loaned under the existing program for construction of distribution lines in the country areas has gone to cooperatives . Loans for wiring installations , which can be financed on a monthly basis through REA , probably will have to be made to project sponsors , who will in turn make loans to individuals , Cooke said , but the agency owning the power line is not expected to do the wiring . " On the contrary , we encourage the employment of local electrical contractors upon the basis of competitive bids . " We have disapproved and discouraged . " he declared , " the practice of making the consumer purchase his appliances from the project sponsor as a condition of obtaining electric sinvice . " We intend , so far as our authority may extend . to keep all channels of trade open for this great prospective business . Properly organized cooperatives undoubtedly will exercise their right to go after part of it . But the general trade will be well advised to give less concern to fears of what cooperatives may do than to accepting the challenge and going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inaugurate a new era of expansion for the electrical trades . "                     