@@698932

txt The reaction today in Congressional circles to the secret agreement entered into by the reparations creditors at Lausanne , under which reparations would be virtually wiped out only if the United States scaled down the war debt , was mist unfavorable . Some Senators felt the Lausanne agreement might influence this government to scale down the debts as an evidence of this country 's desire to contribute to the restoration of normal economic conditions , but others held that the " gentlemen 's agreement " had nullified the effort to restore confidence in Europe by wiping out reparations . Some Doubt Debt Cuts SeveralSenators held that the private agreement was an attempt to force the United States into revision or cancellation of the war debts , and declared Congress would not approve legislation reducing the debts in the face of such action . Senator Borah , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , declined to discuss this latest development . He said he would not give his views on the action of the Lausanne conference until he had learned all the details and was informed as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were other considerations involved , of which the United States had not been informed in newspaper dispatches . Senator Borah is expected to define his views and those of a majority of his associates on the Foreign Relations Committee in a speech in the Senate before Congress adjourns . He is opposed to cancellation or revision unless armaments are reduced , and is expected to reiterate that stand in the face of the action of the Lausanne conference . The attitude of the Senate toward the latest developments in the situation probably will be discussed tomorrow when that body is expected to take up Mr. 's resolution requesting President Hoover to inform the Senate whether there is any foundation for statements that the United States Government has expressed to foreign nations a willingness to consider further reductions in their debts . Senator said tonight he intended to call up his resolution , and this is expected to bring up for debate the Lausanne reparations settlement and this government 's position on the war debts . Watson Expects Resentment . Senator Watson , Republican floor leader , said tonight : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bearing upon the United States reducing its debts to make certain a reduction of reparations it will make no difference to this country . I can not believe that such a club would be employed . If it has , it will be resented by our people and make them most unwilling to agree to any change in the present status on the war debt . " We are not going to cancel or revise the debts , no matter ' what promises were involved in the agreement with Germany . Reparations is purely a European question . We had nothing to do with the Versailles Treaty , which fixed the reparations . " This war has already cost us $48,000,000,000 and will reach , in the end , about 8100,000,000,000 . If the European nations do not pay the $11,000,000,000 due us our people will have to assume this additional burden , which represents money loaned Europe for reconstruction purposes . In all good conscience , they are bound to pay us these obligations . " No American Congress will consent to reduction or cancellation . But if they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that t will end the matter . " That private agreement is not binding on us , no matter by whom t made . " Senator Couzens , Republican , of Michigan , said : " I am not concerned with any pri-. vate agreement . No agreement can change the obligation of the debtor nations to pay the loans made for purely reconstructive purposes . The private agreement , if one exists , probably will arouse greater opposition in the United States to any revision . But it would not affect me . My position is that the debtor nations must pay . " Denouncing the Lausanne " gentlemen 's agreement , " Senator Moses , president pro-tern of the Senate and member of the Foreign Relations Committee , said : " The European Governments are evidently trying again to make us the goat . As long as the present administration holds office the attempt will not succeed . " ' Senator said tonight : " It is inconceivable that our former European allies would have made the tentative agreement among themselves and with Germany largely canceling German reparations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts due the United States would be canceled . " The so-called safety clause , or gentlemen 's agreement , shows that fact . " The facts call for an immediate explanation from the President himself . It is a matter that can not be left to vague statements or implications , or innuendoes made by employes of the State Department . " If Mr. Hoover has agreed ex , pressly or impliedly that our debts are to be canceled and a tax burden of $11,000,000,000 removed from the backs of European taxpayers and placed upon the shoulders of the already overburdened American taxpayers , the American people should know it at once . It should not be concealed until after the election , as some newspapers hint . " Mr. Hoover secretly brought about the moratorium . He should not , now bring about conditions which might be urged to requite the Congress to make his secret plight of words good . " Representative Tinkham , RepubliAROUSES Massachusetts , seanitd signed at " The private Lausanne by Great Britain , France , Belgium and Italy , just disclosed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war reparations . This private agreement discloses , at its worst , the chicanery and insincerity of European diplomacy . It makes the reduction of war reparations completely contingent upon the American reduction of debts for money borrowed from the United States , which is an entirely different thing from money imposed for damages or , as Germany says , ' tribute . ' " Is this the diplomacy of Mr. Stimson and President Hoover ? " Senator Connally , Democrat , of Texas , a member of the Foreign Relations Committee , said : " This country is opposed to any further reduction in the foreign debts at this time , and to carry out the private agreement would mean that the United States would be paying Germany 's reparations payments . If we are going to revise our war debts we will do it ourselves and it will not be brought about by the European nations doing it behind our " ' backs . " Shipstead Attacks Move . Senator Shipstead , Farmer-Labor , of Minnesota , whose resolution to cancel war debts if European nations reduce armaments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the United States to cancel the debts owed us because reparations are to be canceled means that the United States would pay the tribute or reparations levied on Germany . The reparations levied on Germany are a dishonest claim , forced on a disarmed foe in violation of the terms of the armistice and on the assumption that Germany was solely guilty of starting the war . The debts owed to us are honest for money borrowed ofter the war . Such a proposition as reported agreed to is preposterous . " If any official of the United States Government has led foreign agents to believe that we would cancel debts owed us for cancellation of reparations he certainly is very nearly guilty of treason to the United States and is certainly guilty of swindling foreign governments . "                     