@@703886

txt American foreign policy makers soberly attempting to help salvage European peace and order would be the first to concede that much of the long range responsibility for collapse of the collective action concept rests with the United States , There is no disposition to gloss over or attempt to deny the facts . The United States refused to share responsibility for the Versailles Settlement . It abandoned the League of Nations before it got under way . For years it even refused to recognize the existence of the League in its early formative years an essential part of the foundation of a workable League was missing . But while Washington recognizes this past responsibility it reviews the European scene today with a conscious feeling that , particularly as regards the immediate future , it has gone far to make amends for earlier omissions . The immediate question is whether resistance will be organized to the further advance of German aggression , The White House and State Department feel that they have paved the way by their prompt and vigorous actions of the past 10 days . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in applying the doctrine of nonrecognition , and in imposing the- first economic penalty , Even more , they have given the long awaited signal to their Senate leaders to launch revision of the Neutrality Act . If no resistance develops  --  and Washington is extremely cynical this week-end over the prospects  --  the fashioners of American foreign policy will be satisfied that at least they did not prevent it . They cleared the way as best they could and have given all the encouragement within their power to development of resistance . Must Understand Record An appreciation of the Importance which this desire to make the American record clear and unassailable has played is essential to any adequate understanding of events here in - Washington . The State Department  --  in the sense of a continuing diplomatic organization rather than a part of the Roosevelt Administration  --  has for many years smarted under the charge that America is responsible for the failure of true collective action to develop out of the League of Nations framework . During the years between the Versailles Treaty and 1931 , when the march of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absence of the United States made it impossible to do things which otherwise , it was Implied , might have been done . The most consistent and always present thread In American foreign policy since that date has been a determination to get America out of the status of an alibi for every successive failure of collective action . Of course this was not the only nor by any means the dominant motive . Whatever the degree of isolationism of public opinion at any particular time the tiend of official State Department policy has consistently been toward collective action against major changes because it felt that by and large the status quo of Versailles was a satisfactory rough blueprint for the world of the future . It believed in adjustments to rectify the more glaring abuses of Versailles . But It felt that the necessary adjustments could be made peacefully . It certainly never considered that violent and sweeping changes were desirable for a satisfactory world . It wanted peace and order and it believed in enlightened collective action against aggressive armed force to prevent violent change , But always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were those years of blame for the minor failures of Geneva previous to 1931 . Just a Matter of Opinion Surveying the scene since the day when Japanese hoops broke the Versailles peace these same State Department officials are now satisfied that they have made substantial restitution . They feel that they gave Britain and France an excellent opportunity to prevent the conquest of Manchuria . This Is controversial and is hotly denied in London , They feel even more confidently that they can not be blamed for the failure of " sanctions " to stop Italy 's conquest of Ethiopia . At the time when the Hoare-Laval " deal " wrecked that effort Washington was still a step ahead of the League and had its plans all ready to shut off American oil and other essential war supplies to Italy . This also tends to be challenged in London , but when the documents finally come to light it will probably be established that the United States would not have been a barrier to effective " sanctions . " This time , in the case of Czecho-Slovakia , the record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written in bold characters that the moral , economic and industrial strength of the United States would be solidly behind any firm stand which Europe could mobilize against German aggression . Which , after all , is all the support anyone could reasonably expect of the United States in advance of the issue , American troops were not promised in the equation . But everything else was . So today , as American diplomacy waits on the alert for whatever the next stage of development brings in Europe , there is a sense at the State Department that some of the omissions of the past have been atoned . The hope is strong that resistance is going to be organized in Europe and the march of Hitler aggression halted . But if it is not , and if Europe moves into a deriod of violent change , Washington will at least feel that it made both an honest and an energetic effoi t to prevent It . Joseph C. Harsch                     