@@702226

txt President Roosevelt has ordered certain agencies of his administration to make independent studies of the possibility of achieving the principal goals of the outlawed National Industrial Recovery Act  --  abolition of child labor , protection of the rights of workers to organize and bargain collectively , and maintenance of standard labor conditions ? through a sweeping Federal Incorporation and Licensing Law . These studies have been set in motion with a view to enabling the President to decide within the next few weeks his future course with reference to revival of reforms which he undertook on a spectacular scale through the NRA in 1933 and 1934 . He has asked for advice on the economic advisability of such a plan , as well as upon its administrative practicability , its efficacy in achieving the ends he desires , and its constitutionality . The President has not indicated to any of his advisers as yet what he proposes to do specifically toward reviving the main tenets of the old NRA . Whether he intends to proceed definitely along the idea of a Federal Incorporation Law or other laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or merely to explore the possibilities of such laws , or to ask later for amendments to the organic law , are questions which Mr. Roosevelt evidently has left posed before his own administrative associates . Cautious Attitude Adopted In fact , he appears to be pursuing an extremely cautious attitude both in formulating and discussing his plans for the future . Meanwhile , any number of experts , both within and without the government , are working and advancing schemes of their own , just as they did in the first days of the administration . At least two and possibly more reports on the Federal incorporation and licensing plan are expected to be ready for the President soon after he returns from his prospective southern cruise and in ample time for him to make some decision on the subject for early transmission to the new Congress . I He is expected by his friends to thresh out the whole question with representatives of business , however , before he submits to Congress any new regulatory measure affecting their interests . It is also the view of some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel from leaders other than those identified with business organizations . While none of the new studies on a possible incorporation law has proceeded very far , the understanding here is that each study is being made on the basis of the O'Mahoney bill , which was introduced in the Senate in July , 1935 , but since has reposed in a subcommittee of the Committee on Interstate Commerce . Main Provisions of Bill The main provisions of this bill specify a system of compulsory licenses for companies doing business in interstate commerce , permit incorporation of business under Federal as well as State charters , and provide administration of this entire setup by an enlarged Federal Trade Commission . The bill provides , for instance , that " it shall be unlawful for any corporation organized under the laws of any State , Territory or pos- session of the United States , or *of any foreign country , or for any corporation heretofore organized under the laws of the United States or the District of Columbia , or for any business , to engage directly or indirectly in commerce without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission ( Federal Trade Commission ) . . It specifies that every license shall obtain stipulations against discrimination against women workers in. rates of pay . or working privileges ; a definite provision against child labor , and a guarantee of collective bargaining and protection of workers in their rights to organize . and bargain through representatives of their own choosing . These license requirements might be used as the vehicle for any other regulations that Congress ? might from time to time deem proper to impose upon business , such as maximum hours of labor and minimum rates . of pay . The Fundamental Objective The bill provides that collective bargainers ' shall be guided , but not limited , by the fundamental objective of the act , which is stated thus : " Rates of pay of employes shall be increased , and hours of work shall be reduced in accordance with gains in the productive efficiency of industry arising from increased mechanization , improvements in technological methods , or from other causes , to the end that employes shall have an equitable participation in the output of industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with productive accomplishment of industry . " The bill 's approach to the problem is along the theory that Congress has the undisputed power to regulate interstate commerce , and its provisions relate only to those companies doing business among the States . In a separate title the bill provides for Federal incorporation of business enterprises . In still another it picks up the structure of the present State corporate systems , with restrictions aimed obviously at abolition or curtailment of interstate holding companies . The idea of a Federal incorporation and licensing act is not an entirely new scheme for promulgation of the principles of the NRA . There was considerable . agitation for it soon after the original Recovery Act was invalidated . The new development is that the President apparently has decided to look seriously into its possibilities for accomplishing the reforms he still thinks necessary in the business field in the interest of increased employment and eradication of unfair labor practices and cutthroat competition .                     