@@701454

txt More than 100 British warships  --  about the third biggest navy afloat if compared with the entire fleet strength of the United States and Japan ? were believed by diplomats to be concentrated tonight in the Mediterranean . Their officers awaited developments in the Italo-Ethiopian crisis . Dangerously near , it appeared from reports , were about 250 units of the lighter Italian Navy , ready to lend their backing to the declaration of the Italian Cabinet that it was prepared to meet any resistance that might be offered from whatever direction to Premier Benito Mussolini 's moves . Since the first of September , the pick of British- fighting ships have been assembled in this troubled section . 85 Ships Accounted For . Diplomatic observers believed more than seventy-five British fighting ships were gathered at Alexandria , Port Said , Malta , Gibraltar , Port Sudan and Haifa , while ten more were cruising in the Mediterranean and a fleet of about twenty-five ships , which sailed from Portland , England , Aug. 31 and was presumably still at sea , could be concentrated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Home Fleet were standing by at Portland for manoeuvres , announced to start Tuesday in Scottish waters . Naval men , how , ever , observed that this fleet could receive sudden orders to change its plans and reach the Mediterranean in from three to five days . According to the latest published lists , there were approximately 10 , - 000 British Army regulars in Egypt , 2,608 at Gibraltar , 3,276 at Malta and 57,000 troops in India . It was known , however , that reinforcements had been steadily concentrated at Malta for a fortnight . The exact number of Britis4 fighting planes concentrated in the Mediterranean area and North Africa was not known , but there have been new air units arriving during recent weeks . The ships  --  now being referred to among naval men . as the " mystery fleet " ? which sailed from Portland Aug. 31 , steamed out for exercises , according to the British Admiralty 's list of ship movements . At the head of the squadron were the battle cruisers Hood , Renown , Orion , Achilles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miscellaneous craft . Officially Unreported . With the exception of the five cruisers , which showed up at Alexandria , Egypt , on Sept. 8 and sailed again for an unannounced destination , the entire fleet had been unreported since on the Admiralty 's list . Admiralty officials said today the Hood had returned to Portland but refused to disclose what had be- come of the remainder of the large contingent . The " mystery fleet " included the flotilla leader Exmouth and the destroyers Express , Esk , Echo , Eclipse , Escapade , Electra , Escort , Encounter , Firedrake , Fearless , Fame , Foresight , Fortune and Foxhound , all built within the last few years . Similarly disguised departures from the south shore of England have also been continuous , with some ships showing up at strategic Mediterranean ports . Among these were the Depot Ship Lucia and five L-type submarines which departed early in September and now are anchored at Malta . The latest Admiralty list showed tl.enty-eight warships anchored at Alexandria , a strategic point in the control of the mouth of the Suez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ; four at Port Said , one at Port Sudan and one at Gibraltar . Between twenty and thirty were believed concentrated at Malta , and seven were cruising unreported in the Mediterranean . Most of these ships sailed from Malta Aug. 29 on what was described as an Autumn cruise around the Suez region . They have been joined by reinforcements , and additional ships have moved in to the defense of Malta , where staaonary land and sea defenses have been speeded up simultaneously with an announcement by the War Office that 4,200 additional troops were being sent to Malta to bring the garrison up to full strength " in view of the international situation . " All concentration movements have been carried out in a manner designed not to alarm the British public . There has been no indication of activity inspired by any known immediate threat ' to British interests . In recent weeks , however , almost all naval movements , which have resulted in something like a record for concentration of ships in the Mediterranean Sea , have been carried out under a near-wartime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even noticeable ship movements .                     