@@702180

txt William F. Bleakley , the Republican candidate for Governor , came out flatly today for " full State aid for education " and for the " immediate restoration of salary cuts " for teachers . His announcement of his position on this subject , addressed primarily to the teachers of New York City but of interest throughout the State , was provoked by a pamphlet which Dr. George J. Ryan , former chairman of the New York City Board of Education , as chairman of the educators ' committee for the re-election of President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman , had sent to teachers in the city accompanied by a personal letter . The pamphlet was addressed to " school teachers of New York State , " and was headed : " Are you ready to work for $9 a week ? " It contained an attack upon the Republican platform on education . The letter which Dr. Ryan sent out with the pamphlet was on stationery of the Hotel Biltmore , which houses the Democratic State headquarters , and read : " Dear Friend : I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to you , personally . With sincere regards , George J. Ryan . " Points to Party Record Mr. Bleakley was considerably aroused by the pamphlet . He answered it with an attack upon the Democratic record on education , ending in the declaration of his position . " I believe , " he said , " it my duty to point out the record of the Republican party in the State of New York on education and of Governor Lehman on education . I further believe this to be an appropriate time to state my position on this subject . I would also like to make clear that I know something about educational problems and the problems of teachers , having been a school teacher and having served for many years as a member of the Board of Education of the city of Yonkers . " The record shows that the teachers ' salary cuts now in force in the State of New York were effected by legislation passed in 1932 upon the recommendation of the then Governor Roosevelt and subsequently signed by hint . " The record shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full , and that this legislation was vetoed by Governor Lehman . " The record shows that the Republican party in the Legislature unanimously supported this restoration . Says Democrats Cut State Aid " The record shows that the only cuts in State aid for leducation under the Friedsam formula were made by Governor Lehman and his predecessor , Governor Roosevelt , in their executive budgets of 1932 , 1933 and 1934 . As is generally known , the Friedsam formula pro- vides for full State aid for education . " The record shows that the restoration of this aid was forced by the Republican Assembly in the Summer of 1934 . " The record shows that the Republican party has always supported appropriations sufficient to adequately carry out to_the the fullest extent all of the provisions of the Friedsam Act . " I am not only in favor of full State aid for education but I am unqualifiedly in favor of the immediate restoration of salary cuts . I take the position that , in view of the importance of the work of teachers , the great service they render @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions under which they work at their chosen profession , they should enjoy compensation commensurate with their efforts . " Confers With Party Leaders Mr. Bleakley and his party spent most of the day in Utica , where he spoke last night . The day was devoted to conferences on his future plans and the outlining of his future speeches . It appeared , subject to later change , that his speech in Buffalo tomorrow night , which will be one of his major campaign declarations , will be divided between State finances and social security . It is to be broadcast . With him in the conferences were State Senator George R. Fearon , Speaker Irving M. Ives of the Assembly , Assemblyman Abbot Low Moffat , Assemblyman Ralph Gamble of Westchester , Charles H. Griffiths , his campaign manager ; Walter G. Brown , Orange County leader and the candidate 's personal manager , and Calvin Brown of the speakers ' bureau of the national committee . The subject of the special session was also discussed . Mr. Bleakley said later that he had merely repeated his stand that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and added that the discussions had not taken up the subject of party tactics in the session to be held Tuesday in Albany . Talks With Injured Son Mr. Bleakley received word that his son , James Robert , 21 years old , a student at Alfred University , had been injured in a night football game last night with Buffalo University . During the afternoon " Bobbie , " as the son is called , telephoned Mr. Bleakley . " It 's only a broken rib , " he told his father . The son was anxious to have his father 's help in preparing a speech he is to deliver on State government in Olean next Saturday evening . Help was promised . The week 's tour took Mr. Bleakley through fifteen counties . These were Rockland , Orange , Columbia , Schoharie , Rensselaer , Saratoga , Warren , Essex , Clinton , Franklin , St. Lawrence , Jefferson , Lewis , Oswego and Oneida . He also made appearances during the week in his home county of Westchester , but no political speeches . Reports from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party with a feeling of enthusiasm . Leaders throughout promised the best Republican showing since the Hoover-Smith campaign of 1928 . There were indications , however , that Mr. Bleakley would run slightly behind the national Landon-Knox ticket . The optimism which Mr. Bleakley I himself feels was reflected in a statement he made in Utica . " I find it very difficult to reconcile the statements of New Deal campaign managers and managers for Governor Lehman that the ' State is safe for Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Lehman ' with the frenzied efforts of both these New Deal candidates to continue themselves in office , " he said . " The campaign plans for Governor Lehman originally called for a minimum number of speeches in the larger cities of the State and the use of the radio . However , because of the interest shown by the voters in my campaign and the reports reaching Democratic National and State Committee headquarters of the amazing Republican strength in up-State counties as well as in New York City , both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Farley directed Mr. Lehman to extend his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the rural areas in an intensive and belated effort to save himself and the New Deal from defeat . " By the same token , today 's papers report that the Democratic leaders of Kings County are urging President Roosevelt to speak in that county on Oct. 30 , all of which needs no comment or explanation from me as to reasons for this request for a Presidential last-minute appearance . ' The change in the campaign1 plans of both Mr. Roosevelt and Governor Lehman indicates to all thinking people that distress signals have been flying from the Lehman ship of state for the last thirty days .                     