@@702983

txt While President Roosevelt tenders olive branch to private enterprise in the public utility field his federal power continission is accused of stair bing it in the back behind the scenes . Details on page 8 . Scheme to regiment agriculture by pegging prices and subsidizing nonproduction is debated by apathetic senate ; house reports a measure which emphasizes compulsion rather than bribes to accomplish crop con trol . Details on page 2 . House Democrats remain cool to bill for political regulation of wages despite exhortation of Representative Mary T. Norton . Details on page 2 . BY ARTHUR SEARS HENNING . ( Chicago Tribune Press Service . Washington , D. C. , Nov. 24 . ? LSpedal . ) ? With industrial activity continuing to decline and the stock market continuing to sag , the Democratic movement to rescind immediately , the Roosevelt punitive taxes on business threatened to assume stampede proportions today . Aroused by the crisis , President Roosevelt rushed his favorite business emissary , Chairman Joseph P : Kennedy of the maritime commission , to Capitol hill to avert precipitate action in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Leaders Gain Support . Senator Pat Harrison la , Miss. ; chairman of the senate finance committee , and Senator James F. Byrnes in. , S. C.j , one time Roosevelt spokesman in the senate , had gained tremendous support for their plea that congress proceed forthwith at this session to modify radically , if not to repeal , the punitive tax on undistributed corporation profits . inasmuch as all tax measures , . under the constitution , must originate in the house , senate and house Democrats advocating immediate tax relief brought great pressure to bear on the house leaders and the ways and means committee to bring in a special bill for reduction of business taxes immediately after disposition of the farm subsidy bill in the house next week . It was reported the house leaders were yielding . Tries to Get Postponement . Chairman Kennedy sought out Senators Harrison and Byrnes and tried Lc induce them to halt their drive for tax legislation at this session . He argued that immediate reduction of the taxes derived from undistributed profits and for capital gains would upset all calculations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? cress the first weer : in January . fie , pleaded tor postponement of action until the regular session after the presentation of the budget . While this was the ostensible molive for urging postponement of action , the real reason is said to be Mr. Roosevelt 's fear that if the revision a business taxes is taken up at this session amid the clamor to aid business the result would be the outright repeal of the undistributed profits levy . Such repudiation a a major Roosevelt policy would damage Roosevelt prestige . Hope to Save President 's Face . If , however , the revision of business taxes is held in abeyance until the general overhauling of the tax laws next session there will be a better chance of making a deal to save the President 's face . After Kennedy departed , Senator Harrison called in the experts to advise him whether the undistributed profits tax could be repealed without upsetting the budget . L. Parker of the congressional joint cornMittee on internal revenue said it could ; Undersecretary of the Treasury Roswell Magill said it could n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was discussed at the Capitol hill conference , was a resolution of congress or a statement by the President at once to assure business that the hampering taxes on industry will be lifted retroactively , that is applying to business operations of the 1937 calendar year . Finds Administration Slipping . An arresting utterance by a liberal Democrat on the business recession and Roosevelt policies came from Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montuna , leader of the successful fight against the President 's effort to pack the Supreme court . The Montana senator said in reply to a question that the administration has slipped materially in the coun ? try as a result of the court fight and of the business recession . . " It has slipped so much , " he asserted , " that I am afraid that the pendulum may swing back to the reactionaries . That , in my judgment , would be disastrous for every one . ' " The principal thing that congress and the administration can do is to assure all classes of people that we do not desire to destroy business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against their will . " The undistributed profits tax has injured small business and should be modified to that extent . " The administration " should assure the country that we are going to stop waste and extravagance in government wherever possible , and that while we are going to have legislation for necessary reforms , we are not going to delegate dictatorial powers to various departments . "                     