@@700244

txt Carrying into the heart of the old South his fight for the right to experiment and to change government , President Roosevelt today assailed " doubting Thomases " who wanted to let things alone . He received in return the enthusiastic approbation of 30,000 persons who packed the Savannah Sta ? dium to hear him speak as part of the Georgia bicentennial celebration , of which he was honorary , president . These Georgians , many of them descendants in the seventh and eighth generations of pioneers , also applauded heartily as he made known that the " most impelling motive " behind the recognition granted yesterday to Russia was " the strengthening of the peaceful purpose of the civilized world . " He quoted Thomas Jefferson to show the community of interest between the two nations . As for his doctrine of experiment , the President took as his authority for this the same ideals which led to the founding of Georgia . He frankly conceded , however , that there was no quick remedy for " the chronic illness that beset us for a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we are on the way . " The President was plainly delighted by the response to his speech made during a two-hour . stop en route to spend a Thanksgiving holiday at Warm Springs . Talmadge Acclaims Cotton Rise . This speech was the first given by the President since he began sending his aides throughout the country to carry the message of the New Deal . There was good reason why Georgians should feel enthusiastic to ? ward the President . Governor Talmadge , in introducing him , shouted:1 " Folks , cotton is ten cents a pound and it is going to fifteen cents . " " Ten-cent cotton " has been the slogan of this part of the South since last Spring , when cotton nearly fell to five cents a pound . Its present level , brought about by an administration plan , means a good income for cotton growers , and the fifteen cents predicted by Governor Talmadge would mean a return to the golden age of cotton . President Roosevelt told his auditors that he could claim some relationship to Georgia 's pioneers through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historio Bulloch family . He smiled and added : " I have additional kinship with the founders of the thirteen American colonies . It has been remarked of late by certain modern Tories that those who are today in charge of your national government are guilty of great experimentation . " " And they are right . If I read my history right , the same suggestion was used when Englishmen , protesting in vain against intolerable conditions at home , founded new colonies in the American wil , derness as an experiment , and when the Washingtons and Adamses and Bullochs conducted another great experiment in 1776 . " Our Saving Sense of Proportion . But these pioneers and older leads ers , he added , were not deterred by Tory criticism or the dismal ! forecast of the " doubting Thom . I ases . " " The saving grace of America , m the President went on , " lies in th4 fact that the overwhelming major . ity of Americans are possessed a two great qualities  --  a sense of humor and a sense of proportion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up all the money in the nation on a per capita basis every Saturday night and those who lament that they would rather possess pounds and francs than dollars . " With our sense of proportion we understand and accept the fact that , in the short space of one year , we can not cure the chronic illness that beset us for a dozen years , nor restore the social and economic order with equal and simultaneous success in every part of the nation and in every walk of life . " The President then ascribed to the " pioneering spirit and understanding perspective of the country " the establishment of close bonds with Latin-American republics , and added that the recognition of Russia furnished " an example of the effect of honest statement and simple explanation of the fundamental American policy . " More applause greeted Mr. Roosevelt when he cited the religious guarantees in the new Russian understanding and reminded his audience that Georgia was founded on the premise of religious liberty . The President also voiced a Thanksgiving plea to the nation when he expressed hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not yet been blessed by the returning prosperity sufficiently to provide their own . " Great Crowds Along Route . Great crowds turned out to welcome Mr. Roosevelt on his first visit as President . They cheered him from the time he left his private train until he reached the stadium . From old mansions cheering residents leaned over wroughtiron balustrades to greet the President on the clear crisp day . The crowd also cheered Mrs. Sarah Delano Roosevelt , the President 's mother . Throughout his visit , President Roosevelt was escorted by a mounted detachment of National Guard troops and marines from Parris I : - land lined his route . The President was introduced by Governor Talmadge after Mayor Gamble and Gordon Saussy , chairman of the bicentennial committee , had greeted him publicly . Mr. Roosevelt returned to his train immediately after the ceremonies , and left Savannah at 11:15 A. M. His train proceeded westward toward Warm Springs .                     