@@701628

txt Experts of several Federal departments have been going through the record of public utterances by Herbert Hoover to discover possible inconsistencies to discredit his attacks on New Deal principles and , by that device , the arguments of other Republican spokesmen as well . The search for this campaign material has led to the record of Mr. Hoover 's testimony before the House Military Affairs Committee in 1924 , when as Secretary of Commerce he urged the broadest powers for the Chief Executive in time of war . The transcript of this testimony was missing from the committee files , but was later found in the House library . Members of the committee said that the document probably was lost with other papers when the committee 's office was moved from the old Howie Office Building to the new annex across the street two years ago . Some administration officials contend , however , that the record of Mr. Hoover 's remarks was displaced prior to that time . - The document was being studied tonight for inclusion in a coining address of a high administration official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broad Presidential powers in event of armed conflict and his subse-quent remark that depression was worse than war would dampen considerably his more recent charge that President Roosevelt had demanded of Congress " powers reaching to dictatorial dimensions . " Cotton Export Rise Cited . Meanwhile , Secretary Wallace cited sharply increased November cotton exports in answer to arguments of Republican leaders and some Democrats that continued control of agricultural production was gradually destroying our foreign trade in farm commodities . His observations were based on a Commerce Department report thatl November cotton shipments reached 1,134,874 bales , or more than double : the volume of exports of the staple during the corresponding month last year . The report showed further that cotton shipments during the four months ended Nov. 30 were 2,574 , - 786 , or more than 600,000 above exports during last year 's correspond . ing period . Mr. Wallace produced records to show that November shipments had surpassed the average November movement during the past ten years . It has been contended by some economists outside the administration that the prevailing high price for American cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries and that this price was attributable directly to the administration 's production control programs . Wallace Sees Vindication . It has been recognized by AAA political strategists that unless exports showed marked improvement over the low level of 1934 , prevailing high prices and production control might be held responsible by Southern producers for reduced foreign markets . They have recognized , too , that if this thought gained acceptance , it would seriously complicate AAA efforts for general compliance with its 1936 voluntary cotton control program . But against all such arguments Secretary Wallace has contended that price was not the most important factor in reduced cotton exports . Large stocks of American cotton abroad and the low level of foreign purchasing power were held by Mr. Wallace to be the chief causes of the slump . He regarded today 's figures as a vindication of his judgment . The Democratic political ammuni tion makers , recalling Mr. Hoover 's recent warnings against " dictatorshipand industrial and agricultural " regimentation . " expressed their delight on finding the following passage in his testimony before the House Military Affairs Commit-tee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view a general clause should be added to the bill giving a blanket authority to the President to fix prices , wages , transportation charges , compensations , embargoes on imports and exports , to exercise the war powers of requisition under circumstances that 75 per cent of the estimated value may be paid and the balance determined by the courts in case of disagreement ; suspend habeas corpus and generally complete and absolute authority in all ramifications over the whole . civilian life with the provision that he may delegate these authorities through various agencies . " The Federal research experts say that they also have found a statement by former President Hoover during his unsuccessful 1982 campaign describing his four years in the White House as " a period even more dangerous than a great war . " The following quotation also is emphasized among those gleaned from Mr. Hoover 's 1924 testimony : " It seems to me that for all administrative functions , war especially requires single-minded responsibility . Men must make instant decisions and take instant responsibility . " Whether the search of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt could not be established , but it was certain that some of his political advisers were behind the effort .                     