@@697143

txt After a day of conferences between William J. Maier , chairman of the Republican State Committee , and the leaders of the Republican majority in the Legislature , the proposal for a legislative investigation of the New York City Administration remains in the balance . Mr. Maier is disposed to favor an investigation after an examination of a mass of material assembled by the New York County Republican Committee and other party organizations in the city . The Republican chieftains on Capitol Hill , however , after a day of conversations , are not by any means committed to the propoSal . Mr. Maier told them that the responsibility for a decision rests exclusively with them and that he does not feel he is in a position to bring pressure to bear to influence their judgment . . Is Dubious . Speaker is strongly opposed to action at this time because he is dubious regarding the outcome . Senator Knight told the State chair . man he wanted to see what the New York city Republicans had in the way of leads promising productive results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no doubt that Mr. Maier , despite protestations of an off-hand policy , has made it known that he favors an investigation . There is a feeling , too , that if he persists in it his attitude will carry weight with the Republican lawmakers . Many of them feel that in passing the inquiry bill . vetoed by the Governor the Republican majority committed itself to the need of an investigation and under , the circumstances it should not shirk the responsibility , especially in view of the challenge issued by the Governor in his veto message . The Governor in his message emphasized that a legislative investigation could be brought about by the Republicans and that such was the orderly course to pursue if they felt that conditions warranted such action . The decision in the end will rest with the Republican organizations in New York City . They must convince the legislative leaders that enough evidence is available to justify the belief that by following up the leads at hand substantial results can be attained . They must also produce a New York City Republican of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity of counsel . Maier Gives His Views . This latter point was stressed by State ' Chairman Maier . He told the leaders here that he had no doubt that , with the right kind of counsel , an investigation of the Walker Administration would be productive of disclosures- , ; that would thoroughly discredit , the Democratic . party t-ith the voters in New York City . He attributed the failure of the investigation of the Hylan Administration , conducted by a legislative committee headed by Senator M. Meyer in 1921 , and which had been ordered as a result of representations made by the CitizensUnion despite the objections of the Republican leaders in - the city , to a lack of intelligent direction . He emphasized the need , should an inquiry be decided on now , of having counsel of a high order of ability and perseverance . Senator Knight and Speaker will be in New York City on Friday for conferences with a legislative committee from ? New Jersey over the proposal for a new tunnel under the Hudson River . It is regarded as probable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders will consult with Samuel S. Koenig , Meier Steinbrink , Charles D. Hilles and other city leaders regard. , ing an inquiry . Should the verdict of the city leaders be in favor of an investigation , and they be in a position to produce promising prima facie evidence so as to convince the Speaker and the Senate leader that they can find the right man for counsel , it is probable that a concurrent resolution providing for an inquiry will be presented to the Senate and Assembly on Monday evening and . adopted within a day or two . " We have discussed the proposal for an Investigation Of the New Torii City . Administration with ' chairman Maier today , but no decision has been reached , 1 ! Senator Knight said . this evening . " I have not heard as yet from the party leaders in New York City , whose judgment in this matter , of necessity , will carry weight with us , and as I say , it is still an open question with us whether to institute a legislative inquiry into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can not say just when the matter will be determined , but of course , a decision should be reached without much delay , in any event before the legislative session Monday , evening . " It was stated tonight that the Untermyer transit unification bill was not among the New York City measures discussed at the conferences today , and that there had been m o change in the attitude of the RI -- publicans in opposition to the bill. , Senator Downing , the Senate minority leader , will move tomorrow to have the bill taken from the Senate Committee on Public Service for debate in the open and final action .                     