@@702871

txt Chicago  --  especially its industrial organization , stockyards , and housing conditions of the work . ers ? is going to be one of the highpoints of the tour which the duke of Windsor is planning in the middle west on his visit to America , THE TRIBUNE learned today , Detroit also is in the duke 's provisional itinerary , he having expressed a wish to see the functioning of the Ford factory and the whole automobile industry . The duke and his bride , the former Wallis Warfield Simpson , surely will be in the United States by Thanksgiving , but plans still are hazy . The duke 's decision to visit America was announced yesterday . To See Workmen 's Colonies . The duke will tour Germany before going to the United States , and already has been invited to inspect the plant of the I. G. Farhenindustrie and its workmen 's colonies at Mannheim and Ludwigshafen . The first points on the Windsors ' visit to the United States will be New York , Washington , D. C. , and the duchess ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he wants to " see everything " and intends to have lengthy conferences with manufacturers , social workers , labor leaders , " new dealers " and " old dealers . " The names of William Green of the American Federation of Labor and John L. Lewis of the Committee for Industrial Organization C. I. G. notably are mentioned as on the list of the persons the duke intends to see . Gary a Probable Step. , Pittsburgh will be the .. first stop as the duke leaves the eastern seaboard on tour to study housing conditions of industrial workers . He is said to want to compare living conditions among the American workers in heavy.indus ? tries with those of similar workers in Great Britain , that being the field with which he is most familiar . The Gary , Ind. , steel region also is being considered as a stopping point , but it is not yet on the list . The Hotel Meurice , at which the Windsors are staying , practically went into a state of siege today and extra police were put on door duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the news that the Windsors are going to visit the United States . Tourists Offer Hospitality . Almost all of the callers were Amer ican tourists who are anxious to give the Windsors an example of rea American hospitality . The ducal couple has been offered the run of anything from the most modest bungalow to a complete country estate for any length of time they want and in every section of the entire country from Maine to California . The offers were made ' to Windsor 's battery of secretaries and detectives who are keeping closer guard than ever , but it is uncertain how many ever actually will come under the duke 's eyes . An effort is going to be made , one secretary said , to take all in order and make a reply to each one , the duke being touched by the show of American kindness . Local telegraph companies received a flood of messages from the United States containing , besides offers of k.vish hospitality , invitations to preside at functions and make speeches . Busy Day on Phone . The Windsors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early days of the honeymoon at Wasserleonburg castle in Austria . The hubbub caused the Windsors to give up plans for going out today . They remained all day in their hotel apartment answering phone calls . There were many calls to London as well as to . Berlin , Frankfort , Mannheim , Essen and other German industrial cities which the duke expects to visit . The date of the Windsors ' departure from Paris has not been settled , but it is known that an engagement here for Oct. : 7 has not been broken . As far as can be learned no travel dates have been fixed as yet and no ship reservations have been asked for . What is certain is that though the Windsors are going to Germany first there will be no big interval between that visit and the sailing for New York . For immediate plans they will make another visit to the Paris exposition ? probably tomorrow ? where the duchess wants to make a careful inspection of the jewelry pavilion . The couple will be accompanied on this visit by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAM BREWER . Ielvizago Tribune Press Service ? LONDON , Oct. ** duke of Windsor , former King Edward VIII . of Great Britain , definitly will call on Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler when he visits Germany before going to the United States , it was reported today . The visit , it is believed , will do the duke more harm in the esteem of the British people than any action since his abdication . Every one was pleased at the news that he is going to the United States , but the duke 's decision to visit Germany caused consternation among his friends here . By going to the United States he will please his friends because the move will raise his stock among the great majority of the British and Americans . Foos See an Advantage . He will please his foes among the uppercrust because despite the way they kicked him around during and since the abdication , he Is helping them now . One thing the British want most just now is the firm friendship with the United States in case of a new world war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because they are the very group here tnat has made every effort to make feends with Hitler . Nevile Henderson , as " pro-Nazi " ambassador to Berlin , has done his bit by smoothing the way . Now Edward will make his first semi-official call there . The duke 's friends know that the British common man is vehemently anti-Nazi , and fear that Edward will succeed only in confirming in the mind of the public rumors spread before his abdication that the woman for whom he gave up the throne was a Nazi sympathizer and was influencing him the same way . FIRE IN BED FATAL . Ottawa , In. , Oct. 4 . ? ( Special . ? John Hickey . 45 years old , died late today of burns which apparently started from a eigaret in the bed in which he was sleeping .                     