@@698559

txt The stock operations which were conducted a few years ago for the purpose of accomplishing or preparing to accomplish unifications , had an unfortunate effect on certain railroads . Interstate Commerce Coinmissioner Eastman told the House Interstate Commerce Committee in testifying in favor of the Rayburn Bill to regulate railroad holding companies . He cited the Wabash as a good illustration and said this road has a relatively large capitalization in comparison with the value of its property . " It was not able to market new issues of stock , and could obtain cash for capital expenditures only from earnings or by further issues of bonds . It expended nearly 824,000,000 in buying Lehigh Valley stock at a price not very far from $200 a share . The same stock now is selling at about 816 a share . As a result of these purchases it was forced to increase its indebtedness very materially . " Mr. Eastman said . The Commissioner denounced the stork control method of putting railroads together as a practice largely beneficial to the bankers . There are better ways of putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at high prices coupled with an increased burden of debt , witness asserted . If it can be shown that the union of two railroad companies will benefit both there is no good reason why directors of the two roads should not be able to agree upon terms and submit a plan to the stockholders for their approval . Mr. Eastman said times of depression would be more favorable in certain respects for the accomplishment of railroad mergers than prosperous times . because if it were necessary to pay cash for a few dissenting stockholders , shares the payment would be lower . The commissioner stated the important weakness of Section5 of the Insterstate Commerce Act , regulating railroad mergers , was that it placed no control upon holding company activities in effecting railroad unifications . As illustrations . he cited the Pennsylvania Company , a non-operating subsidiary of the Pennsylvania Railroad , the Alleghany Corp .. and other Van Sweringen holding companies , and the Pennroad Corp. , which Is operated in the interests of the Pennsylvania Railroad . Enforcement by the commission through Clayton Act proceedings of its authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been put together is hedged about by many difficulties .                     