@@702134

txt A steady and relentless downpour , increasing in volume throughout the evening , drenched the metropolitan area yesterday . It was a forerunner of the tropical hurricane whose center , according to last night 's forecast , will pass eastward of the city early today . The low-flying rain clouds rode over the city and its suburbs before a northeast gale that whipped the surf into a boiling foam , uprooted trees in outlying sections , crippled shipping and grounded aircraft . Dozens of minor accidents , most of them caused by winds which tore signs and awnings from their moorings , caused considerable property damage . A mounting list of traffic accidents , most of them attributed to the weather conditions , was reported last night . The heavy rain in many cases blinded motorists and the condition of the streets and sidewalks presented an additional hazard to pedestrians . The greatest severity of the storm , according to Weather Bureau officials , was to be felt in New York some time before 6 o'clock this morning . The hurri- I cane , its force veering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area accompanied by strong northwest winds . Gales as high as 45 miles an hour will probably strike the city , according to the forecast , while more unprotected communities may expect wind of 50-to-60-mile velocity . Many Structures Imperiled Anxiety for the safety of homes , Summer cottages and pleasure craft along the Long Island coastline was expressed yesterday by Coast Guard and other officials . Gales of fifty-mile velocity were reported all day at Sandy Hook and early last evening the Fire Island Coast Guard station said the wind had reached a velocity of sixty-five miles an hour , with the heaviest tide in more than a year . Hurricane signals for the New York area were ordered by the Weather Bureau at 3 o'clock for the first time since Sept. 16 , 1933 . Meanwhile , with adequate warn- lag since the same tropical disturbance was first reported hundreds of miles southeast of Puerto Rico more than a week ago , many suburban residents of shore resorts prepared literally to " dig in " against its expected force . The rain began to fall in New York at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resuming shortly after noon . At 9 o'clock last night the official measurement was 3.05 inches for the city with all indications pointing to , much heavier precipitation today . The average temperature for the day was only two degrees below the normal of 66 , ranging between a high of 70 at 1 A. M. and a low of 58 at 9 A. M. Long Island Hard Hit Mishaps caused by yesterday 's weather , though numerous , were for the most part limited to property damage . Long Island communities , however , began to feel serious inconvenience last night when light and power lines feeding many shore resorts were felled by the wind . Trees , uprooted by the gale snapped electric lines supplying light to the north side of Long Beach , plunging the section into darkness . Streets were flooded when the northeast winds lifted waves out of Reynolds Channel , carrying them to great heights along the shore . Although all private planes at Roosevelt Field and the army pilots at Mitchel Field remained on the ground , a report from both fields about 9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by in the low-ceilinged clouds . The lights of both fields were turned on , but nothing further was heard from the plane . Coast Guard crews and police launches were busy retrieving fishing and pleasure craft wrenched from their anchorages by the wind and mountainous seas . Several rescues were also reported . Bucking a sixty-five-mile gale , a surf boat from the Eaton 's Neck Coast Guard station rescued seven men from a derrick scow that had torn loose from a tug and gone aground on a reef in Long Island Sound near Green Lodge Lighthouse , six miles from Northport , near the Connecticut shore . Ernest Hoff of 28 Charles Street was rescued in the Hudson River last night after his twenty-five-foot catboat had been ripped from its mooring at Englewood , N. J. , and drifted about a mile down the river to 181st Street . The boat was first sighted as it approached the George Washington Bridge . A police launch was sent to the scene , but a group of men at the Burns Boathouse , at the foot of 181st Street , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shore . John Titterington , 14 years old , of 121-02 114th Avenue , and Harry , 16 , of 114-34 120th Street , both of Richmond Hill , Queens , had a narrow escape about noon when I their canoe overturned in the choppy waters of Jamaica Bay . They succeeded in clinging to the overturned craft for half an hour until they were rescued by other boatmen and an emergency squad from the Ozone Park police station . Neither required medical attention . Two motorists almost miraculously escaped injury when a tree crashed onto their car while they were driving on the northeast drive of Prospect Park in Brooklyn . Walter Beasley , of 243 Bergen Street , the owner and driver , was accompanied by George Warcal , of 61 Eastern Parkway , both of Brooklyn , when the accident occurred . Aside from a shattered windshield , the damage to the car was slight . The upper half of the side wall of a two-story frame dwelling at 13 Evans Street , Brooklyn , was ripped away by the wind , crashing into a vacant lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mrs. Marcella . Dzielniski , a widow on relief , and her six children . All of them were on the ground floor when the wall collapsed arid none was injured . 250-Pound Cornice Falls A twelve-foot section of a castiron ornamental window cornice , weighing about 250 pounds , fell from the eighth floor of a building at 539 Pearl Street and crashed to the sidewalk . One of the fragments smashed the plate glass in the door of the G. M. Envelope Company 's office at 535 Pearl Street . Blown from its fastenings , a 20-foot section of a 150-foot metal incinerator pipe on the roof of a twelve-story loft building at 57-59 , West Thirty-sixth Street fell to the street about 5:30 P. M. Normally crowded with homeward-boundl workers , West Thirty-sixth Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues was almost empty , apparently because of the storm and the Jewish holiday , and no one was injured by the falling segment . Three members of the White Cross Fishing Club , clothed in bathing suits and life preservers , rescued last midnight Ignatz Breuss , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot launch in East Chester Bay for eight hours . Breuss , who is about 50 years old old and a WPA worker , was brought to the clubhouse at the foot of Randall Avenue , Throggs Neck , the Bronx . The three members of the rescuing part , George Schwend , Walter Paul and Gene Baumann , went to Breuss 's aid after a police launch had made a futile effort to reach his craft and an appeal to the Coast Guard had brought no results . They rowed out in a flat-bottom rowboat and made the journey only after great difficulty . Three women were rescued by Coast Guardsmen from a marooned cottage on a small island in Long ' Neck Channel , off the East Rockaway Inlet near Island Park . The lwaves of the channel hurtled over the island early in the evening , flooding the floor of the cottage . and six feet thick fell to the roof Arthur B. Kent , who is 60 years ' old , rowed to the mainland and sought the aid of the Long Beach Coast Guard . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the island and took off Mrs. Kent , Miss Louise Ritzier , 50 , a friend of the Kents , who is blind ; and Mrs. E. W. Diettrich , 60 . A brick chimney twelve feet tall : d six feet thick fell to the roof of a five-story tenement occupied by sixteen families at 52 East First Street . Hundreds of gallons of water poured into the aperture , causing the ceilings of three rear apartments to cave in . Water reached the electrical connections and caused short circuits , but the tenants , alarmed at first , were reassured by the police that there was no danger . A seven-foot section of a metal smoke stack on the Temple of the Covenant , 612 West 180th Street , fell to the roof yesterday morning while Jewish New Year services were in progress . The entire stack was later dismantled by the police . Shortly before 11 P. M. when the storm was raging , a live wire was torn loose from a pole at the Long Island Railroad station in Broad Channel , Queens , causing a 3-alarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Rockaway branch of the railroad was tied up for more than three hours . The wire struck a two-story bungalow and fishing wharf owned by Robert Thompson , and the resulting fire spread to the unoccupied Delevan Hotel , a two-story frame structure ; three other small empty cottages , the Long Island Railroad station waiting shed and the railroad trestle . All except the trestle were completely wrecked and part of the debris later could be seen floating in adjacent Jamaica Bay .                     