@@700832

txt T. M. Girdler , chairman of Republic Steel Corp .. speaking before the American Society of Metals at the Hotel Pennsylvania last night , said that with the over-zealous attempt of the Administration to spread wages and afford relief to the unemployed , stockholders are being penalized beyond all measure . ' He said : " The country 's millions of stocknouners represent the backbone of economic stability . They have been through lean years , and have been surprisingly patient . They have agreed that in the crises through which we have passed wage earners should be taken care of first . They have even accepted without a murmur taxation to pay for the perpetuation of unemployment , the plowing under of cotton , and birth-control among pigs . Stockholders sooner or later will assert their rights  --  and the Administration sooner or later must recognize such rights . " Predicts Record Steel Output Mr. Girdler predicted that the annual production of steel in the future will surpass anything in the history of the industry , because " all steels are going to be tailor-made . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be an increased demand which will arise from the necessity of replacing obsolete types of equipment by new equipment manufactured of steel specially adapted to that particular purpose . " He described the uses of new alloy steels in railroad , machine tool , airplane and various industrial fields . By use of new alloys , he said . it is possible today to build a freight car which will weigh one-third less and yet carry more tonnage ' than the average care now in use . The steel house , he added . is past the experithental stage and is practical both from a construction and cost standpoint . Citing the use of stainless steel for dairy machinery , brewery , restaurant and hospital equipment , containers , furniture , refrigerators . store fronts and passenger trains , Mr. Girdler said there appears to be literally no limit to the uses to which stainless steel may be put . New and broader markets for steel may not realizeded until-there has been a return of - the psychology of confidence and economit : stability , f said . Among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure of the Administration to effect monetary stability , hesitation with respect to long-term financing and distribution of investments , and the labor situation . Regarding the steel code Mr. Girdler said it would represent sound business procedure whether there were an N. R. A. or not , and expressed the hope that the steel industry would never again return to cut-throat competition .                     