@@698205

txt Faced with the greatest problem of recent financial history , prevention of a rout from the gold standard , directors Of lending central banks began conferences here at the Would Bank today In preparation for an official meeting Oct. 12 . Sieniflcantly , for the first time in the bank 's existence , leading American financiers are represented at the directors ' meeting by Mr. W , Randolph Burgess , of the New York Federal Reserve Bank . Mr. Burgess arrived late yesterday on a hurried ti ip from the United States . His purpose , it is stated here , is to inform the governors of the chief European banks of the precise position of American finance . The dollar wavers uncertainly on European bourses , and it was felt in New York that first-hand reassurance was needed . Thereto e , according to authorities here , the Amerlcan 's first mission is to give information to key bankers . Reports Discounted Reports that Mr , Burgess brings a full-blown plan for international currency reform are discounted here , although suggestions attributed to him for issuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ban follow lines recently studied here . It is denied Mr. Burgess will present formal proposals to World Bank directors , but nevertheless his ideas are said to carry much weight and are expected to play a preponderant role in the present session . Mr. Burgess 's arrival does not mean the American Government departs from its decision not to participate officially in the Basel institution , for he will only sit unofficially with the directors . But it is a longer step toward cooperation than ever before taken and dominates the current financial situation . Mr. Montagu NOrlhan , head of the Bank of England , arrived yesterday and today was closeted with Mr. Gates W. , president of the World Bank , and Mr. Burgess . Mr. Leon Fraser , American vice-president of the bank , had proceeded for Paris to meet Mr. Burgess and confer with him before arrival here . Regarding the basic problem facing the directors , no single concrete suggestion has emerged . It is recognized the vast problem of pegging the gold standard in countries where it is wavering , and assisting speedy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank lenders . And many partial solutions float nebulously over bank headquarters . Epoch-Making Meeting None , however , have taken a sufficiently tangible form to stand public discussion , and bank officials positively refuse to reveal Ideas under examination . Nevertheless all recognize that an epoch-making meeting in the bank 's history has begun . Granted the willingness of the central bank governors to commit their institutions , it is clear the present session will produce results . All depends upon the outcome of private talks which began today and will continue unabated until Monday or Tuesday . Although several countries have left the gold standard , there is no question of requesting their resignation from the directorate of the bank . The statutes provide that countries not on the gold standard may not become members , but do not specify their removal upon departing from gold . Britain , as a reparations receiving state , is entitled to bank membership whether on the standard or not , Sweden , too , is certain of continued membership . An atmosphere of troubled waiting hovered over bank headquarters today , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The prospect of American collaboration in a closer form is felt to be much more likely now that the Federal Reserve System takes a step at rapprochement . This fact makes the World Bank 's future measurably brighter .                     