@@702905

txt Restoration of the two-party system of government In America according to traditional practices in federal politics Is seen here as the primary objective of the vigorous speech delivered over the radio by former I Gov . Alfred M. Landon. campaign I standard bearer for the Republican Party In 1030 , who rolled up nearly 17.000,000 totes to his credit . Secondarily , there Is seen In the sharp attack on President Roosevelt an assertion of Mr. Landon 's own leadership of the Republican Party whose leaders at present are debating the wisdom of a mid-term rejuvenation conference ' and have revealed a deep-seated difference of opinion and a conflict of rival viewpoints . Mr. Landon 's voice came over the radio with the vigor of his old delivery and brought back one of the most comprehensive Indictments of the New Deal which has been heard since the 1938 election . Washington particularly noted the basis on which Mr. Landon couched his speech and agreed on the efficacy of the argument  --  that of frankly admitting the goodwill behind much of Mr. Roosevelt 's far-reaching social legislation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On one point practically everybody in Washington except dyed-in-the-wool Democrats agreed , that . the weakness of a constructive opposition here today is a source of weakness not only to the nation but to the Administration itself . . Mr. Landon emphasizes this point Just prior to the meeting of the extra session in which the political disparity will again be evident and a year before the congressional elections , when the voters will have an opportunity , if they care , to modify this disparity . Today the Senate has 76 Demo-orals and only 16 Republicans ; the House has 328 Democrats and only 87 Republicans a proportion of almost five to one in the upper chamber , and tour to one in the lower . On this subject Mr. Landon Is felt to have delivered some of his most effective commsnt in Urging the restoration of what Is , in effect , a two-party system of government . Mr. Landon 's frank willingness to concede merit In the social objectives of the New Deal while vigorously attacking one-man rule and the execution of the plans is characteristic of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1038 , whin many observers felt he was making his strongest bid for office . Later on in 1036 the Landon attack shifted to an unmitigated denunciation in a change of tactics frequently ascribed to the advice of John D. N. Hamilton , Republican National Chairman , and shown to have been unavailing in the outcome . In the present instance , the willingness of Mr. Landon to say that ho was originally " in sincere sympathy and agreement with many of the purposes set forth " is felt to enhance the effect of his attack on the execution of these plans as exemplified In NRA , social security , relief , taxes , and the Wagner Act . Undoubtedly the sharpest declaration in the speech was the charge that Mr. Robsevelt is " a changed man , " and the ominous charge that " power feeds on power  --  today , just as it did in the days of Julius Caesar . " The Landon attack on Mr. Roosevelt 's co-operation with other powers in an effort , to curb Japan is considered here an obvious effort to mobilize isolationist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mid west , which would eschew all dealings with foreign countries . The difficulty with making this a partisan issue , however , is the fact of its support from such a man as Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State under President Hoover , and , of similar Republican ' cadets . From the point of view of party strategy it is self-evident that Mr. Landon was attempting to mobilize as much discontent and dissatisfaction with the New Deal as he could on the broadest possible grounds . To do this it was necessary to phrase his attack for the most part in general terms . At the same time the Republican leader refrained from making any specific party proposals of his own which might be used as a basis for democratic retort . For the immediate purpose of rousing and mobilizing anti-New Deal sentiment to the greatest degree this is evidently the strategy indicated by the occasion and Is characteristic of American politics . but from the long-run point of view it is the very absence of a practical Republican platform that is felt , as much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to increase its congressional membership . A mid-term Republican conference might remedy this existing lack , however , and implement the dissatisfaction forcibly expressed by Mr. Linden .                     