@@700181

txt If recommendations to be made by the bureau of the Disarmament . Conference arc accepted by the general commission tomorrow , work will be continued In spite of the grave situation in which the conference has been placed by Germany 's withdrawal 13 days ago . The procedure to be followed will , however , be different , owing to the changed circumstances . While the general commission after tomerroiv 'S *Ming will adjourn to Dec. 4 , the bureau of the conference will be In permanent session to carry on the work which was indicated by Sir John Simon in his report to the bureau , namely to bring the British draft convention up to date and ' prepare it for a second reading before the general commission . At the same time negotiations for a larger measure of agreement on disarmament between the powers will be continued under responsibility of the bureau . The date of Dec , 4 is only provisional , and if the negotiations or the work of the bureau are not completed before that time the president of the bureau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ date . The bureau , which Is composed of 16 members , will decide whether to Intrust to a small committee the preparation of all amended draft convention , The situation seems greatly eased by today 's decision of the bureau which is most important , first , because of the unanimous determination to conclude a disarmament convention as quickly as circumstances allow ; second , because disarmament negotiations will be conducted at Geneva . The French ministerial crisis should not put obstacles In the way of negotiations since not only is France genuinely anxious to conclude a disarmament convention , but the policy of the Daladier government concerning disarmnment was approved Oct. 16 by three-fourths of the French Parliament , so that the next French Government will follow an identical policy . Geneva 's Hopes Deferred GENEVA 'S Arms Conference is adjourning with little definite achievement as a result of its year and a half 's labor , although leaving sufficient of its machinery in motion to prepare new ground for disannament , the need for which is more urgent than ever . For six months beginning February . 1032 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission bad spent four years drawing up . France was its main backer , Germany its main oppo- nent . Opposition fixed on the fact that , the convention left untouched the dictated provisions of the peace treaties , leaving victor states In the same strong position , while only slightly limiting their defenses . With stalemate In sight In June , 1932 , President Hoover suddenly Infused new life into the moribund conference with a new convention calling for one-third reduction In land armies , over police needs , similar cuts in battleships and other drastic moves , including abolition of tanks , heavy mobile guns and chemical warfare . Russia , Italy and Germany agreed at once ; France and Britain more slowly , and with conditions ; Japan objected . Enthusiasm again began to simmer down . Once more a revitalizing convention was sprung upon the conference  --  this time from Britain , in March , 1933 . The draft convention sueceded where the original one had failed , for , coining after the London Five-Power Conference , which had agreed to Germany 's technical equality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaties by others more congenial to Germany . It provided for ell-round quantitative and qualitative reduction of men and material . The draft convention was unanimously accepted as a basis for world disarmament accord . Disagreement with the German Government over treaty modifications , however , still militated aghinst any successful outcome as the conference met Oct. 16 , after a long adjournment , and further adjournment was inevitable ,                     