@@701698

txt Kings , Princes , Premiers or foreign Ministers from every country in Europe are arriving here daily for the royal funeral . In the aggregate they constitute a political gathering that even Geneva can not duplicate . Not only crowned heads , but also generals , admirals and diplomats of highest rank are in this galaxy . All come ostensibly to pay respects to the revered memory of King George and undoubtedly all the proprieties will be observed . Nevertheless , there will be many luncheons , dinners and other private and semi-private gatherings at which they will all meet socially , and amid these opportunities a certain amount of diplomatic business will be done . From time immemorial such gatherings , whether for weddings or funerals , have been used for such purposes . A classic example was the funeral of Queen Victoria in 1901 . Britain , then waging the Boer War , was universally condemned by the rest of Europe and was more isolated and better hated than at any other time within a century . The German Kaiser hated Britain , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressing sympathy for the Boers . Britain was furious about it . But in the atmosphere of grief over the Queen there came a change . There was a luncheon of the mighty at Marlborough House at which the Kaiser made a speech that was not reported at the time and was brought to public knowledge afterward only in the memoirs I of statesmen of that day . In the speech the Kaiser said Providence had intended that the two nations , Germany and Great Britain , should stand together . " We ought to form an AngloGerman alliance  --  you to keep the seas , we being responsible for land , " the Kaiser declared . " With such alliance no mouse could stir in Europe without our permission and nations would in time come to see the necessity for reducing their armaments . " He conducted himself so sympathetically that the memory of the Krueger telegram was wiped out completely and within ' a month actual negotiations for such alliance had begun between the Marquess of Lansdowne , then Foreign Minister , and Count Hatzfeldt , the German Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain should enter the Triple Alliance , and the British , while desiring to reach an understanding with Germany , especially in colonial matters , declined to offend France and Russia by joining a league against them . Secret Treaties Barred Now . This is only one example of how such a gathering serves to put diplomatic wheels in motion . Those , of course , were the days of secret alliances . Under the League of Nations covenant there can be none now  --  not even secret treaties . Nevertheless , only a few days ago President Roosevelt in a message to Congress spoke of the kaleidoscopic jockeying for position now going on both in Europe and Asia . This royal funeral , providing an almost unparalleled gathering of statesmen and other high personages , can not escape being an occasion for such jockeying . King Edward VIII is giving a dinner at Buckingham Palace tomorrow night at which they will all meet . There will be no opportunities for such a speech as the Kaiser made thirty-five years ago , for King Haakon of Norway , the only survivor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be the only spokesman for the visitors . He is a good democrat and a good European with no axe of his own grind and no wish to grind an axe for anybody else . But all the same , even without an important . speech , the results of this assembly , held while the mingled echoes of " The Last Post " and heralds ' trumpets still linger in memory , are likely to be important for all Europe , even if the world does not see them for a while . Starhemberg Has Opportunity . As an example of what is going on among the delegations , take Austria . Prince Ernst von Starhemberg , the Austrian Vice Chancellor , has been almost persona non grata in Britain . He ? is regarded as the villain of the Central European drama , an instrument of Italian policy and a leading opponent of League sanctions against Italy . He arrived yesterday for the funeral . Undoubtedly he intends to show himself to the British public and British political leaders in the most ingratiating light to dispel suspicions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prince von Starhemberg traveled across the English Channel and to London with Foreign Minister Anthony Eden of Britain , who was coming from Geneva . Tomorrow Prince von Starhemberg is to be a guest of the Austrian Minister at al luncheon at which he will meet Alfred Duff Cooper , the Secretary for War ; Viscount Swinton , the Secretary for Air , and other mem- I bers of the British Cabinet . He has expressed a desire to see something of the British air force and undoubtedly he will be taken to various airfields and allowed to see a great deal . Tomorrow there will also arrive here the Austrian Finance Minister and the head of the State Bank of Austria . On Wednesday they will sign an agreement for repayment of a loan of 220,000,000 Austrian schillings , which Britain extended to Austria in 1931 at the time of the Creditanstalt crisis . The Austrians agreed several weeks ago to repay 40,000,000 schillings in cash , with 30 per cent more obtained by freeing , will ask more credits , for they are needed . Prince to See Otto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Prince von Starhemberg and his colleagues will attend a luncheon at which Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer ; Montagu Norman , governor of the Bank of England , and others will be present . And at the week-end , when he leaves London , the Prince will pause somewhere near the Franco-Belgian border and have a talk with Archduke Otto , claimant of the Hapsburg throne , who hopes any day to be recalled to it . Doubtless Prince von Starhemberg hopes to be able to tell Otto how the British Government would regard such a step . Another sidelight : On the Channel steamer also yesterday was Foreign Minister Nicolas Titurescu of Rumania , who had come from Geneva with Mr. Eden and had had long , friendly talks with him en route . Mr. Titulescu , as spokesman for the Little Entente , expects to have more talks with Mr. Eden in the next few days . Prince von Starhemberg expects to see Mr. Eden again and to see Regent Paul of Yugoslavia , who is also here , thus linking up recent talks held in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in important moves understood to be under consideration in Vienna . Italian Prince Has Task . Here are the opportunities that the royal funeral affords one little country . There are others for which this is even more critical . The Prince of Piedmont , the Britisheducated heir to the Italian throne , is coming to represent his country after a period of tension between Britain and Italy even greater than that between Britain and Germany in 1901 . The Prince comes at a time when Italy is without friends save in Central Europe , and he is a representative not only of the Fascist regime bu also of the Italian royal family , which is related to the House of Windsor . It iwill be his job to be so charming in his public appearances and so ingratiating in private that he can perhaps capitalize. some of that desire for an amicable Anglo-Italian settlement that has existed here beneath the surface even during the tensest periods in the past six months . It is true that the Prince of Piedmont is staying at the Italian Embassy under the watchful eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this young Crown Prince , who is neither a politician nor a diplomat , will not do any active negotiating . But when the eyes of the people are on him Tuesday he can leave a certain impression and at various luncheon parties he can slip a word into the right ears . It is the first chance he has had for years not only to meet his royal relatives , whose influence he might be tempted to exaggerate , but also to meet Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin and other men who really direct British policy . And if an Anglo-Italian settlement should be reached in 1936 it will be only in accord with many historic precedents if its inception should have been these royal obsequies . Reich Representative Important . Another sidelight is the most important of all : They were talking of an Anglo-German alliance here in 1901 . There will be in the funeral procession on Tuesday a striking and quite impressive personality whom the public at large probably will not immediately recognize , who will not be arrayed as spectacularly as the Italian Crown Prince or Prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance that of any of the others . He is Baron Constantin von Neurath , the German Foreign Minister . This is a time when Germany might welcome such an understanding with Britain as the Kaiser sought in 1901 . Only last week in Geneva the German Government indicated its strong desire to remain on good terms with its neighbor across the North Sea by taking a conciliatory attitude in the Danzig matter , which Mr. Eden was then endeavoring to compose . It has not escaped notice in Britain also that neither Air Minister Hermann Goering , nor Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels , nor any other outstanding figure in the Nazi movement who might arouse antagonism here has been sent to the King 's funeral . Instead , there comes the Reich 's ablest diplomat , a former Ambassador to the Court of St. James and a friend of Queen Mary whom all the British Foreign Office also likes and trusts . Duke Accompanies . Him . With the courtly Baron von Neurath comes the Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha , a kinsman of the House of Windsor ( the husband of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of SaxeCoburg-Gotha ) . It will not be human if Baron von Neurath and his fellow-mourner take no advantage in a perfectly proper and decent manner of the contacts they will make in : the next few days  --  perhaps not so flamboyantly as did the Kaiser in 1901 , but nevertheless as effectively , if not more so ? to promote such rapprochement as Germany evidently has at heart . In fact , a large body of opinion here would welcome their success . With Germany out of the League , Baron von Neurath can no longer go to Geneva to meet there the Foreign Ministers of countries in the League . Even if he went there he would not see Mr. Baldwin , who leaves this country less frequently than Premier Benito Mussolini leaves Italy or Chancellor Adolf Hitler goes outside Germany . This is , therefore , a serious opportunity and no doubt it will be taken as such . It may be the occasion for the initiation of exchanges that would stabilize the European situation for a very long time . While there are diplomatic delegations that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegations here to see that the rest do not get away with anything . Foreign Commissar Maxim Litvinoff represents Russia , and he is an excellent choice . But he probably did not come all the way to London for the mere satisfaction of walking behind the royal coffin . Undoubtedly Mr. Litvinoff would like to persuade Downing Street to let bygones be bygones . Flandin a Friend of Britain . President Albert Lebrun has come for France , and with him is PierreEtienne Flandin , for the first time as Foreign Minister . Mr. Flandin , markedly pro-British , is as much at home here as even Sir Austen Chamberlain was in Paris . He even looks like an Englishman . It will be quite natural if Mr. Flandin , while seeing old friends in Downing Street , tries to repair some of the damage done to Anglo-French relations by the unlamented Pierre Laval . There are only a few European countries represented here that do not want something from the British , The Netherlands , the Scandinavian countries , Czechoslovakia , Spain and Portugal are some of them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jockeying of which Mr. Roosevelt spoke , for the United States needs nothing , but comes in pure friendship . But to so many this royal funeral offers chances of first importance to their own interests . Unfortunately one will probably have to wait for the memoirs of the statesmen concerned and for official papers contained in them to know exactly what has happened here , what hopes came to fruition and what hopes were blighted .                     