@@698973

txt For weeks past bankers and railroad executives have endeavored to find a way ' by which government credit could be utilized in the purchase of railroad bonds at the unprecedentedly low level of current prices , with the double object of extinguishing a large part of railroad fixed charges and providing a market upon which such liquidation as was necessary of bank loans and bank investments could be conducted on something fairly suggesting a reasonable basis . It is now clear that nothing is going to be done in this way , so far as legislation is concerned , and without legislation there seems to be no open road . It is a pity that this opportunity has been allowed to slip at this time , for there seems to be a basis on which it could have been soundly undertaken . Without attempting mathematical exactness , the facts seem to be something like these : Class 1 railroads as a whole . measured by current quotations for bonds and stocks , are valued at some 712 ? possibly S  --  billions of dollars . Of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Net income available for interest on funded debt ( based on current results for one-third of the present year ) will probably be about ISO millions short of the required amount , but will still amount to between 55 , and 65 , on the market value of funded debt . What Does Management Propose to Do ? Thus , if we could suppose railroad funded debt purchased at current prices with government money costing 55-. or converted into government securities bearing 5 , : ; , interest ( at current prices ) , there would be net income sufficient to meet the charges , even under present conditions of traffic . But it is apparently time wasted to discuss what might have been , for no such purchase or conversion seems to be among the possibilities This being the case , it is a fair question to ask of railroad management what it proposes to do to meet the situation , in so far as it lies within the scope of management . It is all very well and proper to direct the public 's attention to such things as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand reforms in both . The real , the fundamental trouble with the industry , has no doubt been aggravated by these things , but they have not done the main damage . That damage has been done mainly by one thing , namely , the practical stoppage of new capital expenditures by the country at large , and it can be repaired only by resumption of such expenditures . It is manifest that the railroad capital now outstanding can not be supported only by such traffic as is created by the movement of commodities for the country 's routine consumption ; the backbone of rail traffic has in the past generation or two been furnished by material entering into new construction . The lack of " employment " from which the railroad industry is suffering is the effect of the cause which has mobilized the great army of unemployed men . Need a Totally New Concept Obviously it does not lie within the power of railroad management to remove that cause , any more than it can deal with " unregulated competition " or " defective regulation . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the things that are within its power to stop leaks in expenses and recapture traffic that has been tempted to other routes and forms . This writer would be among the last to minimize its achievements in the physical handling of plant , wherein the past 10 years have brought great improvement and real economies . He is well aware that many valuable lessons have been learned In the past two years , the profits of which will be substantial when it is a case of handling increased business . It seems to him , hO  --  ever , that thus far management has failed to realize that the situation calls for something much more than this , and that it is a revolution  --  no less  --  in fundamental concepts and long-standing traditions and practices that is required . We need a totally new concept . Competition , in a word , must go , or at least it must be reduced to absolute minimum ; the country can not afford it nor can security holders . If shippers and travelers object to this notion , they have only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation , for that will be the inevitable result of a continuance of even the present " individualism " that characterizes railroad management . Whether , indeed , anything can now avert that unqualified calamity , short of an early and substantial upturn in traffic , is doubtful , but , however doubtful it may be , it is clearly everyone 's duty to fight against it so long as there is life . Suppression of every form of competition that unnecessarily turns a wheel or unnecessarily diverts a passenger or a pound of freight from the natural route of either is clearly Indicated as primary strategy in that battle . . Not Pleasant  --  Neither Is War This means a complete reorientation of view by railroad managers , no doubt , but it means even more . To fight that kind of battle means unified command . In a word , it means that we . must  --  if we do not want a Federal Director of ' Railroads  --  come to not more than three district " umpires , " " commissioners , " " czars " ? call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own bailiwick compel the kind of common action that is needed and can be secured in no other way . Not pleasant , of course , least of all to strong and able personalities , as are most of our railroad executives , but neither is war , and the present situation of railroads ? n this country is of an order of emergency that is equivalent to war . A Ia guerrc , rommc a la guerre : as the French say .                     