@@699702

txt MUNICH , April ** first impression gained on returning to Munich after an absence of three weeks is that the opposition of middle-class Bavarians to the Nazis is dying out rapidly . Former sincere opponents among the younger generation in the Bavarian People 's party , who expressed horror at the Nazis ' principles and methods just before the election and for the past three weeks were in the depths of despairing helplessness , are now expressing hopes that the fanaticism will soon be so modified as to make it possible for the Bavarian People 's party to take the vacant seat in the Cabinet which is believed to have been reserved by Chancellor Hitler for them . They say openly , however , that , while they once opposed the Nazi revolution , now that it has occurred and has established itself there is no alternative but communism for Germany . Turn Against the Jews . Your correspondent finds such people weakening on the Jewish question . Although their party formerly was the protector of Jews , they now approve the new government 's policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1 per cent of their non-Jewish colleagues , to correspond to the proportion of Jews to the total population of Germany . When asked how the displaced Jewish members of these professions were to live , they replied : " They can keep shops , write articles and books , be unlicensed legal consultants or engage in any other ' free ' occupation . " At a meeting of National Socialist lawyers in Munich , Dr. Frank , Bavarian Minister of Justice , emphasized that Jews would be eliminated from the administration of law in Germany . " We are not going to allow ourselves to be deflected from our program by any whining , " he went on . " We have won from history the right to be heard . " Hans Kerrl , Justice Minister of Prussia , told the lawyers he was not worrying " about the fate of Jews deprived by the new laws of their occupations , considering the persecutions the National Socialist movement had to suffer . " The heads of the judiciary departments of Prussia and Bavaria have formed an indissoluble alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of law and to oust Jews from the courts as members of an alien race . " The Nazi Commissioner of Speyer decreed that with the opening of the outdoor bathing season all municipal establishments shall have special bathing hours for jews . Similar restrictions are to be enacted , it is understood , in other towns of the Bavarian Palatinate . The district leader of the National Socialist party at Neustadt issued a manifesto deploring applications for the release of political prisoners there , especially Jews , whose liberar tion had been requested on the grounds of ill health . " Jews will be released , " he said , " only if two of their spokesmen , such as the physicians who have certified as to their being ill , will undergo detention in their place . " Von Epp Wins Support . One explanation of the collapse of the national Bavarian opposition to the Hitler government , apart from its hopelessness against so strong and determined a system and the expansion of Nazi propaganda , is to be found in the appointment of General von Epp to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due to dislike of Prussia and Berlin . It has been overcome by selecting General von Epp as the supreme representative of Hitlerism in Munich . He is a Bavarian of Bavarians , popular as the man who at the head of a corps of volunteers destroyed the Bavarian Communist government in 1920 . So great a change has taken place in the Bavarian hatred of a centralized system that the population is now prepared to accept such measures as the appointment of Federal Governors for the larger States . The Governor 's powers for nominating and dismissing Ministers virtually eliminates the possibility of a Bavarian government ever again fighting in defense of Bavarian interests against the central government . General von Epp is welcomed in Catholic and Monarchist circles also as likely to prove a restraining influence upon the new Nazi Bavarian Government , which has been treating the press and population generally more severely than has been the case in Prussia . This reaction has been emphasized , for In Bavaria the revolutionary side of National Socialism ? had been stressed . Premier Seibert , . as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar restraining influence on some of his colleagues whose enthusiasm- for their cause greatly exceeds their practical experience . The old leaders of the Bavarian People 's party will have nothing to do with the new regime . They have already disappeared from political life , but still enjoy the support and sympathy of some of their former electors . It is impossible to ascertain the feeling of working-class Bavarians. who supported the Social Democratic party . Some of their leaders have been arrested ; their newspaper is suppressed and its building is a club for Nazis , its windows filled with Nazi political propaganda . Some are prepared to accept the situation as inevitable and seek humble places in Nazi Bavaria .                     