@@701018

txt The administration 's 4 billion : 880 million dollar work relief bill suffered another major alteration In the senate appropriations committee today when an amendment presented , by Senator Pat McCarran Dem .. Nev. , ? providing for the payment of the prevailing wage rates , was adopted ; 12 to S. Rear Admiral Christian J. Peoples , navy procurement officer , testified iri the committee hearings that such a Provision " would defeat the very purpose of the bill itself . " Testimony in the hotise committee hearings was that payment of the prevailing rates . instead of $50 a month , as proposed by the President , would increase the cost of , putting 3,500,000 men to - work by 2 billion dollars . Adds 2 Billion to Cost . Thus there seemed to be little consistency in the attitude of the revolting senators , who yesterday voted , 10 to 10. on an amendment shaving off 2 billion dollars from the appropriation , and today voted , 12 , to .8 , in favor of paying wages that would cost an additional 2 billion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The adoption of the McCarroa amendment astonisteda Senator James F. Byrnes Dem. ; S. C. , President Roosevelt 's representative on the committee , and other administration supporters . Some senators served notice on Chairman . Carter Glass Dem. , Va. that their votes were cast under a misapprehension as . to the effects of the amendment and that they would move for a -reconsideration- at- a later date . Besides the prevailing wage provision , the committee adopted by a vote of 13 to 7 another amendment submitted by Senator McCarran . This provides that all construction work in which 10 per cent of the labor cost is for skilled labor shall be performed by contract awarded to the highest Ibidder . Plumbing Costs Cited . This amendment was the result of testimony that plumbing costs on Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes ' subsistence homesteads at Reedsville , W. , Va. , averaged more than $500 a home with day labor , whereas private contractors had offered to do it for $350 . It was also testified that Mr. Ickes ' plumbing failed to work when he got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitted yesterday by Senator Alva B. Adams Dem. , Colo. which would reduce the appropriation to 2 billion 880 million dollars and substitute the outright dole for the works program . This amendment lost yesterday in a tie vote , but its pro . ponents are still hopeful of its passage upon the return of absent senators , two of ' whom reached New York on the steamer Washington today . Power Is Restored . One subscription of the wide block of powers stripped from the President by the committee yesterday was restored today . This was the power to acquire real property by purchase or the ' power of eminent domain . Administration spokesmen explains " that the purpose of this paragraph is to permit the carrying out of the President 's submarginal land reclamation program and the 575,000,000 tree belt from Canada to Texas . Senator Glass , a foe of most of the New Deal experiments , at first proposed the amendment providing that work be done by private contractors , explaining to Administration Leader Byrnes that if adopted it would serve to defeat the McCarran amendment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the McCarran amendment and induced Chairman Glass to withdraw this . The vote was taken and the result was a surprise to Senator Byrnes , although not to Senator Glass . The committee chairman voted against the amendment , but nevertheless had predicted its passage . . . . Contractors Change Wins . After the adoption of the McCarran amendment , Senator Glass declined to present his , but Senator McCarran proposed it ard ' it was passed . The Nevada Democrat also obtained adopt tion of a third amendment providing that wherever practicable " the facill ? ties of private enterprise " shall be used on projects constructed under the act . This amendment was proposed by the Associated General Contractors of America and was Intended as a further safeguard against the employment of day labor . The $50 a month wage proposed by the administration is high enough , in President Roosevelt 's opinion , to provide " security " for the worker and his family and low enough to serve as a constant incentive to find work in private employment . The President 's idea is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dole because it will keep up the morale of those who receive it . Provides Fewer Jobs , The theory of Senator Adams , however , is that $50 a month would be more dangerous than the dole from the morale standpoint because the worker would feel that the government was underpaying him . As the bill now stands , with the McCarran amendment the workers would get the full prevailing rate of pay but 4 billion dollars would put only about 2 million instead of 3 million men to work . This would leave 1% million men on the dole , in addition to the 1% million unemployables being returned to the states and local communities . And if the Adams amendment is adopted and 2 billion dollars is lopped Off the appropriation there can bo no material expansion cf the works program now being carried on by the Federal Emergency Relief administration . No Penal Provisions Now . The McCarran amendment was a substitute for section 6 of the bill as passed by the house , but it carried the same provision of a $5,000 fine for violations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was stricken and the bill now stands with no penal provisions , but Chairman Glass said they would be added iu some form before the committee finished with the bill . The McCarran amendment placed another limitation upon the President 's powers with respect to prescribing rules and regulations , providing that they " shall not abrogate any existing la ? . " The committee will meet again tomorrow when Senators Millard Tydings of Maryland and Kenneth Mc1Zellar of Tennessee , both Democrats , are expected to be present and action may be taken to the Adams amendment . BORROWS 50 MILLIONS ( Chicago Tribune Press Service . Washington , D. C. , Feb. 7 . ? Special . ? Federal care of the 20 million persons on the dole until Feb. 20 was assured today when Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes advanced 50 million Vllars of Public Works administration money to the Federal Emergency Relief administration . The transfer was made as relief funds were near exhaustion . At the first of the month the relief administration bad 50 million dollars on hand , which Administrator Harry Hopkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that time that unless congress acted before that date on the President 's 4 billion 880 million work relief bill federa ' aid would be discontinued . Forced to Find Funds . With the work relief bill under attack before the senate appropriations committee , administration leaders were forced to find other funds for continuance of relief . Secretary Ickes was asked to transfer PWA funds . The 50 million dollars transferred today came from the unobligated balance in the 150 million PWA low cost housing fund . It could be transferred to relief as it had been voted by congress for PWA or relief purposes . " The relief administration , " Secretary Ickes said , " will repay the money to the PWA as soon as it receives the 880 million direct relief appropriation in the work relief bill . " Administrator Hopkins laughed when he was told Ickes expected the money will be repaid . " Did you ever bear of the relief administration repaying any money ? " he asked . 100 Million Total . Administrator Hopkins said the states ' share of relief will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 20 . With the 50 million dollars to be spent by the federal government , the total outlay for the period will be about 100 million dollars . He said he hoped that congress would pass the work relief bill to give the administrator funds by Feb. 20 . Both Ickes and Hopkins said they contemplate no house cleanings in their departments such as the shakeup in the Agricultural Adjustment administration in which a group of radical New Dealers were ousted or demoted by Secretary Wallace . The two officials said there are no internal difficulties in their departments . DIES ' , nom SPLINTER IN HAND . John P. : Monson. 84 years old . 7028 Clyde avenue . died yesterday in the Illinois Central hospital from blood poisoning which developed after he ran a splinter in his hand en Jan. 26 . Monson was a car inspector for the Illinois Central railroad .                     