@@700155

txt After a brief interregnum a new case of a Nazi assault upon an inoffensive ACnerlean had to be brought to the attention of the State Department in Washington today by American officials in Berlin . The latest instance concerns Roland Velz , an American businessman formerly of New York , who has resided in Germany for several years . Mr. Velz and his wife were walking along the main street of Diisselseldorf Sunday when a Nazi parade happened to pass . Neither was particularly interested in the parade and they paid no attention to it . Suddenly a large man in the adform of a storm trooper struck Mr. Velz two vicious blows in the face . Mr. Velz asked a policeman to arrest his assailant . The policeman refused . Mr. Velz appealed to a police lieutenant who happened to be nearby . The lieutenant replied that the victim had not saluted the Nazi flag when it passed and proceeded to explain the practice and how it should be carried out . Further than that he evinced no interest in what had happened . Protests to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lodged a complaint with - Consul deneral George S. Messersmith , ' who promptly reparted the case to the State Department and pending further inotructions took up . the matter with the Prussian *dice. and the Ministry of the Interior . In  --  each case he obtained the usual expressions of regret and a promise of an investigation . This repetition of Nazi rowdyism raises the direct issue of whether American citizens domiciled in Germany or traversing the country as tourists can be assured by their own government of their physical safety while here , and on this question it is not unlikely that the two governments will now come to grips . Hitherto Washington has hesitated to announce that it can not accept responsibility for the safety of Americans traveling in Germany , yet it is a fact that unprovoked assaults on Americans are continuing without apparently bringing the slightest punishment for the assailants . There have now been some twelve such assaults in which Nazis , committing them deliberately as Nazis , have been involved . About half these have been due to the failure of the Americans involved to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Record of Penalty . In each case the German Government has tendered formal apologies and has announced its intention of punishing the iferpetrators of the assault . In recent cases the American officials have made a formal demand for such punishment and have requested that they be apprised of the penalty inflicted . In no case , as far as American official records go , has a penalty been inflicted . Even the identity of the assailants , although German officials in most cases have admitted knowing it , has not been revealed to the investigating consular officers . In some cases they have been informed that arrests have been made , but without details . No record of a penalty has been sup:Aied . An order , couched almost in terms of gentle advice to the Nazis that exempts foreigners from the necessity of giving the Hitler salute has been published in the German newspapers . Its continued violation , however , seems to indicate that it is regarded as advice rather than as a command and may therefore be disregarded , and the lack of a penalty for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are therefore left in a quandary as to how far the State Department is prepared to go in indicating to the German Government that the American visitors so freely invited to " come to Germany and witness the rebirth of a nation " must be protected during their stay here . Takes On Added Gravity . The assault on Mr. Velz , besides being as brazen and unprovoked as the others brought into notice by complaints to American officials , takes on added gravity in view of the indifference of the Duesseldorf police to the order of one of their own higher authorities that foreigners who do not salute the Nazi flag after the Nazi fashion shall not be assaulted for their failure to do so . There were plenty of German witInesses to the entire occurrence , although unless a real desire to punish the offender is evinced on the part of the authorities it would be quite useless to cite them . Thus in view of the repeated failure on the part of the German authorities to fulfill their promise to undertake the prosecution of the Nazi rowdies who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the probable necessity of asking the State Department for a public admission that it can no longer guarantee the protection of American citizens in Germany from Nazi onslaughts . The attack on Mr. Velz occurred at about the same time that Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels , the Nazi Minister of Popular Enlightenment and Propaganda , was eulogizing German-American friendship here at the celebration of the 250th anniversary of the founding of Germantown , Pa . The celebration was held under the auspices of the Carl Schurz Society . Dr. Goebbels did not mention the order of Rudolf Hess , deputy leader of the Nazi party , exempting foreigners from the necessity of identifying the Nazi emblems and learning and practicing the special salute for them . That is never mentioned in Nazi speeches . Thus there are still many thousands of exuberand Nazis to whom the swastika is the emblem before which all the world must kowtow .                     