@@700801

txt A Cabinet decree today ordered military training for all males from the age of 8 years until ten years after their dismissal from the army on completion of their compulsory service . " The functions of a citizen and soldier are inseparable , " declared Premier Mussolini in a statement making public this and other decrees organizing military preparations . " Military instruction , " he added , " is an integral part of national education . " Today 's action came on the heels of the Premier 's speech closing this year 's military manoeuvres , in which he declared that war " is in the air " and that he did not hesitate to affirm Italy was a militarist nation . It means that all male Italian citizens shall be regarded as actual or potential members of the military forces and that no effort shall be spared to develop in them the qualities that make good soldiers . Three Phases of Training . Military instruction is to be divided into three stages . The first or pre-military phase will have for its object preparing boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consist of technical training to " transform the citizen into a warrior . " The third or postmilitary phase will have for its object to maintain the soldier on his return to civil life at a. level of military efficiency to permit his immediate service in event of war . At the age of 8 years Italian boys will become members of Fascist Balilla organizations , which will train them until they reach the age of 14 years . This part of the program is designed " to interest boys in military life by means of frequent contacts with the armed forces of the nation , whose glories and traditions will be , taught to them . " From the age of 14 to 18 years instruction will be imparted by Fascist Avanguardisti organizations . The training will consist principally of gymnastics - and sports , " to bring the boys up to a degree of individual and collective military training sufficient to permit their incorporation in preliminary formations of the Fascist Militia or in specialized formations of juvenile Fascists . " At the age of 18 years the Italian citizen becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in - the Fas- cist Militia . The instruction he receives during this period is de-1 signed to " perfect his moral , gym-1 nastic and military training in or- der to make of him a soldier physically and morally prepared . " At the age of 21 years he is drafted to the colors and begins his two years of compulsory army service . Even after his release , however , he is not through with military instruction . For the next ten years he is subject to post-military training , whose aim is " to preserve in former soldiers the military spirit and esprit de corps and to maintain in readiness a reserve of specialists skilled in their respective military functions and well acquainted with the newest materials and most recent developments in the art of war . " This final period of instruction will be under the auspices of the Fascist Militia . Training will be held for brief periods , preferably during vacations . Penalties are provided for persons who fail to attend these courses and for employers who fail to release their workers for attendance . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military instruction at school from the moment they leave the elementary schools until their graduation from universities . Courses in " military culture " will aggregate twenty hours for each scholastic year . The subjects taught will range from " elementary notions of military culture " to " how present-day wars are begun , conducted and won . " Today 's decrees provide finally for the creation , on the order of the head of the government , of a military organ to coordinate all the phases in the training of the Italian citizen for his destiny as a soldier .                     