@@699832

txt Surprisingly little variance between the viewpoints of the British and American governments was revealed today when Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , gave the House of Commons the first definite statement of Britisli policy at the World Economic Conference , opening here June 12 . Speaking not only as Chancellor of the Exchequer but as leader of the British delegation at the conference . Mr. Chamberlain said Great Britain would press for the following main results : First  --  Raising the level of 1 world prices by planning production and trade , rather than by manipulating credit or currency . Second  --  Ultimate restoration of a stable gold standard at a new parity and under workable conditions , " with an agreement meantime protecting the world 's currencies from violent fluctuations . " Third  --  Removal or reduction of abnormal barriers to trade , such as exchange controls , arbitrary quotas or prohibitively high tariffs . World Need Spurs Action , " Revival of trade depends in my opinion upon acceptance of these three main objectives by the conference , " Mr. Chamberlain declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect , we may find a good deal of work will have to be done before we can line up with one another . " Yet the conference itself , the very greatness of the emergency , the desperate nature of the situation will themselves , I think , put all the delegates in a mood in which they will be disposed to do their best to make the conference a success . " In wording and spirit , Mr. Chamberlain 's speech might almost have been made by Secretary Hull or President Roosevelt . Only on one major issue , the advisability of an expansionist or inflationary policy to raise prices , did he clash with Mr. Roosevelt 's views , and incidentally with the communiqu ? issued in Washington last month by the President and Prime Minister . Mr. Chamberlain 's attitude on this point was sharply attacked during the subsequent debate by Sir Herbert Samuel , leader of the Liberals , and Sir Stafford Cripps , spokesman for the Laborites , both of whom urged upon the government an outand-out expansionist policy . Another major source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one could . Explaining that war debts could not very well be discussed at a conference of sixty-six nations , Mr. Chamberlain said : " The government of the United States is in full possession already of - the views of the British Government . If I say nothing more now , it is because any word of mine , however innocuous its intention , might be subject to misunderstanding on the other side of the water . I am not prepared to take any risks of saying anything which might , however inadvertently , prejudice the chance for a satisfactory solution of this very delicate question . " He reminded the House that the American Government fully understood Britain 's difficulties and did not want to do anything to  --  increase them or to jeopardize the success of the world conference . Unlike Prime Minister MaeDonald , whose utterances on economic subjects have been increasingly cloudy , Mr. Chamberlain was frank and definite , especially on the subject of currencies . Britain , he said , already had done what she could through the equalization fund to smooth out the fluctuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said , ' by exchange of views , to arrive at some agreement as to further steps that may be taken , leading ultimately to what we must regard as our complete essential to thorough restoration of finance and trade , namely , a stable international monetary standard . " Explicitly for Gold Standard . There was no quibbling either in his advocacy of the gold standard . " As far as I have been able to judge , there is only one standard which is familiar to everybody and which can inspire confidence , provided certain conditions are observed , " he said of it . He failed to define the conditions under which he thought the gold standard would be workable , but in previous speeches he had already said repeatedly that the first of these was removal of intergovernmental debts . On tariffs Mr. Chamberlain was strikingly moderate , although he has been a high-tariff man all his life . He denied there was any inconsistency in Britain building up her own tariff while asking that other nations reduce theirs . " Everything ! depends on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff , " he said . The speech . ended on a warmer and more-friendly note than had been detected in Mr. Chamberlain 's statement last February . when he suggested the debt question was not one for give and take . The House of Commons adjourned for the Whitsuntide vacation . It will resume June 13 , only two days before the next war debt payment , is due . It is expected then immediately to engage in a discussion of foreign policy , including the debts .                     