@@700516

txt What is regarded as a final effort to avert a general strike in the automobile industry , which may affect some 250,000 workers , will be undertaken here this morning at a meeting of the executive committee of the Code Authority for the industry at the office of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce , 366 Madison Avenue . On the eve of this conference , the directors of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce issued a statement in Detroit declaring that the industry " does not intend to recognize the American Federation of Labor as such , nor to enter into any contract with it in behalf of its employes . " At the same time A. F. of L. leaders mobilized 10.000 automobile workers in Detroit mass meetings and instructed them on procedure in event of a strike . Johnson at Hand to Aid . The meeting here will proceed under the eye of General Johnson . the National Recovery Administrator , who is in this city and will hold himself in readiness throughout the day for such help and consultation as he may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting will be Edward F. , Assistant Secretary of Labor and labor assistant to the NRA . The strike has been set for Wednesday . Several A. F. of L. unions are involved . Their demands look toward recognition of the or , ganizations and reinstatement of men said to have been discharged for unionization activity . The demands were presented in Washington last week . The union leaders then returned to Detroit , ready to call the strike . Many Plants Are Affected . The companies affected are the General Motors Corporation and its subsidiaries , as well as the Chrysler and Packard companies and about a dozen accessory plants in various parts of the country . Actually , however , the developments that may ensue as a result of today 's meeting here will have an effect upon the labor policies of all members of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce . This includes all automobile manufacturing companies , with the exception of Henry Ford , who is not a member of the chamber . The executive committee of the Code Authority consists of Walter Chrysler , head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of General Motors , and Alvan Macauley , president of the Packard Company . Attending the meeting as legal adviser will be John P. Smith , general counsel for General Motors . The executive committee will have before it a proposal made by General Johnson designed to satisfy the union 's demands on the basis of a compromise solution . As a means of testing the validity of the claim put forward by the A. F. of L. unions as to their right to represent the workers in the automobile industry in collective bargaining , General Johnson has suggested to the Code Authority that an impartial board be set up to consider ways and means . The issue may be determined through an informal poll of the workers . General Johnson suggested also that an impartial board , with the automobile manufacturers and the unions represented , under a neutral chairman , be set up to adjudicate all cases of alleged discrimination against workers for union activity . While General Johnson will not attend the meeting of the executive committee , he will be within easy reach for consultation and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unions determined to strike on Wednesday unless their demands are satisfied , and the end of the peak season for the industry only three or four weeks off , it is felt that the meeting to be held here todaL will be a crucial one in every selEse . The position of the unions is that unless they can force a decision now on the issue of their organizations versus the company unions maintained by the various manufacturers . they will have missed their chance to establish themselves firmly in the industry , which heretofore has been virtually closed to A. F. of L. unionism . Claiming a membership of 60,000 and asserting that the great majority of the workers are ready to join the A. F. of L. if given some security against discrimination , the unions through their spokesmen in Washington last week , including President William Green of the American Federation of Labor , made of the question a national issue in a double sense . They emphasized their determination to force recognition at the cost of a general strike , if necessary , and they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fundamentals of the collective bargaining provision of the National Recovery Act . The contention of the A. F. of L. as a whole and of its unions in the automobile industry is that " the collective bargaining provision either means what it says or it means nothing at all . " ' The union leaders called upon the government to indicate once and for all that collective bargaining means bargaining through independent organizations and that company unions must be excluded from the picture . The automobile manufacturers , on the other hand , have been equally determined not to recognize the A. F. of L. organization , on the ground that they were living up to the provision of the law by bargaining with their individual employes . While agreeing to wait until Wednesday for any such compromise solution as may be developed at today 's meeting here that would be acceptable to them , the unions have been demanding a straight plebiscite of the automobile workers on the issue of the A. F. of L. versus company unionism , such an election to be supervised by General Johnson or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee to pass upon cases of discrimination . Several weeks ago the automobile code authority proposed the setting up of a committee of five , but without labor representation , to pass upon such cases . The proposal was rejected by the Labor Advisory I Board of the NRA .                     