@@698933

txt The $2,100,000,000 unemployment relief bill is expected to arrive at the White House tomorrow afternoon for President Hoover 's immediate veto , and on the following day Congress will probably begin framing a revised measure eliminating loans to private individuals , the proposal most objectionable to the President . In the opinion of Democratic Senate leaders , Speaker Garner will agree now to presenting a relief bill acceptable to the administration , but this capitulation may not bring a solution to the problem that is holding up adjournment of Congress . Organized labor intends to press for inclusion in the new relief measure a plan to lend to unemployed persons $500 with which to buy necessaries . There is such a bill now before Congress , proposing to create a United States Exchange Corporation similar to the Reconstruct 'm Finance Corporation , but empowered to grant loans to the unemployed . This plan is promoted by the Railway Labor Executives ' Association and has the support of the American Federation of Labor . Senator Costigan of Colorado and Representative La Guardia of New York have introduced bills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hearings will be held this week by a subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Manufactures . Watson Set . Quick Agreement . Senator Watson , Republican floor leader , expressed belief tonight that differences of opinion on relief would be com-posed and a bill acceptable to the President sent to the White House before the end of this week . He thinks this would permit disposition shortly of the home loan bank bill , the beer question and the army supply bill , looking to adjournment by the middle of next week , probably July 20 . Adjournment may be much farther distant , however , because of intense political rivalry on pending questions . The shadow of the Presidential election hangs heavily over the doings of both the legislative and the administrative branches of the government as Congress prepares to adjourn and the political campaign gets under way . Legislation for relief and efforts to obtain a vote on modification of the Volstead act are matters which are leading issues in the campaign , and their fate in Congress touches party fortunes . The question of reduction or cancellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a potential campaign issue . Even the moves for investigation of the Treasury Department , the Federal Reserve Board and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation are tinged with politics . Hoover Counts on Conservatives . No recent Congressional session in its closing days has had so much legislation to dispose of that was fraught with political significance . This is recognized by leaders of both parties and by President Hoover , who has sent Secretary Mills to Boston to open the Republican campaign tomorrow night and discuss some of the questions of the day . Mr. Hoover canceled his own weekend holiday at his Rapidan camp . replied to Governor Roosevelt on the St. Lawrence power project , and put the finishing touches today to his message vetoing the relief bill . He has consulted political leaders about some points in the message and it is expected to g obeyond the main issue involved . Republican leaders look forward to the veto statement as a campaign document of first magnitude setting forth the issue between conservatism and radicalism , which the Republicans aim to make paramount in the national campaign . Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Postmaster General Brown . chose this as the ground on which to give battle to the Democrats . Advised that Governor Roosevelt would probably draw to his support many radical elements in the electorate . President Hoover has set out to win the support of all conservative , , , elements . To this end he caused the Republican convention to write one of the most conservative platforms in recent years . Congress Reluctant on Liquor . According to some administration leaders , the President had not planned to set forth his conception of the fundamental " distinction between the two parties , as they now stand , before making his acceptance speech next month . But the passage of the Wagner-Garner relief measure has given the President an opportunity of which some believe he will take advantage In his veto message . It has been apparent that a number of members of both parties were not disposed to force action on beer legislation or other proposals to carry out at this session platform pledges on prohibition . Indications now are that the Bingham proposal for 3.2 per cent beer may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . President Hoover has shown no interest in submission of an amendment for prohibition modification , and Mr. Roosevelt has refrained from urging Democratic members of Congress to seek immediate modification or repeal . Republican and Democratic leaders explain their own inactivity on these matters on the ground that party platforms , despite promises of " immediate " action , apply to the next Congress , of which some members will be elected in November on the platform of their respective parties . With all Congress 's uncertainties , however , one thing is sure , that before members hurry home for the campaign many a. campaign speech will be delivered in Congress .                     