@@697705

txt To be " in trade " ought never again to be an odium in Great Britain , for British trade was raised today upon the occasion of the inauguration of the British Empire Trade Fair by the Prince of Wales in the presence of President Uriburu , his Cabinet and members of the diplomatic corps . Not only did two members of the British royal family come all the way to Buenos Aires to be present at the inauguration of the fair , but the British Admiralty sent four warships to Buenos Aires to add splendor to the occasion . British marines formed a guard of honor at the exposition grounds and a band of the Queen 's Own Cameron Highlanders played the Argentine and British national anthems . And King George himself sent a message to the Argentinians calling their attention to the importance of the exposition . Radio Carries His Voice Afar . The trade fair was opened with all the pomp and glory of a great international event . Speaking before a microphone which carried his voice through broadcasting stations in all parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wales delivered his vigorously applauded ivaugural address in English and then repeated it in excellent Spanish . His enunciation of each Spanish word was crisp and clear , with the result that his Spanish address was much easier to hear and understand than any other Spanish that went out over the radio . Never has any foreign visitor to Argentina made himself so popular as the Prince of Wales , and he undoubtedly could be elected President of the Argentine Republic tomorrow if he wanted the position . His popularity in South America is incredible and must be seen to be appreciated , and even when seen can not be adequately described . Only a part of his popularity is due to his being a royal prince , the rest being due simply to his ability to make himself extremely popular , apparently without trying to do so . Boon to British Producers . Hundreds of thousands listened in on the radio this afternoon to hear him inaugurate the exposition who probably would n't have listened in on the King himself . When the Prince of Wales offered to come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into his debt for life , and 885 exhibitors are profiting from the unprecedented advertising which he has brought to the exposition . The public was not admitted to the grounds for the inauguration , admittance being restricted to those with invitations , but it is expected that visitors will pour into the grounds by the thousands for the next few days at least . Although the exposition is generally admitted to be an effort by the British to win commerce away from the Americans , who have replaced them in the Argentine market , local American business organizations look upon the exposition with the heartiest good-will and hope it will be successful . Many Americans , in fact , have cooperated with the British in the preparation of their exhibits . American road machinery was lent , not sold , to the organizers for street building within the grounds . American loud-speakers and telephones were as rapidly and efficiently installed as though for an American show . The Germans here rather than the Americans are upset by the exposition . They are demanding that the German Government make some official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a fight such as this between the British and Americans they ought not to stand idle on the sidelines . The Americans , however , do not regard it as a fight at all and are ready to welcome any competition which may arise from the exposition . The Prince of Wales made his last official appearance tonight at a grand ball on the flying deck of the plane carrier Eagle . He will leave Buenos Aires at dawn on Monday by airplane for Cordoba , where he win remain until ready to board a steamer for ' home . Delivers a Sales Talk . BUENOS AIRES , March 14 QM ? I The Prince of Wales delivered a sales talk today for the British Empire in an inaugural address which dedicated here the largest trade exhibition the empire ever sponsored out- , side its borders . In a speech radiocast to England , the United States and the British dominions , he called attention to the vast display of British goods assembled in Palermo Park as proof of a spirit of revival in British industry . He reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words which make up Argentina 's name for foreign trade " intercambio comercial . " Translated literally into English , he pointed out , the words mean " commercial interchange . " The world 's depression , the Prince said , probably is mainly due to its failure to recognize trade as an interchange of products . Great Britain and Argentina alike , he said , are vitally concerned with foreign trade . Hopes for Mutual Benefits . He concluded with the hope that the sale of more British goods in Argentina would enable Britain to consume more Argentine meat and grain , and he said , " I dedicate this exposition to the Argentine people and confidently entrust its success to their care . " President Uriburu , responding to the Prince 's speech , recalled the " friendly and gentlemanly cooperation " of the last century , during which British enterprise and capital had joined to develop Argentina 's resources . The relations of the ' two countries , he said , would never be forgotten . The Prince of Wales and his brother , Prince George , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exhibition , and both spoke briefly . Tonight the Prince addressed a dinner of the British Chamber of Commerce . The exposition was opened under suspicious weather , with bright sunthine and a cloudless sky . Fully 3,000 Persons crowded the limited facilities ) f the fair ground stadium . Men in : op hats and frock coats and women n Summer dresses made up a large 3art of the audience . Beside the official dais were as ; embled representatives of the diplomatic corps , indluding the United states Ambassador , Robert Wood Bliss , and Mrs. Bliss , and Argentine Ind British naval officers in gold Braid and white uniforms . Reaching their seats , the Princes received an ovation , which the Prince ) f Wales acknowledge by bows . After everybody was seated . the Highlanders opened ceremonies by playing the Argentine and British national anthems . A picturesque incident at this point was the entrance of four members of the Canadian Northwest Mounted Police , conspicuously dressed in red uniforms . They stood rigidly at attention until the music ended , Later the heir to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the exposition . Tomorrow morning the brothers will leave by airplane for a tour of the Northern Provinces . They will spend tomorrow night on a ranch belonging to Carlos Brown . On Monday they will continue to Cordoba . TEXT OF PRINCE 'S ADDRESS . The full text of the Prince of Wales 's address opening the British Empire Trade Exhibition at Buenos Aires , as released here by the National Broadcasting Company , follows : Ladies and gentlemen , I first of all have the great honor to read a special message that has been sent by his Majesty the King . " It is a source of great satisfaction to me that my son , the Prince of Wales , should be inaugurating in person the British Empire Trade Exhibition which , thanks to the friendly cooperation of the Argentine people , is being held in Buenos Aires . " I cherish among my happiest memories the visit that I paid to Argentina fifty years ago . I am confident that this great enterprise will not only afford a striking indication of the ability of British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but will also provide concrete evidence of the importance attached in Great Britain to the development of a mutually satisfactory basis of close and friendly relationship with Argentina . " Senors , it gives me the greatest of possible pleasure to be present in Buenos Aires today in order to inaugurate personally the British Empire Trade Exhibition . This was the main objective of the journey to South America of myself and my brother . Glad to Pay a Personal Visit . I have no doubt that with the help of modern innovations of science I could have performed this . task without leaving London , but this would have been inadequate to express my sense of appreciation of the debt of gratitude which the British nation owes to the Argentine people for the assistance and welcome which they have extended to this exhibition of such importance to the future of British trade with the Argentine Republic . The creation of - this exhibition , the first occasion on which British traders from the United Kingdom and the Empire , particularly from the Dominion of Canada , have combined to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national scale , is the work of the British Chamber of Commerce in Buenos Aires . But the chamber would have been unable to organize it , had they not been offered the generous cooperation of the Argentine Rural Society , who placed their spacious grounds and buildings at the disposal of the chamber , a contribution of great material value but representing something of even greater moral significance , the sympathy of the Argentine people toward Great Britain and her industries . This exhibition is the British response . At a time when the tide of world prosperity has receded , the participation of British manufacturers has surpassed all the estimates and expectations formulated in better times . That is indicative of the spirit of enterprise of British industrialists and of the confidence which they feel not only in the recovery of prosperity of the Argentines , but also their own ability to maintain and to extend their trade relationships with you . Many Industries Represented . Argentina will find represented here every British industry which can aid her development , an assembly of products which has been chosen with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There will be a section devoted to the latest methods of conveyance by sea , rail , air and road . The manufacturer of Argentina will find the latest mechanical equipment and many modernized types and standards . The Argentine housewife will seek among the applied arts some of the inspirations which convert a mere house into a home , for it is not only in mass production , but in beauty and individuality that true progress lies . The Pavilion of the Dominion of Canada will show fully and aggressively for the first time to the Argentine nation the progress of another great nation in the North which is developing its vast resources in a way which must be full of interest to a country which has so many similar economic problems . The countries which suffered most from the prevailing economic depression are those with the largest foreign trade . Great Britain and Argentina are together in that category . Their export trade per capita is almost precisely equal . Foreign trade is vital to the prosperity of both . England is seeking to develop itself industrially and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . observe during my second visit here , Argentina is doing the same thing . Stresses Need of Foreign Trade . In the course of my study of the Spanish language I have been impressed by the fact that the term generally in use in Argentina in referring to foreign trade is " intercambia comercial . " That to my mind is wider than our own and gives a clearer conception of the essential reciprocity of trade . Failure to recognize trade as interchange , obstacles placed in the way of reciprocal trade , are perhaps the main causes of the world 's present trouble . If , as we all hope , the response of the Argentine purchasing public to the appeal of this exhibition leads in some measure to a revival of industrial prosperity in Great Britain and consequently a diminution in industrial employment , reciprocal results of an increase in British consumption of Argentine meats and Argentine cereals is certain . Interchange has , however , no narrow meaning restricted to commerce . Of equal significance is the development of mutual cultural knowledge . We wish to exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The exhibition I hope will have that effect . I congratulate Sir Herbert Gibson , the chairman of the British Chamber of Commerce ; Mr. Paul I. Holt , the chairman of the London committee ; the exhibitors and all who have contributed to the success of this exhibition . Eighty years ago , on the 1st of May , 1851 , Queen Victoria opened the great exhibition of London , organized by the Prince Consort to signalize the achievements of a definite stage in British industrial evolution . Returning from performing the ceremony of inauguration , Queen Victoria wrote , " The triumph is immense . " I trust that public opinion will record the same verdict on your exhibition here .                     