@@702153

txt An increase of at least 7,000,000 workers in private employment at midSeptember since the depth of the depression unemployment was figured today by John W. O'Leary , chairman of the committee on employment of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . Mr. O'Leary presented a report on II behalf of his committee to the I board of directors of the chamber at their bi-monthly meeting . He stated that estimates of unemployment had been " greatly exaggerated " and that " estimates of unemployment on a national basis are necessarily inaccurate and useless for practical purposes . " Another report by W. F. Gephart , vice president of the First National Bank of St. Louis , and chairman of the committee on monetary policy , saw encouragement for foreign trade in the devaluation of the franc and consequent stabilization moves . Calls for Budget Balancing Fred H. Clausen of Horicon , Wis. , chairman of the Federal Finance Committee , submitted a report which declared there was a definite opportunity to balance the Federal budget in the coming fiscal year , and called for immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports were adopted by the board to be sent to the chamber 's membership . Obviously anxious to keep the chamber out of the Presidential campaign so far as it was possible , the directors were even more reticent than usual . A discussion of the social security program , also presented by Mr. Clausen , was oral only and there was no indication of the trend it took . Mr , O'Leary , whose report was of a preliminary nature , told inquirers that his committee had become convinced long ago of the unreliability of estimates of national unemployment . Reports from 481 member organizations of the national chamber were used in the survey , supplemented by other data . He did not specify at what date the low point of depression unemployment had been reached . Mr. O'Leary emphasized his committee 's conviction that the problem of unemployment was local , and could be analyzed or solved only from a local approach . The report made certain suggestions on alleviating unemployment as found in the data submitted by member organizations . Expansion of training facilities to give new skills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have lost their old skills was among them . Other organizations reported a program of checking relief rolls against local payrolls to prevent the granting of relief to ineligibles , and efforts to amplify employment by conferences with executives . In this connection it was suggested that relief officials be asked to allow job hunting on government time and . further to assure workers of a place on the relief rolls should outside employment prove temporary . Monetary Outlook Bright Although guarded in his discussion of the recent monetary developments , Mr. Gephart held that the success of the devaluation and the " gentlemen 's agreement . for stabilization " present a better outlook for world improvement than has been offered since the exchanges were disrupted five years ago . " Remarking that the agreement was " an important example of international cooperation , " Mr. Gephart declared it will contribute to end fears of currency wars and of arbitrary currency manipulation , and " reflects an intention of leading governments to seek the relaxation , if not the abolition , of such artificial and deadening impediments to international trade as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of currency uncertainties . " In view of America 's huge gold stocks and the stabilization fund , Mr. Gephart saw little danger of a decline in the government bond market , an undue demand for export of gold or of disturbance of bank reserves . Neither did he see any immediate harm in possible repatriation of foreign gold . He warned that there will be no restoration of international trade or finance in a desirable volume , however , " until there are no serious threats to peace and until there is a final fixation of the gold values of the currencies of the great tfading nations and exchange fluctuations are confined within a narrow range without the use of artificial devices by the governments . " Points to Increased Revenue Mr. Clausen based his statement on the opportunity for a balanced budget for the fiscal year 1937-38 on . increased revenues because of expanding business . A cut of $500 , - 000,000 in expenditures would bring the budget into balance , he predicted . He urged that such a cut be made rather than the imposition of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of increased government debt . The successful flotation and high value of government securities does not mean that the government 's credit is impregnable . He also warned of the danger of continued government borrowings as being more obscure than plain inflation , and just as " disastrous " in the long run . " To produce such a balance between revenues and expenditures as to avoid an increase in the debt during the next fiscal , year , " he said , " does not appear impossible nor chimerical . As set up in the budget , the indicated deficit for this year , excluding bonus payments and the sinking fund , is $1 , - 000,000,000 . " A 10 per cent increase in tax yield would produce more than $500,000,000 and , in view of increasing business activity , such increase does not appear unlikely . This would leave about $500,000,000 to be met by a cut in expenditure . " Since practically all of the oldline government agencies are now spending from 50 to 100 per cent more than they did in 1933 , and improved business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it ought not to be difficult to cut this relatively moderate amount from expenditures . " In proposing repeal of the surtax on undistributed earnings of corporations and a return to a straight tax on their incomes , Mr. Clausen said that " opposition to this tax continues to gather momentum as its harmful effects on business recovery and re-employment become more generally understood . " " Its adt-erse effect , " he continued , " on numerous corporations which because of the depression are in no position to pay dividends , its fostering of unfair competition , the failure of the ' relief ' provisions , especially as now interpreted , to give relief in needed cases , its conflict with State law , its discrimination as between different types of corporations , the impossibility of meeting the requirements of the law in many instances , the terrific penalties for honest mistakes , its discrimination against small stockholders , its interference with corporate management all combine with its general retarding effect on business recovery to condemn this revolutionary tax . " It does not appear a proper course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is impossible to make a totally unsound structure sound by putting in minor improvements . It is wrong in principle and should be repealed . "                     