@@702818

txt The City Campaign . The primary campaign was marked by accessions of Republican strength by Mayor La Guardia and reports of a Democratic swing to Jeremiah T. Mahoney . La Guardia achieved the support of a majority of leaders in Manhattan , Brooklyn and Richmond when John R. Crews , Kings-Republican leader , came out for him and announced " a very definite swing " to the Mayor in his county . Crews was immediately attacked by Jacob A. Livingston , former Brooklyn leader and supporter of Senator Copeland , who called on the Senator to assure him that he would carry Brooklyn and win the Republican nomination . Page 1 . Copeland , who saw a " decided up -- turn " in his chances , charged a " whispering campaign " that if he was elected Mayor there would be no more Federal funds for the city , and branded the report as an " absurd lie . " Page 2 . Mahoney 's headquarters was filled all day with former Copeland supporters in Manhattan , and I it was predicted that Tammany district leaders- would follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his backers lost their court fight for the reinstatement of 456 election inspectors ousted at the request of the Copeland forces . Justice Hofstadter declared the removals legal , and no-7-further action is possible until after the primary . Page 2 . Crews Out for La Guardia John R. Crews , Brooklyn Republican leader , who had been classed as opposed to the renomination of Mayor La Guardia , called at City Hall yesterday and announced his support of the Mayor . Mr. Crews , who at the time of the county committee meeting in Brooklyn advised that each individual district leader use his own judgment in supporting Mayor La Guardia or Senator Royal S. Copeland for the Republican nomination , explained that he had delayed announcement of his position until , he was sure that the party ; sentiment in Brooklyn favored the Mayor .  - -  t ! There has been a very definite swing to the Mayor among our leaders during the last ten days , " Mr. Crews said , after a talk with Mayor . La Guardia , which he described later to friends as having been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was about even without too much interest in his candidacy . In my own district , the Sixth , the sentiment is over- wheImingly for the Mayor , and he will carry Brooklyn by a very sub . tanial margin . - ? Shift Major Development Mr. Crews 's shift to support of the Mayor was the most important development of the day . It was explained in part as a desire to get on the La Guardia band wagon , due to his belief that the Mayor will defeat Senator Copeland for the Republican nomination and in part to a desire to increase the chance of the election of his brother , Robert J. Crews , who is a Repu , blican candidate for Assemblyman . Mr. Crews also ? was said to have desired to get from the Mayor some promise that the latter 's friends would not try to oust him as county leader , but whether he obtained such a promise could not be learned . Mr. Crews 's call at City Hall , which was not entirely unexpected , came at the same time that Jacob @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Copeland at the latter 's headquarters in the Hotel Astor to tell the Senator that he certainly would carry Brooklyn and win the Republican nomination . Mr. Livingston later attacked Mr. Crews as " the weakest apology for a leader the Kings County Republican organization ever had " and said his support of La Guardia would make no difference .. Charles G. Bond , Brooklyn Republican campaign manager , charged that Mr. Crews had made a deal for his brother 's election and added that he was certain that " Johnny in his heart " was still opposed to the Mayor 's renomination . The Crews Announcement Mr. Crews 's announcement of his support of Mayor La Guardia came in a letter which he left with the Mayor after his talk with him . The letter follows : " After a survey of political conditions in Brooklyn , during which I - have actually spoken to thousands of Republicans and Democrats and others , I deem it my duty to write you . " Park Commissioner Moses analyzed the facts correctly in nis splendid letter to our friend , in. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moses that you have not been civil to the Republican party , and I know that your most important independent Democratic backers take  --  the viewpoint that you did not give sufficient recognition to the Republicans for their contribution of work to you in all your campaigns , especially the one that resulted in your election . " However , we must admit that the renomination and re-election this year will not be determined on the - basis of politeness or- party patronage and that your administration has been honest , efficient , and constructive and that the living proof of this statement can be found everywhere throughout the city . " The ' living proofs ' that appeal to me are the many new modern health centers , playgrounds , parks , parkways , schools , new colleges in Brooklyn and Queens , sewage disposal plants , hospitals , highways , and the other long-needed improvements , completed and under way . Says City Wants Speed " The well meaning political pacifists who would remodel you might elect a timid soul like Mr. Milquetoast , a school trustee in Chautauqua , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its two million five hundred thousand voters need and want a Mayor with speed , power , punch and an understanding of their many needs without reference to race , creed , or color . " While the New Deal and the Old Deal Tammany factional candidates fight out their family quarrel , continue to develop your progressive policies add we can all march to victory behind you as the Mayor who , for the first time in many years , gave the people of the City of New York a square deal . " You were good enough to receive the nomination of the Republican party for President of the Board of Aldermen in 1919 . You were good enough to ' have the endorsement and the nomination of the Republican party when you ' were a candidate for Mayor both in 1929 and 1933 . " Now that you have made a good people 's Mayor for four years , is there any good reason why the Republican party should not support you in 1937 ? I find none , and as Republican County Chairman , and as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for your nomination at the primary and for your re-election in November . " Approves Labor Platform Mr. Crews said that the Mayor ? had been " very happy " to see him and had thanked him for the letter . Asked what he thought of the platform of the Americalf Labor party , he said that his view of it coincided with that of Kenneth F. Simpson , New York County Chairman . Mr. Crews 's support of the Mayor was hailed by Republican support-. ers of the Mayor as a definite indication of victory in the Republican primary . With Mr. Crews 's announcement , a majority of the Republican onanizations in three boroughs , Manhattan , Brooklyn and Richmond , are definitely for Mr. La Guardia . A. majority of the organization leaders in the Bronx and Queens are supporting Senator Copeland . " Mr. Crews carries with him but one Assembly district , his own , " Mr. Livingston said . " We/have n't lost that because we had net counted on carrying it . " We are going along as if Mr. Crews did n't exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ piece of English literature : ' There was a little girl who died after living three weeks . They buried her and on her tombstone was inscribed : ' It is BO E-00/1 that I am done for , I wonder what I was begun for . ' " The Mayor 's treating with political leaders now shows how hypocritical . he has been with his nonpartisan , non-political administration . for the last three and one-half years . " Survey of-Copeland Districts Although Mr. Livingston would not list the number of Assembly districts in Brooklyn he still considered for Senator Copeland , an informal check-up disclosed that they were the Third , Fourth , Eighth , Ninth , . Tenth , Eleventh , Fourte'nth , Fifteenth , ? Twentieth and Twenty-second . More changes , however , are expected , because the pro-La Guardia leaders are using patronage to win additional support for the Mayor in the Republican primary . " Mr. Crews has been so ' vacillating over a period of weeks that his influence among enrolled Republican voters has been nullified , " Mr. Bond said . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kings County can doubt that this is simply another political deal in which Mr. Crews expects to have his twin brother , who , is running for the Assembly in his own district , receive the endorsement of the American Labor party . Mr. Crews also hopes in this way to circumvent a primary fight against his own district leadership by the radical elements in his district . " William M. Chadbourne , New York County La Guardia campaign manager , said yesterday that the speeches by Mayor La Guardia and Thomas E. Dewey , candidate for District Attorney , at the women 's luncheon next Monday were the Only ones that had been scheduled for these candidates before the primary election next Thursday . " These speeches will dispel what little opposition there is in the Republican ranks and that opposition has been more vocal than numerous , " Mr. Chadbourne said . " After the luncheon Republicans will realize that there is but one Republican ticket  --  the ticket headed by Mayor La Guardia . The Copeland slate that pretends to be Republican will be shown up as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aid on Budget Joseph D. , candidate for Controller , said that if Senator Copeland really wished to bring about a reduction of the city budget , he might attend the current budget hearings and indicate to the director how the budget could be reduced . " It is well enough to talk about economy in general , " Dr. said , " but , if the budget is to be reduced , it has to be reduced in specific items . " Apparently referring to Mr. Crews 's announcement , Corporation Counsel Paul Windels , speaking at Public School 35 , Brooklyn , declared that the rush for the band wagon had started , and characterized Senator . Copeland 's candidacy for the Republican nomination as " a counterfeit candidacy . " " Republicans realize that to nominate Senator Copeland would mean letting go by default the party campaign to prevent the Tin Box Brigade from getting back into City Hall , " Mr. Windels said . " It will also mean that every other candidate on - the Republican ticket will have to carry on his campaign withbut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ttepublicans want to do is to defeat so overwhelmingly Tammany 's attempt to capture outright control of our nominations that it will never again be tried . The people of this city approve Mayor La Guardia 's administration on . its merits and have made up their minds to return him to office for reasons which concern only the interests of the City of New York . That is all there is to this campaign and every day it is being more widely realized . " . Comes Out for Copeland Support Of Senator Copeland for the Republican nomination was announced by Ellin : Root Jr . in a letter to Louis Davis Hopkins , leader of the Twelfth Manhattan Assembly District , North .. " I am going to vote for Senator Copeland in the Republican primary , " Mr. Root wrote in declining an invitation to speak at Mr. Hopkins 's club , " I am led to that course by local considerations . I think the city will be better served by the election of Senator Copeland than by the election of Mr. La Guardia . " After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city are dependent fundamentally on keeping the city a favorable place for industry and commerce . I think the Senator may do something toward stopping the drift of industry away from the city by arresting the growth of the city budget and of the taxes that go with it , and by giving us hope of a better preservation of public order . " Simpson Stand Criticized Mr. Simpson 's approval of the American Labor party platform was criticized by Mrs. Keith Lorenz , former vice chairman of the New York County Committee , and Watson Washburn , ' Republican supporters of Senator Copeland . " When the Labor party was organized last year , " Mr. Washburn said , " there was speculation whether it might not absorb the Democratic party throughout the country , as in fact it succeeded in doing in Minnesota and as the similar radical La Follette organization has done in Wisconsin . But , until Mr. Simpson 's unauthorized attempt to surrender Republican principles , no Republican had seriously imagined ' that the Republican party , with its tradition of constitutional AmericanisT , was in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , this latest Wove is only a logical sequel to Mr. Simpson 's fantastic plan that Republicans should form a ' popular front ' with the American Labor party and the Communists . " The issue before the enrolled Republicans is now clear to all . Thera are two candidates and two platforms ' to be voted on . The radical La Guardia is running on a , collectivist Labor party platform  --  a more radical combination , if possible , than Franklin . Roosevelt and his crew . Copeland in running on a platform of his own accomplishments . He has steadfastly defended the American ideal of constitutional government against numerous assaults in which La Guardia and the American Labor party have consistently joined with Franklin Roosevelt and ? even surpassed him : "                     