@@699375

txt It is understood Premier Paul-Boncour contemplates diplomatic negotiations with a view to delay on the war debts matter pending the inauguration of President-elect Roosevelt It is possible he may send a special envoy to Washington , perhaps former Premier Laval . Any attempt to induce the chamber to reverse its vote on the war debt maturity is unlikely , but a ministerial declaration is likely to stress the fact that in deferring payment , France 's only desire is to insist on the necessity of settlement during 1933 with a view to world reconstruction . Opinion seems to be working toward a demand that Europe 's war debts be settled by lump-sum payments , to be raised by an international loan . The argument is advanced that this means not only would solve the American budget problem . but would set in motion the world 's hoard of idle capital . Though England theoretically might demand resumption of French war debt payments on March 15 , it is regarded as probable the new American administration 's intentions will be sufScantly known before that date to warrant continuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Immediate negotiations are likely to center on the method of reopening the war debts question and possible solutions . Predictions of ' the life of the Paul-Boncour ministry vary , but it is assured at the outset of support of Socialsts and Radicals who together make a majority in the chamber . Paul-Boncour always has been a leading advocate of their cooperation . The chief danger to the cabinet lies in the budget problem , but unpopular features of the government 's proposals , including reduction of state salaries and inquiry into coupon tax are likely to be dropped . The immediate task is to vote the necessary credits to enable the government to carry on through January and February . The new cabinet is regarded as transitional , preparatory to the return of Herriot to whom will probably fall the task of negotiating a war debt settlement in the spring . The new cabinet is regarded as transitional , preparatory to the return of Herriot , to whom will probably fall the task of negotiating a war debt settlement in the spring . Meanwhile , the question of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the subject of unofficial discussions between Paris and Washington . The immediate task of the new Cabinet is to vote the necessary credits to enable the government to carry on through January and February . and to revise the 1933 budget estimates and get the budget through Parliament . The latter is expected to prove difficult .                     