@@699369

txt Three times as much shipping in the Cape Cod Canal is the picture of what improvements to navigation will procure in the opinion of Col. Richard Park , local district engineer of the War Department . This expansion is , expected as soon as the waterway is widened and deepened under a plan approved by the Army engineers and now before Congress . Colonel Park explained the progress made in improving the canal to a delegation of New England business interests and newspaper men in an all-day trip to the Cape yesterday . He based his estimates of increased traffic on assurances of those who hoped to have the canal made easier to navigate by vessels of deeper draft . The improvements involve an estimated expenditure of $23,500,000 . The speaker made it - clear that authorization by Congress was necessary before any improvement could be made except at local points where navigation is hampered . The need of authorization , regardless of whether or not the appropriation is made , was stressed at the meeting . Every little improvement now will increase cargo tonnage , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records . Mr. George L. Graham , traffic manager of the American Woolen Company , one of those who made the trip under the auspices of the Maritime Association of the Boston Chamber of Commerce , pointed out the importance of improvements in the waterway from the industrial viewpoint . He said that New England industries were dependent on service and rates for moving their products to market and procuring their raw materials . Steamship companies using the canal , he said , have met the situation on the rates and the service would be greatly increased if the waterway was improved . The volume of traffic using the canal has increased steadily in recent years up to and including 1931 , when vessels with gross registered tonnage of 9,810,596 tons passed through the waterway , government records show . The first 11 months of 1932 , the grosstonnage had reached 8,646,483 tons and Mr. Frank S. Davis , manager of the Maritime Association of the Boston Chamber of Commerce , said that this was better than for the corresponding 11 months of last year . Work of dredging and straightening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridge was explained . A huge . dredge , said to be , the largest and most powerful of its kind in the country , and costing about $1,000,000 , is working in the canal on this project . It is the Crest , of New York , owned by the Great Lakes Dredge &; Dock Company . This dredge is capable of removing 16,500 cubic yards in 24 hours . It is 168 feet long , 48 feet beam , 14 feet depth . and contains 57 motors and generators . It has a complete machine shop and electrical welding plant aboard , generates its own electric energy and carries a crew of 27 men . , The Crest has two 720-horsepower Diesel engines . with three electric generators on each , capable of producing 150 horsepower . Capt . L. E. Bouchard Is in command . It began work about Nov. 1 and will terminate the present dredging contract about March 1 . It is expected .                     