@@703965

txt Proposals for a barter arrangement between Great Britain and the United States for strategic raw materials were revealed yesterday to have advanced to the negotiations stage . At the same time . strong protests against any such scheme came from Canada . which feels its export trade in wheat to England would be jeopardized . Prime Minister Chamberlain in London disclosed that negotiations have been opened between Britain and this country . telling the House of Commons that the initiative came from the United Staten government but that the British government is fully alive to the importance of the suggestion . In Washington . Senator Byrnes ( Dena .. S. C. ) . sponsor of the barter proposal , predicted progress within the next few days . Dispatches from London . however , indicated that negotiations are still in the secret stage , with markets failing to reflect any definite news of their tenor . Mr. Chamberlain told the Commons Britain shared the United States government 's objections to attempts to substitute barter for ordinary international trade , but that it agreed that in the present circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commerce was not open to the same objections . He evaded a Laborite question on whether similar negotiations would be opened with Canada , stating a preference to deal with such questions one at a time , but in Ottawa , Canadian officials were making a point of the fact Britain has not approached Canada to provide a similar arrangement which might compensate for Canadian trade losses . Canadian cabinet members were frank in characterizing the barter negotiations as a direct breach of faith on the part of the governments of Britain and the United States . Although they would not be quoted by name , ministers of the government declared the proposed barter scheme in principle flies in the face of both the empire agreements and the trade agreement signed last fall with the United States . Export trade in wheat to Britain is vital to the Canadian economy . Canada has been hoping to sell as much as 160,000,000 bushels of last fall 's crop to Britain with a total return of between $75,000.000 and $100,000,000 . Any artificially stimulated market in England for American grain is particularly serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high and approaches Canadian grades more closely than in most other years . The view at Ottawa is that if Canada had known there was any possibility of such a scheme being developed , Canada would never have consented to the abandonment of the sixcent preference it formerly enjoyed in the British market . In order to promote the trade agreementof last fall between the United States and Britain . Canada let the preference created by the Empire Trade Pact of 1932 go by the board . No kind of agreement , as far as Washington officials know . has been reached regarding price or quantity of cotton .. Some interested parties are concerned over possibility of reaching a snag on the price situation . This feeling is based on sentiment in Congress in favor of freezing government held loan cotton until price reaches 8 or 9 cents , which may stay the hands of the negotiators for the United States government . Mr. Chamberlain , in discussing the barter question before the Commons in London , said talks had not been begun with owners of rubber and tin supplies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over their surplus stocks . ' London market circles believe that for purposes of barter , rubber and tin could be supplied by a special quota for this purpose , but this would appear inevitably to involve collaboration with the Dutch .                     