@@703190

txt ? . A blood test disclosed that General John J. Pershing is suffering from uremic poisoning of " considerable magnitude , " Dr. Roland Davison , his personal physician , announced early today . It was believed that the death of the World War leader could not be far away , but Dr. Davison said that no further bulletins would be issued before 7 A. M. After a day and a night of discouraging reports on the patient 's condition , Dr. Davison emerged from the sick room at 12:05 A. M. ( 2:05 Eastern standard time ) and , gathering newspaper men about him , said : " Although there . has been no change in the condition of General Pershing since the bulletin issued at 9:45 P. M. , a blood examination , just completed , indicates uremic poisoning of considerable magnitude resulting from the failure of the kidneys to function . " The 9:45 P. M. bulletin , issued jointly by Dr. Davison and Lieut . Col. S. U. Marrietta of the United States Medical Corps , stated that the General was then neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been called to the bungalow of the Desert Sanatorium to help In making the blood test , it said : " Although General Pershing lost no ground since the last report , neither has he gained . There has been no response to our attempt to restore kidney functions , which appear greatly impaired . He remains in coma most of the time with brief returns to consciousness . " It is now nearly three days since the general has taken any appreciable amount of food or liquid through the mouth . Almost all the nutriment that he has received in that time has been administered artificially . " All yesterday Old Glory floated from the top of the pole outside the desert sanatorium where he lay unconscious most of the time , but watchers expected to see it lowered to half-staff at any minute . Efforts of the general 's physicians to restore normal functioning of the kidneys failed , the heart gradually weakened and there was " no benefit " from medication . The 77-year-old World War hero , General of the Armies of the United States , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him . His sister , Miss May Pershing , who reared his only son , Warren , after the General 's wife and three other children died in a fire , was within call . Warren Pershing , Frank Pershing , a nephew , and Sergeant C. C. Schaeffer , official aide and unofficial friend , were close by as the General lay in ' the cottage on the mountain-fringed desert . When General Pershing was stricken with his present illness early this month , Sergeant Schaeffer said , he was completing a collation of his papers and memoirs to keep himself occupied . The sergeant said that these , with the exception of publishing his memoirs , formed an interesting supplement to General Pershing 's book on the World War . As he struggled for his life , preparations were being made for his funeral and burial among the nation 's heroes in Arlington National Cemetery . The old uniform he wore in France was being shipped here by airplane and the War Department made arrangements for the transfer of two drawing room Pullman cars from Los Angeles to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear , for doctors conceded privately that only a miracle could save General Pershing 's life and the Southern Pacific Railroad had no equipment here for the funeral train . Gradual Failing Indicated In a. bulletin issued late yesterday afternoon Dr. Roland Davison , the general 's personal physician , reported that General Pershing was failing gradually . The bulletin said : " Although comfortable and suffering no pain , he is unconscious most of the time , but can be aroused . Oxygen and intravenous medication are being continued in an attempt to restore kidney function . Up to this time our efforts have met with failure . " Colonel Marietta emerged from the sick room an hour or so after Dr. Davison had issued his discouraging bulletin with an even more disheartening announcement . Speaking gravely , he said : " You were told in the last bulletin of certain medication . From this there was no benefit . The general 's condition is unimproved . Another bulletin will be issued later . " Earlier Dr. Davison had repored that the 77-year-old war hero was unable to take food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houston , who was sent here by the War Department , was in almost constant attendance . The scene of the general 's desperate battle for life was the Desert Sanatorium , about seven miles northeast of Tucson . He was taken there from the Hotel Conquistador a few days ago when an indisposition with which he had been suffering took a sudden critical turn . Familiar Country to General It was in such a land as this that , General Pershing first saw service when he was stationed , as a young officer , at Fort Huachuca . It is full of reminders of the terrain through which he marched just be- : fore the war as the head of the col- , umn sent by President Wilson into Mexico in pursuit of the bandit , Pancho Villa . For the past six years , General Pershing has been spending his Winters here , riding and motoring over the colorful desert roads and taking an active part in the life of the community . But when he arrived this Winter residents noted that his step was less firm . f @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ D. Baker , President Wilson 's Secretary of War , and one on behalf of the National Anti-Syphilis Committee , which he headed . The sanatorium occupies about 160 acres and consists of eighteen one and two story buildings constructed of brick and stucco . One of these , an eight-room building with a patio , has been turned over to General Pershing and his family . The sanatorium itself is situated in the middle of a huge bowl of arid desert land encircled by mountains which rear their jagged peaks like the redoubts of a mighty fortress . It had been the general 's custom to attend every session of the annual rodeo held here , but this Winter he had been unable to witness any of them , although General Charles G. Dawes and General Tames G. Harbord , old friends , came here as his guests to see the show . They left here believing that their old friends was on the way to recovery . Since then he had grown steadily worse , rallying now and then , but always slipping back into an even more critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . TUCSON , Ariz. , Feb. 26 . ? During his few periods of consciousness today , General Pershing was aware of the seriousness of his condition , it was disclosed by a close friend , G. A. C. Christiancy of New York , who spent much time at the bedside . At one time , while he was supposedly sleeping , a nurse remarked that she believed his throat was a bit husky and wondered what should be done . " Use a swab , " the general whispered . On a prior occasion , after the commander complained of pains in his legs , he said softly to Mr. Christiancy : " What I have been telling you about pain in my legs is for May ( his sister ) . " The real pain is right here , " he added , putting his hand over his heart .                     