@@701288

txt Except for an Early Climax , Case of Boys Held in Killing Differs Little From Many Others By ** MEC- 77CEM , CS7 On the same day , last week , that three children were charged with shooting and killing a penniless painter in a vacant Jamaica lot , seven other youngsters  --  all under 17 ? appeared in the " line-up " at Centre Street police headquarters , charged variously with vagrancy , Petty thievery and larceny . It was a significant week for the child criminal . It was an even more significant one for juvenile crime experts , who suddenly found themselves handling not merely wayward children with befuddled notions of the rights of property but apparently determined miniature gangsters armed with guns . So far as the Jamaica case is concerned , the brothers Damato , aged 13 and 3.1 , and Lisbon Lawrence , 13-year-old Negro boy , present a situation unparalleled in the annals of New York crime . Officials with more than a quarter of a century of police work behind them could not recall a murder committed so calmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so young . Story of the Crime . The trio started out on that fateful afternoon by stealing a gun from a policeman 's coat that was hanging over a chair in a precinct station . The adventure ended , so police say , when Frank , the elder Damato boy , tightened his little finger over the trigger of the stolen pistol and sent a bullet into the skull of a man " sleeping off " a drunk in a vacant lot . " The man said , ' Lemma alone , I wan na die , ' " one of the small prisoners later explained to police . But it was only this climax of the drama  --  the actual shooting  --  that the home of one of the boys or from a shop drawer in the course of a " transom " burglary , in which a child 's slight physique is an asset rather than a handicap . And today , according to Mr. Henkel , many street urchins regard possession of a gun as an inevitable adjunct to their careers of " smalltime " crime  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burglaries . " They generally begin by playing ' cops and robbers ' with toy guns , " Mr. Henkel pointed out . " Nowadays , though , the kid wants to be the robber , not the cop . Steeped in Gang Lore . " The boy of the streets has heard of ' Pretty Boy ' Floyd and John Dillinger . These are his heroes , instead of Custer and Buffalo Bill . Ten-year-olds are n't interested in shooting Indians any more . News , papers , movies and the talk on the streets have brought gangsterdom into closer reality for them than the fairy-tale glamour of Western days . " The Jamaica children , police point out , came from homes that , for one cause or another , did not furnish sufficient discipline . It is fairly established that young Lawrence was not happy among so many brothers and sisters ( he has twelve ) . His father , a minister , was " too religious , " the boy told authorities . As officials point out , the parents , no matter how well-meaning , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income hardly sufficient for less than half that number . The 13-year-old youngster , bright in school  --  and admired for his intelligence by police who have been in close touch with him since I JUVENILE OFFENDER BEFORE THE COURT I National Probation Association . Each year 12,000 cases , sprung out of poverty , idleness and sordid environment , are handled by the city 's probation officers . sets the case apart from others in the eyes of police . The rest  --  the boys ' backgrounds , the juvenile record of two of them , the gun theft , their hard-boiled gangster " lingo " ? follows . a pattern that has become only too familiar in an age when Public Enemy No . I has supplanted Buffalo Bill in the imagination of many youngsters . Each year 12,000 cases pass through the hands of probation officers in New York City , according to E. J. Henkel , acting Chief of Probation . With the exception of ment , financial worries , overcrowding , lack of parental control and sometimes bad parental examples set boys adrift in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a youngster who is wise in the ways of crime . Ways of Getting Guns . Guns , " bootlegged " by the thousands into the underworld from other States , are more readily available than ever before to the children whose playgrounds are the streets . The theft of the gun by the Jamaica boys was unusual only because the site of the theft was a station house . The theft might well have been made from a drawer in his arrest  --  was free to roam the streets almost as he pleased . Plans were already being laid for sending him to relatives in the South when last week 's storm broke . The Damato boys ' mother died a year ago . According to Detective Edmund Masterson , who assisted in investigating the case , the youngsters were " told " by their father to bring in at least $1 daily , and S2 on Sundays , at the end of their shoe-shining rounds . Neither the Damatos nor the Lawrences live in " slums , " in accord with city definition of the but they live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would say they come from " the other side of the railroad tracks . " So , too , according to Inspector Louis Costuma , in charge of the Crime Prevention Bureau of the Police Department , do most of the city 's other juvenile delinquents . The elder Damato boy  --  the younger , police consider , was completely under Frank 's thumb  --  and young Lawrence , conversing with their captors , used such phrases as " taking the rap , " " on the spot , " " muscling in , " " on the lam , " with the utmost unconcern and nonchalance . But neither Assistant Chief Inspector Gallagher , in charge of Queens detectives , nor District Attorney Charles Sullivan nor any of the other authorities connected with the investigation was surprised at this facile use of professional gangster phrases . Gangster Phrases Used . Young Lawrence said he learned all about fingerprints and the handling of a gun from the movies . Police doubt that , and so do others interested in the case . " Lawrence probably had met some older boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had used one more than once , " an official said . " It is hard to figure how a youngster could learn as much about it as he knew from observing the movies only . " The ' Jamaica case , then , represents only an amazingly early flowering of a seed sown widely among the city 's less fortunate children who , because of unfortunate home environment or because of their own abnormalities , succumb readily to the influence of gangsterism . Inspector Costuma points out that , fortunately , not every boy who steals an apple , or even a dollar from his parents or his neighbors , turns out eventually to be a criminal . It is when these offenses are repeated consistently and when the offenders achieve an unrepentant , hard-boiled swagger , that police see the danger signal .                     