@@702251

txt Gradual progress toward a type of currency which President Roosevelt characterizes as having a stable purchasing power is being made , and the abolition of private gold exports ordered Monday is a step in that direction . This was the sentiment in official circles on the day following Secretary Morgenthau 's statement abandoning the " international gold exchange standard . " Elimination of private gold exports is a part of the necessary tightening of government control over currency matters . according to the sentiment here . The ability of private persons to obtain and export gold would have inconvenienced the operation of a government-controlled monetary system , government experts conceded . Such a private privilege , since it introduces an element of rigidity into the evaluation of money . might have complicated the operation of a currency stable in terms of purchasing power . Further Developments Awaited How , far the New Dec all pursue the theory of a managed currency still is unclear and will be disclosed only with the further development of the credit control policies of the Federal Reserve System . But pronouncements of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration will make a serious venture in tl'is direction . A currency having a stable purobasing power does not have , and probably can not have , a stable gold value . it was pointed out . On the other hand , the Treasury was committed under the gold standard which existed between January 31. 1934. and November 23. 1936 , to sell gold for export at a fixed dollar value . The gold standard as it existed until Monday . in other words , tended to conflict with the objective the Administration has in mind . Question on Belgium Shipments This was the explanation advanced when officials were asked why Secretary Morgenthau had chosen not to let the 1934 gold standard operate between the United States and Belgium . Each of these two countries maintains a fixed gold price , and the dollar-belga ratio could have been left wholly to the control of private gold shipments whenever either currency touched the export point . Instead of allowing in effect the 1934 gold standard between the two countries , and thus retaining a nucleus for reestablishment of a privately-operated gold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to bring the dollar-belga rate under the same government controls that regulate the dollar 's relations with managed currencies . This basic shift was due to the fact that , for I internal as well as external purposes , government rather than private controls must rule the exchanges according to the monetary theories held here . , The volume of private gold arbitrage transactions under the previous gold standard is regarded in administration circles as disturbing each country 's domestic economy and , therefore , as a defect in the system . ?                     