@@702177

txt President Roosevelt in an address at the Chicago Stadium last nights ' directed to the business men of the country , declared " the train . of American business is moving ahead . " Before a demonstrative audience of 25,000 in the great hall which Was the scene of his nomination and acceptance in 1932 , the President asserted his New Deal administration pulled the train out of the ditch and has been the savior of " private profit and free enterprise . " rails to Answer Landon . Defending the record of the New . Deal , the President spoke of the AAA , the monetary policy , the PWA and the WPA , the CCC , and other acts as part of the program that " hauled the business train out of the ditch . " He did not , however , answer the questions propounded by Gov . Alt M. Landon in his Detroit speech Tilesday night asking whether the noosevelt administration proposes to reenact the NRA , and return to control of food products from Washington by another AAA . The address , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President 's campaign so far , was punctuated from time to time by bursts of applause . Mr. Roosevelt as he appeared on the platform ' was welcomed with a deafening din lasting several minutes . Climaxes Torchlight Parade . It was the climax of a demonstration with red fire and fireworks in which a ? great throng of marchers paraded from Grant park through . Madison Street to the Stadium . Loom trafic was paralyzed . At the Stadium amplifiers carried the President 's utterances to 15,000 or more outside the hall , while along Madison street . sound trucks with radio attachments took the speech to other groups . Democratic officialdom was out in full force on the stage . Pat A. Nash , Democratic national committeeman. opened the meeting , Clayton Smith . was chairman , and the President was introduced by Mayor Edward J. Kelly , , as the " greatest president America has ever known . " Hits at " Private Monopoly . " President Roosevelt used private monopoly " as a theme , running through a speech in which he outlined the New Deal record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Defending the New Deal from arguments by " bogey-men and fairy tales , " as he termed them , that American business and economic life faces danger unless there is a change in admini tration , the President contended that monopoly has been chief target of his administration . " Above all , " he said . " we have fought ? to break the deadly gripwhich monopoly has in the past been able to fasten on the business of the nation . " In the final passages of his address , the President said that for the first time in seven years business arid industry are " in the black . " Claims Bring Loud Applause . A roar went up from the audience when he said : " Today for the first time in seven years the banker , the store keener , the small factory owner , the industrialist , can all sit back and enjoy the company of their ledgers . " A moment later his listeners up . belted another outburst , when Mr. Roosevelt spoke of " rugged industrialists with trembling knees " who went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypodermic and . a course of treatment " " Washington , " he said , " did not look like a dangerous burocracy to them then . 0 . no . It looked like an emergency hospital . " Patients Doing Very Nicely . " " Now most of the patients seem to be doing very nicely . Some of them are even well enough to throw , their crutches at the doctor . " President Roosevelt said he is believer in individualism and- is " private enterprise as the backbone of economic well being . " He contended both these had been menaced by monopoly . In sentences which the audience punctuated with shouts , the President said that when he took office the train of business was in the ditch , and is now back on the rails . He declared that in 1933 the average business man wanted the government to do five things for him . " And we did it , " said Mr. Roosevelt at the end of each of the five points ; which he enumerated as . follows : " Stop deflation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were industrial workers in the cities . " Increase purchasing power of customers on the farms . " Decrease interest rates , power rates , and transportation rates . " Protect him ( the business man from losses due to crime , bank robbers , kidnapers , blackmailers . " Look at the advance in private business in the last three and a half years , " the President said , " and read there what we think about private business . " Paints Picture of 1982 . At the outset the President said when he came to the Stadium four years ago to accept the nomination , " Chicago was fighting with its back to the wall . " A roar went up when he said : " Today factories sing the song of industry , markets hum with bustling movement , banks are secure , ships and trains are running full . And with Chicago a whole nation that had not been cheerful for years is full of cheer once more . " High up over the platform hung two huge maps of the United States . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Bank suspensions during Roosevelt-66 . " Another banner proclaimed : " Not a national hank failure from Oct. , 1935 , to Oct. , 1936 , a record for fifty-five years . " All Seats Taken at 7 P. M. At 7 o'clock all available seats in the Stadium were taken , with thousands outside unable to gain admittance . The crowd outside was swelled with the arrival of the downtown paraders who had turned out to greet the President . Several persons were injured in the jams at the doors . An hour of entertainment by performers from cabarets preceded the official opening of the rally shortly after 8 o'clock by Committeeman Nash . Nash introduced Chairman Smith . Smith in turn introduced several state and city officials . State 's Attorney Courtney was the first speaker and his frequent references to President Roosevelt were greeted with outbursts of cheering . State Officials Speak . Other speakers Included Senator Hamilton Lewis , Gov . Horner and R. E. Soderstrorn , president of the Illinois State Federation of Labor . The arrival of the President shortly after 9 o'clock was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Introducing the President , Mayor Kelly declared that Mr. Roosevelt has brought hope and confidence in America 's future , that he had done away with bread lines , and had taken " the banks out of the hands of the money grabbers and once more made them sound for the life savings of hard working and thrifty people . " After the address Mr. Roosevelt was driven back to the special train for a trip today through Michigan with a epeech in Detroit tonight . En r ' ute he is to make rear platform speeches at Grand Rapids , Lansing , Flint , and Pontiac . The train left Chicago at midnight .                     