@@697259

txt With the approach of final action on the tariff bill it is in accord with precedent that discussion of its effect on the business situation should become more animated . Opinion in the matter has been conflicting . Whole-hearted supporters of the measure take the familiar ground that higher tariffs can not fail to promote prosperity ; but there has been less than usual of such enthusiastic hopefulness . Criticism and protests by - well-known industrialists may have perplexed the issue , and the general public has seemed to take no very great interest in the mattcr except for the wish to get a tircoorne controversy ended , one way or the other . Wall Street , however , has lately inclined to seize on the possibility that the bill 's enactment will help business out of its depression . No one , to be sure , goes to the length of the opinion thrown out last Autumn , that October 's Stock Exchange panic had been caused by delay in tariff legislation . But the point is stressed that uncertainty as to the future duties on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in plans of merchants and producers ; an attitude all the more possible because , with slack consumption and falling prices , there was little inducement to take chances . Naturally , the Wall Street prophets coupled this with the traditional idea that enactment of a higher tariff could not on general principles fail to have " sentimental influenca . " In all this discussion there has been little talk of what actually happened after other tariff legislation . Probably most people had a general idea that a law reducing duties has usually been followed by trade reaction . This was true of the Wilson tariff in the Autumn of 1894 , and measurably true of the Underwood tariff of October , 1913 , though there was perfectly - good reason to believe that other causes , such as the *troubles cf our currency in the One ' year and the ' ominous European situation in the other , had superseded other influences . But the present question is , what happened ' after enactment of other bills for a higher tariff ? The story is singularly varied , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefiting trade has been altogether overrated . During the past forty years four laws raising the tariff have been passed . On two occasions , 1922 and 1897 , enactment was in due course followed by recovery of trade ; on the other two , 1909 and 1890 , serious business reaction was the almost immediate sequel . That tariff legislation caused the trade depression of the two last-named years has never been asserted except in so far as expectation of higher duties had occasioned widespread speculation in the commodities affected . The subsequent trade reaction was sufficiently explainable by other causes ; in 1890 by the approaching crisis in the Treasury and the currency , in 1909 by the postponed after-consequences of the panic of 1907 . But the essential fact was that , on both occasions , trade revival as a direct result of the higher tariff had been promised and expected , whereas the ? sequel was exactly opposite . Trade recovery after the tariff acts of 1922 and 1897 was even more completely disconnected from any possible results of altered customs duties . In the earlier year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanded export trade , on which higher tariffs could have had no influence , unless of an unfavorable character . In 1922 , some business revival after nearly two years of trade depression , and when the high cost of money and the falling prices had at last been checked , was to have been expected , with or without a tariff law ; but as it happened , actual trade recovery even then was only brief . Renewed trade reaction soon ensued ; it was more than two years after the tariff bill 's enactment that sustained business prosperity returned , and this was then ascribed by every one to other car-es . In the great revival of 1925 , no one so much as mentioned the tariff act of 1922 . The truth of the matter is that the infallible prosperity which is always . to follow high tariffs , like the infallible adversity which is to follow downward revision , is a myth . Its hold on the popular mind of a generation ago came because of reiterated assertions in political campaigns . Prediction of immediate prosperity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be politically dangerous ; for such a result always depends on other cumstances and , if the promise is not quickly realized , the public invariably shows its resentment at the polls .                     