@@697331

txt General resumption of automobile output , and a substantial upturn In the grain zna.ikets stimulated higher stock prices at the start of the new week . Renewed activity in the motor industry found prompt reflection in the steel trade , operations in the " Youngstown district showing an increase for the first time in several months . In addition to the more favorable business situation , the leading stocks were strengthened by recent cumulative indications of a sold-out position in the general list . Havint. , worked higher at the weel. - end on the smallest turner since 192:1 , pivotal shares strongly suggested they were gradually emerging from the recent narrow trading range into an assault on the levels where resistance was met on the upside on late July . ? ? This prospect encouraged the bull forces , and buying activities went ahead persistently in various representative shares . Transactions of this nature were given impetna by the turn for the better in basic commodities . With the principal producing areas suffering from hot . dry weather , corn prices rose to nen- high levels for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rave Advances Scored Continued l.o . First Pape , the season , and wheat advanced close to 2 cents a. bushel . As the depression in grains has given the financial community considerable concern in recent weeks , this improvement found prompt reflection on the Stock Exchange . New highs on the current recovery were reached by Steel , General Electric , Westinghouse . Consolidated Gas and North American . Bullish demonstrations were resumed in special issues , with Radio , Vanadium and Case particularly favored . American Telephone was an outstanding feature of the high-grade investment issues , showing signs of starting on the upswing anticipated after the rights bad expired on August 1 . Oil shares responded briskly to restoration of curtailment in the Darst Creek field where an agreement was reached to restrict production to 44 , - 000 barrels daily , compared with an output of approximately 75,000 barrels daily when proration was broken away from . No increase took place in the volume of dealings which maintained the lowest levels seen since late in 1926 . However , creeping improvement continued to characterize the action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the afternoon . and the day 's best prices were reached in the final dealings . A. Wall Street paragrapher quotes an anonymous trader as asserting that " to say the lack of buying denotes fundamental weakness in the market and the lack of selling pressure proves the market 's strength is simply an unsatisfactory way of consoling one 's self . " There is no denying that brokers need consolation over the public 's indifference to the buying side of the market since the overhead goes on in dull periods and active ones . But the professional bear is a restless animal , ever seeking to profit on weak spots in the speculative structure . To say that he will allow dullness to develop when a situation exists that might be capitalized is to ignore precedent entirely . Bears will never give the market a rest when liquidation might be brought out through a little exertion . Since the peak of the recovery from the June lows was reached on July 18 , determined attempts have been made to start resumption or the downward movement . That such efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on part of the bear crown . Hence , the recent falling off in volume to the lowest levels since 1926 is susceptible to no other interpretation than that the market really is in a position of fundamental technical strength , with stocks lodged in the hands of interests not to be frightened by professional drives . .11 Having passed through recent tests of its underlying soundness in good style , the main body of stocks seems likely to give a better account of itself in coming weeks . Declining tendencies in general business have now proceeded more than a year , and an early upturn in the trade cycle is suggested by long experience . Following the 10-point break in the Dow-Jones industrial average from the July 18 high of 240.57 , the principal stocks quickly rallied to a duplication of the rally peak at 240.81 on July 28 . This rebound was made without any technical preparation whatever , and left the general list in a temporarily weakened position . Since July 28. however , the market has engaged in extensive correction . Aggressive bearish operations proved that liquidation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraged the reduction of speculative accounts , and the rebuilding of short interests . Consequently , the list will be in strong technical shape for the next effort to lift the rally above levels where resistance has been encountered on the upside since July 18 . Meanwhile , excellent accumulation has proceeded in high-grade stocks like Steel . American Can . General Electric . Consolidated Gas and American Telephone , creating a situation that should promote ready responses to improvement in business . ? III While headline hunters made their best efforts to distort Governor Roosevelt 's letter to Commission Chairman Maltbie , concerning the rate reduction proposal of the electric utilities controlled by Consolidated Gas , Wall Street cifically , and made its own analysis . Wherecifically , and make its own analysis . Whereas morning paper headlines construed the governor 's letter as critical of the proposal to revise the rates downward , it in reality exhibited a sympathetic attitude toward the companies and an appreciation of what the management and the commission are striving for . Governor apparently was delighted with the cooperative attitude of both parties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an understanding manner . Strength in Consolidated Gas was probably a reaction to the careful interpretation of the governor 's expressions along the lines he undoubtedly wished to convey . ? ? ? Interstate Department Stores has completed arrangements for opening a large new store at Williamsport , Pa. , which will be the 33rd in the company 's chain , extending through 12 eastern and middle western states . Ten stores have been added since the incorporation of the present company , two years ago , and all of them have been established out of earnings . On account of the upward trend in business . which President Federman believes will increase rapidly , the company 's expansion program for 1930 , which was held in abeyance for the first six months , is now being pushed and it is expected that at least six additional stores will be opened this year . This expense will also be paid out of earnings . In closing the lease for the Williamsport store the Interstate company definitely establiShed the policy of basing the rental on a percentage of the gross receipts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Chain organizations " says Mr. Federman. " have beer in the habit of snapping up favorable locations for new stores and signing long term leases at high figures . We are relieving ourselves of this burden by basing our rentals on from 3% to 31 , i% of the gross receipts . As the business grows the rentals increase but the proportion never changes . " a . Following its sweeping decline from the year 's high of 136% , Southern Railway has been steadied recently by accumulation based on the road 's long-pull outlook . Banking interests who dominate the company say that the estimated balance of 36 cents a common share for the first six months can not be taken as indicative of Southern Railway 's final results for the full year . It is considered probable that general freight movement has seen its bottom , and should show some seasonal improvement during the last half of the year . Outlook for the fourth quarter is particularly promising as comparisons then will be made with the period last year when car loadings were in a heavy slump . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business depression- or mild recession , such as 1915 , 1919 , 1921 , 1922 , 1924 , and 1927 , Southern has earned the greater proportion of the year 's total net income in the final half . They also expect a decrease in transportation and maintenance expenses for the second half of 1930 to help the gain in net anticipated from large/ gross revenues . ? ? ? People buying Southern Railway for longterm investment have been actuated to tic small degree by the economic outlook for the South . Steady growth in this section , both industrially and agriculturally , has been one oi the most impressive recent developments it the United States . according to Dominick &; Dominick . From a position of comparativel3 minor importance at the beginning al the cen ? Lary , the South has expanded until today the %alie of its manufactured goods is 3.5 ? ; , of the United States total , that of its minera products 32 , , of the total , and of its agricultural products 36 , , ; ? of the total . Value of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more thar tripled during the last 20 years . Southern manufactured products were valued at $10,375,000,000 in 1927 , the last census figures available , a : compared with $3,158,000,000 in 1909 . Further ? more , there has been a marked diversification more than 200 classifications of manufacture be ? ing listed by the Census Bureau , those figure : revealing the decreasing dependence of the South upon cotton and tobacco , for many year : its most valuable assets . Following the example of the cotton mills many paper and pulp plants are moving Stela to get closer to their raw material  --  pulp wood Output capacity of southern paper mills increased from 382,500 tons in 1921 to 1.000,00 ( tons in 1920 , And a number of new mills arc now in course of erection . Dile to the fact that timber reproduces itself in the South from two to seven times faster than in the northcrr states or Canada , it is believed that , with rea ? sortable conservation measures , the southerr pulp and paper industry will have a practically unlimited supply of raw material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penman has been a corresponding increase in thi output of electric power . The total amount o : energy generated has been increasing during the past several years at the ! ate of more than 2,000,000,000 kilowatt hours annually , produc Lion for 1929 totaling 21,584,000,000 kilowat hours .                     