@@703267

txt After remaining silent during the day on the dramatic and disastrous defeat of his government reorgani za t ion bill in the house last night , President Roosevelt issued a statement late in the afternoon promising he will seek no revenge . The blow was felt more deeply than even the defeat of the court packing plan . But belief was general on Capitol hill that the President had been made to realize that the public revolt which caused the house to shelve the bill , as shown by the hundreds of thousands of protesting letters and telegrams , was not the work of lobbyists but a true expression of public opinion . Contrast to Recent Views . The President 's public attitude on the defeat of the dictatorship bill is in contrast with his attitude expressed recently when he intimated that the senate was being purchased by organized propagandists . The President 's statement today was in the form of a letter of thanks to House Majority Leader Sam Rayburn . It read : " Dear Sam : Thanks for the fine fight . Will you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reorganization bill is intended to simplify and improve the public service . With this single objective in view , I have given it my earnest approval . " The question presented is solely one of policy . Therefore the legislative developments of yesterday offer no occasion for personal recrimination and there should be none . " Very sincerely yours , Signed " FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT . " Death Blow to Third Term . Yesterday 's defeat also was seen in the capital as the death blow to any secret ambitions Mr. Roosevelt may cherish for a third term in the White House . Stanch Democrats conceded that the blow to the President 's prestige can not be repaired by tonight 's statement . President Roosevelt 's letter to Rayburn appeared to be for a two-fold purpose . It generally was regarded as an effort to repudiate the declaration of party leaders in the closing minutes of debate that the sole issue before the house was one of confidence in the President . It also was seen , because of the implied promise that there will be no reprisals against Democrats who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of ' avoiding a President versus congress fight at the November election . Advised to Remain Silent . It was reported that Mr. Roosevelt was advised to abandon all thought of injecting himself into the congressional elections by calling for the defeat of those who opposed his will in congress . He made known such intention in his recent militant speech in Gainesville , Ga. , when he called upon the people to defeat opponents of the political scheme to put a floor under wages and a ceiling over hours . Raising of a **25;331;TOOLONG issue only could bring further damage to his prestige , leaders were said to have told Mr. Roosevelt . He was reportedly advised that the temper of the people was aroused against dictatorial phases of the proposed bill and any effort to revenge himself on opponents of the bill within his own party would bring public wrath down on his head . Calls Farley to Fight . The reports were given credence because it was learned that during the week Mr. Roosevelt sidetracked his radical advisers and turned to Postmaster General James A. Farley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farley to carry a message to a group of radical congressmen that the administration would sidetrack so-called reform legislation for a concentrated drive on the depression after the reorganization fight was won , lost , or drawn . In impassioned last minute appeals to the house , Speaker William B. Bankhead and Majority Leader Rayburn unequivocally made the issue one of confidence in the President Despite their impassioned appeals the house voted to recommit the measure . " A vote against this bill and a vote to recommit it would be a repudiation of this administration and of the Democratic party , " the speaker adjured Democrats . Fights Stain of Repudiation . " Every newspaper in the country will report in headlines that the house of representatives by Democratic votes has repudiated the President and has expressed the opinion that it can not rely on him to carry out the negative provisions in this bill . But I have not lost confidence in the President . " Rayburn proceeded Bankhead with the warning that " the message will be carried to the country that Democrats joining with Republicans voted lack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ released after the President conferred with Senator James F. Byrnes ED. , S. C. , chairman of the senate government reorganization committee . The senator declined to discuss the nature of his conference with the President , but grudgingly confessed that no effort would be made to revive the measure in nee senate . Eirlier , a White House spokesman said the question of whether the President had given up the reorganization fight at this session was a bridge he had not crossed . This brought the retort from Capitol Hill that when the President comes to cross the bridge he will find it has been swept away by the recommittal vote . Concerned Over Bears . The White House spokesman 's chief concern over the defeat of the bill was the plight of the bears in Yellowstone park . As things now stand with the defeat of the bill , he said , the bears will continue to be under the jurisdiction of three departments of the government . The spokesman regarded the action of congress as no more of a slap at Mr. Roosevelt than at his predecessors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to improve the efficiency of the governmental machinery . In administration circles it was insisted that the more responsible federal officials wanted reorganization , but that a strong movement against it was stirred up by lesser officials , who moved by a spirit of self-preservation , fought desperately to prevent their own elimination .                     