@@697958

txt Bonuses paid to executives a the Bethlehem Steel Corporation will be reduced under a Modified executives ' bonus system proposed by Charles M. Schwab , chairman , and approved by an overkhelming vote of the stockholders at a meeting at the Robert Treat Hotel , Newark , yesterday . In his address and in a letter he mailed following the meeting to all stockholders Mr. Schwab explained that he expected that the modified bonus system would operate so that " the total compensation to be paid I to the executives , including salaries and bonuses , will be . substantially reduced . " Under theN modified system the amount to be distributed as bonuses to the executives may not exceed 8 per cent of the net profit of the corporation after deduction of all fixed charges , depreciation , which shall include " depletion and obsolescence , " and the annual dividends upon the outstanding preferred stock . It has been estimated that the reductions in executives ' bonuses would aggregate $1,200,000 on the basis of annual depreciation of about $15,000 , - 000 , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consolidated net earnings may be computed . Schwab Retains Power . Mr. Schwab , who has assumed full responsibility for the Bethlehem executives ' bonus system in the face of widespread criticism and litiga- tion by minority stockholders , retains the power to distribute the bonus . He has never shared in the bonus distribution . Under the new system he must inform those directors who shall not be entitled to any bonus payments of the allocation of the total percentage among the executives . The new plan provides that the executives , who heretofore have received what were called small salaries , shall receive " definite normal . " salaries to be fixed by a directors ' committee not participating in the bonus payments . In presenting the modified plan , which he explained was a concession to stockholders who had criticized the old plan , Mr. Schwab said : " It is not necessary for me to say that the statements that I have made to the stockholders regarding the system have been made with all sincerity . I believe today , as I have always believed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsible for the success of the corporation . " At the same time I must recognize that criticisms of that part of the system which relates to the executive bonuses have been made by a substantial number of stockholders and that such criticisms require careful consideration ; and I am now addressing you for the purpose of advising you that they have been carefully considered and of the conclusions reached . " . The modified executives ' bonus system offered by Mr. Schwab was approved by stockholders by a vote of 754,707 of the 1,000,000 ' shares of 7 per cent cumulative preferred stock outstanding , and 2,461,126 of the 3,200,000 shares of common stock outstanding . The modified plan is effective as of July 1 , 1931 . . To Seek Dismissal of Snit . ' Immediately after this plan was approved the minority stockholders announced that they were making efforts to have the court dismiss the suit brought by the stockholders in their attempt to recover any part of the $36,000,000 distributed to executives as bonuses that might have been considered excessive . The stockholders ' meeting was . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eugene G. Grace , president of - . Bethlehem Steel Corporation , presided . Among the larger stockholders. present , in addition to . Mr , Schwab and Mr. Grace , were William Rockefeller and Oliver Gould Jennings . Explaining his position , Mr. Schwab said : " At the adjourned annual meeting held on April 14 , 1931 , I stated at length why I believed that the system in this regard ( payment of bonus after deducting all fixed charges and amount equal to preferred dividends , but before deducting depreciation ) is right as it stands . " But in view of the fact that a large number of the stockholders havetrongly urged that the system be changed so that the executive bonuses should be paid only after deducting depreciation , the directors have unanimously decided to recommend the change to the stockholders for their approval . " As you know , it has been a fundamental principle of the Bethlehem bonus system that salaries of the executive officers should be small . Accordingly , the fundamental change with respect to deducting depreciation renders it necessary that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal salaries may be paid to the executives . It is anticipated that under the new arrangement the total compensation to be pai ( I to the executives , including both salaries and bonuses , will be substantially reduced . " Cites By-Law as Authority . Mr. Schwab then explained that the by-law of the corporation , adopted on ' April 2 , 1918 , fixing the aggregate amount of executives ' bonuses at 8 per cent pf consolidated net income after deducting fixed charges and the equivalent of preferred dividends , but before depreciation , gave authority to the chairman to fix the bonus percentages of executives , adding : " After mature consideration , it has been decided that the system be further changed so as to provide that the aggregate percentage of the consolidated net income which might be paid in executive bonuses for any year would be fixed by those directors of the corporation who do not receive any bonus payments , the aggregate percentage of such consolidated net income , however , not to exceed 8 per cent for any year the maximum percentage specified by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ? Mr. Schwab explained that it provided that the executives should receive " definite normal salaries " to be fixed by the directors not receiving bonuses , acting as a committee ; that the bonuses should be based on consolidated net income as already explained , and that the rates and basis of depreciation approved by the corporation 's auditors should be subject to approval of the directors ; also that the chairman should report to the directors on the allocation of bonuses . " The minimum percentages which were a part of the system as originally adopted are abandoned and it is placed wholly in the discretion of the directors not receiving bonus payments to fix such aggregate percentage within the maximum above specified , " he continued . " The total amount of executive bonus payments made for each year is to be reported to the stockholders in the annual report of the corporation for such year , as was done for the year 1930 . " The executive bonus payments may be made annually or at such fixed . intervals during the year as shall be determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman of the board to be in the best interests of the corporation . " These changes in the bonus system have been discussed with the stockholders ' protective committee and with other important stockholders and , as I have stated , after careful consideration the board of directors recommends that they . be adopted by the stockholders. " 1 loin in the recommendation . I should add , however , that in doing so I am not unmindful of the statement which I made at the meeting of the stockholders he , ld on April 14 , 1931 , that to make the change which I have described with reference to the deduction of depreciation would be a backward step . Bethlehem , however , has grown to be a great and prosperous institution . That fact , I believe , amply evidences the effectiveness of the bonus system in its present form : , I believe also that the corporation has reached such a position in its development that the system modified as I have outlined will operate ' satisfactorily for the accotnplishment of the purposes which we all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to recommend the changes which I have outlined . If in the future it shall appear that any of such changes were unwise , then I have sufficient confidence in the stockholders to believe that they will exercise their power to correct any mistake that may then appear to have been made . " I am advised by counsel that , if these changes shall be made , it will be necessary to change the by-law of the corporation with reference to the administration of the bonus system so as to make it conform to such changes . " Manfred W. Ehrich , counsel ' for the minority stockholders , consisting of Henry B. H. Ripley , Samuel : D. Hopkins and Edwin D. Levinson , in approving the modified bonus plan , said ; " Our committee was formed to represent- those who felt that the bonus- system of the Bethlehem - Steel Corporation should be changed in the interest of ' the stockholders , The committee represents about 20,000 stockholders . " The dimmittee has never had any ATLANTIC CITY , N. J ? July 2 ( H ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had dismissed the infinction which minority stockholders of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation:Obtaigied ; s0eral , monthS ; ago in - their ' ' Objection- - to-  the bonus plan as instituted by Charles M. Schwab , objection to a bonus system as a method of compensating the management of a corporation but , notwithstanding that ! fact , it- has felt . that it was necessary , or at least advisable , for the system to be modified in some important respects . " Since the organization of the committee Its purpose has been to bring about such changes . It was not organized to litigate . The committee did , however , intervene in the suit which has been pending in the Chancery Court in this State , but principally with the view to obtaining a modification of the existing bonus system . " The changes in the bonus system of the corporation which the chairman has outlined have been-made after consultation with the committee and its counsel and the subject matter of such changes has been given careful consideration by both . The committee has formally approved them and has decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes which Mr. Schwab has outlined to the meeting and the bonus system of the corporation as thus changed . " Henry F. Holthusen of 11 Broadway , also representing minority stockholders , following Mr. Enrich , announced that his clients approved of the modified plan . ' , The protective committee has sent a letter to shareholders explaining its approval of the modified plan , worked out at the conference of committee members and non-bonussharing directors of Bethlehem Steel Corporation . Among the directors present , it is upderstood , were Percy A. Rockefeller , 0 . H. Jennings , Alvin Untermyer , William C. Potter , C. D. Marshall , who will administer the bonus system with other nonsharing directors ; also Mr. Ripley , Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Levinson . It is said that the directors agreed to assume full responsibility for seeing that the new bonus plan was carried out , The circular letter announced that the $20,000 contributed by protective committee members to defray the cost of litigation was.being returned . When Mr. Schwab ' and Mr. Grace were asked whether , in their opinion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bethlehem-Youngstown Sheet and Tube merger , both ? replied that the action of the stockholders " had no connection whatsoever " with the Youngstown negotiations .                     