@@697101

txt On high American authority it was stated tonight that unshakeable bases for a a three-power naval limitation treaty had been laid and it was now a question of whether the French and Italians . could be brought to make it a five-power pact . This statement was made following what was . reported in American circles to be an agreement between the United States and Japan , acceptable to both delegations , the terms of which had been cabled to Tokio and Washington . According to American sources , this promises a quick and complete agreement with the Japanese , and since there is already an agreement with the ? British , a tripartite agreement is held assured . In Japanese as well as other quarters the American optimism was received with great interest and what for some reason or other appeared to be no little surprise . ? The Japanese said new figures had been submitted by the Americans , but that they did not realize there had been complete agreement . However , this doubtless was due to the natural reticence of the Japanese statesmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' desire of the Americans that ' the three-power treaty , which they now regard as assured , contain figures agreed upon by Premier and President Hoover at the Rapidan camp . This , of course , comes up against the British position that they must keep in mind the French program so as to remain in a position they regard as safe in relation to the European naval nations . This ? difficulty may be met by the British raising their figures , and consequently the American program or the British may retain some elasticity which would permit them to meet the building of other nations should they regard that course essential for ' their safety . It is apparent the Americans prefer the second alternative , which would have the virtue of preventing the treaty from making definite provision for greater American figures . It had been reported trouble might he met by using Article XXI of the Washington naval treaty , which provided that any party might call for a new conference to reconsider the situation . But the British Admiralty has regarded this as unsatisfactory for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assurance of the results that England might wish . Therefore it is understood there Is now under consideration the possibility of allowing a British provision which would permit , on certain prior notice , naval building in addition to that provided in the original treaty should the construction by other nations make it advisable . Five-rower Pact Preferred . It is freely admitted in American quarters , where tonight 's new optimism was born , that a tripartite treaty would have some disadvantages in the United States and perhaps more in Europe , and it still is held that the best result of the conference would be a five-power arrangement with the tripartite possibility being only a last resort . It therefore is apparent great efforts are being made to assure good chances of a three-power treaty before the final efforts are made to bring France and Italy into line . Certainly Premier , with the help of Secretary Stimson , is trying to effect an arrangement be , tween France and Italy . Great attention is being turned to the visit of Premier Tardieu , who arrives in London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday . The French Premier is expected to make plain what are the ultimate lengths to which the Freud ) will go under changed conditions as they work out . It is to be noted that after the discouragement given to Foreign Minister Briand last week the British appear again to be figuring on what might be given to the French in the shape of a pact , of course with the Americans left out . It is believed the Americans have caned England 's attention to the advantages of such an arrangement . Briand and Grandi Argue . Foreign Minister Grandi of Italy called on M. Briand at the Hotel Carlton this afternoon . The French Foreign Minister used all his persuasive powers to swing the Italians away from the political demand for parity with France . M. Briand pointed out that after the Italians had made the issue of parity a question of prestige it was impossible for France to make any treaty here in which parity between the two countries was provided . There being no chance of that , M. Briand urged Signor Grandi to leave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference was over M. Briand said Premier Mussolini could proclaim parity with France from all the seven hills of Rome if he liked , but meanwhile the Italians should produce their program of building for the next six years sso. the discussion ' could ' get down to a practical basis . France , he pointed out , now has a fleet of 640,000 tons and Italy has 371,000 tons . France counts on building 40,000 tons annually in the next six years , including replacements . Let Italy set forth her building program , he said , and France would he ready to discuss adjustments . It was plain , M. Briand argued , that even if in the next six years Italy could build as fast , France would still conserve her superiority . Signor Grandi is said to have replied that his instructions were to insist on . the recognition of Italy 's right to parity in all ships as at Washington , where she had got parity with France in battleships . He pointed out that inasmuch as Italy has agreed to accept a battleship holiday for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superiority in that class of 105,000 tons . That meant , he said , that Italy would have j only theoretical parity , but that was what she wanted : He admitted freely that the issue was one of prestige . Americans Try to Move Italy . The Americans have conferred with the Italians several times in the past few days and have let it be known that their naval experts do not regard Italy 's naval needs funda-. mentally as great as the French needs . They have urged that Italy produce figures and have done this even in the face of the Italian position that the Americans , in - seeking parity with England for political purposes , are in the same proportion to the British navy that Italy is in relation to France . There has been considerable revival of the discussion of some sort of Mediterranean pact . It is reported Premier has suggested a consultative pact without the United States and one that would apply only to European waters . This arouses no enthusiasm among the French who prefer a Mediterranean non-aggression pact among the Mediterranean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion has been re  --  ived that France agree never to maintain in Mediterranean waters more war craft than Italy , with England in some way or other acting as guarantor of this arrangement . Indeed , many plans are being talked over , all of which indicates the conference has taken a new lease on life . If the new-born optimism of the Americans continues next week , and is shared by the English and Japanese , then the conference in a short time will show recovery from its serious relapse of this week . In response to a , call from M. Briand , Jonkheer Loudon , chairman of the Preparatory Disarmament Commission of the League of Nations , has arrived in London from Holland to discuss the calling of the next meeting of the commission . It is understood it probably will be called for June . A great deal of the work done here , especially that relating to accommodating the conflicting theories of limitation by global tonnage and by categories , will be handed over to the League commission for use in its work at Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the League work will go right on . If anything is done here to help they will welcome it , but if not , Geneva will keep it up regardless .                     