@@702073

txt Governor Lehman in Albany notified District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan in Brooklyn yesterday to appear at the executive chambers on Aug. 26 to defend himself at a public hearing of the special Drukman grand jury 's charges seeking Mr. Geoghan 's removal from office . In making this announcement , which follows well-settled precedent , the Governor declined to make public the District Attorney 's answer to the grand jury 's charges , which was forwarded to Mr. Lehman at his request on Aug. 5 . Both Mr. Geoghan and his counsel , Lloyd Paul Stryker , declined to comment on the Governor 's decision to hold a public hearing , but it was made clear that the District Attorney would appear and defend himself to the last . A copy of the Governor 's letter to Mr. Geoghan was sent to Special Prosecutor Hiram C. Todd , who is passing the week-end up-State . He was expecting a copy of the District Attorney 's answer to the charges , but had not received it last night . He , likewise , refused to comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hearings , which are expected to last about ten days . He will be assisted by his counsel , Charles Poletti . Mr. Todd will present the charges , and Mr. Stryker will defend the District Attorney . When Mayor La Guardia was informed that the public hearing for Mr. Geoghan had been ordered , he commented : " Well , you would n't expect the Governor to give him a Congressional Medal of Honor , would you ? " Roosevelt Action Recalled The last New York City public official to be called before the Governor for hearings in removal proceedings was Mayor James J. Walker , who decided to resign before the proceedings were completed in 1932 . In that case , the then Governor Roosevelt named Martin H. Conboy as special counsel to assist him and his own counsel , Samuel I. Rosenman , who is now a Supreme Court justice . Governer Lehman did not indicate that he would designate additional counsel . The Executive called newspaper men into his chambers yesterday morning and handed them copies of a statement which read : " You are hereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the grand jury for the extraordinary term of the Supreme Court of Kings County , convened under executive order of Dec. 14 , 1935 , a copy of which has been served upon you , and upon your answer thereto , you will be afforded an opportunity to being heard before me in your defense at the Executive Chamber at the Capitol , in the city of Albany , on the twenty-sixth day of August , 1936 , at 2 o'clock in the afternoon , Eastern daylight-saving time , and on such later days as may be appointed by me . " The charges which the District Attorney is called upon to defend were made by the Drukman grand jurors in their capacities as individual taxpayers and citizens on May 19 . The twenty-three grand jurors signed a communication to the Governor which accused the District Attorney of laxity and incompetence , failure to fulfill the obligations of his office by not prosecuting charges of bribery reported to him , and with associating with persons of ill repute , including one Leo P. Byk , an alleged slot machine operator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supported by more than twenty specifications based on the testimony of witnesses before the grand jury in the five months prior to the drafting of their charges . The Governor acknowledged receipt of the communication and informed the grand jury that he would defer consideration until the grail jury 's completion of its inquiry into the entire Drukman case . The jurors thereupon wrote a letter to the Governor urging him to reconsider and act at once , on the ground that Mr. Geoghan 's immediate removal was necessary to the public welfare . Mr. Lehman reiterated his intention of awaiting the completion of the entire inquiry , and the Geoghan charges , accordingly , were laid on the table until the end of the recent Drukman conspiracy trial , which resulted in the conviction of three persons for plotting to obstruct justice in the case . Then the Governor called upon Mr. Geoghan for his answer . The answer was put in the Executive 's hands , with utmost secrecy , on Aug. 5 . The charges against the District Attorney are the outgrowth- of his handling of the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trucking headquarters at 225 Moore Street , Brooklyn , on March 3 , 1.935 . The April ( 1935 ) grand jury failed to indict anybody for the murder , although Meyer and Harry Luckman and Fred J. Hull were found in the locked and darkened garage with Drukman 's strangled body . Becomes a Political Issue The case became a political issue last Fall , and Governor Lehman finally ordered the special inquiry , with the result that the Luckmans and Hull were convicted of the murder and sentenced to long prison terms . Soon afterward , Henry G. Singer , a former Federal prosecutor in Brooklyn ; Jack Silverman , a bakery products dealer , and James J. Kleinman , father of an Assistant District Attorney , were convicted of conspiracy and each sentenced to a year in prison . The entire case was aired thoroughly during the conspiracy trial , when one of Mr. Geoghan 's aides , William W. Kleinman , was accused of taking a bribe in behalf of the convicted murderers . But the jury was unable to agree on a verdict in his case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who likewise was alleged to have accepted a bribe . They are to be retried next month . In the event that Mr. Geoghan should be removed from office , the political situation in Brooklyn would be somewhat complicated this Fall . It then would be necessary for the county committee to designate regular candidates for the Fall election . Independent candidates could be placed in the running against the regular candidates by obtaining 7,500 names to petitions , which would have to be filed within a specified time . Mr. Geoghan 's reply to the grand jury 's charges , although kept a secret , may be released by Mr. Todd in the event the Governor forwards it to him , or may not be revealed until the hearing begins . It is known , however , to be a detailed document running to well over 100 printed pages . Mr. Stryker , in defending Mr. Geoghan against ouster charges , is re-enacting the reverse of a role he played nearly twenty years ago when he prosecuted District Attorney Thomas Gagan of Rockland County on charges seeking - his removal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Brooklyn political circles have recalled with particular interest the findings in the Gagan case . He was absolved of any personal corruption and was continued in office .                     