@@700040

txt Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh , accompanied by his wife , completed his second transatlantic flight when he brought his seaplane down perfectly on the waters , at the entrance of Copenhagen Harbor at 5:15 P. M. today . Colonel and Mrs. Lindbergh flew from Lerwick , in the Shetland Islands , on the final stage of their survey of a North Atlantic air route . When they left the Shetlands only the Lindberghs themselves knew their actual objective , for they did not reveal their destination . But Copenhagen , which had been awaiting them for the past several days , turned out with a welcome that was similar to that given by the French six years ago when Lindbergh stepped out of the Spirit of St. Louis at Le Bourget airfield , the first man to fly the ucean alone . And today , as on that occasion in 1927 . Colonel Lindbergh showed extreme modesty , while the Danes showed themselves no less demonstrative than the French . Take Off After Alighting . So great was the enthusiasm of ithe Danes that the Lindberghs had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a collision with too1 eager welcomers in launches . A few minutes later they alighted Iclose to the naval airport , where the waters were kept clear by marine patrols . This incident caused the Lindberghs not to dock at the customs wharf for the official reception , although the United States Minister , Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen , waited there along with thousands of Copenhagen residents , who cheered continually from the first appearance of the seaplane . It had been planned that the Lindberghs be taken by motor boat to the quay . Then they were to be taken in an automobile through the principal streets to the Town Hall for a formal civic reception because thousands had waited throughout the day at vantage points along , the route the Lindberghs were to take . But , just as happened at Le Bourget , Colonel Lindbergh was net seen either by the reception committee or the thousands of enthusiastic unofficial welcomers until after it had been learned at the naval airport that he had taken a roundabout way through back streets to the Town Hall , whither the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was with him in Greenland and who is attached to him in Denmark , did his best to persuade the Colonel to let the reception arrangements be carried out for the benefit of the Copenhagen public . Colonel Lindbergh , however , remained adamant and insisted they be driven over back streets to the Town Hall to avoid the crowds . . At the Town Hall , Lord Lieutenant Buelow , the Chief Executive of Copenhagen , said to the fliers in an address that was broadcast : " My best congratulations on your great flight from the United States to Europe . I assure you , dear Colonel , we place great value on your contribution to the develop .. ment of modern air-traffic , from your wonderful flight of six years ago to this last survey flight . " Your Swedish name makes us ? feel related to you . Denmark is honored by your visit . Words are insufficient to express the admiration Copenhagen feels for you and Mrs. Lindbergh . " You both belong to the oldest branch of the white race and are the youngest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happiness in your voyage through life . " Colonel Lindbergh wore a plain gray business suit.And had a winning smile . His wife wore jhodpurs and a blouse from Greenland . The couple made an extremely modest appearance . Colonel Lindbergh simply shook hands with M. Buelow and said a few words of thanks for the hearty Welcome . Then the official reception committee arrived on the scene . As the couple left the Town Hall 10,00Q Danes gave the Lindberghs a cheer that was heard over the greater part of the town . Before leaving the Town Hall Colonel Lindbergh signed the city 's , Golden Book . When the editor of a radio news service asked him to broadcast a few words which listeners throughout Denmark had eagerly awaited the Colonel said : " Please excuse me . I have nothing to say . " From the Town Hall the Lindberghs drove to a hotel where they had dinner before going to the United States Legation . There they met newspaper men but declined to give interviews , although they shook hands with every one . Minister Owen expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not spoiled Copenhagen 's day . The Lindberghs intend to spend some days in Copenhagen . Tomorrow they will visit Premier Stauning , who is also Minister for Greenland . The Colonel maintains the strictest silence as to his future plans . Danes agreed that both of the Lindberghs had charming personalities . The United States Minister 's tactful diplomacy did much to smooth the disappointment over the reception arrangements . The people of Copenhagen for the last two days had been highly excited in their determination to give the Lindberghs a rousing welcome , and they were badly disappointed . Throughout their flight from the Shetland Islands the Lindberghs maintained constant communication with Danish wireless stations . The evening papers here published special illustrated editions commemorating Colonel Lindbergh 's arrival and the conclusion of his survey of a northern air route from America to Europe .                     