@@700184

txt Few people , probably , realize that the old folk dances are today more than holding their own against the modern ballroom dances . Evening after evening , throughout the world , young and hot so young gather , often in the traditional local costumes . to vie with one an ? other in the old-fashioned ( ? ) steps handed down through countless generations . Thirty years ago , folk dancing seemed to be rapidly dying out . Today , its devotees are mote numerous than ever . In practically every country of Europe there are societies which make it their business to ferret out the old dances , the old tunes , the old dresses and to revive interest in them . They are succeeding to an altogether remarkable degree . There Ls work for many leisure . hours in this direction . And , like all the best leisure bobbies , the activity is a communal one . Moreover , it Is an education in itself . There is research work to be done among old manuscripts . There are out-of-the-way rural districts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museums to be visited and books to be scanned for pictures of old gowns Then the dresses have to be cut out and sewn by skillful fingers . Even the musical instruments are nowadays often homemade . Is a Community Affair Thus , in the ultimate result , the folk dance is a composite affair to the making of which many people hate contributed . And when it is performed it is equally a question not merely of couples but of everybody joining in with everybody . The folk dance presumably began as a pagan religious ceremony , It still survives in this form in many parts of the world  --  among the Pueblos and Navajos of western United States for instance . In the wedding dances of . Poland and Lithuania , or the paparudathe drought dance  --  of Roumania. one can see the pl.ocess of transition still going on . The next stage can be traced in the lovely maypole dances of England where the religious sig. nifictince has entirely disappeared , although the ceremonial largely re-mains Finally , comes the ordinary country dance  --  carefree , graceful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on village green or in parish hall from one end of the Old World to the other  --  and in not a few parts of the New World into the bargain . In the Baltic states and among the southern Slavic races , the revival of ' the folk dance spurred on the revival of the national consciousness , the liberation of which was the most tremendous result of the World War . Many Dancing Societies Today , in Most of these , and many other countries , there are countless societies devoted to the purely recreational side of folk dancing . They assemble at , home for their own amusement and that of their friends . They exchange visits with kindred societies in other villages . They hold " meets " and competitions . They tour foreign lands where their presence helps to forge a link of common interest ' which is of great value in promotind the cause of peace . Many of the melodies and not a few of the folk dances have become international . Thus the little town of Binche near Charleroi , Belgium , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traced In the Tyrol and in England . Many of the Dutch dances originated in England . There is today a Dutch society devoted entirely to English folk dancing . In a number of European countries , folk dancing is at present organized mainly along religious or political lines . Thus , one of the biggest dance societies in Holland is that of the Socialist youth organization . The Dutch Roman Catholics run a special group for girls known as the Groat . Almost every Protestant denomination in Holland has its own youth club , a feature of which is Invariably the week-end camp at which the principal activities are singing , folk and other dancing and amateur theatricals . In order to help these youth groups , the Dutch Central Bureau for Folk Dancing holds regular courses and ? vacation " schools " In various towns . England Honors the Dance In England , the revival or MIK dancing celebrated its twenty-first birthday last year . The central organization , the English Folk Dance and Song Society , founded by Dr. Cecil Sharp has n'bout 2000 members and some 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , at practically every village institute throughout the English countryside , folk dancing enthusiasts gather regularly . The many local musical societies also spend some of their time in folk dancing . Classes are held in London and the provinces . There is an annual festival attended by dancers from all over the country . During the summer , performances are staged in the London and other parks . The number of different English folk dances is legion . Hero are some names taken at random from the current summer program of the English Folk Song and Dance Society : " Speed the Plow , " " Put on Thy Smock on a Monday , " " Rutty Tufty , " " The Merry Milkmaids , " " If All the World Were Paper , " " The Spaniard , " " Jamaica , " " The Flowers of Edinburgh , " " The Way to Norwich " and ( In view of the vast variety to choose from , not unnaturally ) " We Wo n't Go Homo Till Morning l " The English folk dance has spread not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ StateS . The ' parent society has branches In many large American cities with active groups dancing together . In Bostobs for Instance , there are regular winter classes in country dancing which are becoming increasingly popular . Many a campus of an American college , too , is frequently the setting for a mortis or other dancing on the green . Making a Reed Pipe An interesting feature of the English folk dance movement is the growing vogue for the homemade musical instrument , particularly the reed pipe . A good deal of skill is required to cut the reeds to the right length and to drill holes in them of the correct size to give perfect pitch . Children are being taught how to do this in both English and American schools nowadays and remarkable results are claimed in training their ear for music . The peasants in Roumania and various other countries generally make their own reed pipes in this manner . Among the greatest folk dance enthusiasts are the industrial workers . In England . the Workers Educational Association sponsors folk dances In all its many branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Settlements Association , the League for Social Service are all active in promoting country dancing . When there is no musician available they can always fall back on the gramophone . The Dopolavoro ( afterwork ) movement in Italy which was started by the Fascist Government to organize a better use of workers ' leisure , has arranged more than 3000 meetings in the last three years for the pedormance of ' folk songs and dances . There are more than 4000 local societies in Italy which search for old songs and dances with a view tt publishing and performing them . Dances for Workers Similar organizations , many or them , like Dopolavoro , under government auspices , exist in nearly every European country . Thus , in Roumania , there is the Astra Society with a membership running into tens of thousands and the Workers ' Institute of Sport and Education ( Inser ) comprising all the organized workers In the country . Both these specialize in folk songs and dances . In Germany there has for some time been a tendency to revive folk dancing and with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Italian Dopolavoro movement is anticipated . In almost every country where there is a Y. M. C. A. or a Y. W. 0 A. or a Boy Scout or Girl Guide                     