@@700631

txt Great Britain , in anticipation of the failure of the disarmament conference , has already begun preparations to defend herself in the air in the event of another war , it was revealed today by Stanley Baldwin , Lord President of the Council , at the end of a debate on international affairs . Sir John Simon , the Foreign Secretary , had spoken before him without giving Parliament a vestige of hope ? that the armament conference would not fail , so Mr. Baldwin 's assurance that Britain would be ready for war came with.dramatic force . Both Ministers said , of course , that they did not yet despair and that Sir John was going to Geneva on May 29 to do his utmost on behalf of the British Government to save the conference . But these were platitudes , and Sir John said specifically that the ? time for platitudes was past . Mr. Baldwin said that even if the . conference failed there should not be despair because something new would be started the very next day . But the only something that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces . And that in turn , said Mr. Baldwin , would mean that this country must be ready for war . Sanctions Are Problems . " If we are going to have limitations , " he said , " that means sanctions against the violator of limitations , and if we are going to give Europe collective sanctions or guarantees we must be much stronger than we are today . We must be ready for war , otherwise we will be dishonest trustees of this nation . " Mr. Baldwin repeated his assertion , previously made in the House off " Commons and in Albert Hall , that if the Geneva conference failed this country would create an air force equal to that of any nation within striking distance of British shores . But he was more emphatic today and added the significant detail that the preliminary work of acquiring such a force was already under way . Mr. Baldwin used no post-war platitudes . On the contrary he reverted back to phrases and a vocabulary that Geneva was ' supposed to have made obsolete . He said people must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " if war came- they would know it was a just war " and support their government in carrying it on . He seemed to have forgotten that the whole world had renounced war by signing the Kellogg-Briand act , as he said it was ' no more surprising that the world had not renounced war after a few years of discussion than it was that Christianity did . not rule the world after 2,000 years . A Possible Device . The most hopeful Interpretation of Mr. Baldwin 's speech is that it was decided upon as an eleventhhour device to frighten the Euro- ? pean powers into reaching some sort of arms agreement when they reassemble at Geneva at the end of the month . Prime Minister Ramsay was absent today , having flown to Lossiemouth for a holiday , but the idealism and internationalism that used to be associated with his name seemed even further ' away ? than North Scotland . Today 's absence of the Prime Minister was commented on as further evidence that he was completely eliminated from the major activities of his To7 government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Conservatives were more interested . in an early fine-weather getaway for the Whitsuntide vacation than in hearing funeral orations on the armament conference . Mr. Baldwin , referring to British protection , said : " The scheme of coastal defenses in this country is quite complete , by sea and air , and is reviewed every year . It is being proceeded with at a very slow pace , which the present economic condition of the country permits :  - -  But if it becomes necessary or vitally important to the country 's defenses , and if clouds are threatening , their preparation can be speeded up . It is rather economic considerations today than want of preparation that delay progress . Limitation Is Upheld . " Limitation is the only practicable form of air disarmament . If we get limitation , no single power is in a position of such superiority that the temptation to attack becomes too much . But there is a corollary . If there is limitation , it is difficult to see how we can afford to take sanctions against any one who breaks limitation . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against war . One of the conclusions to which I have been driven as a result of my close study of these questions during the past twelve years is that there is no such thing as a sanction which will work which does not mean war ; or , in other words , if we adopt sanctions we must be ready for war , and if we adopt them without being ready for war we are not honest trustees of the nation . " I have been much struck by an article by Professor Zimmermann , who bears out the contention that force is the essence of the collective maintenance of peace , and if we are going in for that system we must be prepared to fight in will and also in material . " Nothing can be a worse guarantee to the world or a more cruel deception to the people of this country than to say we will guarantee peace by arms , and then be unready to do so . If this country is giving to Europe a collective guarantee or collective sanctions , it means we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is today . Clear Stand Is Desired . " I agree it is very important that this country should make it clear to the world and the people of this country where it stands in Europe . That is of primary importance because no democratic country , and almost the last democracy left in Europe , can possibly wage war successfully unless the people are behind it . " The people will not be behind a war unless they are convinced from their viewpoint that it is a just war . Therefore , the people should be constantly told what the dangers are in the world , how they can best be mst and when the time might come when , for the security of our own shores and our own political liberties , this country must determine to defend herself . " Mr. Baldwin referred to his recent speech in which he promised that Britain would have air equality and added that there had been corn -- plaint because he did not definitely say when . Confidence Is Asked . " You must trust our government on that point , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of this House with regard to this matter , but it is impossible to say yet  --  with the Foreign Minister going to Geneva within a fortnight  --  when the moment will come . But I can say something which I think will glay any anxiety in the House . " If the air estimates were brought in this day , or if a statement were made this day with regard to any increase in the air force , it might well be months before a pound could be spent in enlarging the air force . There is an immense amount of detailed preparation to be done in a thousand ways . Time will be wasted if the government waits until it becomes necessary to take a decision and then to announce it before we , begin the necessary preparations . " These Very points are at this moment under consideration . The preliminary work is being done . So if our fears are realized and it becomes necessary to implement a pledge not a single day will have been lost . " It is only right that the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is general anxiety on this subject , but on the other hand there is no danger in the near future before this country . There maybe less danger in the future than we imagine . " The preparations we are taking are in more than ample time . There is no subject on which panic , and unnecessary panic , can be worked up by unscrupulous people more quickly than in regard to the air and such panic can do nothing but harm in this country and in Europe : "                     