@@701392

txt A government spokesman announced tonight the Bank of Italy 's discount rate would be increased by decree Monday from 31 , . : per cent to 41/2 per cent , and insisted this banking manoeuvre did not mean any inflationary policy . The increase will also apply to ' the interest rate on loans against which government bonds have been deposited for collateral . " It is a classic measure , already utilized by France , Holland and other gold standard nations " to avert inflation , said the spokesman . He added that the Bank of Italy statement on July 31 showed an unfavorable balance in regard to bank notes in circulation now as coinPared to a year ago . At the same time there has been no corresponding decrease in commercial state paper . He explained that one reason for this condition was accelerated industrial activity , which might be attributed to Italy 's preparations for war . He insisted no " abnormalcy " could be attributed to the decree . Circulation Nearly Doubled . Bank notes in circulation on July 31 amounted to 882,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while on June 30 , 1934 , the amount was 442,000,000 lire . Although the acceleration in commercial activity could partly be ascribed to war preparations , he asserted , there ' were other factors involved , such as the " rapid economic recovery . " The rise in the Italian discount rate follows closely on the suspension July 22 of the requirement for 40 per cent gold backing on currency issues . That action was taken as a sign of a serious strain in Italian finances due to large expenditures for war preparations . Predictions were made that it would be followed by inflation ; and the new measure is directed against that tendency . Premier Mussolini reviewed part of his navy today and ordered still more men called to arms as he drove ahead with plans for his East ' African campaign . He flew to the Spezia naval training station and there , from the decks of the flag cruiser Zara , he watched manoeuvres of the First Naval Squadron . 500,000 in Army Games . Manoeuvres involving more than 500,000 men began Thursday in Northern Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were engaged , an official communique said . A royal decree ordered subalterns and technicians of the air force classes of 1909 and 1910 recalled from the military reserves for an indefinite time . The bitter press campaign against Great Britain , which has brought representations from that country , continued unrelentingly with charges of British " hypocrisy . " Newspapers said that , while Britain sought to keep Italy out of Ethiopia , she was " orientating herself " to a policy of collaboration with Japan at the expense of China . This interpretation was given to reports that Sir Frederick LeithRoss , British financial expert , would confer with Japanese economists this Fall . After recalling British opposition . to East African program and - with sarcasm the failure of the Le , .. - ton commission to halt Japanese advances in Manchuria , The Tribuna said ; " London begins to pay court to Tokyo . It is true the morality of this capital , from the viewpoint of the League covenant , is rather dubious ; but when the question of a ' good marriage ' is under consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes . " Gaetano Polverelli , former press spokesman for Premier Mussolini , wrote in Il Duce 's Popolo d'Italia against the threat of sanctions against Italy implied in some British newspapers , asserting that sanctions were not employed against Japan nor against Paraguay or Bolivia . A government spokesman denied Athens reports that the Island of Rhodes had been made into a hospital camp for soldiers returned from East Africa . Dispatches from Tripoli said three steamers which left Naples early in the week embarked 600 Libyan native cavalrymen and their horses and sailed for East Africa last night . The Libyans , mostly volunteer veterans of the Italian Libyan campaign , received an enthusiastic send-off from hundreds of other natives , who were reported eagerly enrolling hi the East African service .                     