@@700465

txt To a layman the statement of the Committee on Aeronautical Law of the New York County Lawyers Association opposing ratification by the United States of the Warsaw Convention of 1929 , codifying certain rules of private international law relative to international transportation by air , seems plain common sense . The American share in such transportation is at present slight  --  only some 8 per cent . Undoubtedly it will be greatly enlarged . Transmarine potentialities , European , Asiatic , Antipodean , can not now be estimated . Why should we bind ourselves by rules vitally affecting a traffic in which we have as yet hardly begun to engage ? Our domestic aeronautic law is necessarily young and groping . The socalled Uniform State Law for Aeronautics , adopted sometimes without , sometimes with , modifications by twenty-one States , directs that an aircraft owner 's liability for damage caused by collision in air or on land " be de " termined by the rules of law appli " cable to torts on land . " The reports of the American Bar Association 's Committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origins of American aerial law . Last year the latter body declared that the problem of fixing the liability of carriers by air in regard to baggage , freight and passengers " must be con " sidered in the light of conditions pe " culler to aviation and can not neces " sarily be governed by rules relative " to other transportation agencies . " The problem should be studied further , the committee said , before the recommendation of a uniform code for the States could be completed . If the domestic air code is still at sea , why should the United States be in a hurry to accept international rules which may be different from the American code of aeronautical law when it is definitely established ? Into the questions of liability , burden of proof , negligence , the layman has no right to poke his nose . It is enough for him to notice that the chief objection of these lawyers to the Warsaw Convention is that it is " ambiguous and equivocal in the " general basis on which it was " drafted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dale must wonder at an article of the convention that exempts the carrier of goods by air from all liability if the carrier shows that the loss or damage arose from " fault in pilot- ing " so long as it took all necessary precautions to prevent the damage . This limitation , we are told , is an application to air-shipped goods of the admiralty rule in regard to loss or damage of goods shipped by sea . But the owner of an airplane is no more out of touch with the pilot after he takes off from the airport than is the owner of a railroad train after the train pulls out of the station . The utmost liability of the carrier for the loss of a passenger 's life is 125,000 francs . Air travelers will be apt to regard themselves as more precious than that . On the other hand , it seems unfair and is something new in the law of carriers to hold the air transportation company responsible for damage resulting from delay of passengers or goods . The Governor 's appointment of SoLoMON LOWENSTEIN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emergency Relief Administration , in succession to WILLIAM HODSON , is recognition of supreme fitness for this public service . Ever since the beginning of the depression he has presided over the conferences of the executive committee of the Welfare Council 's Coordinating Committee on Unemployment , at which every development in the relief situation has been considered . This body has carefully watched the functioning of Home Relief , keeping it free of political spoils . For thirty years and more Mr. LowExTrEtx has been an expert practitioner in this field and is prepared in the highest degree , both by ability and experience , to help in administering the funds made available by the Federal Government and by the State .                     