@@701580

txt With the assertion that cessation of the relief activities of the Federal Government next year was " simply unthinkable and impossible , " ' Mayor La Guardia of New York called upon the United States Confeernce of Mayors today to formulate specific recommendations for relief appropriations at the next session of Congress . In a long report on his work as representative of the Mayors on the President 's advisory committee on I allotments , Mr. La Guardia , sounding the keynote of the conference at the first of three sessions , voiced the conviction that the relief problem is a lasting one . He spoke to nearly 100 Mayors and other city officials . " I know the President well enough to know that what he wants are facts , " he said . " And I think I know Congress well enough to know that they want facts . " And , gentlemen , I state from my experience and from contacts with many of you that any idea that the Federal relief program can stop abruptly on July 1 of next year is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The responsibility is ours . " If any one expects a return to the old normal he simply does not know conditions or refuses to inform himself . Cites Technological Factor . " With technological displacement , with labor-saving devices in agriculture as well as in industry , we must be prepared to meet this new normal , which means that with a complete recovery of business and industry we will still have several million employable men and women unable to find gainful , permanent employment . There is no question about that . " Now , then , it takes time to adjust or to make the necessary adjustment to meet this new normal . We are on our way to do it . The Security Act is the first step in that direction , by providing unemployment insurance and old-age pensions . Coupled to that , we must have uniform child labor laws , in order to take from the other end of the supply a large number of children who are displacing heads of families . " I want to make a special appeal to every one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of the country by local legislation or local new policy . It must be national . Massachusetts and New Jersey and New York are helpless if they protect their childhood from being exploited in the mills and these mills are invited to other States with the encouragement that children of tender years can work 8 to 10 hours in those mills . " But I say it will take time before this adjustment to the new normal can possibly take effect . We must pass forty-eight unemployment insurance laws in fortyeight Legislatures before the full effect of that can be felt . The same is true of old-age pensions . We are still a far distance from accomplishing the complete control of child labor , and in the meantime we Mayors are directly face to face with the unemployed . Federal Aid Called Vital . " Now , then , if it were not for the Federal aid I do n't know what any of us could do . " July 1 will be upon us before we realize it . Now is the time to prepare for it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have taxed locally people of the City of New York to meet the current expense of unemployment . I do n't wish any other Mayor to do it if he wishes to stay in office . It has got to be done some way or another . We do n't expect the local government to do it all . " You all can get more from your States . The States must realize their responsibility and I submit for your consideration and for action before this conference adjourns a specific recommendation to Congress and to the President of the United States as to what our requirements will be for the fiscal year 1936-1937 . " I also invite consideration and conference action on the present Unemployment Insurance Bill and oldage pension , and I hope that the committee at least will agree on the child labor proposition . " In view of Mayor La Guardia 's influence in the conference , of which he is vice president , it was predicted that the resolution committee would report and the conference would adopt a recommendation that the Federal Government continue its relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference would go on record favoring formulation of a long-time relief program so that the cities could know where they stood in planning . Criticizes Red Tape . Mr. La Guardia criticized delays and red tape in the administration of the PWA , at the same time paying tribute to Secretary ' Ickes as having been " most helpful and cooperative . " Particularly did he criticize the PWA for insist , on the submission of detailed p ns and specifications and for delaying the start of projects until they could be passed upon and approved by Federal officials . He pointed out that cities have been building schoolhouses and courthouses and bridges and tunnels and public buildings for many years , and continued : " We have State law and local ordinances which in detail provide just how we can put up a public building . In every instance it provides for advertising the specifications and the plans and public letting . Every city in the country , without exception , is equipped to construct public works of the major kind . " And I submit that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and specifications of these experienced city engineers and submit them to younger , inexperienced subordinate engineers in Washington for approval . " I think you will agree with ale that Washington has a perfect right to control and to supervise in every detail PWA projects for which they spend 100 per cent . And no city finds any objection to that , although I know I speak for most of the Mayors when I say that their local people know more about it than a State administrator living hundreds of miles away . But we find no fault with that . We accept the inevitable . " But when it comes to public works for which we must issue bonds of the city , controlled by every kind of a check-up and supervision , under strict law and conditions , when we have to put our names to those bonds and when we have to go through laws that existed for hundreds of years , I say , that the only check-up that the Federal Government should make , if it wants to be helpful , is on the credit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would do that we would now be at least four to five months ahead of the program on public works . Offers Praise of Ickes . " I want to say this in all fairness , that Secretary Ickes has been most helpful and cooperative . He understands the problem well . He has vision . He wants to drive this program through . But no one man can do it alone . " And in the course of the administration of the relief program we have developed a new kind of officeholder ? ' the semicolon boys . ' " The ' semicolon boys ' are simply a ' boil on the neck ' of this administration , the fellows , you know , who have an office , and some law school has graduated them , come here to get law jobs in the departments and then they sit down and look for semicolons and hold up the works . They have not contributed a single thing , and yet they are one of the causes of the delay in a great deal of the important work in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a few in my own administration , too , and you have also . If they would only stop the typewriters we could get the steam shovels working . You know , all of the anti-relief lawyers are not in the Liberty League . " Mr. La Guardia reiterated his demand for lower interest rates and asked the conference to back him in his attempt to reduce the interest charged by the Federal Governments on its loans to municipalities . He launched a bitter attack on the bankers , with particular reference to the proceedings of the American Bankers Association in New Orleans . Assails Interest Rates . " There was a time there for a few days we really obtained a 3 per cent rate on loans , " he said . " Those were the happiest days of my life . The President of the United States was with us . The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States , Morgenthau , was with us . And Harold Ickes was with us . " And some little ' semicolon boy , ' inspired i do n't know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Secretary of the Treasury that this would injure private capital , that it would bring down the standard of interest , and the interest rate went back to 4 per cent , or at least not exceeding 4 per Cent . " Where a municipality 's credit is good and there is no risk involved I I say that a 4 per cent interest rate is simply unconscionable . " There was another conference held a few days ago down in New I Orleans . Mayor Walmsley , it is your town . Well , they held a conference in your town , dominated by people from my town . The American Bankers Association met down there , and strange as they may seem , they adopted the language of Union Square and stated that unless the government does just soand-so they will not finance the government any more . " Just think of it , gentlemen ! That is the language we hear up in Union Square in my town ? ' Unless the government does so-and-so , we will not finance them . ' " The next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Well , I wonder if it ever occurrea to these gentlemen that the bankers ' holiday took place only a very short time ago ; that the majority of the representatives of the banks of that conference are the recipients or beneficiaries of relief from the United States Government or they would not be in existence today . Some of these days , a true story , of the RFC will be told , to the everlasting shame of the history of banks in this country . " Mr. La Guardia declared there was menace to cities in the program of the Suburban Resettlement Division of the Rural Resettlement Administration , which , he said , is moving to set up " satellite " cities outside metropolitan areas . He asserted that the program " is prompted by the very best of intentions , " but added that when it comes to building the proposed communities " around industries that are to be invited out of our cities into these rural districts , then , gentlemen , it concerns us very vitally , and we should talk about it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community centres , " if they are built , for one purpose alone , and that is to get cheaper labor , " adding : " And the minute that industry seeks to break away from cities for that purpose it will bring our whole standard down , and no city can afford to meet that kind of competition . " Mr. La Guardia paid high tribute to President Roosevelt 's grasp on the relief problem and his help to ' the Mayors . Particularly was the President of assistance in getting cities their share of allocations for the road program , he said , adding that the history of this country has been that all such money was spent in the country and left the cities out . The cities were helped also , he said , in connection with the gradecrossing elimination program . In opening the session this morning , Mayor Daniel Haan of Milwaukee , president of the conference , praised its work , attributing the entrance of the Federal Gov-1 ernment into the relief picture to its efforts . Attorney General Cummings appealed to the assembled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of Justice drive against crime . Asserting that modern conditions made cooperation between all enforcement agencies necessary , he assured the Mayors that the Department was not attempting to usurp the functions of city governments , but to assist them . New York City 's noise abatement campaign is already a success , Henry H. Curren , chairman of the Mayor 's Noise Abatement Commission , told the conference this afternoon . He asserted there was never any need for the use of an auto horn in any city . His campaign against honking is reducing traffic accidents , Mr. Curren said , asserting that automobile injuries in New York during October were 791 fewer than in October of last year . The number of deaths also had been reduced , Mr. Curran said .                     