@@701725

txt World War veterans , their wives and their widows , regardless of whether their names are on the relief rolls , are entitled to preference over all others for jobs on Federal work-relief projects , Judge George A. Welsh ruled in the Federal District Court here today . The decision affects Federal agencies operating in the Eastern Pennsylvania district . It permits exception only on Works Progress Administration projects under the $800,000,000 designated for highway work . The highway fund was " pure relief , " Judge Welsh Asserted , and Congress specified that those on relief rolls should have preference . There was no such specification made concerning the rest of the $4,800,000,000 Federal appropriation , he declared , and veterans , their wives or widows should have preference because veterans ' preferential standing was already provided by national legislation . Cites Executive Order . It was significant , the decision stated , " that in the executive order itself the Executive does not say that the preferential status of veterans be waived . " The decision , marked by sharp criticism of Federal " bureaucracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. Spang , a 42-year-old veteran of this city , who unsuccessfully sought a job with the Federal business census . The decision will be filed by Judge Welsh early next week . Thereupon the district heads of such agencies as the Public Works Administration , the Works Progress Administration , the National Youth Administration and such " official projects " as the business census and improvements at the Philadelphia navy yard will be ordered to give veterans preference in assigning jobs . Administrators will be restrained from paying compensation to any one on their work rolls or employing any one unless the veterans , their wives or their widows receive preferential status . This means that non-veterans already at work must be dismissed if properly qualified veterans apply for their jobs . While plans were being made by Charles D. , Federal District Attorney , for an appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals " as quickly as possible , " work relief agency heads here expressed doubt that the ruling would tie up work on the projects now under Way . Status of Job Rolls . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city who had applied for work-relief jobs had not been placed . Franklin G. Connor , head of the Federal-State employment office , whose instructions from the Department of Labor require that all persons assigned to work be taken from the relief rolls , said that more than 8,000 veterans on relief had received jobs . They are among the 36,000 now employed here on WPA projects . The agency 's files include the names of about 400 veterans on direct relief , while of the 175,000 nonrelief men and women who have registered with the office only about 4,000 are veterans . Federal officials are concerned because of the effect of the ruling , the first of its kind , on the workrelief program throughout the country if sustained in the higher courts . Judge Welsh expressed the view that " the veterans ' preference laws were intended to cover all classes of employment and that work relief must be incident . " " The preferential status given to veterans is not to be considered in the nature of a gratuity , " he continued . " This statute was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) who had rallied to their country 's service in wars in behalf of American ideals and aspirations . Refers to Congress Service . " The experience of ten years of the judge of this court in the Congress leads him to believe that this policy is as fixed as is reverence for the Constitution and the inherent rights of humanity . &Me; believes that if an attempt were to have been made in the Congress in the passage of the emergency relief appropriation of 1935 to have set aside the preferential status given to veterans it would not have mustered sufficient support worthy of mention . " And , further , it is most significant that in the executive order itself the Executive does not say that the preferential status of veterans be waived . It has taken bureaucracy , which can assume dangerous proportions , to read into the executive order such an unfair interpretation . " A bureaucracy more responsive to the expressed will of the Congress and more in sympathy with the veterans of our wars would have taken a broader and more charitable view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that preference was to be given to those on relief rolls the President meant that there should be read into that order a due ' regard for the rights and privileges conferred upon the veterans . " Law Not " Complete in Itself . " Judge Welsh declared that if he upheld the position of the defendants , who included the Secretary of Commerce . the Attorney General , the United States Attorney here and officials in charge of the census project , it would be " equivalent to holding that each act of Congress must be deemed to be complete in itself ; that power and authority not specifically limited may be exercised and governed only by the discretion of the particular executive involved and not affected by the policies of the government as expressed in Congressional acts generally . " " This , " the opinion went on , " might conceivably lead to assumption of authority far greater than that contemplated and the development of an autocracy beyond the control of the legislative and judicial branches of the government . " It would be exceedingly dangerous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive are not governed by laws declaring the policies legislatively established . " The policy of giving veterans of the military and naval service a preference in the matter of public employment and other bounties has long been established . That policy I I still exists , and we must consider , that the Veterans Preference Act is now in force and applies to all employment within its purview . "                     