@@700112

txt Marinus Van der Lubbe , the twisted instrument of a dark power whose nature is still to be determined , confessed before the German Supreme Court today that on the night of Feb. 25 he attempted to burn down three public buildings in Berlin , including the City Hall and the Palace of the former Kaiser , as a preliminary to setting the Reichstag fire that has so gravely affected the political fate of Germany . From the suave and persuasive questions of the examining judge and the monosyllabic answers of the accused there was unrolled before the breathless audience in the courtroom the picture of a man from the jungle running amuck in a pyromaniacal orgy in the night and throwing flaming torches into open windows in admitted disregard of human life . But the audience was also struck with the grotesque contrast between that picture and its star actor . That bowed and colorless figure in blue prison dungarees did not look a bit like a mad incendiary or the incarnation of brute force , but rather like a sorry piece of human wreckage making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neck . Makes Admission Clearly . Nevertheless , it was noted , and Dr. Wilhelm , . Buenger , the presiding judge , made a point of it , that while being questioned about his incendiary activities Van der Lubbe , for the first time since the trial started , came a little out of his reserve . at least to the extent of saying in connected sentences that he had actually thrown firebrands . The presiding judge 's question as to whether he had set the three fires all by himself was answered with a loud and clear " Yes . " But when asked about his motive the young Dutchman refused to answer further quest-ions , and the only statement he would make was : " I did it out of my own ideas . " What these ideas were he refused to testify , and the presiding judge and medical experts were helpless before his stubborn silence . Dr. Schuetz , prison physician , testified that in his view the defendant followed the proceedings very well and could well answer questions if he wanted to . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his defense , " the doctor said . " He does not want to answer . He deliberately wants to evade . This is typical of certain types of defendants . " An Involuntary Confirmation . One significant confirmation of Dr. Schuetz 's view was involuntarily offered by Van der Lubbe during new clashes between the court and Georgi Dimitroff , the fiery Bulgarian revolutionary , which featured today 's proceedings . When Dr. Schuetz testified that Van der Lubbe kept his head bowed probably because he thought it helped his defense , the head of the accused drooped deeper . When Dimitroff , pointing his finger at his co-defendant , exclaimed that Van der Lubbe had committed a great crime against the proletariat and that he kept his head bowed in consciousness of his guilt , the Dutchman 's head went up . Clashes between Dimitroff and the court began and ended today 's session . At the beginning the Bulgarian started to protest against allegedly unfair accounts of his testimony in the German press . When I the presiding judge caned him to order and told him to act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend myself ! " At the close Dimitroff continued to ask Van der Lubbe questions , and cast doubt on the authenticity of the Dutchman 's alleged previous testimony . The court withdrew for consultation and then announced that Dimitroff would be deprived of his right to ask questions except through his counsel , because he had used that right to spread Communist propaganda . Dimitroff shouted : " I protest ! " but then sat down . Others Not Involved . In reply to questions and statements of the two other Bulgarian defendants the presiding judge explained that the three cases of suspected arson discussed today were charged against Van der Lubbe alone and that none of the other defendants was being connected with them . The difficult dialogue between the presiding judge and Van der Lubbe turned dramatic with Dr. Buenger 's questions as to whether it was correct that the defendant had bought matches and " kindling " coal on Feb. 25 , the judge explaining that kindling was coal soaked with napthe. , which produced an intense flame . " Yes , " Van der Lubbe replied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked . " No . " " Did not you ask for kindling coal marked ' red flame ' ? " , , No , , " You bought kindling a second time ? " " Yes . " " Were you already determined to commit arson ? " " Not quite . " Climbed Over Fence . Further questioning developed that Van der Lubbe then went to the welfare bureau in Neukoelln , a suburb of Berlin , and climbed over the fence . " Did you find an open window there ? " the judge asked . " Maybe , " Van der Lubbe. answered . " Did you not then throw half a package of flaming kindling coal into the building ? " " Yes . " Van der Lubbe likewise admitted having climbed to the roof of the one-story wooden building and having started a fire there , as well as having thrown another firebrand through another open window . " Why did you not simply smash a window instead of looking for open ones ? " the prosecutor asked . " That might have been heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ der Lubbe , according to his admission , took the subway to the City Hall , where previously in the day he had ascer " Did you know people lived there ? " Van der Lubbe said , " Yes : " The presiding judge explained that the window led to the cellar bedroom of the janitor 's son . Toward 8 P. M. Van der Lubbe came to the former Kaiser 's palace near by , he admitted , and climbed to the roof along a scaffolding erected for repairs without using the workmen 's ladder . " What did you do here ? " the judge asked . " I threw kindling coal through the window , " was the reply . The judge drew further admissions that Van der Lubbe had tried to set another fire in an arbor on top of the roof and had used matches when his kindling coal gave out , but had been hampered by a strong wind . These fires were easily extinguished and only the one in the palace was reported in the papers at the time . When Van der @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protocol of his alleged statements to the police , as follows : " I wanted to protest against the system , which today has been taken over by the National Socialists . I wanted to help along the new forces rising within the proletariat against 1 the capitalistic system . I do not understand those forces , but they will find their own form . Capitalism can not be overthrown by the ballot but only by groups of the proletariat bringing about a revolution . " This Van der Lubbe neither con- , firmed nor denied , but stubbornly kept silent . Because of this attitude the court decided to call the officials who took down the protocol and witnesses to confront him . Arthur Garfield Hays , American atttorney , is still awaiting a complete report of the investigation of the international jurists ' commission in London before proceeding further with his plans to aid the defendants .                     