@@700794

txt Convinced that the 1933 amendments to the bankruptcy laws perinitting , voluntary reorganization of railroads have failed of their purpose . Administration experts are now devising new machinery to accomplish financial rehabilitation of the carriers , promptly and simply with a minimum of exnense . Active studies presage incorporation of such a program in the recommendations to be submitted to President Roosevelt by his special cabinet committee on carrier legislation . The 1933 amendments are regarded as having bogged down chiefly due to the requirement that two-thirds of each class of security holders must approve any rehabilitation proposal . The proposed legislation , expected to take the form of a rewriting of the - 1933 amendments , may include an element of compulsion , frankly abandoning the two-thirds requirement as entirely too cumbersome to be workable . The prospective revision may go so far as to prescribe a debt structure pattern to be followed in future rail reorganization . Provision is certain to be made requiring slaking funds for future railroad bond issues . Some similar arrangement might be included to cover existing bonded indebtedness . Prompt Reorganization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ securities ' is also foreseen here by some cflicials , especially touching- approval of issues based on alleged increases in capital investments . In brief , it is felt in informed quarters that once a railroad becomes financially embarrassed , whether it is in bankruptcy , is insolvent , or is in receivership , it should be promptly and effectively reorganized , with its capital structure , in the words of one important official , " put through the wringer . " Those studying rehabilitation are aware that to reorganize a railroad now , on the present basis of earnings , may involve the sacrifice of greater equities than if a more hopeful profit base is assumed for the future . Chairman . Tesse H. Jones of the RFC , typifying one viewpoint , believes carriers should not be reorganized drastically or on the basis of current values and earnings . Agreeing that fixed charges must be reduced , Mr. Jones thinks junior security holaers should receive much consideration , and holds that an " income paying basis " should be used . 1893 Equity Sacrifices Recalled Experience with railroad reorganization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Officials that refusal of security owners to consent to reorganizations has produced a situation where some bankruptcies stand to be thrown into equity court receiverships . This would restore the undesirable situation which the 1933 amendments were intended to avoid . Other objections to the present statute include , failure of some courts to appoint trustees for bankrupt properties , as contemplated by the law . The Chicago , Indianapolis , fe Louisville Railway is a case in point . Dissatisfaction likewise is expressed over the present provision for the naming of panels of potential trustees by the I. C. C. Discussing the type of desirable reorganizations , officials have in mind the rigorous reconstruction of the financial structures of the Atchison , Topeka Santa Fe , the Norfolk &; Western and the Union Pacific during the 1893 depression . The position of these systems today , officials said , is directly traceable to the sound rehabilitation accomplished at that time , although it resulted in a great sacrifice of equities . A check-up at the I. C. C. revealed that while 13 roads filed intentions to reorganize under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments became law on March 3 , 1933 , as supplementary provisions of the federal bankruptcy laws , and center in Sec. 77 of the act .                     