@@701816

txt A credit boom is so definitely in prospect that banking leaders of the country and outstanding professors , addressing the semi-annual meeting of the Academy of Political Science at the Hotel Astor yesterday , devoted their principal attention to the necessity of controlling it . Winthrop W. Aldrich , chairman of the Chase National Bank , said that " bankers generally believe the legal reserve requirements of the member banks should be raised by the Federal Reserve Board , and I myself believe the Federal Reserve Board , when the time comes , will have the courage to do it . " James Harvey Rogers , Professor of Political Economy at Yale University , agreed the power given to the board to raise reserve requirements under the new banking legislation was " entirely ample to Curb any undesirable inflation " ; but he doubted that it would be used . As long as the Federal budget remains unbalanced , Professor Rogers said , the government must continue to borrow from the banks and must therefore oppose any action to restrict the supply of bank credit , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The necessity of having the Treasury and the Federal Reserve authorities in accord before expansion could be controlled was admitted by Emanuel A. Goldenweiser , director of research for the Federal Reserve Board . He doubted , more-. over , that even the Treasury and the board combined could exercise complete control , considering such economic maladjustments as the continuing unemployment which has led the government into its spending . A dissent , however , from the proposal to take immediate preventive steps , such as raising the reserve requirements . was expressed last night by Russell C. Leffingwell , partner of J. P. Morgan &; Co. , at the dinnner meeting which closed the all-day discussion . Mr. Leffingwell admitted that easy money made government borrowing easy and expressed the wish that the government would not " abuse the opportunity . " He maintained , however , that easy money was necessary for the recovery of industry and opposed " any premature effort to make money dear in apprehension and anticipation of an inflation which does not exist . " This divergence of views concerning boom precautions between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Mr. Leffingwell of the Morgan firm has been the subject of discussion in Wall Street for weeks . Considering all the possibilities , Benjamin Haggott Beckhart , Professor of Banking at Columbia University , said . " I am not optimistic that any measures will be taken ; we will proceed merrily to the next smash . " The discussion of the domestic problem not only overshadowed the problem of international currency stabilization but for most of the speakers the solution of the domestic problem was made a necessary preliminary to any international negotiations . Harrison Sees " Pivot " Nations George L. Harrison , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , told the dinner audience " the international money question is mainly one of the impact of the internal monetary condition of the pivotal countries upon the remainder of the world . " Leon Fraser , former president of the World Bank for International Settlements , said that world recovery depended upon a return to a " reformed " or " directed " gold standard . He said , further , however , that Great Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any attempt to invite the United States into " partnership in such an attempt , awaiting a demonstration by our monetary authorities that they can and will control any inflationary credit expansion . " Speakers from the floor after the morning and afternoon sessions observed that the boom in prospect had no apparent result in reducing unemployment ; that the world had gone broke on the gold standard ; and that an international conference for monetary stabilization seemed visionary in face of existing bellicose conferences in Europe for the increase of tanks , guns , planes and troops . Professors and bankers agreed that it would not be possible to go back to the old 100-cent dollar . Some wanted it to remain " a managed currency world as it is now . " Others wanted to put the present 59-cent dollar back on the gold standard . For the purpose of domestic recovery , it was generally agreed there should be some pledge by the Federal Government that the 59-cent dollar would not be further devalued . It was likewise agreed that return to the gold standard could no longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must mean a gold standard subject to some sort of international management . and probably using the existing gold stocks solely as international settlement funds . All agreed that it might be necessary to chose between domestic stability and international stability , for the reason that the international movement of capital rather than goods was one of the chief causes of economic instability . John H. Williams , Professor of Economics at Harvard University , said that Great Britain had taken the view that international movements of capital must not be allowed to interfere with the domestic economy . Alvin H. Hansen , Professor of Economics at the University of Minnesota , agreed Great Britain had " withdrawn from the world economic system and set up an empire preferential system now referred to as the Sterling Area . " He said the growth of such preferential systems and the reduction of commercial relations between the isolated systems was " setting up international frictions as nations find their access to raw materials blocked , not because they are not able to buy but because they are not able to sell . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor Hansen , " can not be any rearrangement of political boundaries or the wholesale transfer of colonies , but an organized and workable international monetary system . " Adolph C. Miller , recently retired from the Federal Reserve Board after serving as a member since its organization , pleaded for a return to " a gold standard suited to our time " as the " outstanding instrument of international solidarity . " " The world today is a managed currency world , " said Mr. Miller , " and will continue until the forces of nature and larger minded statesmanship than any existing today will attempt to integrate the world instead of furthering its disintegration . The gold standard is the integrator . The only proper managed currency is one which has as the objective of its management the return to the gold standard . " In opposition to Mr. Miller 's view , Frank D. Graham , Professor of Economics at Princeton University , said that the gold standard was " a religion , an emotion rather than a judgment , a fetich , " and maintained that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a paper currency of stable general purchasing power . " Finds Thinking in a Muddle Robert Warren , economist for Case Pomeroy &; Co. , said thought about world money is in a " muddle " because there are three schools of thought , each representing a different objective , with a general indecision as to which of the three objectives is preferable . He said the objectives were  --  stability of the price level , stability of the interest rate and stability of international exchanges . It should be recognized , he said , that stability of money in terms of one of these objectives presupposes instability in terms of the other two . James W. Angell , Professor of Economics at Columbia University , said the root of the confusion was that most people did not know what they really wanted from the monetary system . " I suggest , " he concluded , " that we return to the gold standard today , to ward off inflation . " In the discussion of the impending boom Mr. Aldrich added : " We should not depend only upon credit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late or too drastic , it is likely to cause as much damage as the storm . We should practice selfcontrol now . " Aldrich Discusses Control He said the Federal Reserve Board might sell its holdings of government securities to cut down the supply of credit , or it might raise the reserve requirements ; and of the two methods he thought the reserve requirements should be undertaken first . " Such a course of action now , " he said . " would amount to a modest assurance . We should guard against the erection of a topheavy structure of credit again . In this respect restraint is required by private industry as much as by the Federal and State Governments , whose current deficits are the mechanism which is making our creditexpansion possibilities real . " Discussing the Treasury opposition to credit control as long as the Federal Government had deficits to be covered by borrowing , Professor Rogers said : " The prospect of Inflation in the United States can be almost completely identified with the prospect for the national budget . If approaches to a well-ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed to Congress last January , are to receive the disrupting treatment given that one , the prospect of inflation is very grave indeed . " Ralph W. Robey , instructor in banking at Columbia , speaking in place of Neil Carothers , director of the College of Business Administration at Lehigh University , said he also doubted that the Federal Reserve Board would adopt any credit restrictions in face of continued government financing . George W. Roberts , vice president of the National City Bank , described the operation of the Silver Purchase Act , and traced among its consequences driving the chief silver countries , such as China and Mexico , off the silver standard onto paper and disrupting the silver market . " It is a demonstration , " he said , " that you can not maintain silver at a higher level than other countries will take it in international exchange . "                     