@@702207

txt The Capital yesterday began to emerge from the campaign and postelection discussion to resume the ordinary as well as the extraordinary duties of government . Occupying first place was the budget . The Budget Director 's office has been at work for some time . Very soon President Roosevelt must give his decision on items which call for a large share of federal expenditures . Some major and a number of minor appointments await Presidential action . The reciprocal trade treaty policy has been endorsed . State Department insists that treaties only with Costa Rica and Salvador and preliminary conversations with several other nations are under way . Rumors persist that Italian negotiations may be reopened soon . Beyond these Immediate considerations is the session of Congress which opens January 8 . Some old measures of interest to business and finance and some new ones are coming in for discussion . Budget balancing appears to depend upon business rather than upon direct Administration action . Improved business would have a dual effect on the budget , yielding higher tax revenues and probably reducing unemployment relief costs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficits and federal borrowing in the coming fiscal year . Reductions in expenditure items other than relief and public works is improbable if not impossible under New Deal commitments , a survey yesterday showed . The budget items other than relief and public works , the amounts allo cated for them in the current fiscal year and the outlook for next fiscal year are : These items comprised 72% of the 1936-37 budget , exclusive of the bonus , thus eliminating a large segment of the Government 's outlays from any potential reductions . Increases in these items , moreover , will eat into any economies on relief and public works . The increase in social security charges will be especially sharp . This advance in expenditures. although affecting the Treasury income and outgo statement , will not increase the public debt borrowing since sums charged off for the old age reserve fund will be invested in Government securities . Higher Costs Seen Higher costs for the established departments are anticipated in view of probable increased prices and in view of the necessity of continuing programs upon which most of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . especially that now going on in the Navy , accounts for the prospective gain in national defense costs . The peak of these outlays is still a few years in the future . Any increase in public debt charges probably will be small and will be contingent upon the amount of borrowing which the Treasury has to do within the next 20 months . President Roosevelt has announced his desire to maintain an annual CCC program costing $300,000,000 , thus foreclosing possible reduction in this item . Similarly there appears little likelihood of change in the outlays for crop control or for veterans benefits in the new fiscal year . 28% Susceptible to Cuts There remains , susceptible to possible reductions , only the items which in the 1936-37 budget constituted 28% of the total . Broadly speaking , these items are relief and public works . Administration action on these items in the budget for the new fiscal year is entirely conditioned upon the course of reemployment . Chances for balancing the budget are brighter on the revenue side . Many officials expect the increased tax yield under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and under improved conditions to virtually balance the budget in the coming fiscal year . Added to higher revenues will be probably higher repayments on government loans now outstanding . President Roosevelt is likely to make several important appointments soon , it was ' Indicated in official circles . It will be almost necessary , State Department officials say , for him to name an Under-Secretary of State to serve while Secretary Hull is attending the Pan-American Peace Conference . Secretary Hull leaves this week-end . Other important appointments that might be made soon inc.ude a iec.c .. ary of War and Assistant Secretary of the Navy , Comptroller General , Antha.nador to Russia and a new high commissioner to the Philippines . Among other appointments pending Presidential selection are two additional posts on the new Maritime Commission , an Undersecretary of the Treasury , the seventh member of the Federal Reserve Board and chairman of the Social Security Board . Congressional Program Indications for the program of the new session of Congress point to new regulatory proposals to round out the Administration 's program of reform . In addition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extend a number of laws now on the statute books but which expire before the end of 1937 . Democrats at Philadelphia last June condemned monopolies and the concentration of socalled economic power and promised the extension of the anti-trust laws to stamp out monopolistic practices . Tax-revision is a subject already under study jointly by a congressional committee and Treasury experts . Although President Roosevelt early in the campaign promised legislation removing socalled inequalities , and there has been considerable talk of a revision of the widistributed corporation earnings tax measure , the basic principle of that levy is likely to be retained . New PHA Policy Possible There has been considerable discussion of a new federal housing policy . Other legislation that may be looked for includes tightening of the anti-trust ' laws ; modification of the SEC law to cover investment trusts and protective reorganization committees ; reorganization and elimination of government bureaus ; revision of the Walsh-Healey Act and the Robinson-Patman Act ; possible legislation to provide for the pooling of public and private electric power facilities ; and a farm program covering crop insurance and farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and short haul clause of the Interstate Commerce Act . ICC regulation of water carriers , and possibly exclusion of sinking funds and addition and betterment funds under the revenue law . Rail labor will push a 6-hour-day bill and miscellaneous legislation . Terms of two ICC commissioners , Joseph B. Eastman and Hugh H. Tate expire December 31 and Congress must act on these appointments . The postoffice department will ask around $1,250,000 for inaugurating transatlantic air mail and permission to expand domestic air mail service . It Is expected that the balance of the SEC report on its protective and reorganization committee study will be transmitted to Congress in January . It is considered likely in SEC quarters that passage of reg-ulittory measures for Investment trusts by Congress will go over until the 1988 session . In the case of reorganizations , however , it is hoped that something definite will take shape in 1987.                     