@@702298

txt For the first time since the World War there is apparent real and genuine concern in France over the economic distress in Germany . This has resulted in the qualified ' suggestion that the British and French Governments are prepared to make important economic and financial concessions for the improvement of the German people if the Nazi government will abandon its policy with regard to Spain . France offered to return some of Germany 's colonies , lost under the terms of the peace treaty , if Chancellor Hitler would agree to a full and lasting settlement of European economic and political problems , The Associated Press reported . Meanwhile , it is not expected in Paris that anything like a yes or no answer will be given at once by the German Government to the Anglo-French warning that an end must be put to sending " volunteers " and ammunition to the Spanish Rebel forces . It is expected that Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's meditations at Berchtesgaden will occupy some days , and it may not be until the eve of his annual reception to Ambassadors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What is expected here , however , is that the plans which it is known have been made for the dispatch of further large contingents of volunteers to Spain will be abandoned Or at least their execution postponed . With the announcement from Rome that a " gentlemen 's agreement " between Italy and Great Britain for the maintenance of the status quo in the Mediterranean has been virtually concluded and may be signed this week-end , the whole outlook with regard to Spain has bean altered for Germany . Reich Would Gain Little For even should General Francisco Franco win with German assistance , there is little or nothing to be hoped for by Germany out of his victory with Italy lined up in the ranks of those who want to preserve the present status in the Mediterranean and in North Africa . 1 Common sense must , it is argued here , dictate Hitler 's course in the direction of cooperation with the other powers in preserving the policy of non-intervention in Spain strictly . He could even get some credit for his government and his country out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far more necessary both to him personally and to his government than the uncertain prestige without profit which might result through General Franco 's victory with German help over the " Reds " in Spain . For the moment it is only the Spanish issue which is in debate between Hitler and the British and French Governments . Although Ambassador Joachim von Ribbentrop carried back with him to Berlin the outlined suggestions of what the British Government is prepared to do if and when Germany abandons her open preparation for aggression these suggestions are not more than a tentative basis for negotiations . Even so they entail for Hitler a very grave and a great decision . What is being suggested to him in reality amounts to the abandonment of his autarchic system of government before it collapses with , in British and French opinion , the possibility of grave disorders and great suffering . New Aggressiveness Feared Even the nationalist press is discussing the situation moderately and with more alarm about the internal complications it may produce in Germany than about the possibility of the government taking the terrific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is an interesting tendency to draw political morals like this , that those States which attempt to control production and consumption are apt to meet the same eventual disaster as speculators who try to corner the market and defy natural laws of supply and demand . Of course there is some misgiving here about the ultimate wisdom of helping restore Germany to the community of nations which live by the employment of capital , by trade and service . For , it is argued , German character wo n't change and new prosperity will bring only new aggressiveness . But concern over distress to the German people and the danger to the world which has resulted from Nazi concentration on rearmament at the expense of living ? on cannon instead . a butter ? is greater for the moment than the concern for the more distant future . Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden 's repeated assurance that the British Government will stand by France without delay or equivocation in case of attack has , it seems , given French opinion just that confidence necessary to permit it to take a More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any time since the war ended . But that does not imply that there is any complete confidence that the government of the Third Reich will have as much common sense to view its problems as they are viewed from the outside . There is still , it is pointed out , a very strong party in Germany which prefers cannon to butter . Also , as Pertinax notes in the Echo de Paris today : " It is rather difficult to believe that German autarchy can alter its ways without the Hitler regime being weakened and perhaps even swept away . French Notes Delivered The French notes to Berlin , Moscow . Lisbon and Rome on stiffening non-intervention in Spain have been delivered and the government has already been more or less apprised of the kind of answers to ex-i Moscow has already accepted in principle and has been strongly approving the French move . Portugal 's reply can be neglected , as , has been the case with her remonstl. - :nces hitherto . As to Rome , it is learned that Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano received the French Charg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfac-. tory to France . It is thought that ' the French and British , acting together , have been able to concert powerful inducements on Premier ; Benito Mussolini to withdraw and that he has given evidence already I of an inclination to accede by recalling Count Rossi and a number of Italian officers who have been at Majorca . Berlin has been found to be less tractable . Andre Francois-Poncet , when he went to the Wilhelmstrasse , reported that he found no official high enough to inform of the government 's attitude . His note on tightening non-intervention control has been left for consideration Monday . but it is thought most likely that the action then will only be to temporize.                     