@@698424

txt It is too early to judge whether the survey of the book industry , just completed by Mr. 0 . H. CHENEY and his staff , will have the beneficial results desired by both surveyor and surveyed . There can be no question that the banker , in his first discussion with a few publishers about two years ago , and in the subseguent elaboration of the economist 's point of view on publishing and bookselling , wished to be helpful . The book men , on their side , are conscious of inefficiency and weakness in many dark corners , and are in the mood to accept suggestions . With all this atmosphere of cooperative good-will the book business should soon show signs of improvement . The first impulse of most publishers has been to welcome the report with one hand and resent it with the other . They are glad to have interest stirred up in the commercial side of their business , and feel that they have an excellent opportunity to get together in raising standards . But they are willing , even eager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months of the closest inspection by an outsider . While it was understood that the survey should deal with production and distribution and not with the contents of books , it has not been possible to respect the fence between the two fields . An example of this inevitable running together is to be found in the differences of opinion on " best sellers . " The report states that the profits from a best seller should not be used to make up the losses on failures . The latter should be avoided entirely through scientific seleetion of manuscripts . Records of sales of all kinds of books should enable the publisher to estimate with a fair degree of accuracy what are the chances of any book as a money maker . If all unmarketable books could not be kept from getting into print by this method , the percentage of unsuccessful ones would be greatly reduced . Against this thoroughly businesslike attitude the publishers oppose an uncommercial feeling rooted in enthusiasm for literature and in an artistic integrity like that of.a great writer . One of them remarked that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " many fine works of science and " history " would be automatically shut off from publication by the general application of such a rule . There has been little comment from publishers on one suggestion which they might have been expected to jump at . The more sharply critical and concrete recommendations apparently took their eye first , but they should not overlook this plan for expanding their market . " Salvaging potential readers " is Mr. CHENEY 'S name for it . Too many people give up buying and reading books as soon as they are out of school or college . A publishers ' organization , with the support of low.1 newspapers , radio stations , churches and clubs , not to mention the already well-organized library service , might bring thousands of men and women back to reading .                     