@@702175

txt Governor Herbert H. Lehman went before the assembled braves of Tammany Hall last night and struck back at charges of his Republican opponent that there had been politics in relief and waste in government during his terms as Chief Executive of the State . Before a crowd of several thousand the Democratic candidate for re-election heard United States Senator Robert F. Wagner as chairman deliver a pledge of loyalty from Tammany and then went on himself to insist that unemployment relief had been administered I on a non-partisan and non-political basis . The Governor hailed the big increase in registration , which he declared meant definitely that I President Roosevelt and the entire Democratic ticket would be swept to victory . To Work for Firemen 's Bill In the face of an adverse decision by the Court of Appeals on a bill that would have permitted a refer ! endum on establishment of the three-platoon system or eight-hour day for firemen , the Governor committed himself to the three-platoon I system and pledged himself to work for an enforceable bill if re-elected . On this subject he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who , he said , had offered " some wild statements " in criticizing him . The rally was the traditional ratification meeting , and among the other speakers were William F. Brunner , Democratic candidate for Aldermanic President ; John A. Byrnes , candidate for City Court judge ; Saul S. Streit , candidate for the Court of General Sessions ; Controller Morris S. Tremaine and Lieut . Gov . M. William Bray , the latter two candidates for re-election on the State ticket . It was an enthusiastic crowd and the Governor got a warm reception , but there was a notable absence of certain faces that used to be seen at such meetings , particularly that of former Governor Alfred E. Smith . Despite the nonappearance of Mr. Smith  --  thoroughly expected , of course  --  and others who have taken a stand against President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman , the loyalty pledge of Sen- ator Wagner and private advices from Tammany leaders offered evidence that if for its own protection if nothing else , Tammany would " go down the line " for the ticket . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rostrum with almost a solid front of dignitaries of Tammany . Surrogate Foley had been reported as somewhat lukewarm to the Roosevelt-Lehman cause . The audience cheered and applauded Senator Wagner 's demand for loyalty this year in " the hall " and cheered again at his prediction of victory . Sheriff Brunner , the first speaker , dwelt upon the " clearing of the atmosphere " after the bitter primary fight with Frank .1 . Prial . He paid tribute to President Roosevelt 's courage and ridiculed the charge of communism leveled at the Democratic national administration , terming it a " foul-smelling red herring . " Mr. Tremaine challenged any " private entity " to match the economy and efficiency manifested by the State Government in recent years . He told of the high rating of credit held by the State Government and said it was better than that of " any government north of the South Pole . " Not a penny had been lost by any private investment by the State , he said , warning against " alarms and scares that you have heard from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a balanced Federal budget by the end of the fiscal year of 1938 due to increased revenue , and depicted an even brighter future for the State fiscal situation . Mr. Byrnes mentioned the name of James J. Dooling , Tammany leader , and it brought a burst of handclapping . Just at that time Governor Lehman entered . The band struck up " Happy Days Are Here Again " and the crowd rose and cheered . Any mention of the name of Alfred E. Smith was received silently , but mention of Surrogate Foley , President Roosevelt and Governor Lehman was always a signal for handclapping . Mr. Byrnes declared that Tammany Hall was ready " to do battle with all the strength of our organization for the entire Democratic ticket . " Bray Sees Big Lead Here Lieut . Gov . Bray predicted a plurality of " more than 1,000,000 " in New York City and declared he was " an orthodox Democrat and proud of it . " He recalled that Democrats who in 1911 had fought in the Legislature for progressive legislation had been termed " anarchists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been among that group . He hailed the Democratic record in the State , declared that he felt that the Republican State Committee should advise his own opponent and Justice Bleakley " that neither one is running for President . " He spoke of Governor Lehman as " the best qualified man in the State of New York , in heart and in mind , " to fill again the office of Chief Executive . Assemblyman Streit , as candidate for General Sessions judge , described himself as a " grateful candidate " and dwelt upon the record of Governor Lehman and the Democrats in the Legislature in re.ient years . Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr. , mentioned frequently by the speakers , was unable to be present . Senator Wagner introduced Governor Lehman as a " superb , coolheaded fighter , business executive and an idealist . " Once more the audience rose . Whistles rose above the cheers as the band played and the Governor stepped forward . " What 's the matter with the Governer ? " came a shout . " He 's 0 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governor Lehman expressed his regret that Mr. Dooling , who is ill , could not attend but said he was glad that Mr. Dooling was listening in on the radio . He explained the " sincere hope that he will be early restored to complete health and vigor . " Torch Parades Precede Rally The rally at the hall was preceded by a series of parades with red flares , bands and banners that converged upon the building amid the drizzle from a dozen directions . Tammany was trying to put on its regular big show as though in response to whispers that there would be " knifing " at the polls on Nov. 3 and that William F. Bleakley , the Republican candidate for Governor , and those who " took a walk " with Mr. Smith might profit thereby . Governor Lehman dwelt on eight major achievements in his party 's administration of State affairs in reply to the Bleakley accusation of " waste and extravagance " and politics in relief . He said : " Let me add that unemployment relief administered by the State of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the TERA come from both of the major political parties . Their appointments were made solely on the basis of their ability and their deep interest in the unfortunate men and women who are unable to find employment . When I became Governor I determined that relief and the care of human needs would always be kept independent of all considerations save need . " The State department , insisted the Governor , had been " administered nonpolitically " and he paid tribute to the civil service workers in these departments . Then in response to the Bleakley charge of waste he said : " In the administration of its departments , the State has not spent one cent more than was absolutely necessary . Wherever possible , the State economized . During the time I have been in office the State has lived well within its income . It has cut in half the accumulated deficit of the depression years , reducing it to $56,000,000 . The State has spent nearly $100,000,000 less than for the corresponding previous period of years . " No Injury to Services The Governor declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governmental services . Turning to the big registration , he declared he was " delighted " to learn of it . " This large registration means just one thing  --  victory for our gallant leader , President Franklin D. Roosevelt , " he said . " This large registration means victory for the Democratic Party in the State . It means victory for the party in New York City . " This sally drew a hearty round of applause , which was repeated when he pledged his backing for a bill that would definitely insure submission to the people of a referendum upon the eight-hour day for firemen . Regarding Mr. Morris 's criticism of his failure to give a special message on the bill outlawed by the Court of Appeals , Governor Lehman said they were " maliciously false " and declared that the Republican Speaker of the Assembly was among those who had ruled that no such special message was necessary . Senator Wagner set forth the Tammany loyalty pledge in this way : " Tammany has always lived by two articles of faith . Since the days of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America as one land where the love of men for liberty will never diminish . Since the days of Thomas Jefferson , it has had faith in the Democratic party as the militant protector of the liberties of the common man . Today we rededicate ourselves to the service of America . We are here to pledge our loyalty and devotion to the Democratic party . " He reviewed the history of Tammany from its earliest years and brought forth the name of President Roosevelt amid further applause to cite an example of its present loyalty . Wagner Hails President " Our President has freed the business man from the dread of bank failure , " he declared . " He has reaccustomed him to making profits . He has infused new health and safety into the lives of millions of children who were victimized by bad times . He has brought better wages and shorter hours to the man who must work to live . He has routed communism on the left ; he has driven back fascism on the right ; and he had ordered a victorious advance along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hall glory in our great President . We feel an equal pride in the man whose talents , courage and idealism will for generations to come enrich the lives of the people of New York  --  Herbert H. Lehman . " Senator Wagner hailed the social security program in both the State and the nation . " At this late date , we will not be misled as to the identity of our enemies , " he said in closing . " We oppose communism , but we know that it never has and never will take root upon American territory . We know that the only tangible menace to our progress is the Republican leadership and its allies . " They are the ones who would tear down our achievements and subject the American people again to the oppressions from which Roosevelt and Lehman have released them . For that reason , Landon and Bleakley must be beaten . The Democratic majority in Congress must be maintained and a Democratic victory in both houses of the State Legislature must be won . Roosevelt and Lehman and the entire Democratic ticket @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the Tammany rally after a quick trip from Albany , where he had spent a good part of the day conferring with agricultural leaders after going there on a morning train . He will leave this morning for Albany again . Shortly after noon he will depart by motor for Binghamton to open his up-State tour with a speech tonight .                     