@@701260

txt Acting at almost the last minute to avert a threatened strike of 450,000 bituminous coal miners Sunday night , President Roosevelt at a White House conference today arranged a truce until June 30 . The present terms of the wage contract will continue in effect pending Congressional action on the Guffey Coal Stabilization Bill . John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers of America , assured President Roosevelt at the Conference this morning that the union officials would agree to the fifteen-day extension of the present agreement . Later , the international union 's executive board ratified Mr. Lewis 's stand . Duncan Kennedy , secretary of the Kanawha Coal Operators Association and chairman of the Appalachian joint wage-scale conference committee , who attended the conference , sent telegrams immediately to the operators in the Appalachian fields inviting them to a joint session with the mine workers in this city tomorrow . It is held certain that the joint meeting will accept the recommendation for delay . Guffey and Snyder Present . Besides Mr. Lewis and Mr. Kennedy , those at the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Representative Snyder , joint sponsor of the measure , and George L. Berry , NRA divisional administrator . Major Berry acted as liaison man for the President in sounding out the possibilities of a truce . Both sides credited Major Berry with the successful outcome of the conference . On leaving the White House , Mr. Lewis said : " The President , after canvassing the legislative situation with Senator Guffey and Representative Snyder , as affected by the Coal Stabilization Bill , decided that , in the public interest , he would request the operators and miners to extend the status quo of the wage agreements in the bituminous coal industry until June 30 , inclusive , and thus save the country the inconvenience of a suspension of operations in the mining industry . " He bases that on the fact that Congress has not , for parliamentary reasons , proceeded as fast as had been expected , and he hopes for the early enactment of the coal stabilization bill by both houses of Congress . " Mr. Kennedy and I agreed that we would individually and jointly recommend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will be assembled at 10 A. M. here tomorrow , the entire acceptance of the President 's suggestions . . " The conference represents 70 per cent of the total bituminous coal production . We hope that the Guffey-Snyder Coal Bill will be enacted by June 30 . " To Push Measure in Congress . Mr. Lewis added that the President hoped and believed that the Guffey-Snyder bill would be enacted soon . Senator Guffey said he would call up the bill next Tuesday and expressed hope of its passage next week . Representative Snyder announced that the Ways and Means Committee would begin hearings on the measure at 10 A. M. Monday . He believed that " the bill has been adjusted to meet all the constitutional requirements . " The strike order had gone out to the many thousands of scattered coal camps in twenty-eight producing States and the strike would have started Sunday night . In many collieries where the five-day week ends Friday night , the strike actually would have been effective at midnight tonight . Lastminute action by the President was flashed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ served on the operators by the miners on Feb. 18 called for a six-hour day and five-day week , adjustment upward of certain wage scales and a two-year contract . The union now has the seven-hour day and five-day week .                     