@@699164

txt The deadlock between the Irish Free State and Britain upon the question of the annuity and other payments which Mr. Eamon de Valera , president of the Executive Council , has been withholding has been at last broken by an agreement reached today to restart direct negotiations beginning here , Oct. 14 . This had been the outcome of dis'cussions ' which took place in the Dominions Office , Downing Street , today between Mr. de Valera and Mr. Maguire , representing the Irish Free State , and Mr. J. H. Thomas , Sir John Simon , Lord Hailsham and Mr. Neville Chamberlain , representing the British Cabinet . Mr. de Valera was on his way back to Ireland from Geneva , where he discussed the situation with Sir John Simon . Today 's meeting took place at the former 's request and its results are regarded as hopeful , the British view being that the question of duties is more one of keeping the Free State within the Empire than of driving any hard bargain financially . Conditions Imposed One of the suggestions that has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the dispute were discussed between competent lawyers representing each side and instructed to endeavor to suggest a mutually reasonable settlement . This proposal was considered when Mr. de Valera last met members of the British Cabinet here but it was rejected . The difficulty then was that Mr. de Valera made the condition that the tariff imposed by Britain as a means for recovering payment should first be suspended , but he refused the British counter condition that in this case the complete status quo should also be restored by desisting from withholding current remittances . Today 's proceedings were markedly more cordial than those of last July , Sir John Simon and Mr. Thomas accompanying Mr. de Valera to his automobile after the meeting and shaking hands with him warmly . The Dublin executive left London In the afternoon for I Ireland . Britain 's Position The British position regarding the Irish annuities dispute was defined 1 Aug. 6 by Sir John Simon , one of today 's negotiators . It is that the British Government greatly deplores the controversy that has arisen and desires to settle it either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The British Foreign Secretary added that progress could be made " either on the basis that In the meantime both sides continue what they are doing now  --  the money being impounded ( by the Free State ) and duties being collected ( by Britain ) , or that both sides go back to the practice they were following before the installments were withheld on June 30 last . " The Monitor understands that the first of these alternatives is now to be adopted , the present status quo thus continuing during the negotiations which begin next week .                     