@@699718

txt Pleading not for an alliance or " bargain , " but for the cooperation of hearts that beat in harmony and minds that look to the same goal , J. Ramsay , Prime Minister of Great Britain , stood before more than 1,000 members of the Pilgrims of the United States last night and in solemn , ringing tones appealed for a joint effort of the American and British peoples to defeat " the influences of disruption " rampant in the world and set it back again on the road to recovery . The Prime Minister spoke at a dinner given in his honor by the Pilgrims at the Waldorf-Astoria . It was his parting address before his departure for England with his daughter , Ishbel , and members of his staff . He had arrived from Washington late in the afternoon . Immediately after the dinner ' they boarded the Berengaria. , thus bringing to an end the mission upon which Mr. came to this country , the mission of consulting with President Roosevelt upon a comprehensive program of international action for world rehabilitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit and confidence that difficult as the situation was it gave promise of improvement provided the great nations followed the path of common sense and candid dealing with one another . He felt certain that by treading this path mankind would achieve a newer and better era ? " a returning golden age . " " Old and Firm Friend . " Mr. paid warm personal tribute to President Roosevelt and the manner in which the President approached the problems that the two statesmen discussed at their White House conferences . " When I arrived at the White House I shook hands with a host who happened to be your President , as a guest who happened to be the Prime Minister of Great Britain . " Mr. said . " When I left this morning I shook hands with a host and President , who , in the brief interval of a long week-end , had come to be regarded by me as an old and firm friend . " Mr. 's references to the President were warmly applauded . The Prime Minister was introduced to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toastmaster . Rejoicing at the presence of Mr. among the American people , Dr. Butler hailed " the spirit of cooperation and interest which he embodies . " " We have only the best and most sincere of good wishes for himself , his government and the great people whom he represents before the world , " Dr. Butler said . Davis Thanks Premier . At the close of Mr. 's address , John W. Davis , former Ambassador to Great Britain , thanked the Prime Minister on behalf of the Pilgrims for the honor he had done them in attending the dinner , and in behalf of the people of America for " the great service you have done , not only to your country but equally to our own . " " You leave us with a high note of cheer , " Mr. Davis said in bidding the Prime Minister godspeed . " These are trying times , difficult times , cruel times in your country and in ours , and throughout the world . But you remind us again that the great processes of Providence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as when it was first written , that the earth is a bountiful mother and she will still feed all her children if they will but till her in justice and peace ? justice and peace . " Nessage From Britain . Before introducing Mr. , Dr. Butler read a message from the Pilgrims of Great Britain , signed by their president , Lord Derby . The message was as follows : The Pilgrims of Great Britain rejoice that you should have as your guest our Prime Minister and they desire to be associated with you in your cordial welcome to your distinguished visitor . Mr. carries with him the good-will of his King and fellowcountrymen for the happy accomplishment of the object of his - visit . The Prime Minister in going to America to meet your President is fulfilling the aspirations of the Pilgrims , who have consistently urged the value of personal nontact for the furthering of AngloAmerican fellowship , in which cause the Pilgrims on both sides of the Atlantic have labored for over thirty years . Guests at the speakers ' table included Sir Ronald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frank L. Polk , Bishop William T. Manning , Rear Admiral William Woodward Phelps , Herbert L. Satterlee . Sir Walter Layton , Richard Southgate of the State Department , J. P. Morgan , Gerald Campbell , Robert A. C. Smith , James R. Sheffield and Charles Howard Smith . The dinner committee included James W. Gerard , Robert A. C. Smith , Mr. Polk , Mr. Satterlee , Mr. Sheffield , Walter B. Chambers and Major Elihu Church , secretary of the Pilgrims . The Prime Minister 's daughter received an ovation , with the entire audience rising to its feet , when she entered a box in the balcony accompanied by Mrs. James R. Sheffield and a group of ladies with whom she had dined at the Waldorf . With Miss in her box were Mrs. Gerald Campbell , Mrs. James Gerard , Mrs. Frank Polk , Mrs. Edward Harkness , Lady Layton , Mrs. Elihu Church , Mrs. Edward F. Darrell , Mrs. John S. Rogers , Mrs. George W. Burleigh , Mrs. R. A. C. Smith ; Mrs. Herbert L. Satterlee , Mrs. John W. Davis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Lewis Benay and Mrs. Charles S. Whitman . They Go Direct to Ship . The Premier and his daughter left the hotel at 10:25 P. M. to board the Berengaria . As they emerged from the driveway entrance in East Forty-ninth Street a crowd of about 100 persons cheered the Premier , who waved and smiled in return . The Premier , in evening dress , was minus hat and overcoat as he got into an automobile . His daughter , who preceded him , carried a large bouquet . The car sped up Forty-ninth Street behind a police motorcycle escort and proceeded quickly to the Berengaria ' 13 pier at Fourteenth Street . Arrangements had been made for an interview with the press in the Prime Minister 's suite but when Mr. was approached by reporters , he said : " What is there more that I could say ? I have been talking ever since 10 o'clock this morning and there is nothing more I can add to what I 've already said . Thank you and good-bye . " From the time he arrived at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sailed , until M. , entered his suit he was surrounded ' by crowds of admirers . At times , 1 his progress was blocked completely as men and women surged forward , to shake hands with him . The passageway leading to his suite was completely blocked and ' stewards had to clear a way for the party . Everywhere men doffed their hats , women waved their handkerchiefs and both men and women cheered . Officials of the company displayed some anxiety about getting the crowds off the ship so that she could sail as scheduled while the tide was favorable . However , the visitors began to leave soon after *Ir. and his daughter disappeared into their rooms , and sharply at the scheduled hour gangplanks were raised and , with siren roaring , the steamer began backing into the stream . Sailing with Mr. were , Sir Robert and Lady Vansittart , Michael R. Wright and J. A. Barlow . Foreign Relations Reception . Two hundred persons , gathered at the Pennsylvania Station , gave I Prime Minister a warm welcome when his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Southgate accompanied him from Washington . He was driven at once under a motorcycle police guard to the building of the Council of Foreign Relations at 45 East Sixty-fifth Street , where he attended a reception . Here the Prime Minister was received by George W. Wickersham , acting in the absence of John W. Davis , president of the council , and Walter H. Mallory , executive director . Mr. had tea and spent about an hour in conversation with officers and members of the council . He also made a short address , in which he expressed satisfaction with his mission to the United States and again appealed for the close cooperation of Great Britain , the United States and other nations in the task of world rehabilitation . The officers , directors and members present to welcome Mr. included : Dr. Isaiah Bowman E. Poland Harriman Paul D. Cravath Otto H. Kahn Walter Lippmann George 0 . May Frank L. Polk W. H. Shepardeon G. W. Wickersham C. M. Woolley Winthrop vv . Aldrich George F. Baker George Blumenthal C. C. Burlingham John Stewart Bryan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Edmund E. Day Cleveland E. Dodge Marshall Field Dr. John H. Finley W. Cameron Forbes P. A. S. Franklin Walter S. Gifford S. Parker Gilbert Prentiss N. Gray Judge Learned Hand George L. Harrison Walker D. Hines Prof. ? E. W. Kemmerer F. P. Keppel Allen T. Moto Thomas W. Lamont C. S. McCain James G. Andrew W. Mellon Shepard Morgan Henry Morgenthau Morgan J. O'Brien Rt . Rev. G. Ashton Oldham Dr. H. S. Pritchett C. r . Rhodes Very Rev. H. C. Robbins S. D. Rockefeller 3d Prof. E. R. A. Seligman Francis H. Sisson Walter W. Stewart Jesse Isidor Straus Henry W. Taft Myron C. Taylor Roy E. Tomlinson Felix M. Warburg Daniel 0 . Willard Present also , in addition to Ambassador . Lindsay and Mr. Southgate , were Gerald Campbell , British Consul General at New York , and Frederick Watson , British Consul General at Philadelphia , who joined the Premier 's party in that city .                     