@@697435

txt With Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt and Charles H. Tuttle , his Republican opponent , each centring his efforts in the final week of the campaign on the voters in New York City , victory in the election on Nov. 4 was claimed yesterday by the leaders of both major parties . James A. Farley , Democratic state chairman , predicted the re-election of Governor Roosevelt by a plurality of at least 350,000 and the election of the other candidates on the Democratic State ticket . William J. Maier , chairman of the Republican State Committee , gave nr figures but predicted the election c : Mr. Tuttle by a substantial plurality No definite prediction of the vott expected for Professor Robert P. Car roll , the independent dry candidate was obtainable , but his supporter : declared that it would be betweer 200,000 and 300,000 . The vote ft : : Franklin W. Cristman , independent dry candidate for United States Senator in 1926 , was 231,000 . The consensus was that Professor Carroll probably would receive from 125,000 to 150,000 votes , Put City Margin at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an overwhelming victory for Governor Roosevelt , Lieut . Gov . Lehman and the other Democratic State candidates resulted from the assurance of John F. Curry , leader of Tammany , and the Democratic leaders of the other counties in New York City that Governor Roosevelt 's plurality in the city would reach 500 , - 000 . This forecast has been checked by the Tammany board of strategy during the last week and has been confirmed within the last few days in conferences with Mr. Farley . In estimating a Roosevelt plurality of 500,000 , which is substantially the same as the plurality received by Mayor Walker over Representative F. H. La Guardia last year , the division by boroughs is about as follows : Manhattan 135,000 , Bronx 125,000 , Brooklyn 160,000 , Queens 75,000 and Richmond 15,000 . Reports to Mr. Farley indicate that Governor Roosevelt and his running mate will do much better up-State than have any Democratic candidates in recent years , particularly in some of the rural counties , where there is a strong dry sentiment and much resentment against the Republican party for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These reports are said to be so optimistic from the Democratic viewpoint that Mr. Farley and the other party leaders have had difficulty in crediting them . Making allowances for the enthusiasm of some of the up-State Democrats sending in the reports , the Democratic estimate of Mr. Tuttle 's plurality up-State will be only 150,000 . Scoff at Democratic Claims . The Republican leaders scout the Democratic claims and characterize the Tammany estimate of 500,000 for Governor Roosevelt in New York City as ridiculous . The New York City Republican leaders put Governor Roosevelt 's city plurality at less than 300,000 . One Republican estimate by boroughs gives Governor Roosevelt the following pluralities . Manhattan , 90,000 ; Bronx , 75,000 ; Brooklyn , 75,000 ; Queens , 30,000 ; Richmond , 10,000 ; total , 280,000 . The Republican leaders have been particularly encouraged by the re ' ports from Meier Steinbrink , Brooklyn leader , and Warren B. Ashmead , the new Queens County Chairman , both of whom were put into the leaderships by the so-called Hoover group as part of a policy of party reorganizatibn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maier that they will hold down the Democratic pluralities in their counties to a minimum . For their vote outside New York City , the Republican leaders are counting upon a heavy vote for Mr. Tuttle in the counties of large population and express belief that the gains there will offset losses in the dry rural counties . Leaders of the Republican State organization , it was learned , expect about 30,000 plurality for Mr. Tuttle in each of three counties , Monroe , Onondaga and Westchester , and 20 , - 000 plurality in each of three counties , Erie , Nassau and Suffolk . Tuttle Margin Put at 70,000 . If these expectations are realized , Mr. Tuttle will get a plurality of about 150,000 in these six counties . With an adverse plurality of 10,000 to 12,000 conceded in Albany County , the Republican leaders expect the rest of up-State to give about 200 , - 000 plurality for Mr. Tuttle , or a total plurality for him of 350,000 outside New York City . With Governor Roosevelt 's plurality in New York City held down to 280,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the entire State . A plurality oC 70,000 is about the limit of any Republican claim . Information from Republican leaders up-State , not obtained through the State committee , is that Mr. Tuttle is obtaining lukewarm support in some of the counties of the southern tier and in Central New York , and it is likely that the Republican pluralities in these counties will be reduced considerably from the normal . This also is said to be true in Northern New York , although in Clinton and Franklin counties in the northeastern part of the State , the Republican candidates should run as well as they have in the last two State elections . Considerable disaffection also is reported in Western New York , and the situation in Buffalo is not to the satisfaction of the Republican State organization leaders , although the Democrats in that city , from an organization viewpoint , are even in worse condition . Mr. Tuttle has virtually staked his campaign on the one issue of Tammany graft and corruption , and the extent to which this issue has had an effect on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to the prohibition issue , which has split the Republican party in some of the up-State counties , the business depression and resentment on the part of Republicans toward the Hoover administration have worked to the advantage of the Democratic candidates , Effect of Hurley Speech . The speech of Secretary of War Patrick J. Hurley here Saturday night , in which he endorsed Mr. Tuttle , was designed to put a stop to the talk of up-State drys that President Hoover did not desire the election of Mr. Tuttle because of the latter 's stand on prohibition . There was discussion yesterday as to whether Mr. Hurley 's speech , which was regarded as putting the Hoover Administration back of Mr. Tuttle 's candidacy , might not drive away from the Republican State ticket about as many votes as it attracted . In Tammany , the business depression , the drop of the stock market and unemployment were said to be large factors in the situation which led to a prediction of a half million ' city plurality for Governor Roosevelt . Most of the Democratic leaders believe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it may result in giving Governor Roosevelt a larger plurality than 350.000 and possibly a bigger plurality than any other candidate for Governor of either party ever has received in this State . " The situation looks better for Governor Roosevelt and his associates every day , " Mr. Farley said . " Conditions from our viewpoint are Improving right along . I believe 3overnor Roosevelt will be re-elected by a plurality of 350,000 . " Maier Recalls 1928 Predictions . Mr. Maier 's forecast was in the form of a statttnent , which follows : " Two years ago , just before election , the chairman of the Democratic State Committee issued a statement Da Nov. 2 that Governor Smith and governor Roosevelt would carry New York State by not less than 500,000 . Governor Smith lost the State by 125,000 and Governor Roosevelt carried by about 25,000 . " On Nov. 5 two years ago , Governor Roosevelt predicted that New York City would give the Democrats the greatest majority ever known . Neither Governor Roosevelt nor Govm:nor Smith came within gun-shot cf carrying New York City by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim elections before election lay by a very large majority is one ) f the oldest and one of the most played-out tricks in the political pack . The public is never deceived , Decause it has become accustomed to : his kind of political strategy . I am ; urprised that the Democratic lead.n:s should resort to it this year . they have their tongue in their ; heek and , of course , they know better . I have received reports from eaders in every section of the State which were intended to be confidenial , for they were intended for my nformation only . These reports inlicate that Mr. Tuttle will carry the nore populous counties up-State by inprecedented pluralities and that he plurality in the smaller counties will be about average . Onondaga ; ounty , I have been informed , will ; lye Mr. Tuttle a larger plurality han President Hoover got ; Monroe sill give the same plurality that it tsually gives to Presidential candiates ; Westchester will break all recrds and the counties of Long Island re in the same condition . The eaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will eceive a larger vote than any State Icket has received in a great many ears , and the organization workers ? Manhattan , Bronx and Richmond eport that they find a greater reponse from voters than they ever eceived before . " I am not foolish enough to put myself on record as to what the lurality will be . Of course , nobody nows or could possibly know and do not intend to make myself idiculous by making extravagant laims of victory . I have never , owever , been more confident and I ' link the Republican plurality will e a substantial one . "                     