@@702389

txt Governor Murphy announced at 2:45 o'clock this morning that an agreement had been reached to end the automobile strike which has crippled production in General Motors Corporation since late December . The announcement was made by the Governor dramatically in the Hotel Steller after all-night sessions with spokesmen for General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers of America . Under the terms of settlement , the Fisher Body and Chevrolet plants at Flint will be evacuated of sit-down strikers by the union and on its side General Motors will drop the mandatory court injunction which it obtained a fort* night ago . The agreement will have to be ratified by the men in the plants , but this is considered a formality . Governor Murphy credited James F. Dewey , veteran Labor Department conciliator , with a large share of the final settlement . Statement by Murphy Surrounded by several score newspaper men , Governor Murphy said : " An agreement has been reached , under the terms of which the union agrees to end the strike . The signing of the agreement will take place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be announced . " All parties will be present . Mr. Lewis and his associates and the representatives of General Motors have contributed all they could with earnestness and in fairness to bring to a conclusion this great industrial conflict . I gratefully thank them4 " It is also a great duty of mine to acknowledge the wise counset and assistance of James F. Dewey Federal conciliator . " It has been a difficult Job , but reason has prevailed . I hope it will be a contribution toward ending forever in the United States ? " At this point the Governor was interrupted by news photographers , who flashed their lights to take pictures and halted his statement for the time being . He finished the sentence ? " anything but peaceful , reasonable and conciliatory methods . " It is hoped , that the Flint plant will be evacuated simultaneously with the signing of the agreement in the office of Judge George ( Murphy , brother of Governor Murphy . Governor Murphy immediately , called the National Guard officers at Flint , complimented the men uno der their command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take the necessary preliminary , steps to arrange for their evacuation of Flint , where they have been stationed for five weeks . The Governor and his associates are particularly pleased that this important industrial dispute was not marked by a single fatality , despite the tense situation that has existed in Flint for weeks . Murphy Wearied by Efforts Definite progress had been reported early in the evening by Governor Murphy after a hectic day of conferences and negotiations which began in the office of his brother , Judge George Murphy , at the Recorder 's Court , and then switched to Mr. Lewis 's hotel room . While Governor Murphy indicated then that the situation had never looked better , he warned against excessive optimism . The Governor , fatigued from lack of sleep , stuck to his task of keeping the conference going just as long as possible and was confident that it would end peacefully instead of breaking off without result . - " I intend to keep the parties in negotiation until we have come to a peaceful and satisfactory settlement , " the Governor declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working very agreeably with the other to find a common ground of agreement . " There is a splendid atmosphere of mutual tolerance and good faith and cooperation that can not help bring about good results . " The Governor 's conferences during the day were with John Thomas Smith , general counsel for General Motors Corporation , and last night he talked with Donaldson Brown , chairman of the finance committee , and W. S. Knudsen , executive vice president of the company . The conferences with Mr. Lewis were held In his room , while the C. I. 0 . leader who has been ill with influenza , sat up in bed . Those with Mr. Lewis were Wyndham Mortimer , auto union vice president , and Lee Pressman , general counsel of the C. I. 0 . " Face-Saving " Plan Sought The union and the corporation officials had taken positions on certain points where agreement would mean that one side or the other would apparently have to back down . Neither side wanted to back down in public . Both wanted to have it appear that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bitter end . " The union had receded from its demand that it be recognized as the sole bargaining agency for all General Motors employes in its sixty-nine plants . On the other hand General Motors , determined not to confer with the union until the sit-down strikers are out of the Fisher Body plants , has been in conference with the union , although at the request of President Roosevelt . Rumors were that the Governor had asked General Motors to consider dealing with the union for only four or six months after a possible agreement was arranged , while the union demanded a longer period . No definite agreement was formulated on the point . Nevertheless , the fact that the conference put this problem aside temporarily for further discussion later was regarded as fairly significant . The later discussions had to do with company grievances , it was said . These , it was reported , were concerned with what officers felt were abuses of union prerogatives , such as the holding of meetings in the plants at the noon hour , the collection of dues in working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     