@@700953

txt DUBLIN , Dec. ** Irish Free State is facing what promises to be a peaceful and comparatively plentiful Christmas . At this season of the year all militant radicals by a sort of tacit agreement become quiescent . The Christmas spirit pervaded even the Dail this week when the Winter session closed in a harmonious atmosphere . Party divisions and bickerings were noticeably absent and the front bench Opposition members almost exchanged courtesies with the de Valera Cabinet in a desire to be helpful and get business disposed of . Once only was there discord  --  when Deputy Patrick Belton asked the government to observe the spirit of the season by pardoning all prison offenses arising out of the land annuities collection , but Minister of Justice Patrick Ruttledge felt unequal to the task of playing Santa Claus at Arbour Hill Military Prison , where so many Blue Shirts ani young farmers are incarcerated . But even his rebuff of Mr. Belton 's request scarcely more than ruffled the peace in Parliament . Many Farmers Visit City . Outside the Dail Dublin has been busy with Christmas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflected in the throngs of purchasers in Dublin 's large stores . More remarkable still is that the large numbers of farming folk seen arriving by bus and train to shop in the capital show few signs of that state of bankruptcy that the Opposition orators stress so much . Turkeys , geese and hams have rarely been cheaper than now , since the British quotas on exports have left ample supplies in the home market . If town dwellers are paying heavier taxes on many articles , this is to some extent offset by some cheaper home produced foodstuffs . To judge conditions in the country by the brisk holiday shopping in Dublin would not give a true index of affairs . The small towns in the midlands and in the south are not enjoying the same round of spending as the capital . The low prices for agricultural produce have resulted in a scarcity of cash , which small-town shopkeepers are feeling acutely . Then in West Ireland the remittances usually received by the peasantry at this time of the year from relatives in the United States are reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are many families that have had no " American letter " this Christmas , or if they have had letters have received greatly reduced remittances in consequence of the depression in the United States . Here , despite all the new industrial undertakings launched during the year , the unemployment roll continues to rise . The government 's latest move is the unprecedented one of inviting persons in each country to submit schemes for unemployment relief works . A State commission composed of civil servants has been engaged in this task , apparently without much success .                     