@@703295

txt An attack on the National Labor Relations Board by the head of their " brother " organization brought applause yesterday from the Daughters of the American Revolution , assembled at their annual Congress here . Messmore Kendall , President of the Sons of the American - Revolution , accused the New Deal agency of undermining the " Bill of Rights " to the Constitution . He charged that it lets labor unions " say what they please , " but muzzles freedom of speech by employers . As Mr. Kendall described present-day " threats " to the Bill of Rights , his address was punctuated with applause from the audience . He cited the Black Committee 's confiscation of private papers , the publication of salary lists , and the AAA 's crop-control activities as indications that Americans are no longer free to say and do what they please . " Many of the ideas that are being presented to us today , our ancestors discarded many years ago , " he told the Daughters . The S. A. R. President was called Upon to explain joint plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American Cavalcade " pageant to be given at the New York World 's Fair next year , but he Insisted on injecting a political note . The only New Deal official who has displayed any interest ' in the D. A. R. this year is Daniel C. Roper , Secretary of Commerce . He attended the opening session . President Roosevelt no longer sends messages of greeting , and it has been several year ; since Mrs Roosevelt made her last speech to them . She will receive delegates at tea at the White House next Saturday . The Congress stood in recess yesterday afternoon and evening so members could attend scores of luncheons , receptions and dinners arranged by State groups or held in their honor by prominent Washington officials . Last night Mrs. William A. Becker , President-General , received at a girls reception at Constitution Hall , while the young women pages were given a night off from their duties to attend a ball in their honor at the I Mayflower Hotel . Because of declining membership . a number of D. A. R. chapters have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pouch , of New - York , Organizing Secretary General , told the Congress yesterday . She saw hope , however , in newly formed ? liege chapters and in a decrease in delinquencies in dues during tin last year . Mrs. Becker pointed out in her annual report that there are about 141,000 D. A. R. members in , the country today . She estimated ? that 2,000,000 women have the ancestry making them eligible for membership .                     