@@703763

txt After conversations with Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain of Great Britain and Viscount Halifax , his Foreign Secretary , as they stopped here on their way to Rome , Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet tonight gave a new indication of the firm stand that France has taken with regard to the Italian demands on her . He announced that the French Government had approved an important food shipment to the populace in Republican Spain . This shipment includes 45,000 tons of flour , valued at 38,000,000 francs . The Anglo-French talks centered chiefly on the Spanish problem . The French action in no way constitutes an infringement of the nonintervention interdictions , which have never affected anything but war material and armaments , but the announcement , timed as it was , has the aspect of throwing the spotlight on France 's firm attitude toward Italy . The French stand had been unanimously approved at a Cabinet meeting early this morning before the British statesmen arrived , and they had already had full information through conferences yesterday between Charles Corbin , the French Ambassador , and Lord Halifax in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador , and M , Bonnet here . Summary of French Policy The French policy toward Italy is briefly this : no cession of French territory , direct dealings between the two countries on all strictly Franco-Italian problems , and no change in the non-intervention policy for Spain . But in case of a general discussion of all Mediterranean problems in which all interested nations would be allowed to join , France would be prepared to take her part in an effort toward an equitable settlement . Today 's interchanges were too brief for any extensive discussion of the problems involved in the British mission to Rome . The official communiqu ? issued said only : Passing through Paris on their way to Rome , the Prime Minister and Lord Halifax took the opportunity to confer at the Qua ! d'Orsay with M. Daladier and M. Bonnet . This conversation fully confirmed the general identity of views previously established between their governments . But when Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax had gone , the atmosphere at the Quai d'Orsay seemed to have cleared and the Chamberlain smile had seemed to dissipate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks , that the British* statesmen were going to Rome to " sell France down the river . " Denies He Will Mediate Mr. Chamberlain could not in advance predict what turn the Rome conference might take because , he told the French statesmen , he was going not with any set of propositions to make to Premier Benito Mussolini but to listen and then suggest . He has no intention of interfering or attempting to mediate the Franco-Italian differences . The Prime Minister , in fact , has no cure-all in sight but is merely doggedly following his immeasurably difficult task of trying to make peace out of the existing turmoil in Europe . Nothing will be decided in Rome in any case , it is asserted , and Lord Halifax has made a rendezvous with M. Bonnet for an informative dinner next Sunday in Geneva . What Mr. Chamberlain wants most to reach is an agreement among the powers that will make it possible to have a truce in the Spanish war , and it was over this matter that the French and British statesmen had a most confidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a general conference on the situation in the Rotonde Salon on the upper floor of the Quai d'Orsay . Then , after taking tea , Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax , accompanied by Premier Edouard Daladier , went to M. Bonnet 's office for a fifteen-minute chat in private . Sir Eric Phipps and Alexis Leger , Secretary-General of the French Foreign Office , were the only others present at this interview , serving as interpreters . Besides the Spanish question , there was another matter that the British brought up , which was unrelated to their Rome trip . This was the question of an international guarantee for Czecho-Slovakia , which must be better defined than it was at Munich because of the border incidents that have been disturbing Central Europe in recent weeks . It was agreed that both governments should study this question , which will be settled as soon as the British Ministers return from Rome . Thus , from every angle this Rome trip , starting in Paris , is leading European statesmen away from biliteral settlements of any questions , and by carrying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to be heading straight for another fourpower conference or a wider international conference to straighten out the upset world . Today 's episode is an instance of the nervousness that has been caused throughout European Chancelleries by these private consultations between the British and Italian Governments . Supposedly this Rome trip is a natural outgrowth of Mr. Chamberlain 's visit to Munich and the Anglo-Italian accords . But as the time for it approached , the French , unsatisfied with British assurances that no sort of mediation and incidental plunging into the French Empire grabbag was intended , began pressing Mr. Chamberlain to stop in Paris on his way to Rome . The excitement over the quite unofficial , but officially tolerated , Italian claims on the French Empire had reached the point of forcing Premier Daladier 's protective tour of the Mediterranean domains . Italian pressure was for Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax to come straight through Paris to Rome , but in order to calm French anxiety the British had to make this call today . Less Than 2 Hours in Paris Mr. Chamberlain and Lord Halifax had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten minutes late and it was almost 6 . P. M. when it entered the Gare du Nord , which was decorated with ferns and palms , red velvet hangings and the flags of Britain and France . There was a. greater crowd and an even more imposing force of police and Republican Guards about the railway station than when the British Ministers came for their official visit in November . But , in notable contrast to that occasion , when the police had to hold back Communists who were trying to demonstrate for the Loyalists in Spain and who were jeering the Munich accord , the crowd today was wholly favorable . It loudly shouted " Vive Chamberlain ! " and " Vive la Paix ! " but was held so far from the path of the official automobiles that it could not catch sight of the visitors . A similarly friendly crowd cheered their arrival and departure at the Quai d'Orsay and their entry at the Gare de Lyon to entrain for Rome . Riding from and to , the stations , M. Daladier and Mr : Chamberlain sat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but smiles , since neither could speak the other 's language . Mr. Chamberlain had his umbrella when he descended from the train at the Gare du Nord , but he must have mislaid it or given it to some one , for when he entered the waiting automobile he was standing barehe ded in the rain . He was smiling then and during most of his visit , however , and it was not raining hard . M. Bonnet made his announcement about the wheat shipment to Spain to the French press after returning from seeing the British visitors off at the Gare de Lyon , and at the same time he furnished explanations regarding the day 's conversations . He said that the approval of the Cabinet and the authorization of the shipment by the Ministers of Finance and National Economy had been obtained . Regarding payment of the 38,000 , - 000 francs , M. Bonnet did not make clear what arrangement had been made , but since the Finance Minister 's permission was necessary it could not have been a regular commercial transaction . Booed by Leftists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jan. ** Minister Neville Chamberlain was booed by left wing demonstrators as he left for Rome today carrying his famous umbrella and grinning as if he were perfectly sure of the success of his mission . The demonstrators numbered no more than a hundred . but the din that they made reverberated under the great train shed of Victoria Station as if there were a small army . They carried a banner telling Mr. Chamberlain to " Appease the unemployed  --  not Mussolini . " They chanted their slogans and booed and shouted " Arms for Spain ! " for a quarter of an hour before Mr. Chamberlain arrived at the heavily guarded train platform . Clenched fists shot up in the crowd when police charged a group of men carrying a black dummy coffin with the words , " He did not get Winter relief " on it . The coffin was pulled down and one side of it fell off in the scuffle . Outside the station in the crowded roadway mounted police charged some of the coffin-bearers and trampled one woman who got too near the horses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but some of them were said to have been members of the Loyalist International Brigade recently returned from Spain and others apparently were well-dressed organizers who led the shouting . Mr. Chamberlain heard the booing but saw nothing of the scuffle . A phalanx of police and plainclothes men barred access to the platform , for there had been reports that some of the demonstrators intended to lie on the tracks in front of Mr. Chamberlain 's train . The Prime Minister and Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , stood for a few minutes in the royal waiting room chatting to the French Ambassador , Charles Corbin , and to the members of the Italian Embassy staff , who had come to see them off . Then , only two minutes before the whistle blew , they walked to the train . There were a few cheers from a woman standing behind the police barriers and a shout of " Good luck ! " as the train steamed away .                     