@@701093

txt The cause of the gold standard in Europe and the future of stable money was tossed rudely upon the lap of political chance Tuesday when the Belgian cabinet , headed by Premier George Theunis , resigned because of the formidable opposition to its rehabilitation program . The coalition of the Catholic . Christian Democratic and Liberal Parties , which has ruled Belgium has adhered to the gold standard . Now . the Socialists are being consulted i- the efforts to form a new ministry . Their stand on the gold standard remains to be seen . Reports from Paris indicated the belief that Emile Francqui , who Saturday resigned as governor of the Societe Generale de Belgique , Belgium 's largest bank , because he held a government post , would be named the new premier . Although Francqui had been a minister without portfolio in the Theunis cabinet , Paris understands that he regards attachment of the belga to sterling as inevitable . Await/ . New Cabinet Until the makeup and convictions of the new government become known , there is no way to determine what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold bloc will be . As matters stood Tuesday night , however , it was clear that monetary stability and world confidence have been badly jolted . After the initial rush-up of belgas Monday when the official control came into being , the picture has completely changed . Monday night it appeared that Paris would ultimately be forced to ship gold to Belgium because of the strength of Belgian exchange . On Tuesday , the belga in Paris dropped once again far below the level at which normally would call for supporting gold shipments from Brussels to Paris . Highly significant was the fact that the decline was accompanied by no signs visible here that the National Bank of Belgium was intervening to check the decline . The lack of action brought the market fare tn. face , with the pas-. albility that Belgian control . of tiachange may mean a gradual drop in the external value to bring the currency more in lime frith sterling than with gold . The London quotation of 20 35 belgas to the pound compares with parity of 35 . This allows enormous leeway for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximate the former 13.9 cent par in New York compared with present parity of 23 54 cents . In the United States . the possibility of depreciation of Belgian currency threatens to upset the recent American trade agreement with Belgium , which was hailed as one of the initial steps towards a general casing of tariff barriers which are strangling trade . Paris reports that there is no reason to believe that France Will follow suit in the event of formal Belgian suspension of gold . The local exchange market , on the other hand , questions French willingness to part with gold in future gold movements to the United States . recalling that on net balance the Bank of France has suffered comparatively small losses in the face of huge shipments to New York . This was because exports to New York were largely offset by receipts from Holland , Switzerland and Belgium . Obstacles for France As it is , the Belgian crisis places tremendous obstacles in the economic rehabilitation program for France which is being followed by Premier Flandin . The prime requisite for success of his measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French monetary moves have been directed toward making the French Rente a more desirable investment medium , in order to blast capital out of hiding . Developments now taking place in Belgium are the very thing which sends capital into hiding . This is where the threat to the gold standard in France is to be found . There is nothing in experience of recent years to indicate that Belgian suspension of gold would have anything but a deflationary effect generally outside of Belgium . While pressure in that country possibly would be lifted temporarily , fresh disturbances would appear likely outside through a tightening of trade restrictions and a dwindling of trade . As a matter of fact , it probably will react unfavorably on the Belgian attempts to expand foreign markets inasmuch as the gold countries arc among its principal markets , and a general raising of barriers against Belgian products by gold countries would seem in line . Until the news of the Theunis resignation was received from Brussels in the morning . Monday 's tendency was being continued by the foreign exchange market with sterling dropping and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Continental capital quickly sought refuge in England and French francs dropped so rapidly in New York as to threaten for a time the resumption of gold exports from Paris to New York . Beiges broke to levels entirely out of sight of normal gold points , but in the afternoon , the market appeared to have hit an equilibrium for the time being , with belgas moving up slowly at the close .                     