@@703264

txt Japan has protested to Soviet Russia agaimt military assistance which she alleges the Soviet Government . is lending to China . Immediately following the protest , which was announced yesterday , Russia rejected the Japanese contention . Maxim Litvinoff , Commissar of Foreign Affairs , denied the Soviet Government had sent any army detachments or omcers to bolster China 's forces . " Any declaration contradicting this fact and incapable of verylcatIon , " Mr. Litvinoff declared , " could have been laid only by circles which already are well known for their systematic fabrication of all kinds of false reports with the object of sharpening relations between Japan and the Soviet Union . " The Japanese protest , delivered by Ambassador Mamoru Shigemitsu , warned that Russia would have to " asmtme responsibility for the consequences " if such aid continued . MBAR 'S envoy in Tokyo already has told Foreign Minister Kok ' Hirota that the Soviet Government is conforming to international rules on the question of sales of arms and planes to China , Mr. Litvinoff replied to Mr. Shigemitsu . He pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other countries . " Mr. Litvinoff declared that Japan was well aware that foreign volunteers of various countries were serving In the Chinese army , but that so far as is known Tokyo had failed to protest to any of the nations from which the volunteers came . " Service In the Chinese army of large groups of military combatants from various countries , " Mr. MIAnoff said . " not only was not regarded by the Japanese Government as a hostile act , but did not even hinder them from entering into contractual relations with those Governments . " This statement was interpreted as referring to Germany and Italy , which have had military missions with the Chinese Government and with whom Japan has entered into an anti-communist pact . Premier Mussolini has called an Italian aviation mission to China home , but some 50 former German army officers still are assisting General Chiang Kai-shek . " It Is not understandable therefore , " Mr. Litvinoff continued , " on what basis the Japanese Government finds it possible to appeal with such claims to the Soviet Government toward which Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such arbitrary acts as the detention of a mail plane and steamers with their passengers , and failure to pay her financial obligations . " He also reminded Mr. Shigemitsu the Japanese have disclaimed theyare at war with China and refer to the fighting there as " an incident , more or less accidental . " Mr. Litvinoff disclaimed knowledge of a Soviet aviator which the Japanese said they had captured when his plane was shot down 10 miles northeast of Wuhu , China , March 14 . The Japanese protest had pointed to his capture and the shooting down of another Soviet plane near Nanking Jan. 26 as evidences of Russian aid to China . Mr. Shigemitsu'a protest said the special structure of the Soviet State , with control of both military and civil aviation , gave the Government special responsibility for any Russian fliers in China . Mr. Litvinoff replied , however , that " the internal structure does not place on the Soviet Government any particular obligation with relation to other countries , " He said the Soviet Ambassador to Japan had been instructed to propose a general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as the seizure of ships and planes , points which Mr. Shigemitsu brought ; up in his protest .                     