@@703673

txt Whether the Western Hemisphere should depart from a century of tradition ? by banding its 21 countries into an American League of Nations armed with economic sanctions against potential aggressors is a key question here today as advance delegations begin final spade work lot the Eighth Pan-American Conte once . The Commission of Experts on Codification of International Law opened executive sessions on topics that penetrate to the bottom of proposed changes in the American community of nations . A subject frequently cropping up in behind-the-scenes conversation is how far the conference may indicate that Latin American countries are prepared to fall in with President Roosevelt 's plans for armed defense of this hemisphere . By tradition , the Americas to this point have emphasized mutual agreement rather than coercion in their forms of international organization . They have avoided an armed alliance , or even the appearance of one . Both of these traditional procedures are being le-examined in view of world realignments that shake and test all old foundations . Seven authorities on international law compose the Commission of Experts , under the chairmanship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been referred ( Continued on Cage 5 . Column 4 ) 11 ) a Stall Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , Nov. 25 ? The sailing today of the American delegation to the Pan-American Conference at Lima , Peru , emphasizes the extraordinary importance to the United States which relations with Latin America have assumed during recent weeks . While " the good neighbor " policy has been on the books of American diplomacy for years , it has never before had the first-rank position which it . now occupies . President Roosevelt has coined a new word for the latest variation of the old policy . He calls it " continental solidarity . " Others use different names . This does not mean that any I spectacular results are to be ex-I from the Lima conference . Colombia and Dominica have advocated establishment of a Pan-American league of nations . But the delegation which sails from New York today under the leadership of Secretary of State Cordell Hull and All M. Landon. 1936 Republican Presidential candidate , has no intention of either advocating any such advanced degree of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its achievement at this time , Secretary Hull is Interested far mole in fundamental improvement of relations with Latin neighbors than he is in setting up a showing facade of unity . Mr. Hull is vitally interested in carrying on the wont which he started at the Montevideo and Buenos Aires Conference . some of the thorniest questions that arose at the special 1936 Peace Conference in Buenos Aires . During the two weeks remaining before the Lima conference officially opens on Dec , 9 , the commissioners will compare notes since their meeting In April of last year . Final drafts of reports arc being polished for sub-I mission . Sanctions and the definition of the aggressor are the most revolutionary topics before the commission , if I adopted by the Conference , they would swing the Americas onto a I new tack both in procedure and in philosophy , close to the Geneva League . Dr. Mello Franco has been entrusted with drafting the reports on these vital topics , as part of his inquiry into the strengthening of means for war prevention . Economic Prohibitions The essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the present Pan American Union with Pan-American Conferences every live years , is the conception of sanctions . At present , the American methods for dealing with Internetiomil disputes stop with mediation , good offices , conciliation , and arbituition . No means for enforcement are provided , beyond the moral sua- sion and legal responsibility of a voluntary community of nations Under the proposed sanctions aril-1 cle. armed coercion is not Included Pressure on an aggressor is limited to withdrawal of diplomatic representatives , followed by an ascending staircase of economic prohibitions . Dr. Mello Franco Is reporting ; to addition , on the more characteristically American procedures of investigation , conciliation , and arbitration . Vigorous opposition to sanctions Is already Indicated when the conIm mice opens . A topic loaded with difficulties is the Commission 's study of pecuniary claims , entrusted to Prof. Edwin Borchard of Yale Law School : " It has to do with the responsibility of nations In paying damages to foreigners for injury to person or property within their borders . Any action taken in this field would have an Immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British and Americans whose farm and oil lands have been expropriated . The comprehensive Mexican Code of Peace is another task of legal inquiry before the commission , as it meets in a Lima not yet teeming with the diplomats of the hemisphere in a round of plenary sessions , committee meetings , receptions , and South American festivities . Mexican Peace Code .. Dr. Luis Anderson Morfia of Costa Rica is reporting on the Mexican Peace Code . The code is so all-embracing that the Buenos Aires Conference delayed action on it until further examination of its relation to other efforts toward codification of American efforts for conciliation and adjustment of international differences . Other topics before the commission directly or indirectly are : Nationality , reported on by Dr. Alberto Cruclinga Ossa of Chile ; Immunity of Government Vessels , Dr. Eduardo Suarez , of Mexico ; the proposed creation of an Inter-AmerIcan Court of International Justice ; and a report of the Itto de Janeiro Pei manent Committee on Public International Law , relative to rules of codification . Roland Ball Sharp       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     