@@700420

txt The general strike threatened by the Amalgamated Hotel and Restaurant Workers Union , a Left wing organization , went into effect last night when the union failed to receive a reply to the ultimatum it had addressed to the hotel men the day before demanding recognition , wage readjustments and shorter hours . Although union officials had said that 30,000 waiters , cooks and kitchen workers were ready to respond to the strike call , a survey of hotels following the proclamation of the strike revealed that not more than several hundred had responded . Service in nearly all of the hotels appeared to be normal . Most of the hotels were prepared and had extra help on hand to take the places of strikers . Proclamation of the strike was accompanied by a " mass demonstration " by the union around the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel , at Park Avenue and Fiftieth Street , and the New Weston , at Madison Avenue and Fiftieth Street , where strikes had previously been declared . About 1,000 men and women , not all of them strikers and some recruited from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration , which lasted for nearly two hours . Cries resounded through Park , Lexington and Madison Avenues as the participants repeatedly circled the hotels and sought to impress the diners inside and the workers on the job with the fact that a strike was in progress . Police assigned from the East Fifty-first Street station made no effort to interfere , although no permit had been issued for the demonstration . Many Youthful Demonstrators . " No more junior proms at the Waldorf " read one banner carried by a particularly noisy group of young demonstrators . The appearance of a man in evening clothes and a high hat who joined the ranks inadvertently and marched in the line for some distance , carried along by the crowd , added to the general hilarity . The marchers were frequently halted at the various entrances to the Waldorf to permit patrons to enter . Among those for whom the demonstration was stopped was Samuel Seabury . Another who halted the moving crowd for a moment to enter the hotel was " Prince Mike Romanoff . " There was a moment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an upper window . A policeman and several bystanders were spattered . The picket line was reported to have been headed by Miss Jennie Lee , a former Labor member of the British Parliament now on a lecture tour in this country . Having shouted themselves hoarse , those participating finally departed , waving their strike placards and banners , singing " Solidarity " and other radical songs . They hurled imprecations at the hotel managements and chanted in chorus " We demand the right to live . " Although considerable noise was made by the crowd , there was no disorder . The public dining rooms of the Waldorf-Astoria were filled and both at the Waldorf-Astoria and the New Weston service appeared to be normal . Hotels Listed by Strikers . While the demonstrators were circling around the Waldorf , B. J. Field , secretary of the union and strike leader , who marched with the others , announced that workers in the following hotels had responded to the strike call : The Sherry Netherland , St. Moritz , the Lombardy , Essex House , Plaza , Breslin and Brevoort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Avenue , where some 2,000 persons had congregated  --  many of them sympathizers  --  twenty-five hotels were listed on a blackboard as having been affected by the strike . Among the hotels listed at union headquarters , in addition to those previously announced by Mr. Field , were the Pierre , Ambassador , Roosevelt , Montclair , Lafayette , Great Northern , Astor , Lexington , Savoy Plaza , Fifth Avenue and Barclay . Listed also were the Colonade Club , Casino de Paree and the Athletic Club . The names of these hotels were placed on the blackboard as soon as each representative appeared at headquarters to announce that the workers in the respective hotels had struck . The announcements were greeted with cheers . Union officials did not venture , however , to give the numbers of those who had actually walked out . Strike Headquarters Busy . Union organizers and clerks were busy at headquarters issuing membership cards and receiving dues and other fees from hundreds among those who crowded the place and milled outside . Each man and woman who had come to join the union was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dues of 75 cents , 25 cents as an assessment and 10 cents for a union book , making a total of $3.10 . A strike meeting was simultaneously in progress in Bryant Hall , Forty-first Street and Sixth Avenue , attended by about 600 persons , not all of them strikers . Among the speakers were Heywood Broun and Fannie Hurst . Norman Thomas also appeared there but did not speak . Leaders of the union made speeches while union clerks went about signing up those who wished to join the union and collecting $3.10 from every such person . Among the hotels where any considerable group walked out was the Ambassador . Frank W. Kridel , general manager , said that about 20 to 30 per cent of the kitchen and dining room employes had remained on duty . About 100 quit their posts . Service in the main dining room and grill room continued without interruption , however . Extra help was obtained quickly to fill the places of strikers . 80 Quit at the Astor . About eighty pantrymen , cooks , dishwashers and waiters quit at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evening . Colonel Frank Gorman , general manager of the hotel , himself took charge of the kitchen in an effort to restore routine . Waitresses who had been working in one of the smaller dining rooms were drafted , for service in the main dining rooms . Employes who abandoned their jobs donned sandwich placards and formed a procession that circled the hotel once before proceeding west in Forty-fourth Street to Eighth Avenue and thence toward union headquarters . Despite the walk-out , the hotel had no trouble in serving the dinner of the New York Police Department American Legion , with 1,800 guests . Other dinners , with smaller attendance , also were served with the usual dispatch . Picket lines were established on all three sides of the Astor . Many dinner guests made inquiries as to the extent of the strike , but otherwise there was little or no change in the normal nightly routine . Many Quit at Savoy Plaza . While the entire restaurant force walked out at the Savoy Plaza , service in the dining rooms was resumed within thirty minutes , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for that period the regular dinner program . At the Plaza thirty-five cooks joined the strike , but the waiters all remained at their posts . According to the management , many of the cooks had admitted that they did not want to strike , but said they feared bodily injury if they failed to walk out . The Sherry Netherland said it had lost only seven kitchen employes as the result of the strike . Two of them came back almost immediately . Union pickets outside the hotel asserted , however , that the entire kitchen and restaurant force had quit . At 7 P. M. sixteen cooks walked out of the Hotel Roosevelt . Paul , the maitre d'hotel , immediately replaced them with twenty men he had held in readiness for such a move . Paul himself then stripped off his frock coat , put on an apron and took charge of the kitchen . No waiters left the hotel . At the Brevoort more than thirty waiters , bus boys and cooks walked out , but Jean Barrere , the manager , had extra men and women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the walk-out had no ' effect the restaurant service . Customers Serve Themselves . At the Park Central 65 out of 150 waiters left when the strike call became effective . Theit places were I filled after some delay , during I which some of the customers in the dining room offered to serve themselves . Some of them did . A delegation of strikers from , Essex House , arriving with shouts land cheers at union headquarters , announced that the entire force of the hotel was out . At dinner hour , the strikers said , all the waiters , chefs and dishwashers congregated in the kitchen and asked the manager if he would recognize the union . This was refused , they said , whereupon the employes left . The management of Essex House at 10 o'clock last night announced that only twenty of the hotel 's sixty employes in the kitchens and restaurant had quit . They were immediately replaced by workers held in reserve at the hotel . At the Lombardy , the St. Moritz and the Fifth Avenue it was denied that any of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect at the New Yorker , , Commodore , Montclair , Biltmore , Park Lane and Pennsylvania . The Hotel Lincoln , where some of the employes walked out Thursday I evening , was likewise operating on normal schedule . Many of the hotels , anticipating possible trouble , had asked for po- I I lice protection but the police on duty had little to do . No arrests I were reported . The management of the Hotel Breslin said that most of the ' kitchen help had gone on strike but that the waiters had refused to join them . At the Paradise Restaurant , Forty-ninth Street and Broadway , ten of the twenty cooks walked out . Here , too , the strikers were quickly replaced . Billy Rose , proprietor of the Casino de Paree , a night club at 254 West Fifty-fourth Street , only half a block from union headquarters , denied that there had been any walkout there . e Denial of the union 's claim of a complete walkout was made also at the Hotel Lexington . The management said that no employes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotels outside of Manhattan . The St. George and the Bossert in Brooklyn and the Concourse Plaza in the Bronx reported that they had not been affected . ' Union Canvassers Beaten . Six men , three of them said to be delegates from the Amalgamated , arrived at the Pennsylvania at about 8 P. M. While three waited outside , the others went to the kitchen in the basement of the hotel and asked the employes to join the strike . Two or three of the employes seemed to greet the proposal with favor , but the others emphatically vetoed the walkout . Justice John E. in the Supreme Court reserved decision yesterday on the petition of the Captains , Waiters and Waitresses Union , Local 16 , for an injunctior against the Amalgamated group . Local 16 , which is affiliated witl the American Federation of Labor sought to restrain the Amalgamat ed from carrying out an allege ( conspiracy to destroy the A. F. fe ; L. organization ; from interfering with members of Local 16 and from picketing places where A. F. of L. members are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , , denied the charges , which included also accusations of violence against members of Local 16 . Mr. Field , in a statement for the Amalgamated , denied his organization was controlled by Communists .                     