@@698553

txt iv alio American taxpayers are watching with concern the expensive liquidation of federally financed wheat holdings in Chicago and other cities , an equally concerned people in Canada this week took stock of the costly Job of salvaging millions of dollars ' worth of grain and expensive property left from the wrecked hulk of that greatest farmer owned sales agency in all history , the Canadian wheat Pool . The provincial governments of Alberta , Saskatchewan , and Manitoba report losses of over 22 million dollars in the forced liquidation of the , pool . To save the crash of banks which financed nearly one-third of an entire world wheat crop , taxpayers in these provinces now find themselves owning 1,600 grain elevators , scattered  --  through the prairies . They likewise hold great terminal warehouses built at inflated costs . Overhead Charges Pile Up . These monuments to the heyday era in farm power in Canada , that cost upward of a quarter billion dollars , now are piling up overhead charges while holding nearly 100 million bushels of unsold pool grain . Canada 's great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has foundered in the tidal wave of increased production which its officers encouraged . The wreck left more than 160,000 farmers destitute , unable to pay taxes and facing loss of their farms and life savings . While the world production of wheat has increased 60 per cent since before the world war , Canada 's growers have increased their wheat output by 150 per cent . In the period from 1917 to 1931 the acreage of Canadian wheat rose from ten million to twenty-six million acres . In spite of a drought that devastated great regions of the dominion 's west last year , the crop was within 100 million bushels of Canada 's best year , and the nation now carries In reserve 270 million bushels , one-third of the world 's yearly needs . The do ? minion 's output now , when tariff and economic barriers are stifling its possibilities of ready sale at any price , are far above tile wartime peak production . The Devil and the Deep Sea . Canada 's parliament , now in ses ? Sion , is faced with one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked to approve a proposal from Britain to help in liquidating its grain assets . This proposal is that Britain will import ' some 170 million tiushels of Canadian wheat yearly if the dominion will remove its tariff against certain English manufactured goods . The proposal will be finally acted upon at the imperial conference in Ottawa next summer . Merchants of eastern Canada who obtained this tariff say they will be unable to compete with such English importations , yet upon the prosperity of Canada 's grain growers lies the economic well being of the entire dominion . Recurring and persistent threats of farmer " strikes against taxation " and . " secession of western provinces " are unabated by the spending of millions on a " wheat growers ' bonus . " The dominion government set up a bureau in Winnipeg last fall through which it has been paying every wheat grower 6 cents a bushel . This was intended to tnable drought stricken farmers to pay taxes , buy new seed , and dispell the " agrarian dissension " from the prairies . Impetus After the War . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Canada started in 1901 . Claims of abuse and low prices were registered widely against railroads , private grain merchants , and the existing system of future trading . Some of the rural leaders in this movement later became politically prominent in provincial and dominion affairs . The agi-. tation was similar to that which brought about the federal farm bureau in the United States . On the crest of a great colonizing wave in western Canada before and during the war came high wheat prices under the centralized govern-. ment control , such as took place in the United States . When this control was dissolved , however , its machinery and policies were adopted by the farm leaders as the nucleus for creating regional and provincial wheat pools . By deducting 2 or a cents a bushel vast sums were made available to co ? operatives with which to buy or build new elevators , scattered through the Prairies , and terminal facilities at the head of the lakes , in eastern and American lake and river ports . Two rival farm , groups vied with each other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seven elevators , each the medium for a clique of farmers to point to with pride and to handle what grain could be nuistered by " membership campaigns " or coercions . A Heavy Expansion .. The Canadian wheat pool grew out of the movement in 1023 to centralize the selling agencies for all caponlive marketing groups , with one exception , that of the United Grain Growers . That year Canada harvested 20 million acres of wheat , the low point in the farmers ' gradual retitle. lion from war production . Each year since , however , the acreage has been expanded until last year 26,115,000 acres of wheat were sown . Now far above its wartime production , Canada last year bad its second largest international trade in wheat , exceeded only in 1928 , when it shipped 122 mIliton bushels , the most any country ' ims ever exported . The wheat pool , gaining members : on the crest of the wave , built great sales offices and spread Its own sales . force into every foreign country pa. tont tally a buyer or producer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Meteor , not at his 4lesitt drawling en annual salary said to lie- $75,000 , 111111111118 of bushels of farmers ' grain at the turn of his linger , Disregard Organized Markets . From the start the wheat pool maintained the utter unsoundness of hedging or future trading as a means of financing its wheat merchandising . Its sales and statistical heads , as well as ? Mears , declared constantly to farmers and to bunkers that its own sales organization , its own " unbiased " . figures on world trends and cond1-1 dons , would enable it to " outguess " : the regular grain merchants and buy . ers of the world . The test of this policy.came in 1929 , when , with prices declining , the pool decided to hold back its wheat until buyers were forced to turn toward Canada . Only the grain owned outside the pool was marketed . Bankers relied on the Judgment of the pool 's officers and financed the unhedeed holdings of millions of bushels . Cana ( 111111 coMmerce became stagnant as the wheat backed up in terminals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many foreign wheat consuming nations turned to other foodstuffs , and Russia began to sell some of Its grain for needed rash . The pool had advanced first payments to its farmers on the 1.930 crop , and shit held millions of bushels of 1929 and 1928 wheat . Its members answered also by further expanding for tile 1031 crop . Flirting , with Disaster . - Caught in an economic condition the peel and its bankers had been unable to foresee , the crash hovered over the dominion throughout 1930 , threatening its financial institutions as well as farmers . Provincial governments met the emergency by guaranteeing the banks ' loans to the pool . The shortsighted policy of maintaining own sales organization In foreign markets was rescinded . But Die farmers refused to see the end of their dreams . Dille were tn ? treduced In sonic of the province leg , Ink/tures to compel 100 per cent meni ? bership of wheat growers In a wheat pool . This was found unconstitu . Donal in principle and abandoned . The only alternative was to turn over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1931 , Manitoba led the march to the salvaging of the pool by permitting Its member farm ? ers to use future trading , hedging , or spot sale methods of marketing the 1931 crop . The only condition imposed was that the pool members must ship through one of the 1,600 elevators which the pool gave up'as collateral to the pub. : Ile treasury . Alberta and Saskatche ? wan followed suit . Premiers of the three provinces , to . gether with the dominion government , are now meeting at Intervals to carry out the liquidation of the pool 's ob . ligations.                     