@@697083

txt The Taft home was quiet at 3 m. and the lights in the former chief justice 's room had been extinguished for several hours . There had been no report on his condition since shortly before 11 o'clock , when his physicians announced he was asleep , with his general condition unchanged . Washington , D. C. , March 2.  - -  - ISpecial.J ? Despite a slight relapse this morning , William Toward Taft tonight still was holding his own against a complication of ailments so serious that physicians four days ago abandoned hope for his recovery . The doctors between 10:30 and 11 this evening paid Mr. Taft their last visit for tonight , unless some emergency should recall them to the bedside . Upon leaving they said that their patient was - sleeping nicely " and that there was no change in lila condition , which earlier today they had found not as favorable as it was yesterday , - . Doctors Call Three Times . Three visits were made ? ? by the physicians ' to the Taft home today and tonight , and aside from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning , all of their Statements indicated that there was little change , . Meanwhile all over the country Sabbath day prayers were offered for the distinguished jurist who has held the nation 's two highest offices , those of President and chief Justice of the United States Supreme court . The two physicians , Dr. Francis R. liagner and Dr. Thomas A. Claytor , plan to call on Mr. Taft again tomorrow morning at an earlier hour than usual . They expect to arrive at 8:10 , instead of late morning , explaining tonight that the reason for this earlier visit to that Mr. Hagner has to perform several operations tomorrow . They wanted this made clear to avoid reports of a crisis tomorrow when they appear so much earlier than their usual hour . This announcement was accepted as an indication that the doctors feel certain their patient will live through the night . " Not So Favorable . " The first bulletin was issued by the physicians at noon . It read : " The condition of the former chief justice , while unchanged since last night , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is again a ? light falling in blood pressure . " Dr. liagner called at the Taft home again at ilo'clock and Dr. Claytor at i:30 . They emerged a halt hour later with the following bulletin : " The former chief justice has taken more nourishment . His condition is unchanged since morning . " Bulletins Only Information . After the noon visit the physicians had mentioned the fact that Mr. Taft recognized them as they entered the sick room , but this evening they were silent on the matter , indicating that he was either tou weak to talk or had again entered a state of half coma Asked if they believed their patient would live through the night , the physicans declined to go beyond the following bulletins . Virtually all social life in the capital has been at a. standstill since the former President entered the critical stage of his illness and today further important events scheduled for the ' first of the : week were called off . A dinner for , Associate Justice Harlan F. Stone and another for Vice President Curtis were ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ladles ' auxiliary of the Press ' club , President- Hoover , who visited the Taft home late yesterday , did ' not call today , but kept in close touch with the sick room through ? frequent reports to brie White House .                     