@@703837

txt The British Government has informed the Jewish and the Arab delegates to the Palestine Conference that it intends to end its mandate over Palestine and establish an independent State with treaty relations with Britain . The British apparently ? contemplate an immediate enlargement of the present governing bodies in Palestine to include both Jews and Arabs as an indication , of their intention to create an independent State . However , they have suggested the calling of a round-table conference in the Fall to consider the question at length . Such a conference would include lawyers as well as politicians and representatives of all shades of British opinion . It would be modeled on the conferences that produced the Egyptian and Indian Constitutions . A general summary of the British " suggestions " has been submitted informally to both sides in the Palestine Conference and will be handed to them formally at discussions tomorrow . That part of the British memorandum that wis seen today made no reference to the creation of an Arab State ; it stressed that any independent . State should be " Palestinian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and today at Colonial Secretary Malcolm 's country place the Arabs were apparently informed that the British suggestions for the governing of the contemplated independent State included representation on the basis of population . At present there are forty-five Jews to every hundred Arabs in Palestine . The Zionists were asserting today that they had been betrayed and contended that the Balfour Declaration and the terms ? f the mandate , which provided for continuation and expansion of the Jewish National Home in Palestine , had been abandoned in favor of a policy of freezing the Jews into what they characterized as a " permanent ghetto " in Palestine . The executive board.of the Jewish Agency for Palestine met today and framed a categorical refusal to be submitted to the British tomorrow . Unless the conference committee of Zionists and non-Zionists , which advises the actual Jewish delega- tion to the conference , reverses this decision tomorrow morning , it is considered likely that the Jews ' withdrawal from the talks will be placed in the hands of Mr. tomorrow afternoon . At any rate , the Jews decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Government planned to give them tomorrow . One of the Jews said he refused to attend a " Last Supper , " with Britain playing the role of Judas Iscariot . The United States Jewish representatives to the conference , led by Dr. Stephen S. Wise of New York , president of the Zionist Organization of America , have reserved passage on ships leaving this week . Weizmann Urges Restraint However , certain members of the Jewish delegation , including Dr. Chaim Weizmann , president of the Jewish Agency and of the World Zionist Organization , are urging calmness on their colleagues , and it is not considered outside the bounds of probability that the British may emphasize tomorrow that their suggestions are only for the purposes of discussion and thus succeed in holding the conference together for a little time longer . Although the Palestinian Arabs continued to insist today on nothing less than immediate and complete independence , the other Arab delegates were urging them to accept the British proposals as the most complete victory possible for their point of view . British newspapers carrying accounts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " victory " parades and celebrations by Arabs in Palestine . More cautious lieads , however , were wondering tonight whether both sides had not begun shouting too soon . In , view of the fact that Mr. last week got Jews and Arabs around the same table for the first time in years  --  even though the only Arab representatives were those of independent States closely bound to Britain  --  it was suggested that at present the best British policy was to " go easy " and not attempt to rush the conference until all else failed . It was thought that the British ideas were perhaps not intended as final , but only as a trial balloon to test the Jewish reaction . Feeling of Disaster At first that reaction was one of disaster and complete bewilderment . From the beginning of the conference the British informed the Jews that there was no intention of abandoning the mandate and none of establishing an independent Arab State . It is true that the present memorandum does not specifically say the Arabs will receive complete political power in Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impression that the British intend to put all representation in the future governing body of Palestine on population basis . Should that intention he realized , it is understood by the Zionists , who have already been informed that immigration and acquisition of land by Jews must be reduced and eventually stopped , the Jews will have to remain subject to the will of the Arab majority . Hence the remarks about a " ghetto . " Apparently the worst fear of the Zionists is the impression that they seem to have gathered from the British ' that the queStion of immigration will in the last analysis be referred to a Palestine government in which Jews will have . only minority rights . The British proposals contemplate a transition period before the ultimate abrogation of the mandate . It would be the job of the round-table conference to cover this period of transition and to safeguard British interests as represented by oil , naval and military bases , as well as to safeguard holy places and discuss a treaty with Britain . Meanwhile , the present Advisory Council with which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be increased by the appointment of Arabs and Jews . The name of the Advisory Council would be changed to Council of State . The Executive Council , , now consisting of four members , would be enlarged by a selection of unofficial new members from the Council of State . Its name would be changed to Council of Ministers . The new members would be Ministers Without Portfolio . All this would be only until the round-table conference had ended . The trouble with all this , as it appeared tonight , was a Jewish determination not to have anything to do with any part of the suggestions . Whether , the British can break down this attitude by concessions on immigration and land sales or by modification of the suggestions themselves is for the future . Certainly it is hard to see how a roundtable conference can succeed when the present conference is  --  threatened with a complete breakdown . Palestine Arabs Rejoice Wireless to VIE New YORK num . JERUSALEM , Feb. ** local Arab press received joyously today reports from London regarding Britain 's projected concessions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this success to a secret message conveyed by King Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia to Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain . The Arab masses in Palestine rejoiced over the news . All day most Arab towns demonstrated peacefully , displaying banners and shouting " Farewell to the Balfour Declaration ! " No arrests were made during the demonstrations . The British plan has aroused great concern and resentment among the Jews here . Two Jewish newspapers  --  the labor organ Davar and the militant Revisionist Hamashkif  --  say in headlines : " It Will Never Come to Pass . " The Jewish press predicts that Palestine Jewry will rise against the British plan . The Hamashkif calls on Dr. Chaim Weizmann , the chief Jewish delegate in London , to resign in favor of Vladimir Jabotinsky , Revisionist leader . The more moderate newspaper Haaretz advises the Jews to await more detailed reports from London. ? " We are ' awaiting tomorrow 's decision with greatly depressed hearts , " it says , " but with a consciousness that under no condition will we give up our just claim to our homeland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Such intrigue will meet with the united and energetic resistance of the Jewish people of the entire world and the Jewish population of Palestine . " The Hazofeh Mizrahl issued an extra containing a report that all the Orthodox delegates in London , including . Chief Rabbi Isaac Herzog of Palestine , were withdrawing from further talks with the British . Bomb Kills Two Jews at Haifa JERUSALEM , Feb. 26 ( sP ) . ? Two Jews were killed today near the Haifa station when a bomb was thrown into the truck in which they were riding . Policemen and troops who rushed to the scene detained twelve Arabs .                     