@@700149

txt Children in the parlor , and children in the hall ; children at the little desk , their rosy lips wide open , laboriously signing their names in the visitors ' book ; little girls with curly mops , and Dutch bobs , and shiny , fat piktails ; little boys with clean shoes and pocket-handkerchiefs The Wayside House gave a party the other afternoon . Never had the little house felt so gay since the Alcott children played " Pilgrim 's Progress " on the stairs , with pillows on their backs for " sins and sorrows " Never had there been such round-eyed , solemn attention since Nathaniel Hawthorne 's children gathered in the little red library , to listen to their father reading " Ivanhoe " or ' Kenilworth . " The Five Little Peppers were there . Of course you could not see them , but it was really their party , and they were all in the old reception room where Margaret Sidney ( Mrs. Daniel Lothrop ) wrote so many delightful stories about them " This is her writing desk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you may all sit down in turn in her favorite rocking chair . I can see Mother now , in front of the fire smiling to herself and telling us she was thinking of the Peppers . When people asked her what family they were , she would always say they were imaginary ; and when they said , ' Why did you make them do this ? ' or ' Why did you make them do that ? ' she would open her blue eyes and say , ' But I did n't make them do anything . They just did whatever they wanted , and then came and told me about it . ' This part of the house was built before 1716 , and the British troops went marching by , beating their drums , in 1775 . " It takes a long time to sign your name , even if your mother does help you with the loops , when you have to , but when you do it with pen and ink , using the stand which belonged ? e Christian Sc.enet ? Monitor to Hawthorne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and twenty-five at least . How little noise they made , for there were so many interesting things to look at and such Jolly things to do . There were the first books ever published about the Pepper family , with original drawings of Polly and Ben , and Davey and Joel , and Phronsie . There was the chair of Ephiaiin Bull ; the dining table of the Hawthornes , the wheatsheaf pudding mold in which Mrs. Hawthorne cooked a gift for Mrs. Alcott when Louisia went off to the Civil War . There was the special guest room which had been MI . Hawthorne 's room before the Lothrops lived there , for the Hawthornes bought the house from Bronson Alcott . How the children laughed when they heard that John Fiske of Harvard University , who had come to pay a visit , was too stout to squeeze himself through the narrow doorway , and Mrs. Lothrop had to prepare another room fot him . There was Hawthorne 's path out on the hillside , behind the house , leading to his " Mount of Vision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought his tales out ; then crept up into his tower to put them onto paper . What fun it was climbing up , those steep and narrow stairs , past the mysterious cupboard where the unfinished manuscript of the Dolliver Romance had been discovered , and standing at the high desk where Mr. Hawthorne stood to do his writing . There was no stairway at all when he first used the tower . The ladder by which he climbed he would haul up after him , so that no one could follow . Mrs. Hawthorne would tell him when callers came , and then wait to hear the click of the ladder . If she heard it not , then she knew that he w as not going to come down . When the ice cream had all disappeared from the veranda , the children were taken down the lane , to the Orchard House where the " Little Women " lived , where Jo did her scribbling , and Amy painted pictures Mrs Frederick Alcott Pratt told them how very much Miss Louisa loved her family , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband w as " Megi " son . The treat vas arranged by Mrs. Everett 0 . Fisk and other members of the Boston University Women 's Council , for the children who are planning to attend the performance of " The Five Little Peppers , " on Nov. 4 , at the Repertory Theater . Announcement has been made that the council 's third season of plays for children will consist of six plays , performed by the Children 's Theater Company of New York , under the direction of Clare Tree Major . Among them are the ever-popular " Cinderella " and " Rip Van Winkle " There is danger of the historic " Wayside " being closed to the public unless some organization can be found to take it over during the next two yars , for Miss Lothrop may find it necessary to dispose of this famous literary landmark to priN ate ownership .                     