@@703438

txt A basic change in the discounting functions of the 12 Federal Reserve banks is being talked of in official circles here as a logical outcome of the new bank investment and examination rules which were made - public a wee'e ago . Although admittedly a long-term probability . revision of the discounting operations to place them on a broader basis is now emerging as one of the improvements which officials think should be made . Ideas have not yet crystallized . but they can be summed up as follows : 1 Closer control by the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System over the terms and conditions on which the Federal Reserve banks will make advances to member banks . 2 . A revision of the board 's existing Regulation A on rediscounting to assure liberal credit accommodations for member banks . 3 A more general application of the system under which the Reserve banks guarantee the member banks a general line of credit up to a stated amount on the basis of the member bank 's general condition instead of basing advances on individual items @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interdepartmental Discussions The question of the Reserve banks ' discounting activities arose during the interdepartmental discussions of the new bank examination rules The Federal Reserve argued for carrying all bonds at cost on examination reports and succeeded in eliminating current market quotations entirely as a basis for valuing bonds on these reports . High grade bonds will be reported at cost and others at an 18 months average . Since this system allows banks to carry a portion of their assets on their books at conventional rather than liquidating values , members of the interdepartmental group argued that the Reserve banks logically would have to stand ready to make- these assets liquid at these conventional values in times of stress . In other words , they insisted that the Reserve banks could not consistently continue to appraise bonds which are offered to them as collateral for a member bank 's note at market when these same bonds are reported by Federal Reserve examiners as good assets at cost . Federal Reserve reaction to this argument has been varied . Some officials , admitting that Reserve banks now appraise collateral at market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move away from this system to one in which the Reserve banks assure a member bank of a de finite line of credit based on the member bank 's net worth or some other general measure instead of on the market value of individual assets . Board 's Control of Credit Other high Federal Reserve officials are inclined to answer the suggestions for broader discounting terms by merely pointing out that the board of governors now can do very little a bout the terms on which Reserve banks will advance credit to members . The law says that the Reserve banks shall make advances in accordance with the regulations of the board . but within the limits fixed by these regulations the Reserve banks can either refuse to make the advance at all or can insist on more stringent requirements . This answer leads to further differences of opinion over whether the board could meet this situation by regulation or whether the law needs to be amended . The only requirements now in the regulation are that a Reserve bank not demand more than 125% collateral , appraising the collateral at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the reasons for its demands to the board of goverhors . A more general application of this " reasonable value " yardstick so that it is used in all advances to member banks is what many officials believe is necessary to make discounting practice consistent with the new examination rules , but some high Reserve board officials , somewhat to their own irritation , believe that they can not now force the Reserve banks to adopt such a rule . Some See Problem as Remote Still other Federal Reserve officials are prone to answer the new problem by temporizing and saying that the problem of member banks borrowing from the Reserve banks is remote . With large blocks of governments and cash , the member banks are in a position to take care of themselves for some time , these officials say , overlooking the fact that the Reserve board theory of money management contemplates forcing member bank borrowing in booms as a credit control device . Although its eventual disposition can not now be forecast , the question of how the Reserve banks should function as the government moves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a basis for valuation has been raised by the recent examination changes and will have to be answered at some future date by legislation or regulation .                     