@@698827

txt A $2,300,000,000 national relief and construction bill was laid before the Senate today by the special Democratic relief committee with the full approval of the Democratic steering committee and the Senate members of the Democratic policy committee . Following presentation of the measure to those groups Senator Robert P. Wagner of New York , chairman of the Democratic- relief committee , brought the bill to the Senate with the declaration that it will fulfill the twofold purpose of assisting the states to prevent hunger , ' and of helping to bring about a resumption of employinent and revival of trade . Representing a carefully worked out compromise between various Democratic programs , the measure starts on its legislative course with the promise of unanimous party support enhanced by the certain approval of the Progressive element among the Republicans . Presidential opposition to its public works construction feature Is the only serious obstacle which has appeared in its path to date . Three Major Provisions Provisions of the bill are divided into three major items , as follows : First , $300,000,000 Is made available , under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purpose of making advances to the states for relief to the destitute . Second , $1,500,000,000 is made available to the R. F. C. under authorization for additional borrowing . Of this sum $40,000,000 is to aid in financing agricultural exports . The balance is to finance self-liquidating construction projects of public , semipublic and private character . This would include public revenue producing projects , housing and slum clearance projects by limited dividend corporations and such private enterprises as tunnels , docks , waterworks and similar projects . Third , $500,000,000 is made available for the construction of previously authorized federal permanent improvements . This construction is to he financed by a 25-year bond issue and sinking fund , the bonds to be issued as needed to pay for the projects as they . progress . Solid ' Vote in Committee The bill . was reported to the senate with the unanimous approval of all five members of the special Democratic relief committee which consists , besides Senator Wagner , of Senators Joseph T. Robinson of Arkansas ; Thomas J. Walsh of Montana ; Key Pittman of Nevada , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in presenting the measure , devoted himself particularly to meeting the objections of President Hoover to the public works construction feature . In all other respects the measure Is in substantial harmony with-President Hoover 's own program for relief . The New York Senator said President Hoover 's objections to the public works feature were based on a misapprehension as to their nature and on the belief that they would Undermine the security of government bonds . He contended that the bond issue for this purpose would , on the contrary , provide the soundest , type of Government credit since the funds would be used for permanent investment in government . He maintained they would be of the same nature as the debentures of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation .                     