@@701644

txt The first great cold wave this Winter was moving eastward last night in an extensive sweep from the Rocky Mountains to the Atlantic Coast and south almost to the Gulf Coast . It is expected to send the mercury here down to about 10 degrees above for the coldest day this Winter so far . In advance of the biting cold which already grips a large part of the country , widespread snowI storms reaching blizzard proportions in several parts of the East , swept through Kentucky , Tennessee , Pennsylvania and Maryland , piling up huge drifts that made traffic perilous and in several places impassable . This city was comparatively free from the dangers of snow which in outlying areas was whipped into drifts by a strong frigid wind from the northwest . As temperatures moderated during the afternoon , an army of more than 10,000 shovelers , including many drawn from the ranks of the unemployed , cleared the soft snow from the streets . The arrival of cold weather , however , will bring dangers to traffic and walking as the damp snow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cold , and exposure to the cold weather , caused more than 119 deaths throughout the country , according to figures gathered by The Associated Press . A homeless man , identified as Thomas McCaffrey , 55 years old , died from exposure at Bellevue Hospital after he had been found semiconscious at the foot of Sixth Street and the East River . Another man , about 53. unidentified , was found dead in front of 484 Broadway in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn . He apparently had fallen while walking on icy pavements . Heavy snow accompanied by a howling wind brought a blizzard to Baltimore and piled drifts along many of the Maryland roads . Philadelphia and Wilmington also were covered with snow with the depth ranging from two to six inches and the mercury at 11 above zero . Washington , D. C. , was one of the coldest spots in the East as the mercury descended to 4 degrees above zero and snow piled up to a depth of two inches . Low temperatures in the cold area , stretching across the country ranged from 18 below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as far south as Atlanta , Ga . At Cleveland the mercury fell to zero , with belowzero reported from outlying communities . At Chicago , over which the center of the cold wave was moving , the thermometer was 2 above and was expected to drop below during the night . Temperatures in the city rose during the afternoon to a high of 27 at 3 P. M. , after dipping to 21 at 8 and 10 A. M. , but the arrival of the cold wave sent the mercury down to 20 by 6 P. M. , and it continued to drop during the night . The hourly temperatures were as follows : Midnight 27 3 P. M 1 A. M 24 4 P. M 2 A. M 24 5 P. M 3 A. M 25 6 P. IV ! 4 A. M 26 7 P. M 5 A. 11 23 8 P M 6 A. M 23 9 P. M 7 A. M 22 10 P. M 8 A. M 21 Id P. M 9 A. M 22 Midnight *22 10 A. M 21 1 A. M ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' 22 Noon 24 3 A. 3d 1 P. DI 2 P. Id 25 ' Unofficial . The average temperature was more than 10 degrees below the normal for the date , which is 33 . The record high was 63 in 1889 , and the record low was 4 in 1914 . The forecast was for fair weather , with contiuued cold today turning warmer tomorrow . Four Die in Blizzard . The sweep of snow over Kentucky brought tragic death to four persons , including a couple who had been married Christmas Eve , when a sudden blizzard overtook them as they were in a rowboat on the Ohio River . The victims were Corbett Porter , 38 , a railroad employe ; his son , Charles , 14 ; his daughter , Goldie , 21 , and Willard Kennedy , 22 . Kennedy and the daughter had been married and the four were on their way to Stouts , Ohio , in a rowboat , to visit Kennedy 's parents , according to The Associated press . They were half way across the river , which was partly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on shore . A heavy snow was falling . When the snow stopped the boat was missing . It was found capsized yesterday , with the occupants missing . Ice in the river prevented a search for the bodies . At Wildwood Villas , N. J. , on the Delaware Bay , fifty families were isolated for ten hours by snowdrifts reaching a depth of twenty feet along the highways leading into the community . A mail truck was left stranded in a drift until snowplows opened the highways . The New Jersey State police re1 ported that traffic was moving on most of the main highways , many of which had been partly blocked by drifts . No more snow was expected in the East within the next few days . But the cold wave is expected to bring freezing temperatures in a southward swing that will stretch along the Gulf Coat to Northern Florida . Storm warnings were posted along the Atlantic Coast up ; til last night , but were taken down as the storm area passed and clear weather set in . The Municipal Lodging House was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applications for admission had been made during the last few days . Slippery streets caused many injuries from falls throughout the city . Traffic was halted at Eighth Avenue and Forty-second Street - for several minutes when a gray horse pulling a fruit cart slipped and fell on the ice . Nearly 3,000 men who are receiving home relief were put to work clearing snow at 25 cents an hour . Although this is just half of the rate generally paid to emergency snow shovellers , Deputy Commissioner Kiernan of the Department of Sanitation pointed out that the workers were receiving their pay in addition to relief payments . Victor F. Bidder , Works Progress Administrator , said that the snowfall had not been heavy enough to necessitate calling upon WPA workers to help with snow removal . He said that the snow was not holding up any WPA projects in this city .                     