@@700975

txt The acquisition by the State , over a twentyyear period , of some 6,000,000 acres of abandoned or submarginal farm land is recommended by the New York State Planning Board in a preliminary progress report pre ' sented to Governor Lehman today and transmitted by him , with a special message , to the Legislature . The report was the first since the unofficial board headed by Dr. A. R. Mann , provost of Cornell University , was appointed by Governor 1Lehman in March , 1934 . A final report of the board , which was one of forty-one such State bodies set up at the instance of the National Resources Board to study State planning , will be made about April 1 . The 6,000,000 acres acquisition recommended in today 's report would bring the State 's " public do , main " to 9,000,000 acres , or more than one-fourth of the total State area . The acquisition would be of great economic and social benefit , the report holds , and would relieve expense to the State and its citizens . Used for " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watershed protection and for public recreation , " these lands could become a distinct asset to the State instead of a liability , it is declared . Would Regulate Billboards . The board also recommends the regulation of service stations , billboards and other structures along the highways , and says that such control might be vested in the State Division of lighways . It also urges the creation of a permanent State Planning Council , with " planning a continuous process . " In his special message , the Governor commended the report to careful study by the Legislature and the people of the State . While making no plea for immediate legislation based on its recommendations , he declared that they bear out the need of many measures urged in his annual message , such as those for farm-to-market highways , county and town govern- mental reforms and electricity for rural sections . In discussing the report Dr. Mann declared that " what impressed me most , during our planning survey and studies , were the tremendous natural resources of the State and the disuse , neglect , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preliminary survey of the estimated population trend of the State , the report says , shows a growth of metropolitan areas and a decline in farm acreage , " Very large areas of the State are not contributing adequately to its welfare , " the report declares . " Valuable resources of soil are being destroyed through erosion . Forests have been cut down with no provision for future wood requirements . The natural beauty of the countryside is being blighted by a riot of roadside signs and structures . Surface waters are being polluted and underground waters depleted or contaminated . " Under a long-term program of purchase , most of the land needed can be acquired at a very low cost per acre . In buying land for reforestation the State has not paid in excess of $4 an acre . The annual and aggregate expenditure should be moderate . " Among other recommendations by the board are : The rounding out and completion of the State forestry program by the purchase and management of a fair proportion of existing forest areas outside of the forest preserves . Planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upland headwater areas . The strengthening of legislation for the control of pollution . It is asserted that untreated sewage from population centres having 8,393,000 people is discharged into the waters of the State . A study of the possibilities of the construction of a considerable number of small artificial lakes . Continued development of the State 's water power by correlating . " power from the steady flow of the Niagara and St. Lawrence Rivers , where storage is impractical , with power from the less constant flowing interior streams where storage reservoirs are feasible " to provide for peak loads at minimum cost . The St. Lawrence is described as " one of the greatest power possibilities in the United States . " Careful conservation of the State 's present ownership in lands under water and in the fore-shore and conservation and enlargement of the public 's opportunities for access to rivers , lakes and the seashore . Developments of plans and policies for " more nearly adequate " production and protection of wild life and for " more nearly adequate places " in which to hunt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grant of broad zoning powers to counties . " The present opportunity to use relief workers should be taken advantage of to conduct county planning surveys , " it is recommended . In its survey of the State 's population trends , the report finds that stabilization of the population is indicated possibly by 1960 at between 13,500,000 and 14,400,000 . With a declining birth rate and a much slower growth of population there is a progressive aging of the population as a whole and a changing age distribution , the board found , and pointed out that these changes " will require changes and adjustments in many public services , " adding : " Careful appraisal of these new trends is essential if serious waste is to be avoided . " The board recognizes the State 's financial situation and its longterm program was conceived in the interests of economy , if and as the State 's finances permit , according to Dr. Mann and Dr. Robert Whitten , consultant of the board . A number of undertakings , they said , are suitable for emergency publicworks projects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its members are unpaid . Its executive committee includes , in addition to Dr. Mann , Ernest R. Clark , Fred J. Freestone , Frederick Stuart Greene , George , Lithgow Osborne , Charles L. Raper and Abraham S. Weber .                     