@@704128

txt The Hatch bill " to prevent pernicious political activities " and restrict the campaign efforts of rank-and-file Federal employes became law with President Roosevelt 's signature today . He signed the measure a few minutes before sending a message to Congress at noon , calling it " a step in the right direction , " but warning against judicial interpretations that would make it " a gag act . " Carrying out the advice he once gave Congress on a bill of doubtful legality , the President said that he was resolving all constitutonal questions in favor of the measure . He pointed out legal pitfalls to which it was vulnerable and warned that it should not be construed in such a way as to deny Federal employes the right to express themselves on political issues or candidates who happened to be their superiors or subordinates . Neither was the new law to be interpreted as denying to Federal officeholders , regardless of rank , the right to make voluntary contributions to political campaign funds provided they were unsolicited . The President said that hundreds of questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that hundreds more would crop up . Many of these he answered and others he asked Congress to clarify . State and Local Employes Cited The President called the attention of Congress to the failure of the law to cover " the multitude of State and local employes who greatly outnumber Federal employes and who may continue to take part in elections in which there are candidates for Federal office on the same ballot with candidates for State and local office . " He invited Congressional study of this situation at the next session in time to have a bearing on . the next elections . President Roosevelt said he was taking the unusual course of addressing Congress on the subject of an approved bill because there had been " so many misrepresentations , some unpremeditated , some deliberate , " regarding his attitude toward the measure . He was not concerned , said the President , with suggestions that partisan political considerations had brought about passage of the bill " because it is my hope that if properly administered the measure can be made an effective instrument of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " It is because for so many years I have striven in public life and in private life for decency in political campaigns , both on the part of government servants , of candidates , of newspapers , of corporations and of individuals that I regard this new legislation as at least a step in the right direction , " said Mr. Roosevelt . Because hundreds of questions would arise in the future as to the effect of the new law on the political activiti of Federal workers , the President said that he had designated the civil liberties unit of the Justice Department " to take the necessary steps " in order that the civil rights of all government workers be protected and that " the element of fear may be removed . " Except for Republican challenges to the President 's statement that the Hatch bill had its genesis in a message he sent to Congress in January urging elimination of " improper political activities " there was little reaction in Congress to his approval of the measure or his message . The Attorney General had advised him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly require its employes to refrain from taking part in endeavors which took time and attention required by their duties as public officials . It could not preclude them , however , from the exercise of the right of free speech and the franchise . Right of Defense Is Upheld The President said that he had been asked concerning the right of Federal employes , under the new law , to answer unwarranted attacks made on them or their work , or their superiors or subordinates or their work , notwithstanding that such attacks or misrepresentations were made for political purposes by newspapers or by individuals as a part of a political campaign . Of this right Mr. Roosevelt held that there could be no question . He observed that the language of the law specifically excluded members or employes of the legislative branch from its operation . It could hardly be called the American way of doing things , Mr. Roosevelt reasoned , to allow newspapers , magazines , radio broadcasters , members and employes of the House and Senate and political candidates and their friends to make any form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual or group in the Federal employ " with complete immunity against reply except  --  by a handful of high executive officials . " Such a system would be as unAmerican as it would be unfair , the President argued . Then he added : " The great mass of Americans like fair play and insist on it . They do not stand for any gag act . " Accordingly , Mr. Roosevelt took the position that all Federal employes from the highest to the lowest had the right publicly to answer any attack or misrepresentation , " provided , of course , they do not make such reply as part of active participation in political campaigns . " Insists on Right to Inform Public This same right to keep the pallet informed on the conduct of government affairs applied to the dissemination of factual data by any Federal employe , Mr. Roosevelt insisted . To rule otherwise would give a monopoly to originate and disseminate information to those who were given to spreading false information primarily for political purposes , he said . That the President 's message was intended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called upon to construe the new law than for the Senators and Representatives who helped to pass it was learned officially even before the message was dispatched to the Congress . It was the President 's intention to incorporate his own remarks as a part of the record should the courts look behind the statute to the question of legislative intent . This would have been clear from the following passage even if the President 's chief purpose in sending up the message had not been ascertained earlier . " It is , I am confident , the purpose of the proponents of the legislation that the new law be thus administered so that the right of free speech will remain even to those who serve their government ; and that the government itself shall have full right to place all facts in its possession before the public . " If some future administration should undertake to administer this legislation to the detriment of these rights , such action would be contrary to the purpose of the act itself and might well infringe the constitutional rights of citizens . I trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " President Answers Inquiries Among answers he gave to questions which he said already had arisen concerning the coverage of the law , Mr. Roosevelt said that Icitizens receiving loans from such lagencies as the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , the Farm Sercurity Administration , were not subject to the bill . Nor , he said , are farmers receiving AAA benefits . He held that employes belonging to Young Republican and Young Democratic Clubs , the League of Women Voters , the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization and similar organizations may retain their membership . He argued that war veterans receiving pensions and retired men of the armed forces receiving pensions were not subject to the bill . Nor are persons receiving social security benefits of any kind . Challenging the President 's claim to originating the new law , Senator Austin took the floor after the message had been read and said that Senator Hatch had offered an antipolitics amendment to a pending work relief appropriation as early as June 2 , 1938 . Senator Barkley , majority leader , said that the President did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and asserted that Mr. Roosevelt was the first President to suggest that type of legislation in a message to Congress . Senator Hatch said that he was deeply gratified by the President 's approval of his bill and proposed to carry out the President 's suggestion that State and local government employes be brought within the scope of the measure . Gov . Rivers for State Curb By The Associated Press . ATLANTA , Aug. 2 . ? Governor Rivers endorsed today President Roosevelt 's suggestion that the newly signed Hatch bill curtailing Federal employes ' political activity be extended swiftly to include State and municipal payrolls . " I think similar restrictions applying to State and local employes ' activities in both State and national politics would have a very fine effect , " said Mr. Rivers , who also is Democratic Executive Committeeman for Georgia . He added that this ? action should be taken before the 1940 elections if possible and State laws should be passed if there were any doubt of Congress 's power to control State workers in intra-State politics .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      