@@702960

txt lines missing trove is to be divided into three parts . But it did n't appear so simple ; in the beginning . Should the workman who made the discovery have become the owner ? Did the coins really belong to the heirs of the former owner of the house where the discovery was made ? Should the Italian State exercise a right to the treasure ? Or should the municipality of Rome fall heir to the uncovered gold ? The discovery was made in 1933 and the resultant dispute greatly interested the Romans . For many years the local press had devoted entire pages to the matter . It began when the old and unsanitary houses in Via Alessandrina and Via Bonella were pulled down in order to lay bare the Forums of Trojan and Augustus , and to open up the Via dell'Impero . One of the I workmen found that the wall of a small house rang hollow , and a vigorous stroke of his pickax drove in the hidden door of a small cupboard or recess from which there flowed a cascade of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fellow ' workmen held out their hats to catch the shower of gold . The master of the works and city authorities took charge of the find . On investigation it was found that the house had belonged to an eccentrio antiquary called Mar. tinetti who was accustomed to hide coins and other objects of value In odd places such as secret cupboards , plaster casts of Greek statues and the upholstery of his furniture . His house was conveniently neat the Roman Forum , and , in the days when the surveillance was less strict than it is at present , he used to secure numbers of small works of art , pieces of Roman carving and other souvenirs from the excava . " Louis " wrapped in a newspaper dated 1870 . Claims to the ownership of the treasure were made by the laborer who struck the cupboard with his pickax and released the shower of gold ; his fellow-laborers who were orking at the same house ; the heirs of Francesco Martinelli who were his legitimate legatees ; the Governor of Rome who had bought the house for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the a ork on Via dell'Impero ; the Italian State , as having a right to treasure-trove . The question has been under discussion for three years , and it has now been announced that the claims of all have been disallowed with the exception of Simonetti , the first workman to discover the treasure ; the Jacovacel as heirs of Martinetti , and the Governor of Rome , as actual owner of the property at the time of the discovery . The treasure thus is to be divided between them .                     