@@698103

txt The probable inclusion of Lord Irwin , former Viceroy of India , in the British coalition cabinet was interpreted at theInstitute of Politics today as a guaranty that Great ' Britain is prepared for dominion status in India at the earliest possible moment . Mr. P. W. Wilson , former member of Parliament , opened a three-day consideration of India and nationalism here with this statement . All parties in Great Britain , he said , are agreed that the goal to be achieved by qndla is a united nationality and this is undisturbed by yesterday 's change in government . Today 's session marked the beginning of the last phase of Mb ; year 's institute . The final three days are being devoted to the problem of India in view of the opening of the India round-table conference in London next week . Mr. Wilson presented the English point of view , while Mr. Syud Hossain , forme ! editor of the Allahabad Independent , and Miss Gertrude Emerson , editor of Asia , spoke from the positions of the Indian National Congress and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointing to the acceptance of the theory of federated India " by all responsible statesmen , " nevertheless felt that the prospects for the London roundtable conference are very uncertain . He said the danger is that the struggle between Hindu and Moslem civilizations wilt cause a deadlock and prevent a , settlement in which all parties in India cooperate . May Result in Disorder " II that should happen , " he went on , " it is to be feared that the more extreme nationalists will break into disorder and that the group in Great Britain which opposes constitutional progress in India will gain influence . " It appears to be for such an eventuality that Mr. Churchill is prepared , and it is only by the success of the conference that this negative policy can be defeated . " When it comes to setting up a national government in India , Mr. Wilson said , it is essential that the high standard of rectitude and efficiency displayed by the present civil service should be maintained . This necessity , he pointed out , becomep more prtssing. as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this can only be accomplished if the beauocracy is subordinated to public opinion , he concluded , the first step must be establishment of a parliamentary system by tt hien the will of the people can be expressed and enforced on the civil service . Mr. Hossain , after outlining the history of the struggle between the Indian National Congress and Great Britain , concluded that the major points of disagreement at the forthcoming London round-table congress center about England 's desire for safeguards . Difficulties of Transfer Formal concession of the theory of responsible government and of a scheme of federation have already been made but the form in which " the transfer of responsibility and devolution of power will take place " are issues on which formidable differences exist between the British and India representatives , he said . The British , he pointed out , desire " safeguards " on live points ; i. e . India 's military defense ; India 's foreign political relations , India 's finance , foreign exchange and foreign credit , and a veto to be vested in the British viceroy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Indian national spokesmen constitute a fatal infringement of the principle of responsible government . They desire an Indian Government that shall be exclusively responsible to the Indian people . " They are prepared , however , to embody in the form of a treaty , or otherwise , guarantees for the full protection of all legRImate British interests in India , all matters of future difference or dispute to be referred to mutually agreed arbitration by the League of Nations or some independent tribunal . " Solutions for Peasants Miss Emerson described the wretched condition of the Indian peasant , whose average land holding is five acres , and who lives in a $10 house on an annual average income of $25 a year . To alleviate the peasant 's condition , she said . three solutions present themselves . First , more rapid industrialization , which will relieve the pressure on the land , and at the same time establish greater wealth to be spent within India . Second , more efficient agricultural methods , perhaps involving the adoption of the communal farm . Third , violent agrarian revoluticih @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government taxation on large estates , which will automatically break them up , as has been done in England to a large extent . Provided the credits and labor of these peasants were organized , they would become the dominating factor in India . she declared . " The party of greatest potential strength in India is not the Nationalist Party , but the peasant party of the future , " she concluded . Seek Growth From Within agrarian population to balance the industrial development . As a result , high protection at home and preferences abroad are the only means by which the economic structure can be kept going . He added to this that there is growing opposition within the ranks of the labor and agrarian populations of the dominions to any further increases of population through the method of immigration . " The present hope of Canada . " he said , is that balance may be in some measure achieved by the rapid opening up of mining fields which are astonishing Canadians and the rest of the world by their unexpected richness . But success in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of base materials . " In Australia there is probably no such second string . There , as in South Africa , the main hope would appear to lie in intensification and extension of agriculture and stock raising . Until the present economic depression began Australia still received a large annual British emigration . South Africa has been receiving very few such emigrants because the capital required to make a reasonable beginning is so high . " The Piotlem of India Prof. F. R. Scott of University dealt with the peculiar problem India presents in the Dominions . He explained that while the Government of India has taken the position that British-Indians am British subjects and therefore possessed of the same rights as white British subjects in all other Dominions , the Dominions continue to treat Indian immigrants as Asiatics . " If the coming Indian conference in London should succeed in establishing full Dominion status in India the present position of the British-Indian in the other Dominions will appear even more anomalous , " he said . Substitution of a national organization of consumers for existing forms of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income by Mr. James P. Warbasse , former president of the Cooperative League of America . He said national consumer cooperatives have already in existence organizations which are capable of being substituted for the present machinery of government . The National Union of Consumers and the National Union of Employees of Cooperative Societies might constitute the two houses of parliament which , he suggested , would serve society more successfully than present systems of political government . Boards of arbitration would take the place of the judiciary and a na tional central board set up by the national cooperative parliament would constitute the executive anch of the cooperative democracy . Discussing the labor branch of the League of Nations , at the round table , on the political situation on western Europe , Dr. William E Rappard and Dr. Luigi Wien , both formerly connected with the Secretariat of the League , united in adver e criticism of M. Albert Thomas , present head of the organization . Dr. Rappard declared that M. Thomas was content with the mere appearance of success and apparently indifferent to the " real application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent . Dr. Villart expressed dissatisfaction with the system whereby the Secretariat of the League provides the money for the maintenance of the labor office while having no voice in its administration . Germany Offers Way In his final lecture on German economic problems last night , Prof. Herbert von Beckerath of Bonn University suggested the use of German labor in restoration work in France and Belgium and the use of German initiative in French colonial development as a means of paying off reparations in kind . Explaining the seriousness of Germany 's economic plight he was doubtful if Germany could continue to make reparations payments even after the Hoover moratorium year unless some ' such arrangements as this were permitted . He saw no reason why France should not be wining to accept commodities of which Germany has a surplus , to meet a lack . Labor , he added , is Germany 's major surplus commodity at the present . Unless such steps are taken he thought the political leaders of the Labor and Socialist groups would be unable to permit further reparations payments , since such payments would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as inevitably to result in revolution and Communism . The root of the German problem , he explained , lies iii the fact that Germany 's social tendencies are contrary to the structural requirements of its remedy . Since 1870 Germany has been a great capitalistic and industrial nation , but has not yet arrived at a capitalistic mentality . More Time Needed This mental attitude permitted the German people to rest in " political somnolence " during the first 10 ears after the war , which , he held . caused the political and economical mismanagement directly responsible for the existing financial crisis . Dr. von Beckerath said President Hoovei 's mmatorium will make it possible to balance the German budget " w , th ruthless cuts in our administratne and social expenses " But he was emremely doubtful of Germany 's ability to continue full reparations payments without a long period in a hich to build up the industrial and financial structure of the nation . He nnplied that the sums due for restoration in the devastated aicas of France and Gel many might be met but that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cover Intel allied debts ' to the United States " We need tune , " he said , ' for the adjustment and stabilization of our political system to i eparation necessities . Undoubtecll , Germany would be more able to li , s reparation and e'en would be more able to work on the basis of fox eign capital if we could reestablish morns tip to a rate which would allow us to ' pay interest and sinking rates e ? en for rather expenm e ci edits taken from abroad . " But this means that we lime to do away with the tendencies of state interference piepondemantly socialistic which works entirely against the economic necessities . We can not do that at once , and w e can not do it at the peak of world depression without risk of blow mg up all our political system . " We must always take into consideration that our labor leaders , who with the moderate bourgeois leaders are the only ones in a position to con ect the errors of recent years , can not and w ill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected from the German working classes to zin e tip all their hopes , and it should not " He then warned that the laboring classes would unquestionably resoi t to Communism beton- , they a ould permit a further reduction in their scale of ln lug and then existing social benefits . The only way , then , to gain time for the industrial program he ad% ocated would be to permit payment of sepusations In kind unless the ci editor nations uished to see Germany in the cup of Communism . The use of Gelman labor in France end the development of French colonies were two methods he suggested in this respect . The British dominions have reached the point where they no longer desire a growth of population through immigration , Mr. Percy E. Corbett , dean of the law school of University , told the round table on the future of the British Commonwealth of Nations today . Both in Canada and Australia , he said , industrial development has gone far ahead of agricultural development , while at the same time it has been found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient                     