@@704343

txt It is difficult In a news cable to express the feeling of horror and anger that has swept the entire population of Sweden , Norway and Denmark as the result of Russia 's attack on Finland . Norway realizes the possibility that the next claims may reach her northern ice-free harbors . Sweden understands that her strategic position is the more exposed . Denmark is asking herself what will happen next . Sweden today gave the first official proof to the anxiety that all Scandinavia is feeling when she resolved , " in consequence of the new developments in the international situation " to increase the Swedish defense , and especially to call up new forces to augment the coast defenses and garrisons in Norrland near the Finnish border and in Gotland , as well as in some other districts . All Furloughs Canceled The number of fresh troops called to the colors is a military secret but they have been ordered , by radio , to report not later than Monday noon . All furloughs have been canceled . Norway has also called up reservists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corporation reported last night . In Sweden public opinion is manifested in a huge wave of sentiment , not only expressing sympathy for Finland but also in uniting the people in a strong national feeling . Tonight this expressed itself in a spontaneous homage to King Gustaf . After the inauguration of the new " Citizens ' House , " where the King was unable to take part , thousands of persons started a procession toward the King 's castle headed by a choir and a band . The procession went into the inner courtyard , where the singers , band and all other participants , greatly increased by their march through the city , united in a giant choir singing the Swedish " King 's Hymn . " King Gustaf appeared on a balcony and later went down to the courtyard - accompanied by the Crown Prince and Prince Gustaf Adolf . The Mayor made a speech in which he expressed the feelings of the Swedish people and their . unity around the King . After cheers for the King and community singing of the national anthem the King himself thanked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! " In the Swedish Parliament today a Socialist member made an inquiry concerning the Communist party in Sweden . He emphasized the indignation over events in Finland and the general feeling of sympathy in Sweden , but added that in Sweden one political organization ( the Communists ) defended the assaults against a sister nation . He observed that this had caused general indignation against the Communists and likewise against the corresponding organization of pure Nazi character . He declared that it was intolerable that representatives of foreign nations should be found in the Swedish Parliament , thus hindering the Parliament from working in a normal way and proving that certain precautions were necessary . The Swedish collection to aid Finland passed 1,000,000 kroner today . Many thousands of young Swedes applied to the Finnish legation to volunteer for war service . In Norway and Denmark also today there were anti-Russian demonstrations . Many Norwegians offered to volunteer for the Finns . In Copenhagen more than 2,000 young men gave their names to the legation asking to be sent to Finland as volunteers . Late this evening a characteristic incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ author lectured . After he finished a young student leaped to the speakers ' platform , shouting : " We will now give proof of our sympathy ! Comrades , follow me ! " He then unfurled a Finnish flag and the whole auditorium followed him . The demonstration , headed by a big Danish flag and a Finnish banner marched through the half- darkened streets to the Finnish Legation where students and many followers from the streets sang the Finnish national anthem to give ' token to their feelings . The Finnish Minister thanked them and was deeply moved . To Form Swedish Brigade COPENHAGEN , Denmark , Dec. 2 ( UP ) ? Major Winge , who led a brigade of Swedish volunteers in Finland 's war of independence in 1918 will lead a new Swedish brigade in the new war , it was reported in Stockholm . Major Winge , it was said , has already recruited more than 1,100 men who are now awaiting instructions from Finland . Recruiting stations have been set up for the brigade in Stockholm , Gothenburg , Halmstad , Vaesteraas and Oestersund @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere in Scandinavia . Americans to Leave Finland STOCKHOLM , Sweden , Dec. 2 ( 20 ? United States Minister Frederick A. Sterling announced that a Swedish-American steamer under charter would reach Abo , Finland , tomorrow for removal of Americans connected with the American legation in Helsinki . Mr. Sterling said about forty-five persons , including families of the legation staff , would be brought to Stockholm . Private estimates were that Sweden now has more than 100,000 troops under arms out of a maximum reserve power of 500,000 . It appeared , however , that general mobilization had not begun . Russian Legation Stoned COPENHAGEN , Denmark , Dee . 2 ( UP )  - -  Scandinavian countries displayed their sympathy for Finland and anger against Soviet Russia today in street demonstrations and newspaper comment . A crowd stoned the Russian legation here , smashing windows , and a police guard was thrown around the building . The police broke up a demonstration of thousands in Stockholm before the office of the Swedish Communist newspaper New Day . Before the demonstration Swedish Premier Per Albin Hansson made a public speech in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathy for the people of Finland . " " We all hope , " Mr. Hansson said , " that there exists a means to limit disaster . Grounds for that hope is the brave composure of the Finnish people . " The disorder before the Communist newspaper office in Stockholm began when a Communist onlooker shouted " Long live Stalin ! " at a crowd that had marched to the Finnish Legation , where it cheered the charge d'affaires and sang the national anthems of Sweden and Finland . The crowd then marched to the New Day offices , accumulating recruits en route , and shouted " Down with Russia ! Down with Stalin ! " The North , a Danish organization for the betterment of Scandinavian relations , reported that its , fund for the aid of Finnish evacuation , started more than a month ago , now had reached 500,000 krones , most of which already had been sent to Finland . The Danish krone was quoted at 19.32 cents in New York yesterday . At Oslo , Norway , newspapers condemned Russia 's " rowdy assault " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Afenposten suggested that the big powers , including Germany , " say a word of truth to Russia with determination and power behind it . " The Norwegian Government newspaper Arbeiderbladet said : " The Stalinite dictatorship has no respect for the independence of its small neighbors , but such a policy will avenge itself . Nothing could so completely demolish the Russian position in world opinion as this act . "                     