@@704352

txt The Temporary National Economic Committee is attempting to show that the factors which contributed to the general and radical price increases of the World War period are not so strong in the current situation . The dual purpose of this . committee quarters said . is ( 1 i to discourage unwarranted price increases . by showing they are not justified ; and ( 2i to serve notice that rises which can not find justification will he watched closely for possible anti-trust action . if this is applicable or a recommendation to Congress for " anti-prohteering legislation if this should be considered necessary Witnesses at the initial piece hearings before the committee yestei clay ? Dr Willard L Thorp , special assistant to the Secretary of Commerce , and Di Isador Lubin , commissioner of labor statistics  --  empha.si .. ed that the situation confronting the " United States today does not parallel conditions existing when Europe went to war : n 1914 Th , s they made it plain . does not mean that no rise in prices will occur , however . No Reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comparable to those of the World War period are not necessary , some dislocations will be unavoidable and are to be expected The basic situation however , is not such as to be productive of wild upswings. they held . Both witnesses pointed to the need for utmost caution on the part of the government in its buying Dr. Lubin even suggested the advisability of a government board to supervise government orders as a means of minimizing their effect upon the price structure during time of war . " We can not avoid considerable impact from the shifts in world requirements . " Dr Thorp told the committee . " However , it is by no means necessary that this result in the distortion of the price pattern and the rise of price levels which occurred in the World War . " Situation Different , Says Lubin " The situation confronting the United States today is in many respects quite different from that which prey-lied in the years immediately prior to our entering the World War . " Dr. Lubin said " Industry has far higher capacity . and is more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point are the basic chemicals for which we formerly depended upon European countries and which are today produced in the United States The result has been that some chemicals that rose pi ecipitously in the early days of the last war have remained virtually unchanged since August . " At the same time both v.itnesses cautioned the committee that these are certain factors in the present situation v.hich might well contribute toward increased prices In this connection , Dr Thorp pointed out that the price structure still is susceptible to pressure from " external sources . " His reference was to products for which the United States is dependent upon foreign producers . Effect of Excess Reserves Also , he called attention to the financial situation . explaining that existing excess reserves could support an increase of " at least " $30,000 , - 000,000 in demand deposits . He said that unless additional powers over reserves are placed in the hands of the Federal Reserve System or the national debt limit is increased to permit more government buying , " the financial system has the potential ability to underwrite an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is nothing new , since the capacity to expand has been present during the last few years . While the situation today is different . Dr. Lubin said . " There is no assurance that the price rises that have already begun will not continue and broaden to Include a constantly wider group of commodities . " He warned that if this happens , the cost of living will increase , labor will demand higher wages and out of it will come the same " serious economic repercussions " witnessed 20 years ago . He said conditions today are more favorable for application of a " brake " on prices . but made no suggestions along this line " The World War pattern can be summarized . therefore , in this way . ' Dr Thorp said , " that foreign demand plus higher import prices . supplemented by domestic expansion in the financial system , business expansion fed by profits , and the inter-related pressures of costs and prices . all resulted either in a marked increase in purchasing power or direct price increases . Same Danger% Still Present In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quite different from that of the world war , - yet many of the same dangers are present " He pointed to the sharp rise in orders which followed the outbreak of war in Europe . but said this was a " temporary boomlet , " as evidenced by the return of new orders to more normal levels and the downward adjustment of many wholesale prices Support for the new level of production , he contended , " must come from basic increases in the demand for goods . " Comparing the foreign trade situation today with that of 1914 , Dr. Thorp pointed out that Great Britain 's imports from the Empire have increased from 20 ' , to ** he said , trade barriers have developed since the war He also called attention to the fact that preparedness in Europe ror the present war bad not been merely military , " but involved accumulating huge stocks of goods and organizing for pi production of war materials " Also he said , controls have been established to direct available purchasing power into war channels . On the import side . Di @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not as dependent upon foreign producers for certain important raw materials a-s it was in 1914. certain imports such as imports of rubber . still are essential , and make the price structure susceptible to pressure from this quarter . Dr Thorp said it is difficult to see and immediate demand to expand plant and equipment , although he held some industries will find it desirable to do so . In this connection he pointed out that in most instances the World War price increases were not followed by large expansions in proouction . Effect of Large Union Membership As an important factor in the cost-price relationsipp . Dr Thorp listed the 8.000.000 union members , which he said means that any price movement will be more quickly translated into wage adjustments than before . From the business point of view . Dr. Thorp said there are a number of reasons for questioning whether the higher piofits now being recorded will be translated rapidly into capital expansion The current stimulant , he contended , has come from " the dealt e to have larger inventories as a Juno of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price tienda " Even with this stimulant-to demand , he pointed out , few industries , except steel , are near capacity , and current production rates exceed consumption . In conclusion . Mr. Thorp said : " The ' United States was on a moderate upswing in business conditions when war broke out . It is difficult to keep in adjustment when abnormal demands overstimulate one part or another of the system . We can not avoid considerable impact from the shifts in world requirements . However , it is by no means necessary that this result in the distortion of the price pattern and the rise in price level which occurted in the World War . One high cost of war is the difficulties of adjustment thereafter These are greatly accentuated if short-sighted policies permit acute price movements to occur " Lubin Shires Price Changes With the aid of numetous charts . Dr Lubin detailed price changes which have occurred since September 1 , when the war in Europe broke out . He explain.d that while the price level of the 30 basic commodities now is less than 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately before the start of hostilities . the prices of some commodities have increased as much as 100 ' , " You must watch individual commodities and see if their prices are being unjustifiably raised . " he said Scrap steel prices , he pointed out , in early October reached a point about 46 ' , above the August level , but by the end of November had dropped until the gain amounted to only 22 " , . Copper prices he continued , rose 15 , , above August early in September . maintained this level to eat ly October and then increased to 20 " , above August where they have remained While discussing copper prices . Dr. Lubin told the committee that the quoted price does not reflect the true situation In the copper industry , he said . " copper has , in a sense , been i ationed in the United States . " He explained that buyers can get orders filled in an amount equal to their usual demand at the quoted prices , but that orders in excess of normal are tilled at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lubin suggested that the question be referred to Mr Arnold . In the 1913-18 war Dr. Lubin said , the rise ir the level of commodities prices was not great until early 1916 , when a sharp increase took place . Here again , he said , the general level did not show the true picture . since the " all commodities " price went to 240 , e of the 1913 level , while prices of inaividual commodities rained as much as 2,000.                     