@@701765

txt Governor Lehman sent to the Legislature tonight a special message recommending a comprehensive social security program having eight basic points . He recommended a 20 per cent increase in the tax on alcoholic beverages , saying that this would yield the $4,000,000 needed to cover the cost of the security program for the first year . With his message he transmitted a bill drafted after conferences with the heads of the Social Welfare and State Health Departments and Federal officials charged with the conduct of social security activities . In his annual message at the beginning of the present session the Governor foreshadowed the legislation and pronounced it necessary in order to place the State in a position to qualify for substantial Federal grants , a percentage of which the State must match to benefit from them . Referred to Fiscal Groups . In some quarters there was an inclination to read into the Governor 's message tonight a challenge to industrialists and business men who appeared last week before the Assembly Committees on Public Welfare and Relief and Ways and Means to protest against any further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on business and industries at this time . The message , after being read in the Senate and Assembly , was referred together with the bill to the fiscal committees . It is predicted that the Senate , with its Democratic majority , will carry out the Governor 's recommendations to the letter . What will happen in the Republican Assembly is problematical . It is admitted , however , that the Republican majority in the lower house may find it awkward on the eve of a State campaign to run counter to a public welfare program of such wide appeal . In the Senate the bill was introduced by John J. Dunnigan , president pro tem . There was no debate . In the Assembly Irwin Steingut , leader of the Democratic minority , sponsored the measure . The Governor 's proposals were assailed by Assembly Republicans , with Mr. Steingut warmly defending them . Assemblyman Arthur L. Swartz of Erie questioned the Governor 's estimate of the cost , declaring that it would involve many times $4,000,000 . Estimate Called Laughable . " His estimate is laughable , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show me how ev .. n by inflation or ' bolony dollars ' he can keep the cost within that amount . If he does , I will admit that he is greater than Houdini . " Assemblyman Laurens M. Hamilton of Rockland said that , while the burden on the taxpayers from a State levy of $4,000,000 would not be heavy , taxpayers of this State would have to pay to cover the much larger proportion of the cost to be borne by the Federal government . " And I can see a procession of outsiders moving into this State to live off these new moneys , " he added . " This so-called social security program will attract dependents and drive out the independents . " Mr. Steingut replied that the bill provided for a five-year residence in the State for qualification as a beneficiary . He said that the Governor , in his annual message , had outlined the cost of every one of his eight projects and that his figuresdcould not be questioned . " The program is noble in intent and purpose , " the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeping with the times . The principle underlying this legislation can not be successfully attacked . I hope this bill will pass promptly . Upon careful consideration as to what is involved , it should . " Separate Bills Possible . He added that while the bill was an omnibus measure , covering all the eight points of the Governor 's program , the projects could be covered by separate bills if there was a desire for such procedure . Tonight 's message declared that men and women should be able to qualify for old-age pensions at the agfe of sixty-five . The age requirement now is seventy years . The message recommended also financial assistance to dependent children ; medical , surgical , and corrective care for crippled children ; child welfare services ; creation of adequate health service centers for counties and other local units of government ; expansion of vocational rehabilitation of the physically disabled ; health service for mothers and children , especially in the rural sections , and a State-wide system of financial and other assistance for the blind . The Governor estimated that , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipalities would receive between fifteen and twenty million dollars from the Federal Government under existing Social Security Laws . In addition , he said , the plan should , to a substantial degree , reduce the number of dependent needy persons on unemployment relief rolls of municipalities . Discounts Bootlegging Fear . The appropriation of $4,000,000 , the Governor insisted , would be adequate to carry out the con ( adequat State Security activities during the coming fiscal year , beginning on July 1 . He declared that the revenue from the increase in the tax on alcoholic beverages would go into the general fund . No payments are made to localities from this fund . He added that he could not take seriously the suggestion that such a small increase in the tax on alcoholic beverages would promote bootlegging . " The increased tax , " he asserted , " will add only one cent to the cost of about thirty glasses of beer and only five cents to the cost of a quart bottle of whisky or gin . This increase is so slight that in my opinion its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that he had not the slightest doubt that the proposed legislation would be of great benefit to the people of the State , even though its enactment required some additional State expenditure . He said in conclusion : " It will help reduce the relief burdens of the municipalities . The State can obtain substantial Federal funds to provide humane social services to the less privileged of our people , services which not only benefit our old men and women , mothers , dependent children , crippled and handicapped children , the blind , but the health and welfare of our communities at large . " I believe it to be deeply in the interest of our people to undertake this social security program . It will improve the life of our citizens . It will make New York State a better place to live in. "                     