@@703997

txt The " battle of the budget " flared up again in the Legislature today as Governor Lehman , in a special message , chided the Republican majority as having overestimated receipts from the cigarette tax and as having passed bills to increase the cost of government . . He predicted that unless the Republicans furnished additional revenues to the State " there will be a very substantial deficit under the Republican budget plan . " His message drew from Abbot Low Moffat , Republican fiscal leader , the charge that the Governor 's formal message was " nothing but a plain political stump speech . " Mr. Moffat said that Mr. Lehman was " taking advantage of his position as Governor and sending political speeches to the Legislature in the form of messages in order to publicize his point of view . " The Governor 's Message The Governor , in his message , said : " The Republican financial plan was based on certain definite reductions in the Executive budget . The plan also assumed certain definite revenues estimated to be sufficient to meet the . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can count only on the revenues it can collect in cash during the fiscal year . " It must now be perfectly evident that actual expenditures will be very greatly in excess of the amount contained in the Republican budget recently passed by the Legislature . It must also be clearly evident that the revenues may fall substantially below the estimates in the Republican budget plan . It inevitably follows , therefore , that unless additional revenues are provided by the Legislature for the next fiscal year there will be a very substantial deficit under the Republican budget plan . " Already public announcement has been made by the majority party that a good part of the previous budget cuts will be restored . A large number of bills greatly increasing the cost of the State government have been or will be passed . Governor Cites His Vetoes " I have already vetoed ten or twelve bills which , in my opinion , would have increased the cost of State government by not less than $10,000,000 . " It now appears that the total appropriations that will be finally authorized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Republican budget plan . " In addition to the appropriations which will be largely in excess of the Republican budget plan , I believe that the estimate of the yield of the cigarette tax , which was counted on to balance the budget , is excessive . The Commissioner of Taxation and Finance estimates the yield from this tax at $5,000,000 less than that contained in the Republican financial plan . " It is evident that if the appropriations are larger than those con- tained in the Republican budget plan or the revenues from the cigarette tax less than was estimated , a very large deficit will result by the end of the next fiscal year , unless new revenues for that year are now made available by your honorable bodies . Charges an " Additional Deficit " " One may be willing to condone the spectacle of the majority party heralding tremendous reductions during the months of February and March , making some reductions in late April and then in May restoring a good part of those reductions through separate bills and a supplemental budget . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the creation of an additional deficit . " I would urgently suggest that your honorable bodies give immediate consideration to this situation . " As soon . as the Governor 's message had been read in the Assembly Mr. Moffat rose and made his charge of politics . He then challenged the Governor 's right to question Republican revenue estimates in view of the fact that , according to Mr. Moffat , the Governor 's estimates had been " notoriously " wrong . Mr. Moffat cited figures for the years 1933 through 1936 as showing that each year the Governor had estimated revenues sufficient to produce a surplus , and that for each year an accumulated deficit remained . He declared that the State Controller no longer stood by the Governor 's estimates , citing as proof of this that in the Controller 's annual report it was noted that the figures used were the estimates of the Governor , not of the Controller . New York City Tax Stressed Attacking the Governor 's figure on the cigarette tax , Mr. Moffat declared that the New York City one-cent tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which would mean $16,000,000 on a two-cent tax . " And the Governor takes the stand that the rest of the State would produce only $1,500,000 from this tic , " Mr. Moffat added . Replying to criticism from the Governor concerning appropriations bills which already have been passed Mr. Moffat remarked that the Governor had vetoed six bills on the grounds of increased z.xpenditures , and that five of them involved very small amounts . The six , the Hastings Work Relief Bill , would cost nothing if . properly administered , although it might cost ! consideroble if loosely handled , he declared . He said also that the Governor 's real purpose was to see that the people of the State did not remember that the Republicans had re duced the budget . Moffat Upholds Restorations Mr. Moffat said also that the total restorations to the budget would not be much larger than the Governor 's own supplemental budget , and that they were needed to carry out the Republican pledge that inequalities and cases of hardship would be corrected . Mr , Moffat declared that he knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception of the cigarette tax we have accepted the Governor 's revenue estimates . " He said that the Republicans had added $3,000,000 , as a minimum , to State revenues by passing the bill transferring unclaimed life insurance equities to the State , and had added another $1,500,000 by adding the floor tax to the increased liquor tax bill which the Governor had presented . The debate came to an end with the majority and minority leaders , Irving M. Ives and Irwin Steingut , each declaring that his own figures Would be more nearly accurate than those furnished by his political adversary .                     