@@700755

txt Revocation of the Steel Code by the industry if the National Steel Labor Relations Board 's rulings on Section 7A of the Recovery Act are at variance with the industry 's interpretation of the collective bargaining provision is being discussed as a possibility in authoritative quarters here . The Steel Code , renewed last Fall for the remainder of the Recovery Act 's duration after an initial trial period , can be abandoned by a . vote of three-quarters of those affected by it , according to one of its provisions . Steel circles are discussing what action to take in the event that the Steel Labor Board holds that an employer is obligated to bargain collectively solely with the steel workers ' union if it represents a majority of employes in a plant and if the board rules that collective bargaining presumes an agreement on wages , hours and working conditions . An important figure in the councils of the steel industry declared today that the large steel corporations were determined to resist every attempt to compel them to sign an agreement or contract with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urged as Way to Avoid 7A . Those who favor abandonment of the code argue that if they take such action they will not be obligated to live up to Section 7A of the Recovery Act . Under the law it is mandatory for each industry adopting a code to incorporate that section into the code . Last Summer the steel industry attempted to qualify Section 7-A as inserted in the code by adding a provision that was regarded as legalizing the company union . On pressure from General Johnson and Secretary Perkins this provision was dropped . Those considering abandoning of the code point out that the National Labor Board under Senator Wagner declined to take jurisdiction over disputes involving charges of discrimination and dismissal of employes for alleged union activity if the industry involved had no code . However , that was before the passage of Joint Congressional Resolution No. 44 June 19 and the subsequent issuance of the President 's executive order creating the steel board . Governmental circles are said to maintain that nc employer can now avoid collective bargaining as prescribed by Section 7-A by abandoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . these circles assert , now apply to all employers , whether under a code or not . Called " Law in Own Right . " Government legal authorities assert that the Congressional resolution lifted Section 7A out of the Recovery Act and made it the law of the land , a law in its own right , so to speak . It is reported that this was exactly the intention of Secretary Perkins when she pressed for the enactment of the resolution . The Steel Labor Board , headed by Judge Walter P. Stacy , is holding a series of public hearings on petitions filed by union steel workers alleging violation of Section 7A . Its rulings and precedents are being scrutinized by the steel industry , and it was predicted here today that within three weeks the authority of the board to make certain rulings may be tested through in. junction proceedings . Such proceedings , if fought up to the Supreme Court , might delay a final ruling until after the twoyear limit expired . Before the steel industry decides to abandon Its code , if such drastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thoroughly aired by the leading steel masters and their lawyers . Such a step , it is considered here , has many dangers for the industry . It would mean that the advan-1 tages obtained by the industry under the code and the practices legalized under the code would no longer have governmental sanction . The basing point system , for in stance , which , prior to the code adoption , was in the twilight zone of legality , would again be shifted to that quarter . Those opposing drastic action argue for court action as sufficient to maintain the employers ' viewpoint They declare abandonment of the code should not be considered except as a last resort . At the request of Charlton Ogburn , counsel for the steel union , the Labor Regulations Board today granted a petition that the election of employes of the Apollo Steel Company , scheduled for Aug. 27 , be held in abeyance . Mr. Ogburn declared that since the company , after agreeing to the election , had also admitted that union members were a majority of the plant employes , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will begin collective bargaining conferences with the employer . The company , while it had conceded to the board that the union represented the majority of its employes , asked that the board agree to have the minority of employes represented at a collective bargaining conference . On this question the board did not pass in approving the union request that the election be held in abeyance . The petition asserted that the union reserved all tights under Joint Congressional Resolution No. 44 , the executive order creating the steel board , and Section 7-A . Counsel for the Appolo Steel Company was notified of the action of the board and neither assented nor dissented . It was understood that the company would consider the question of testing the rights of the minority in the courts .                     