@@699381

txt The decision of the Public Service Commission in the New York Central commutation fare case illustrates both the weakness and the strength of current regulatory processes . Devotees of ultra-scientific rate-making will be shocked by Chairman ** opinion and the statement of facts on which it is predicated . The company offered two cost studies designed to show the unprofitableness of commutation service , each buttressed by the usual formidable array of statistics . But both proved vulnerable . For example , they gave no separate consideration to the large percentage of commuters on the heavily loaded rush-hour trains , as compared to the large percentage of regular fare passengers on the lightly loaded trains of the same class at other hours of the day . Moreover , the company offered no data competent to serve as a guide in fixing equitable rates for any given distance or between any two particular stations ; it proposed merely to " per " petuate the existing relationships , " without any attempt whatever , ex " cept that the practice has been " followed , to show that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to furnish scientific proof of the justice of their claims , the com- muters were equally at a loss . Dr. JOHN BAUER , representing Mount Vernon , submitted a learned treatise on the rush-hour characteristics of commuters , pleading with the commission not to charge these fleeting gentry with the facilities provided in Grand Central for more leisurely travelers . But he had nothing to say about one of the most important of these characteristics  --  namely , that even if commuters do not frequent the waiting rooms , it is this very peak load in rush hours which determines the amount of other important facilities to be provided , and has a " large bearing on the all-day operating expenses . " Counsel for the Westchester Commuters ' Association presented a table purporting to show the revenues and costs applicable to commuter traffic which unfortunately betrayed the scientific method by singling out only the most remunerative trains . The witness for the city of Yonkers went so far as to argue that the commuters should not be charged for much , if any , of the railroad 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would have had to build these anyway to take care of freight and through passengers ! As neither the shippers nor the traveling men were represented at the hearings , their comment on that suggestion is not available . Confronted with these lapses from the true scientific spirit , and apparently having no data of its own sufficiently comprehensive to warrant a systematic determination of the issues ? Mr. MALTBIE even goes so far as to admit the possibility that " there is no such thing in railroadrate making as a scientific basis " - the commission proceeded to substitute common sense for erudition and a practical judgment for theoretical conclusions . It discovered that the New York Central schedules , even with the 25 per cent increase authorized under the provisional arrangement now in force , were no higher on the average than the Long Island 's schedules , and were considerably lower than those in vogue on the Lackawanna , the New Haven and the Pennsylvania . " Considering " the infirmities of the record and " our general economic and social " conditions , including the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it is my opinion that " the present rates are just and rea " sonable for the time being . " If the issue is not carried to the courts , that will mean a 25 per cent increase instead of the 40 per cent which the company asked , and the minimal increase which the commuters desired .                     