@@702005

txt Governor Herbert H. Lehman declared emphatically in a speech here this afternoon that he would " continue the policy of safeguarding the principle of home rule against legislative encroachment or mandate . " Addressing the second annual New York State Conference on Legislation , called by the New York State Committee of the National Municipal League at Union College , the Governor reiterated that " save in exceptional circumstances or with functions that In nature are of State concern , there should not be enacted measures imposing mandatory obligations upon municipalities . " The Governor declared that his policy of safeguarding the principle of protecting the municipality 1 against legislative encroachment or mandate " is , I believe , one of the most important contributions I have made to good government . " Says Law Should Be Changed He recalled that , as a means to greater home rule , he had recommended to the last session of the Legislature that Section 12 of the Home Rule Law be amended . This " sound reform , ' he added , had failed of adoption , but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next session . Forty-five delegates , representing civic groups in all parts of the State , teachers of government courses in colleges and universities and members of both houses of the Legislature took part in this afternoon 's session of the conference , which adopted a legislative program for the coming year . Tomorrow will be devoted to the setting up of plans looking toward the adoption of that program by the State Legislature . Senator Thomas C. Desmond , Republican of Newburgh , and Charles Poletti , counsel to the Governor and chairman of the Governor 's Special Committee on Crime Legislation , spoke at the informal dinner which followed . Senator Desmond said the " great challenge to people of imagination today is how to improve human relations . " " In the days of Monroe , Jefferson and Madison , " he continued , " politics was the occupation of the best people of intelligence and character . We had strong government then . Today we leave politics to the politicians and we have had politics . We need a revival of active interest in government . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in government . Only then will we have effective democratic rule . " Pressure Groups Pointed Out Mr. Poletti analyzed the effect of " pressure groups " upon the Legislature . He said whether we like it or not we will continue to have special interests seeking to block legislation or to obtain legislation for selfish purposes . The only way to prevent such a situation , he continued , is to have organized , non-partisan , civic organizations such as the Citizens Union of New York City , and others represented at the conference today . He showed how considered , disinterested reports aid the Legislature and the Governor to arrive at more intelligent decisions . The five-point legislative program adopted for the next year by the conference includes : 1 . County government reorganization , a comprehensive optional County Government Bill , including power to adopt by petition and popular vote : Proportional representation ; short ballot ; county manager plan in standard form ; transfers of powers from one unit of government to another , and a decrease in the number of separate units of government . 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a charter commission by petition and popular vote , power to amend a city charter by a large petition and popular vote ; addition of a proportional representation option to the optional forms of city government ; power to amend locally a local law passed by emergency procedure at Albany , and referendum on vital charter changes if requested by large petition . Clean Election Moves Listed 3 . Machinery to insure clean elections ; a recanvass of voting machines at each election by Board of Elections in the presence of candidates ' representatives , at least in larger cities ; recount as a matter of right in elections or primaries in which a candidate is defeated by less than 3 per cent of the vote ; civil service qualifications for all election officials , and a conference committee to suggest a complete revision of election law , especially the Corrupt Practices Act . 4 . Congressional reapportionment immediately and legislative reapportionment through special session or a constitutional convention . 5 . Appointment of legislative council to consist of the legislative leaders of both houses , who should map out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the National Municipal League , the Citizens Union of New York and the Schenectady Bureau of Municipal Research , will close tomorrow .                     