@@697328

txt Further indications of th reported consolidation of the Transcontinental Air Transport-Maddux Air Lines and the Western Air Express were given at the Postoffice Department today with the announcement by Assistant Postmaster General W. Irving Glover that bids for two new transcontinental air mail routes will be opened in his office on Aug. 25 . The first of the new routes will run from New York City by way of Phjladelphia and Pittsburgh , Columbus , Indianapolis . St. Louis , Kansas City , Mo. ; Amarillo , Texas ( or from St. Louis by way of Tulsa to Amarillo ) , and Albuquerque , to Los Angeles and return , a distance of approximately 2,559 miles one way . The second route will run from Atlanta by way of Birmingham , Dallas , Fort Worth , El Paso and such points in New Mexico and Arizona as may be designated , to Los Angeles and return , a distance one way of 2,008 miles . With the announcement of the two new routes Assistant Postmaster General Glover said that , in the event a bid is submitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain stipulated requirements of experience be possessed by either or both parties to the bid . This was the first official announcement by the Postoffice Department that the T. A. T.-Maddux Air Lines and the Western Air Express would be allowed to bid as one company for air mail contracts , authority for which has been sought for many weeks by officials of both companies . The authority to bid as one company does not apply only to the two companies mentioned , but to any others so desiring to bid . The two companies are regarded as the leading contenders for the contract . Merger Long Rumored . It has been rumored for some time that the two companies were negotiating for authority to merge , but no additional " light was thrown on that phase of the question in the announcement by Mr. Glover . For purposes of air mail contracts , a complete merger or consolidation of the two companies would not be necessary , since it was stipulated that although bidding as one company they might still retain their individual status . The new transcontinental routes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , providing for the award of contracts by competitive bids on a space-mileage basis rather than on the poundage basis formerly required under the Kelly act . In accordance with the contention of Postmaster General Brown that the transportation of passengers in the air should receive every possible encouragement from the government , the advertisement sent out today contains a new preference clause . In this provision it is stipulated that the department may ? award the contract to the lowest responsible bidder who has owned and operated an air transportation service on a fixed daily schedule over a distance of not less than 250 miles and for not less than six months prior to the advertisement for bids . It is also provided in the advertisement that planes operating over either route will be required to be equipped with a two-way raclio . The schedule to be operated on the new routes may require an average flying speed of at least 100 miles an hour , post office officials said , althougn at times . due to weather conditions , it may be impracticable to maintain such an average . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adoption by the contractor of any devices or means which in his opinion will promote the safety , reliability and dependability of air transportation . " Air transportation Is a business venture , requiring sound and constructive financing , " said the advertisement . " The department will not countenance the promiscuous sale of stock or any undue promoter of the same , where it is evident that such action is unwarranted . " The Watres act provides that the contracts shall be awarded at fixed rates per mile for definite weight spaces . one cubic foot of space being computed as the equivalent of nine pounds of air mail and such rates not to exceed $1.25 per . mile . Where the air mail moving between the designated points does not exceed 25 cubic feet or 225 pounds per trip , the Postmaster General may award to the lowest responsible bidder a contract at a rate not to exceed 40 cents a mile for a weight space of twentyfive cubic feet , or 225 pounds . Whenever sufficient air mail is not available . first-class mail matter may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contract . 7-Passenger Planes Required . Bidders must submit one bid which will cover both provisions of law . Bids submitted will be stated at a pOrcentage of the maximum amount ? of 40 cents a mile for furnishing 25 cubic feet of space to accommodate up to 225 pounds of mail and of the maximum amount of 75 cents a mile plus full variables for furnishing forty-seven cubic feet of space to accommodate up to 423 pounds of mail under the $1.25 provision of the law . The department reserved the right to make an award on either basis . During the life of the contract , so long as the 40-cent maximum provision prevails , the operator must furnish planes for transporting the mail that have a capacity of at least ten passengers ; in the event the poundage exceeds 225 pounds and payment is made on the provision with reference to the $1.25 maximum , the planes must have a capacity of at least seven passengers . The advertisement sets forth that individuals competing for air mail contracts on these routes must be American citizens and file evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnish evidence to the effect that at least 75 per cent of their capital stock is owned by American citizens . Aircraft used in such contracts must be manufactured in the United States . Contracts will be in effect for four years . Army Curtails Airport Dedications . WASHINGTON , Aug. 2 UP ) .  - -  The ? Army Air Corps is through participating in municipal airport dedications in cities of less than 50,000 . The dedication displays are breaking up military training and tactical devel  --  opment , so Assistant Secretary Davison has ordered that they be discontinued . " We regret taking this step , " he said today , " but airport dedications are becoming so numerous that the army can not possibly meet the demands for planes and pilots for exhibition flights . If we did not put a brake on this activity the military usefulness of our pilots would be impaired and the air corps would be transformed into*a flying circus . "                     