@@698865

txt Two young men , graduates of Jamaica High School , according to the police , were under arrest last night I charged with the attempted black-1 mail of James A. Moffett of the Park Lane , 299 Park Avenue , director and vice president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , member of a socially prominent family . According to the police , the youths had demanded $30,000 under threat of kidnapping and torturing Mr. I Moffett 's eldest daughter , Peggy , with her fianc ? . Jay F. Carlisle- Jr. , member of the New York Stock Exchange and a grandson of Allan Pinkerton , founder of the Pinkerton Detective Agency . The youths , William H. Duff , 18 years old , a Negro , of 145-41 South Road , Jamaica , who said he was a gardener , and Arthur J. Gaynor , white , also 18 , of 106-38 Unionhall Street , Jamaica , were arrested on a bench warrant issued last evening after they had been indicted yester- I day in General Sessions on the blackmail charge . Trap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to trap the pair were ingenious . Acr cording to the story of Detective Lieutenant Charles Newman , who , headed the search after the first l threatening letter was received by Mr. Moffett on May 24 , a total of six letters , one telegram and two telephone calls were received at the Moffett home at three-day intervals . The letters , which have been impounded as evidence for the grand jury , were written in good English and contained demands for $30,000 , to be sent in ten envelopes containing $3,000 each . The money was to he sent to designated addresses in Hempstead . L. I. It had been the plan of the blackmailers to rob mail boxes where the letters would be received , the police said . Last night , a letter having been received informing Mr. Moffett that he would get a telegram giving him detailed instructions as to how to send the money , the detectives informed all offices of the Western Union and Postal Telegraph companies to be on the look-out for a person who would attempt to dispatch a message to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ P. M. a telegraph office received a phone call from a youth who said he wished to send a telegram to Mr. Moffett . The police were informed and the call was traced by the telephone company to a booth at 108th Street and Jamaica Avenue . A message was immediately broadcast on the police radio and a squad car rushed to that address in time to seize Duff . Through Duff the address of his accomplice was learned . - Arrested in Hospital . Gaynor was taken into custody at the Brooklyn Hospital , whither he had gone earlier in the day for an operation . He was held at the hospital last night . Duff , after being booked at the Jamaica Police Headquarters , was taken to Manhattan and locked up . Following an appearance in the line-up this morning he will be arraigned in Jamaica court . Mr. Moffett appealed to Police Commissioner Mulrooney after receiving the first letter . Assigned to the case , as well as Lieutenant Newman , were Detectives Theodore leising and John Kennedy of the main office division . All the letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. 1 . The threat of kidnapping against Miss Moffett caused a guard of detectives to be assigned to watch her . One of the letters , it was said by the police , also threatened her fiance , Mr. Carlisle . No weapons were found on the pair I when arrested . The engagement of Miss Moffett to Mr. Carlisle was announced by Mr. and Mrs. Moffett on May 20 . Miss Moffett attended Todhunter School in this city and . went to a finishing school in Paris . She was introduced to society by her parents at a dance at the Ritz-Carlton in 1930 . Her fiance is with the firm of Carlisle . Mellick &; Co .. stock brokers , of 50 Broadway . They are to be married early in the Autumn . On March 14 last the marriage of Allan Carlisle , younger brother cf 1Jay , to Romaine Fleming . 20-year-old I dancer of Greensburg , Pa. , was re ? vealed.                     