@@700633

txt President Roosevelt in a message to Congress today urged international action of a far-reaching nature aimed at supervision and control of the traffic in arms . This was followed by introduction in the Senate of a joint resolution by the adnainistiR.tion to empower the President 0-prohibit the sale of arms and munitions of war I in this country to Bolivia and.ParaI quay as a move toward stopping the war in the Chaco . The message was intended as much for Geneva and Europe generally as for South America . The resolution , which was drafted in the State Department and introduced , by Senator Pittman , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , was considered of sufficient scope to assure the cooperation of the United States with other governments in , , arms embargoes they might impose against the belligerents in the Chaco . While the effect of action by the President under the resolution on the shipment of arms to Bolivia and Paraguay would be a virtual embargo , it was drawn so that the stopping within this country of the sale of arms intended , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not interfere with offer exports and violate the provisions of our commercial treaties with them . The commercial treaty of 1858 with Bolivia and that of 1859 with Paraguay contain identical , clauses insuring freedom of movement for our exports . TEXT OF RESOLUTION . Following is the text of the resolution : JOINT RESOLUTION to prohibit the sale of arms or munitions of war in the United States under certain conditions . Resolved by the Senate and . House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That if ' the President finds that the prohibition of the sale of arms and munitions of war in the United States to those countries now engaged in armed conflict in the Chaco may contribute to the re-establishment of peace between those countries , and if after consultation with the governments of other American republics and with their cooperation , as well as that of such other governments as he may deem necessary , he makes proclamation to that ? effect , it shalt be unlawful to sell , except under such limitations and exceptions as the President prescribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States to the countries now ' engaged in that aimed conflict , or to any persons , company or association acting in the interest of either country , until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress . Section 2 . Whoever sells any arms or munitions of war in violation of Section 1 shall , on conviction , be punished by a fine not exceeding $10,000 or by imprisonment not exceeding two years , or both . Up to . the House on Monday . When the resolution reached the Capitol the House was in adjournment for the rest of the week . It will be introduced in the House Monday by Chairman of the Foreign Affair 's Committee . No doubt exists that the . resolution will be . promptly adopted . by Congress . The legislation is of an emergency character and has been drawn to avoid any controversy in Congress over the long pending permanent embargo resolution , which , as amended by Senator Johnson of California , is to be applicable to both sides to a war . While only authorization to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident today that he expected to . use it to shut off war . supplies from this country to the belligerents in the Chaco , regardless of what other countries might do . This was made clear early this week to the diplomatic representatives of the countries adjacent to the Chaco , which are considering what to do about imposing an embargo and stopping the transit of munitions through their territories . The Ambasadors or Ministers of Argentina , Brazil , Chile and Peru were called to the State Department and asked what progress was being made in conversations proceeding in South American capitals toward joint measures by the neighboring countries to shut off war supplies to the Chaco . The diplomats were then told that the United States was ready to cooperate in any measures of their governments or others looking to peace , but in the last analysis , if action had to be taken by the United States alone she would act , and the President felt the time had come to impose an embargo or its equivalent . Replies to the inquiries as to the progress the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received from all of them , and the State Department , therefore , declined to indicate today the character of such responses as had been received . Praises Munitions Inquiry . In his message on munitions , President Roosevelt referred with gratification to the investigation to be-conducted by a committee headed by Senator Tye into the private manufacture of arms and munitions and the international traffic in them . He then expressed hope that the Senate would approve the pending international convention of 1925 for supervision of the traffic in arms . He did so , apparently , as a matter of formal record , because he had previously urged , through Secretary Hull , that the convention be approved , and the Foreign Relations Committee had voted today to report it favorably . Moreover , fhe President previously had been informed that the Senate would give its consent to the convention . The convention has not been ratified unconditionally by any of the larger munitions-manufacturing nations . Conditional upon like action by other countries , it has been ratified by France , great Britain , Denmark , Sweden and Australia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Venezuela , the Netherlands , Poland , Egypt , Spain , Latvia and Liberia . This pact has an important bearing on the general arms problem , but does not apply to the immediate situation in the Chaco , inasmuch as it will not come into force until several more governments have ' ratified it . It provides a system of export licenses and for publicity on the arms traffic . Finally , the President , in the most important part of his message , declared that the general disarmament conference , which is to reconvene at ereneva on May 29 , . should adopt a convention for supervision and control of the traffic in arms of a more far-reaching character than provided in the 1925 convention . Action was necessary , he asserted , because of " a mad race in armament which , if permitted to continue , may well result in war . " " This grave menace to the peace of the world , " he concluded , " is due in no small measure to the uncontrolled activities of the manufacturers and merchants of engines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of the peoples of all nations . " This part of the message , while calculated to intpire prompt action by Congress on the Chaco resolution , was aimed primarily at Geneva and Europe generally , including Germany , whose alleged efforts to rearm have awakened fears in many chancellories . It was significant that a digest of the . message was sent by the State Department to Geneva , London , Paris and Berlin , whereas a copy of the Chaco resolution was sent only to Geneva , London and Paris . Notwithstanding the President 's concern , it was stated that we would , make no definite proposals at Geneva on the question of traffic ' in arms . His message , however , would give the governments represented at Geneva an opportunity , it was felt , for some constructive action running to the heart of the difficult arms problem . It was believed that it might prevent an adjournment of the conference without any substantial achievement . Aims of the 1925 Convention . The main proposals of the 1925 arms convention , as outlined by Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ export of arms into any country whose government objects ; ( 2 ) complete records in each country of all exports and imports , made public periodically . The convention classifies arms , ammunition and implements into five categories as follows : ( 1 ) Arms , ammunition and implements exclusively designed and intended for land , sea or aerial warware ; ( 2 ) arms and ammunition capable of use both for military and other purposes ; ( 3 ) war vessels and their armament ; ( 4 ) aircraft and ' aircraft engines , and ( 5 ) gun powder and explosives ( except common black gunpowder ) and revolvers , pistols , shotguns , &c.; Attached to the convention was a reservation prescribing that the principal arms manufacturing countries must make the pact effective simultaneously , obviously to prevent one of the nations postponing action and selling arms to the detriment of others . Systems of licenses would permit each country to check completely the imports and exports of arms . Senator Pittman , who submitted the convention , with a hitherto undisclosed letter from Secretary Hull , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know when the treaty could be taken up , but he hoped at an early date as a consequence of the President 's message . The accompanying report from the Foreign Relations Committee showed that a favorable report was ordered May 1 , but presentation was delayed until today . Sent to Senate by Coolidge . The arms convention was originally sent to the Senate by President Coolidge in 1926 , but has been held up for reasons Senator Pittman was unable to give completely . It was pointed out , however , that when the matter first came up the objection was raised that it would interfere with revolutions , and It was pointed out that the United States in its origin sprang from . just such an endeavor . The reservation to the convention , written by Senator Pittman at the direction of the Foreign Relations Committee , follows : " Resolved ( two-thirds of the Senators present concurring therein , That the Senate advise and consent to the ratification of Executive H , Sixty-ninth Congress , first session , a convention for the supervision of the international trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed at Geneva , Switzerland , June 17 , 1925 , subject to the reservation that the said convention shall not come into force so far as the United States is concerned until it- shall have come into force in respect to Belgium , the British Empire , Czechoslovakia , France , Germany , Italy , Japan , Sweden and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics . " . Immediately after the President 's message was read , Senator Vandenberg , who with Senator Nye recently initiated the arms traffic investigation , spoke of the President 's " gracious and hearty " commendation of this move .                     