@@701741

txt Chicago ' business is prepared to change from central ' standard to eastern standard time at 2 a. m. on Sunday , March 1 , without any difficulty , executives in various fields said yesterday . During the day the governing committee of the Chicago Stock exchange adopted a ' resolution moving up its time of business one hour , effective Monday , March 2 . M. T. O'Brien , president of the exchange , said the change will be made without the slightest difficulty . . Under the new time the exchange will open at 10 a. in. and close at 3 p. m. on weekdays , and will open at 10 a. m. and close at noon Saturdays . Previously ? the , hours were a. m. to 2 p. m. weekdays , and 9 a . In. to 11 a. m. op ' Saturdays . " New Time aid Advantage . " " We consider cl6ylight time an advantage , " Mr. O'Igrien said . " We will make the change with no difficulty , sliding Into it as we always have under summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that there will be no further changes in the fall . " Other business men agreed that the adoption of eastern time will not differ from the annual change to summer daylight time made each year in April . Business plans to operate on two time systems for a short period after March 1 , since it does not expect that the interstate commerce commission will have opportunity by then to act on the city 's petition to permit the railroads to conform with the new system . The commission 's hearing on the petition will not be held until next Monday . Store Executives for Change . David Mayer , executive vice president of the Maurice L. Rothschild clothing store , declared that he could envision no trouble from the time change . " We 're expecting benefits , not difficulties , " he said . " We think that eastern time will be well received in Chicago . " John L. Coyne of Mandel Brothers ' store was of the same opinion . " Difficulties ? " he said . " How can there be difficulties ? There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well settle down to one time system from now on . We 're much in favor of the change . " Officials of the Quaker Oats company , who once saw a possibility that grain men would stay on central time , said that they were going to make the change and that no difficulties were expected . Packing Company Ready . H. G. Elierd , director of personnel for Armour &; Co : , declared that the company is ready for the change and expects no difficulty . " It seems to me that changing time is a personal rather than a business matter , " said 0 . T. Henkle of the Union Stockyards . " We 'll have to allow for the new time in tuning our radios and figuring train schedules . Beyond that we expect no trouble . " The Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Clearing House association have not considered any preparation necessary for the change in time , officials in those organizations said . They pointed out that the situation is similar to the daylight time change every spring . ' Result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that only 15 per cent of Its membership voted in the association 's poll on the eastern time question , and that the vote was about evenly divided . Ald. Berthold A. Cronson sponsor of the eastern time ordinance passed by . the city council , interpreted the poll 's result as indicating that business - is not excited by attacks on the time change . Zion , in Lake county , last night became the twenty-first suburb of Chicago to join the eastern time parade . Mayor William M. Edwards and three of the four city commissioners voted in favor of the change . Mayor George 1W . Freyermuth of South Bend said his city also Will go on eastern time . His announcement is In line with , the attitude of other northern Indiana &ties.;                     