@@697162

txt Expressing strong dissatisfaction with the present administration of the Department of Hospitals , Mayor Walker told Hospitals Commissioner J. G. William ; Greeff yesterday that his . resignation would be requested if politics were . not removed from-the department and those responsible for inefficiency were not dismissed . The Mayor 's statement , couched in extremely vigorous language , was made before more than a score of hospital department aides summoned to . City Hall as a prelude to the Mayor 's drive to improve the operation of all city departments . The Mayor began his thirty-minute talk by saying that the success of the Hospitals Department was of great concern to him because he originated it , adding that he felt a personal responsibility for its efficiency . Under the administration of Dr. William Schroeder Jr. , ' new chairman of the Sanitation Commission , he said the department had fulfilled all his hopes . Since Dr. Schroeder was succeeded by Dr. Greeff last December , however , he declared , the department has slipped backward , and he placed the responsibility for its lack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the responsible heads of . divisions in the department handicapped in their work by politics , he said- the Hospitals Department was losing ground constantly , instead of extending and amplifying its work as he wished . The Mayor cited instances from his own knowledge where politicians had influenced the appointment of certain physicians to hospital staffs , and others wherein political powers had , dictated the treatment of patients . He declared these practices , must cease at once , and  --  that if they continued he would hold Commissioner Greeff alone responsible . If the political interference were countenanced by subordinates he said he would hold Commissioner Greeff responsible for their immediate dismissal and declared failure to dis- , miss them would constitute ample justification for Dr. Greeff 's resignation . , , The Mayor made it clear that.Commissioner Greeff 's recent reorganizations of the . medical staffs of Harlem Hospital and Cumberland Street Hoar pital were satisfactory to him , and did not provide the ground for his I censure . The Harlem Hospital shake up on Feb. 13 in which twenty-five physicians and ' surgeons were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that last ' ed more than six weeks . The New York County- Medical Society investigated the shake-up through a committee and condemned it as arbitrary and unfair . Other medical societies took similar action and several members of the Harlem Hospital medical board resigned in protest against the treatment given their colleagues . Charged a " Conspiracy . " Dr. Louis Friedman and Dr. Henry S. Pascal , two dismissed surgeons , charged at the time that the reorganization had been directed by Ferdinand Q. Morton , Municipal Civil Service Commissioner and a Tammany leader in Harlem , and by Dr. Louis Wright , a Negro surgeon who was promoted in the reorganization . The dismissed surgeons said that Dr. John . F. Connors , president of the Harlem Hospital medical board , was also a figure in the " political conspiracy " responsible for the shakeup . They declared that a list naming the new medical board had been in existence months before the reorganization and had been submitted to Dr. Schroeder , then head of the Hospitals Department . They added that the same men named in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greeff , and that the " investigating committee " headed by Dr. George Davis Stewart had made a fictitious survey of the hospital to provide an apparent basis for the shake-up . Despite these charges the Mayor in his talk yesterday did not say politics had inspired the Harlem and Cumberland Street reorganizations . ' He preferred to believe that Commissioner Greeff 's lack of familiarity with politics was responsible for the amount of political dictation he said existed in the department . Dr. Greeff was suggested to succeed Dr. Schroeder by the New York Academy of Medicine , and before he took over the department was almost completely unknown in political circles . The Mayor felt that politicians had taken advantage of this circumstance to get favors done , with the commissioner unaware of the damage they were , doing to his conduct of the department . Warns on Appointments . Mayor Walker said Commissioner Greeff should have the sole authority in his department , since he was solely responsible to the City Administration for its progress . He pointed out that acceding to political dictation in making hospital staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and that their inefficiency would eventually reflect discredit upon the department and the city . The Mayor did not tax Commissioner Greeff with making political appointments , but said political pressure had been injected into the department 's work to so great a degree that it must be stopped immediately . Every administrative head of the Department of Hospitals was summoned to the conference . In addition to Commissioner ' Greeff , those present included Deputy Hospitals Commissioners James H. Fay , Louis Cohen , James Donahoe and Thomas J. Cox : John J. McCarthy , secretary of the department ; Louis Ortner , chief engineer , and Gordon T. Broad , auditor . Fifteen heads of departmental divisions and the two general medical superintendents were also present . Commissioner Greeff said last night that the Mayor had made no personal criticism of him . Beyond admitting that the Mayor had said politics existed in the department and had held him alone responsible for its administration , the Hospitals Commissioner made no comment . He intimated that he might make a statement today . Last Fall , before the election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the work of all city departments this year . It was learned yesterday that he intends to begin these surprise inspections within a week or ten days and to continue them until he has covered every , city department . He hopes to instill ' bets ter morale into the various depart " ments by visiting them personally , and through acquiring first-hand knowledge of their operation he expects to remedy defects . - The Mayor will not announce where he is going on any particular day , but will decide upon his destination immediately before leaving to pre . vent any warning being given in ads vance of his arrival .                     