@@699162

txt Prospective sale of the Smith &; Dove thread plant here by the Ludlow Manufacturing Associates . to a group of local business men is Interpreted as a possible acceleration of an industrial transition going on in the Lawrence area with , perhaps , a gradual extension to the whole industrial field . More than eight buildings , with an excess of 70,000 square feet of floor space , are represented by the Andover plant that has lain idle for more than two years . That the purchasers of the property will lease the plant in separate units and thus bring into Andover diversified Industries is considered likely . A spokesman of the industrial bureau of Lawrence cited two instances in which large plants in the Lawrence area that had lain idle for several years were transformed into going industrial centers through diversification . In Methuen a cotton mill hiring 400 hands , has today two shoe shops , one wooden heel shop and a laundry . This diversified set-up gives work to nearly 800 employees . Nearly 2500 jobs that never formerly existed in Lawrence were found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the bureau . In addition to these trends providing evidence that New England is finding direct use for abandoned textile plants , they also indicate that smaller scale industry with greater stability may result . The bureau official declared that if'the textile area emerges from the slump with many legs to stand on , rather than merely one , the recession may actually have proved beneficial . It is believed the Smith &; Dove property was purchased at substantial saving . Formation of a corporation to negotiate the leasing and financial operating of the property is expected . Considerable optimism for the effect of the deal on the industrial future of the town is expressed by Mr. Chester W. Holland , cashier of the Andover National Bank , agent in the transaction . The first building of the plant was constructed in 1871 , and the most recent in 1916 . It has water-power ' facilities adequate for a single large industrial concern .                     