@@699777

txt For the first time since Nazi methods brought Germany into her present state of national awakening , signs of uneasiness among her Nazi rulers as to the course ahead have been noticed . Hitherto the national policy has been simple  --  the opposition terrorized into continuous silence , circuses to keep the people quiet while a home policy that would also provide the promised bread was being devised , and outwardly an opposed front to a hostile world until Germany could be strong again . In this last respect the German bluff has now been called . For the first time the new government has to take and justify a definite stand upon a major issue of foreign policy , and it needs backing . To give it countenance and support when that stand is announced it has summoned the flimsy silhouette of a. national parliament so recently contemptuously dismissed . The theory is that the voice heard in the Reichstag 's presence Wednesday will be the true voice of the whole German people . Hitler in a Dilemma . The interesting question is , " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down for that would endanger his prestige at home , but on the other hand the outside world is speaking also , and in no uncertain tones . What has happened to Dr. Alfred Rosenberg , Herr Hitler 's personal envoy in London , the plain talk that Dr. Hjalmar Schacht must have heard in Washington , the severely different tones of France , the new boldness of the Polish and anti-Nazi elements in Danzig , and the experience of the unwelcome Nazi envoys in Austria yesterday ? these are danger lights bidding the Nazi government walk warily and cover the big stick with some semblance of apparent peacefulness . What can be expected from the Chancellor can only be apparent boldness with a qualification , and for this the public mind is evidently being prepared , as indicated by Vice Chancellor Franz von Papen 's speech to the Stahlhelm in Muenster last night . If Germany were normal , some indications of real public opinion might be gleaned from the flood of editorial opinion let loose in today 's newspapers . But the press is not normal , but under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of genuine public opinion , the comments are possibly worthless , they do have the importance of revealing the official attitude and the official arguments that the Hitler government wishes to impress upon its own people . The unanimity of the thoughts expressed and the identity of certain phrases recurring in all the comments unmistakably indicate a central source and that source is the Ministry of Propaganda and Popular Enlightenment . Mild.Reservations Allowed . As a specimen of concealed propaganda the exhibit is really admirable . Some papers , such as the Tageblatt , with the remains of their liberal constituencies still to be catered to , are even permitted to voice certain mild reservations regarding the government 's domestic  --  not foreign  --  policy . From these comments may be deduced what line  --  barring new developments between now and Wednesday  --  the government will take , and it seems to be this : Germany will reject the virtual ultimatum presented to her in Geneva demanding the early dissolution of the Reichswehr , and will equally refuse to take the blame for the failure of the disarmament conference , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Versailles . At the same time there may be expressed a willingness to come to " an understanding on the basis of equality and security for Germany . " To make this last understanding possible , an agreement may be proposed to dissolve the Reichswehr if time is given to Germany to enroll the reserves hitherto forbidden to I her , and thus the government may seek to obtain permission for Germany to train for at least three months from 50,000 to 100,000 men from each of the thirteen annual levies that Germany would have called to the colors under compulsory military service since the war but that the Treaty of Versailles prohibited to her . This three months ' training of the thirteen levies would take approximately three years . Would Have Trained Population . It is not impossible that the government may suggest that if this is granted it would be willing to dissolve the Reichswehr after that period . Thus three years hence Germany would have a male population all trained soldiery again just as of yore . The Chancellor is likely to en ' dorse the demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons . It is extremely likely also that after this he will make a plea for international understanding as a primary condition of world recovery , assuring the world that his policy is one of peace abroad , however much it may have smacked of war at home . Thus the Hitler autocracy would attempt to cash in on the moral advantages which German democracy won from world opinion during the much-denounced " fourteen years of German shame . " Herr Hitler , if successful , would reap what Stresemann and Bruening have sown . The Hitler government has steadily refused to recognize its arrival on the scenes of a charged international situation . It contends that whatever it does within Germany is its own business , which the world has no business to criticize or to gather conclusions from regarding the policy which Chancellor Hitler would adopt toward other nations if he could . " Reasonableness " Stressed . If 15,000 political opponents have been arrested , if all opposition has been crushed , or , in Herr Hitler 's own words , " pursued into its last hiding places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official arguments , that Nazi Germany would refuse to be reasonable and just in international affairs . If German Jews have been outlawed , maltreated and strangled economically , it.does not mean , according to the Hitler interpretation , that Nazi Germany would similarly treat weaker nations standing in her path . If Colonel von Papen again paints a glorious death on the battlefield , that , under the Hitler interpretation , merely presents a heroic philosophy of life and is not to be taken as indicating new warlike ambitions . And in this matter of armaments , the whole German people must stand behind the government . There can not be " two Germanys " ? not while the Nazi storm battalions are left functioning . The Reichstag has been summoned to set its seal upon that determination .                     