@@697699

txt The Movement to bring about a general investigation of Tammany officials , which gained impetus from Governor Roosevelt 's appointment of Samuel Seabury ' as commissioner to investigate charges made by the City Club against District Attorney Thomas C. T. Crain , was broadened yesterday by the forming ? of a nucleus of a committee of one thousand to support a city-wide investigation , and by the formation of specific charges against Mayor Walker by the Society for the Prevention of Crime in a letter to individual members of the Legislature . The letter , which in effect is said to be a bill of complaints against the Mayor , was Orepared by Samuel Marcus , counsel for the society , of which Howard Clark Barber is superintendent . It asks for the appointment of Mr. Seabury to make a citywide investigation with the object of removing  --  Mayor Walker . The movement for a city investiga- ' tion received further support by the adoption of a resolution by the New York City Congregational Church Association , representing forty-two churches , asking Governor Roosevelt to take steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also called for the appointment of a committee to give expression to the association 's desire for the maintenance of the highest standards of civic righteousness and urged the Greater New York Federation of Churches to speak in the name ' of the united Protestant forces of the city against untrustworthiness in the City Government . Laxity in Scandals Charged . The letter of the Anti-Crime Society , which is six pages long , was in the hands of the printer last night . Mr. Marcus refused to make public details of the letter which will be sent today . It was understood , however , that the charges it contains do not reflect upon the integrity of the Mayor , but , are concerned with his lackadaisical manner of dealing with scandals in his administration . The formation of a citizens ' committee of 1,000 will be undertaken by William Jay Schieffelin , chairman of the Citizens Union , and was suggested by James C. Cleary , a lawyer , with offices at 230 Park Avenue and 120 Broadway . The purposes of the committee will be threefold , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support the investigation of public corruption . To inspire confidence in those who might be willing to submit leads for an investigation to a group of private citizens , but who might hesitate ; because of fear of subpoenaes or possible reprisals , to go to public officials . A preliminary meeting of a small group which will undertake the formation of the committee will be held tomorrow afternoon at Mr. Schieffelin 's office at 25 East Twenty-sixth Street . Civic Leaders Asked to Confer . Among those who have been invited to attend the meeting are the following : JOHN RIR.KLAND CLARK , president of the Community Council . LILLIAN D. WALD , head of the Henry Street Settlement . SAMUEL MARCUS , general counsel for the Society for the Prevention of Crime . ROBERT , president of the Seventh Regiment Veterans ' Association . The Rev. ARTHUR JUDSON BROWN . TIMOTHY M. PFEIFFER , Bar Association . LINCOLN CROMWELL , the Merchants ' Asa ? cl a t Ion . HOWARD CLARK BARBER , superintendent of the Society for the Prevention of Crime . EDWARD S. KASSING , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ College of PgYislclans and Surgeons , Columbia University . CHARLES R. LAMB , City Club . CHARLES C. TOUGH , Rotary Club . 2'kIEOD.01111 M KAM University , Dr. VIRGINIA C. GILDERSLEEVE , dean of Barnard College . Mrs. CHARLES S. BROWN Jr . of the Junior League . HENRY MORGENTHAU , former Ambassador to Turkey , and an independent Democrat . GILBERT R. RAYNOR , principal of a city high school . The Committee of One Thousand will be made up of representative citizens , and the more important civic and welfare organizations of the city will be asked to support the movement and have representation on the committee . Mr. Cleary , who suggested the committee , is general counsel for the Hotel Greeters of America , an organization of hotel executives , and in 1928 formed the Hotel Men 's League for Smith at the . request of Governor Roosevelt . Mr. Cleary said he was a Democrat , a member of Tammany and formerly had been a Tammany election district captain . Seabury to Name Counsel Today . Mr. Seabury received notification during the day from Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission for the investigation of the charges against District Attorney Crain had been placed in the mail . Mr. Seabury said he expected to receive the commission this morning , would then announce his selection of counsel and begin the investigation of the charges against Mr. Crain intmediately . During the day Mr. Seabury seleceted quarters for the Crain investigation on the fifth floor of the State Office Building , 80 Centre Street . He expects to hold the first hearing in his preliminary investigation next week . The preliminary hearings will be closed to the public and newspaper reporters and will be followed by public hearings , upon which Mr. Seabury 's report to the Governor will be based . Mr. Seabury declined td say whom he had in mind for legal assistants in the Crain inquiry . Asked about a report that he might enlist Morris L. Ernst , Colonel William Hayward , former United States Attorney , or Colonel William J. Donovan , former First Assistant Attorney General , Mr. Seabury smiled but would give no information . District Attorney Crain continued to maintain silence . Mr. Crain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in his office as has been his custom , he came out into the anteroom , shook hands with each of them and said he had nothing to say . Mr. Crain , it was said , has not selected his counsel as yet , but it was asserted authoritatively that he had no intention of resigning , despite continued reports that he might do so.to keep the investigation from extending into the Courts ? of Special and General Sessions and into city departments . " No friend of mine will even suggest to me that I should resign , " Mr. Crain was quoted as having said to associates . " I intend to fight these charges to the end . " , Mr. Crain moved during the day for an early trial of Isidor J. Kresel , formerly Mr. Seabury 's chief legal assistant in the investigation of the magistrates ' courts , and four other officers and directors of the Bank of United States . The four others for whom Mr. Crain sought an early trial are Bernard K. Marcus , Saul Singer , Herbert Singer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the City Club , and Joseph M. Price , chairman of its board of trustees , who signed the charges against Mr. Crain , are reported to have a quantity of information . which they are ready to turn over to Mr. Seabury as soon as he obtains his commission , thus giving him material with which to make a start : Neither Mr. Childs nor Mr. Price had anything to say concerning the charges . Seabury May Use Tuttle Data . The text of the charges indicated , however , that Mr. Seabury will be in a position to follow leads developed by Charles H. Tuttle as United States Attorney in connection with the Ewald case and the Board of Standards and Appeals and to go further into the matter of dock leases , disclosures concerning which were brought out by Mr. Tuttle in his investigation of former County Judge Bernard Vause of Brooklyn . It also became known that Mr. Seabury would have available leads obtained by Hiram C. Todd as special Assistant Attorney General in his investigation of the Ewald case and of alleged purchases of judicial appointmentn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned over to District Attorney Crain information concerning what appeared to be one important instance of corruption and several minor matters . Mr. Seabury , will be asked to ascertain what action the District Attorney 's office took on this information . Mr. Seabury also is understood to have leads of his awn , resulting from his investigation of the magistrates ' courts , which he will continue concurrently with the Crain investigation . It was said that Mr. Seabury from a hasty survey of the material he understands to be at hand , does not wish to be deluged with further complaints against the conduct of the District Attorney 's office . Mr. Seabury also let it be known that he does not intend to make a sweeping investigation of the Courts of Special and General Sessions and the city departments . But he does regard it as his function , it was learned , to follow any matter with which the District Attorney 's office has been concerned into the court or city department with which it is connected . John F. Curry , leader of Tammany , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment on the charges against Mr. ' Crain or on the appointment of Mr. Seabury as investigator . ' There was an unusually large ' attendance at the hall , and those present invariably expressed sympathy with Mr. Crain and varying degres of resentment over the Selection of Mr. Seabury . Surrogate James A. Foley , a prominent member of Tammany , explained that his trip to Albany with Governor Roosevelt , during which the Governor had his letter appointing Mr. Seabury typewritten , was arranged a week in advance to discuss other matters . Judge Foley said : " The suggestion that I traveled to Albany with Governor Roosevelt on last Sunday to discuss the case of Judge Crain with him is unfounded and untrue . That suggestion is unjust to the Governor and to myself . Last week , before there was any mention of the Crain charges , the Governor invited me to go with him to discuss two subjects : First , the final arrangements for his attendance as a speaker at the dinner on March 17 of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick , of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvements in inheritance laws made this year by the State commission of which I am chairman . " At no time has he consulted with me about his policy or conduct toward the Cram charges . Myself and my family have been personal and loyal friends of Judge Crain for over twenty-five years . That friendship will not be weakened by gossip or suspicion . " W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State chairman , who has been the chief sponsor of a legislative investigation of the New York City government , continued to maintain that an investigation by a committee of the Legislature furnished the best method of exposing and correcting official wrongdoing . While reiterating his approval of the designation of Mr. Seabury to investigate the charges against Mr. Crain , Mr. Macy said he believed the situation called for a general investigation . He added that he had little sympathy with those who urged a non-partisan investigation and expressed suspicion that some , but by no means all , of these were seeking to befog the issue and prevent any city-wide investigation at all . CHURCH GROUP URGES ACTION @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governor Roosevelt was urged to take steps to eliminate evils in the government of New York City in a resolution adopted last night by the New York City Congregational Church Association at its annual dinner at the Aldine Club , 200 Fifth Avenue . The resolution follows : Appalled by the evidences being disclosed in the investigations of the government of our city that the basest corruption exists in official departments to which its citizens must look for protection and for the administration of justice , and believing it is the religious duty of every citizen to assist in creating such public sentiment as will not tolerate bribery and will demand honesty in all quarters of civic life , We who are here assembled at the annual dinner of the New York City Congregational Association , resolve : 1 . That we ask the directors of the New York City Congregational Church Association to appoint a committee which will seek to give effective expression to the convictions of the association 's constituency regarding the maintenance of the highest standards . of civic righteousness in our municipality ; 2. ( a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York Federation of Churches to speak in the name of the united Protestant forces of the dity against untrustworthiness as it becomes manifested in the city 's government ; ( b ) And , that , in view of the united concern which has been shown by Roman Catholics , Jews and Protestants regarding the dearth of religious education for the youth of the city and regarding immorality on the stage , we suggest to the federation that it ascertain if the religious sentiment of all faiths can be united in a demand for honesty throughout all departments of the city 's government . 3 . That we ask Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt of the State of New York to earnestly consider taking further steps for the discovery and the elimination of the evils that prevail in the government of our city and to restore the confidence of the people in its administration . The executive secretary of the New York City Church Association , the Rev. Leslie J. Barnette , is asked to convey to the directors of the association , to the directors of the Greater New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requests or suggestions herewith adopted . Adoption of the resolution followed a speech by the ReV. Warren W. Pickett , minister of the Church-inthe-Gardens , Forest Hills . Mr. Pickett , moderator of the Association , who was toastmaster at the dinner , declared that preying upon women , corruption of the courts and the murdering of witnesses would not be tolerated in New York City , liberal though it might be . " Anybody who has enough education to read the newspapers can not escape the conviction that there is something decidedly rotten in the city in which we live , " Mr. Pickett said . " During the last few weeks practically every issue of every metropolitan daily has contained revelations of the vice extortion scandal . Unless the evidence which has been made public in the press is entirely without foundation , it would appear that respectable women are not even safe in their homes . " A few days ago a woman who had threatened to give information against her associates was murdered before she could testify . Another woman who was to be called as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented themselves as officers of the law . " In the last few months no less than twelve judges and magistrates have been charged with serious misconduct in the discharge of their functions . " If Christianity is still a movement and has not entirely degraded itself into a mere institution , our duty in the matter is perfectly plain . It should be made perfectly evident that there are certain things which absolutely will not be tolerated , even in liberal New York , and that preying upon women , corruption of the temple of justice and the murdering of witnesses are among them . The task of the Christian Church is to initiate and foster a body of public opinion which will make it perfectly clear to the officials of this city that , unless they are prepared to sift these conditions to the very bottom , to punish every last man from the least to the greatest involved in this corruption and to administer our city honestly and decently , they have signed their own political death warrant . " Mr. Pickett said the most startling symptom of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hush the matter up with as little fuss as possible . He then added what seemed to be a fling at Mayor Walker : " To keep the matter as Silent as possible until they can get away on their vacations . " The Rev. Dr. S. Parkes Cadman spoke with milder criticism . " New York is the foremost influence in the Western world , " he said . " Our city is like a great ocean liner which sails through all kinds of weather , but has a few dirty rats in the hold which ought to be cleaned out . "                     