@@697953

txt Pay for Internes . To the Editor of The New York Times : I wish . to call your attention to the fact that about three hundred men and women interning in the city hospitals of New York receive no pay . Why can not New York City pay at least $25 per month to each interne in its hospitals ? Would this meager salary put the city in bankruptcy , or is it that their services are not worth about 80 cents per day ? One old argument is that interning offers opportunities for learning for which the doctor is supposed to give his services gratis . While this is true , it is equally true that the interne is doing a special type of work , which requires a special type of preparation , for which no other person is fitted and without which it would be impossible to conduct a modern scientific hospital . As to learning while interning , everybody learns while doing anything , and this holds for the commissioner of hospitals as well as for the interne . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What would a minimum salary of $25 per month actually cost the city ? About $7,500 per month . This would eliminate the predicament of the interns , who are compelled at present +o administer to the poor sick of this city , while they themselves are literally penniless , for a period of one year in the minority of cases or two years in the vast majority . It would also eliminate the sporadic occurrences of petty corruption , which are merely an outcome of existing circumstances . If all were to refuse appointments as interns without some remuneration , something would be done . LOUIS NEWTON , M. D. New York , June 27 , 1931 , Suggests Tariff Holiday , Too . To the Editor of The Net , York Times : President Hoover 's suggestion of a moratorium may give certain relief to the present business depression , but , after all , this is more of an act of charity than one that is based upon sound political economy . May I suggest a moratorium that is based fairly and squarely upon justice and which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home and abroad upon existing business conditions ? My suggestion is that for one full year the United States should proclaim to the entire world a holiday for tariff duties upon imports . With international free trade , so far as the United States is concerned , there would be an immediate and enormous revival in business based upon liberated commerce . This would be of particular benefit to the farming industry , which at the present time has to sell its products in the markets of the world and has to buy everything needed in a protected market . It is safe to say that after twelve months the people of the United States would never agree to a return to a protective tariff . HENRY WARE ALLEN . Wichita , Kan. , June 26 , 1931 . Col. Buford Fought With the North . To the Editor of The New York Times : A Montclair dispatch in today 's issue of THE NEW YORK TIMES states that Colonel John Buford fought with the South . He did not . He stood off Lee 's army in the first days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Jersey City , June 30 , 1931 . Preventing Skidding on Highways . To the Editor of Tha New York Times : I was much interested in H. G. Nelson 's letter of June 17 describing the slippery condition of the pavement on Manhattan Bridge in wet weather . The same condition is found on the Queensboro Bridge in wet weather and the other city bridges must experience the same trouble . The use of creosoted wood blocks causes the slipperiness . If the city authorities would reduce the amount of creosote used in treating the wood blocks to approximately eight pounds per cubic foot the slippery condition complained of could be overcome by giving such a wood block pavement a non-skid surface such as Mr. Nelson referred to in his letter . Before the Long Island State Park Commission non-skidded the Southern State Parkway there were a number of serious accidents . It was treated with an asphalt emulsion and half-inch trap rock stone chips . SAMUEL HEATON . New York , June 27 , 1931 . British and United States Gallons . To the Editor of The New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning told of overloading the Gatty plane in Russia . A misunderstanding re . garding gallons and liters was sug ? gested . But consider the following facts : A United States gallon contains 231 cubic inches and a gallon of water weighs 8.34 pounds , a gal . lon of gasoline about 6 pounds . An imperial ( British ) gallon contains about 277 cubic inches and an impe+ rial gallon of water weighs 10 pounds . It is highly probable the Russian Air Force is better acquainted with British gallons ( nearer neighbors ) : than United States gallons , and it la not likely the kind of gallon wanted was specified . There is a difference in weight of gasoline of nearly 120 pounds for every hundred gallons between imperial and United States standards . Interesting , is n't it , that the United States gallon is more archaic than , the British gallon . EDWARD ADAMS RICHARDSON . j Bethlehem , Pa. , June 29 , 1931.                     