@@697167

txt Preliminary figures covering results of the trst quarter 's operations indicate that Chrysler Corp . earnings statement , which will be issued early in May . will about break even , with results too close to indicate at present whether the company will show a small operating profit or a slight deficit for the period . But , whichever way complete results break , the management will undoubtedly follow its traditional policy of absorbing all current expenses against earnings without deferring any items for window-dressing to offset recent unfavorable operating conditions with the intention of absorbing such deferred charges in better results anticipated when the industry returns to a more normal operating condition . The showing expected for the first quarter will compare with a deficit of 52.828.251 during the nnal quarter of 1929. and with profits of 58.838,173. equal to 52 a share on the 4,407,475 shares of stock , in the corresponding quarter of last year . Reduced Volume the Calling .. Reduced volume during the first quarter of 1930 was the principal cause for the decline in earnings . There are other contributory causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take advantage of the current trend in the automobile market toward lower priced units , which has been an outstanding feature of the situation during the past tow months . These include the introduction of the new low priced Dodge units , the new Chrysler Six , the lowest priced car ever marketed under the Chrysler name : and the price reduction on the Plymouth line which has placed these models in direct competition with the lowest priced cars on the market , and establishes the corporation among the leading companies in the industry tapping the great primary market for volume in this held . In addition to these steps which have reacted directly on earnings of the recent past . the corporation has also broadened its distribution on the Plymouth line . which is now being sold by all Dodge . De Soto and Chrysler dealers and distributors , thus enabling them to take advantage of volume in the lowest priced field to supplement their activities in other markets . and assuring continued profitable operations . Alerebandising Position Better These factors are operating to place the corporation in a stronger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and should result in constructive advantages to the organization as the business becomes more stabilized . Demand for the corporation 's low priced lines has been increasing steadily from the low levels around the hrst of the year , and in each month during 1930. total output has been larger than in the preceding months , although below the same month in 1929 . During the first quarter of the year , the corporation shipped 75,771 units , against 122,736 units in the first quarter of 1929. a decline of 38 . The decline in factory sales has been considerably larger than the decline in retail demand for the corporation 's products . This condition has been advantageous to the dealer organization which now finds itself with unsold stocks of cars equal to only 72 , , ; , of last year 's stocks , and should become advantageous to the corporation as soon as public buying of cars again assumes normal proportions . That Chrysler Motors : ' as been getting its full share of the business during the first quarter is indicated by the tact that automobile production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a falling off of about 41 , , , Dividend Readily Paid Chrysler continues to maintain a strong cash position and at the end of the first quarter . cash holdings and equivalent were over $10,000,000 after providing for the payment of the first quarter 's dividend . Considering the retirement for cash of over *10,000,000 of Dodge bonds the latter part tit last yea ! , this compotes favor ably with its position at the same time a year ago Payment of the first quarter 's dividend of about $3,300,000 , although not earned , has been i ead112 : made from its large cash surplus . As the corporation enters the second quarter , the outlook shov.s imptovement with indications that earnings lot the period will cover its dividend requirements , and a reasonable probability that profits by the end of June may be sufficient to show the half year 's dividend of $1.50 on the stock fully coveted .                     