@@701228

txt No one was surprised when the House of Representatives , after listening coldly to the President , promptly proceeded to overrule him by more than a two-thirds majority . That result had entered into every forecast and calculation . Mr. ROOSEVELT himself must have known that it was foregone . Too many members of the House had tied themselves up with pledges to the American Legion , or in other ways linked their political fortunes to support of the cash bonus . It may well be that many of those who voted against the President feel in their hearts ashamed , and will devoutly pray that the Senate may uphold the veto . That would enable them to capitalize politically their subservience to the veterans ' lobby , while having the satisfaction of knowing that their action in the House had not wrought all the mischief that was feared from it . The President 's veto message was a masterly performance . Both in conception and delivery it - was magnificent . He assembled familiar arguments against the bonus with such skill and force and obvious sincerity as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all who had not put themselves , in one way or another , beyond the reach of persuasion . Under the circumstances it was as fine an exhibition of courage and a profound sense of duty as any President has ever given to Congress and the American people . It can not fail to heighten Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S reputation and to give him a standing and prestige such as be has not had before . In taking up the defects and dangers of the Bonus Bill , one by one , Mr. ROOSEVELT laid due and sufficient emphasis upon its financial recklessness . Congress had voted a vast expenditure without providing the money to meet it . Paying Government obligations by printing Treasury notes is to enter upon a path certain to lead to disaster . The President dwelt upon this with gravity and energy . He also showed how an uncontrolled inflation would injure the veterans themselves , along with all people who depend upon a fixed income or have savings . Mr. ROOSEVELT also pointed out that this special bounty to ex-soldiers would break into the whole scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $4,000,000,000 . But this part of his message was properly subordinated to the larger scope and sweep of his appeal . To his mind , as President of the entire people , it is necessary to frame a national policy which will treat all alike . There must be no singling out of a special class demanding and receiving a bounty not open to others . Mr. ROOSEVELT would have Congress and all our citizens see the country as a whole . As he said , it requires no prophet to tell us that if one group succeeds in forcing upon Congress claims for itself alone , others will quickly follow . The result will be to break up the frame and purpose of our Government , substituting for a mature public sentiment the violence of organized minorities and what the President called " political coercion . " This setting for his message was loftily worked out in the tone and temper of true statesmanship . Today the Senate will be the observed of all observers . It is hard to imagine its doubtful members indifferent to the high-minded and splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all over the country yesterday in a way , one must believe , to bring many urgent telegrams of protest to Senators . They must be well aware of the heavy responsibility resting upon them . We do not say that the fate of the nation is in their hands , but we do say that not only Americans but all the world will watch their voting on the bonus eagerly , in order to discover whether the Senate of the United States will hold up the hands of the President when he speaks in behalf of sound finance , honest government and equal justice to all .                     