@@701695

txt Another stampede away from the dollar into foreign currencies , especialy sterling , developed yesterday when President Roosevelt declines to give an emphatic denial to the various rumors of impending currency changes . The President apparently felt that he should not treat seriously the various monetary rumors which have bobbed up in the past few days , which is about the same attitude as has been reflected throughout by the well informed here slid in Washington . But it appeared that the exchange market would accept nothing but a fiat denial . The absence of this coupled with encouraging news from France and Great Britain and the action of the House in speedily overriding the bonus veto brought on confusion . New French Cabinet Paris reported that Albert Sa.rraut , the new Premier , has succeeded in forming a new cabinet , quite colorless in tone . which has every prospect of remaining in power until elections but which is expected to stand pat on the question of maintenance of the franc . From London came word that the long drawn out coal dispute has been settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was feared would mean a possible tie-up of British industry sufficient to check the industrial recovery , had disappeared . Sterling staged a sharp upturn , advancing above S5 for the first time since 1934 After having reached a high of $5.02 ' . , the English unit closed at $5.00. a net gain of 1 cents . The British Exchange Control has been holding francs stable in terms of sterling . This meant that francs were able to move ahead with equal vigor . After reaching 6.68 cents , the rate finally closed at 6.67 , ' ii cents for a net gain of 3 points on the day . All of the other gold currencies moved ahead in like proportion . Guilders are almost at the gold export point in Paris which means that they are comparatively stronger in New York than the franc . As francs soared , guilders also kept moving up until for a time they were quoted at 68.80 cents , well above the gold export point from New York to Amsterdam which is provisionally calculated at about 68.72 cents . The rate closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points . Whether or not gold will actually move is problematical . There is a bare possibility that some gold might go to Holland today but it is thought that any substantial movement would have to wait until next Wednesday when the S. S. Berengaria sails . Today 's sailings hardly give time for the physical task of preparing gold for shipment . Paris Probable Destination Should gold go . it is thought that it most likely would go to Paris . Official circles in Washington yesterday gave assurance that metal will be released for export promptly if the rates go to the gold export point . There is a better market here for francs than there is for guilders which makes gold transactions with Paris easier . But at yesterday 's high of 6.68 , francs were about 1% points still under the gold point . If a gold movement develops , it will be the first time that metal has been shipped from this country on a straight exchange basis since August and September , 1934. when France and Holland attracted gold under conditions quite similar to those obtaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was noted that the bulk of business yesterday was in sterling with what was described as ' ' scared " commercial buying predominating . Many commercials held off obtaining sterling at lower levels in belief that the pound then was too high and some are believed to have taken up short positions in the same belief . These now are scrambling both to meet requirements and to cover positions . A heavy business in guilders from Stock Exchange quarters was reported . At first it appeared possible that Dutch holders of American securities were liquidating their investments and transferring the proceeds to Holland . Later in the day , however , it became quite evident that the Dutch were not selling in the stock market , but that the stock market demand for guilders was covering of short guilder positions by local sources which had maintained heavy short position in guilders for months in the belief that devaluation of the guilder was bound to come . These short positions were being covered at losses . Short Selling In Francs At the same time , some short selling developed in French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Paris sources . It is recognized that the strength in franc exchange reflects almost entirely the rise in sterling because the British Control has pegged the pound to the franc and the two must move together as long as the peg is maintained . Should the present dollar scare blow over , as some observers believe will happen over the week-end , it is thought that the pound could sag almost as rapidly as it has risen , which in turn would bring a sharp fall in francs and other gold currencies ' Exchange traders said that it was almost impossible to trace the market in an orderly fashion throughout the day . Large conflicting orders came into the New York market from all over the world so much so that large banking institutions were large sized buyers of sterling one minute and heavy sellers the next . Late in the afternoon , reports were circulated that either the British Exchange Control or the American Stabilization Fund was pegging the pound at $5.0014 . Investigation showed that the reports started from the fact that one bank . popularly identified with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that figure , but in view of the confused market it was quite impossible , traders said , even to guess whether it was a government or large commercial order which was being filled . It wa4 also reported that the British Control is prepared to lift the peg on the French franc and allow it to rise against the pound should the demand for sterling from the United States continue . Without this sort of action , it was pointed out a sharp disparity between the dollae. ' tranc and the pound might develop which would have unfavorable repercussions on price levels Effects on Domestic Economy Outside of the disturbing effect upon internal economy which a falling currency based on fear always brings , local monetary quarters are pointing out that if the present wild state is allowed to continue unchecked it could easily affect U S Government credit and the ease with which the Treasury has floated issues in the past . No Treasury financing is scheduled before March 15 and there are no really large maturities until April 15 . However , if the Senate follows the lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonus veto , the Treasury might welcome any opportunity to borrow money in preparation . But this would depend upon a good bond market . It was recalled that prior to the September 15 financing in 1934 , the dollar was undergoing as violent an attack as it is now . The situation was cased , however , when the American Stabilization Fund , after having lent support to the government bond market suddenly appeared as a heavy buyer of dollars for future delivery and dispelled all fears for the dollar .                     