@@697506

txt Judge Ameded A. Bertini of General Sessions appeared yesterday before the special grand jury which has been investigating the circumstances surrounding his nomination and , without waiving immunity , answered questions put to him by Hiram C. Todd , special prosecutor . The appearance of the jurist , who sits in the Court of General Sessions , makes it impossible for the grand jury - to take any action against him , Mr. Todd declared . Judge Bertini 's presence in the grand jury room was surrounded by the utmost secrecy . He refused to make any comment whatever , and Mr. Todd , after first refusing to deny . or affirm that the jurist had been examined , issued this statement : " Judge Bertini was before the grand jury yesterday and today and will be examined further at later meetings . He did not waive immunity . " Mr. Todd refused to reveal why Judge . Bertini had been permitted to testify . Mr. Todd 's statement was the first revelation of the fact that Judge Bertini had been examined before yesterday . Due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that Judge Bertini will be examined further at a future time , possibly after the Christmas holidays , it was understood that the grand jury was seeking indictments against other persons . Object a Inquiry Secret . Who these persons were or what connection Judge Bertini might have with any other case being investigted by the grand jurors was not revealed . Judge Bertini , some time ago , offered to waive immunity and testify , later recanting and refusing to sign the waiver . Max Hirson , attorney for the junist and another witness before the grand jury yesterday , was asked to explain the : : udge 's shift and said : ' ' He changed , his mind when all the circumstances changed . His statement that he was ready to waive immunity was made before false newspaper stories of him were published . All that is explained in the statement he gave the press on Oct. 15 and the situation then is absolutely unchanged now . " In his statement , Judge Bertini formally denied that he bought his appointment , nomination or election and declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for which he was elected . He accused Mr. Todd of using the grand jury as a political tool and ? of permitting " wickedly false " and " garbled " versions of testimony before the grand jury to find its way into the newspapers . He had refused to sign a waiver , he said Urn , because he was being subpoenaed as an " intended defen- dant " and that such action on the part of a prosecutor constituted oppression . Governor May Get Ptpers Soon . Prior to the sfatemInt by Judge Bertini on Oct. 15 , Governor Roosevelt , acting upon , the published information that Judge Bertini had refused to waive immunity and appear before the grand jury , requested that copies of the minutes be sent to i him to enable him to decide whether to call a special session of the Senate looking toward removal proceedings against Judge Bertini . This request was opposed by Attorney General Hamilton Ward and Mr. Todd , and refused by Supreme Court Justice McCook . It was recalled yesterday , however , that Justice McCook had , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ application upon completion of the Bertini inquiry by the grand jury . Mr. Todd refused to say how near such completion might be yesterday . But the fact that Judge Bertini was permitted to testify under immunity was taken as meaning that the grand jury was near the end of its investigation in this matter . Justice McCook , in his decision on the Governor 's application , said : " The grand jury of this county , specially drawn fon the primary purpose of investigating charges of buying and selling a judgeship , and clothed with the peculiar responsibilities of its office , has been at work one month . It has found an indictment against an ex-judge and others in connection with him . " It has proceeded further , as was under the circumstances ' its right and duty , and is now considering similar charges against others . The Governor applies for copies of the grand jury 's minutes in relation to A. A. Bertini , Judge of the Court of General Sessions , because informed that the latter has declined to testify , and intending to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then consider , whether removal proceedings should be begun . " In my opinion , to grant this application in the midst of its proceedings might hamper the grand jury in the performance of its delicate and difficult task , and would furnish a bad precedent . It is accordingly denied , with leave , however , to renew upon completion by the grand jury of the investigation of matters relating to Judge Bertini . " Meanwhile the departmental trial of four plain-clothes patrolmen on charges growing out of the testimony of Chile Mapocha Acuna before the Appellate Division inquiry continued before Deputy Police Commissioner Nelson Ruttenberg with Acuna the principal witness and subjected , for the first time , to a cross- examination . Samuel Seabury , referee of the Appellate Division inquiry , denied any knowledge of rumors that Magistrates - Abraham Rosenbluth and Louis B. Brodsky were , as far as he knew , on the verge of resigning their position .                     