@@701173

txt Chicago Board of Trade closed for a full day yesterday for the first time since the bank holiday Kansas City , St. Louis and Omaha followed suit and wheat dropped at INalnneapolis and Duluth , where exchanges remained open . The closings resulted from a petition of the Rosenbaum Grain Corp. , one of the largest elevator concerns in the country , to reorganize under the amended bankruptcy laws No pronounced market erects are looked for by the trade on the opening of the Chicago Board of Trade today . The closing Wednesday was to enable it to cope with a situation bi ought about by a federal court injunction restrai ? . ing the exchange from suspending a member tit m which had sought reorganization under section 77E of the amended bankruriitcy act . The Board 's move in suspending trading gave it time for action , including the obtaining of a court order prohibiting Rosenbaum Grain Corp from doing any business and this achieved the same result as a suspension of the firm . The federal court also issued an order to liquidate Rosenbaum 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On resumption of trading today the Board of Ti-ade Clearing House Corp . will proceed to liquidate and close out clearing house balances of the Rosenbaum Grain Corp . and thus comply with the federal court order . This - evening up process is not expected to create any unusual disturbance in the pits , since the clearing house position is not believed to be excessive . Considerable of this position is understood to be in the form of hedges against grain in store . Will Re-Hedge The grain in store will doubtless become the property of banks who made loans and accepted warehouse receipts as collateral . These new owners of the grliin will , in turn , probably rehedge this grain with sales of futures , thus creating a market cushion for the evening up which will take place on behalf of Rosenbaum Grain Corp . Commitments of Rosenbaum Grain Corp . other than ti-se under the jurisdiction of the Board of Trade Clearing House Corp . will be liquidated by the trustee . L. T. Sayre , secretary of the firm , which is being reorganized . The Rosenbaum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties , which is conducted under the Illinois warehouse laws for grain storage belonging to others . The receipts covering this grain are not involved in the reorganization of the Rosenbaum Grain Corp . and the integrity of the receipts issued by the Chicago elevator properties is not impaired . The grain owned by Rosenbaum Grain Corp . in their own privately operated elevators other than the Chicago elevator properties becomes a part of the assets of the parent company in reorganizing under the trusteeship of L. T. Sayre . Trade opinion is that orders placed through other brokerage firms in order to reinstate position of customers on books of Rosenbaum Grain Corp . will be handled in such a way , under the guidance of the business conduct committee and the market report committee , that there will be a minimum disturbance in the natural movement of the market .                     