@@697081

txt THE RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS To the Editor of The New York Times : The letter of James H. Winston in THE TIMES of Feb. 24 undoubtedly expresses the feeling of many former Rhodes scholars . It is true that when the proposal was made , in 1926 , to change the plan of selecting the scholars on the basis of States by creating districts of six States each from which scholars would be chosen without regard to States , a majority of the former Rhodes scholars expressed their approval of the proposed system . Since that time many who voted for the change have altered their views , as was evident at the reunion of Rhodes scholars held in Oxford last Summer . Apart from the legal aspects of the matter , the principal objection to the new system is that certain States are very likely to be discriminated against . riot so much by design perhaps as by the practical working of the system . In each of the eight groups great inequalities between the States will exist  --  inequalities of population and educational facilities which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate : ; qualified for Rhodes scholarships than other States . The result is therefore likely to be that in any given district some States will receive appointments regularly and others only occasionally , and that in the less successful States interest in the scholarships will decline , which would be a calamity . It would be absurd to deny that in some States qualified candidates are sometimes hard to find , and that a man not of the highest calibre may be appointed when in a neighboring State there are several first-class candidates for a single scholarship . The remedy in this case is for committees of selection to refuse to appoint or for the Rhodes trustees to create a gnieral committee in the United States to pass upon all appointments . Furthermore , it should be " remembered that the Rhodes scholars give something to Oxford as well as enjoy its advantages ; at least they help interpret the United States to England , and it will be a great misfortune if they ' come to be chosen chiefly from the populous , wealthy States . BERNADOTTE E. SCHMITT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . INDIAN INDEPENDENCE . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your report of the Foreign Policy Association 's discussion on India in Sunday morning 's issue you quoted Silendranath Ghose , described as president of the American branch of the Indian National Congress , as saying that " if the desire for liberty be met with military resistance , we ( the people of India ) would resort to the means the American people employed in 1776 . " The report creates the impression that Mr. Ghose 's declaration of preparedness to war on England by killing Englishmen carries the Indian congress 's authority . The fact is quite the contrary . Congress is pledged against the use of violence in any form by resolution passed last January . I hold a special cable from the president of the Indian National Congress definitely asserting that Indians would not resort to violence " even under provocation . " The same point was stressed by Gandhi in his message to America Jan. 8 . Mr. Ghose does not represent the Indian people nor the Indian Congress when he announces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor planning to undertake armed rebellion , even when troops fire . Followers of Gandhi and the majority of the National Congress are resolved to end British rule by a sustained , unyielding , united self-contr011ed , strictly non-violent campaign of Civil Disobedience , paying whatever price is demanded of them  --  even death . It is important that the American people be not misled into regarding as representative of India statements of Ghose , who voices only the views of a small , militant minority in that country , populated by over three hundred million peaceful human beings . T. H. K. REZMIE . Executive Director , India Independence League of America . New York , Feb. 24 , 1930.                     