@@703100

txt Although the current operatiims of the domestic air transport industry are still reflecting the sharp decline in business which ' developed last November , the recent traffic trend has given definite indications of stabilization which may indicate that the worst of the immediate slump in air lines ' business has now been passed . From a comparative standpoint , this situation indicates that there is a reasonably good chance that air line passenger traffic in the first quarter will show some increase over the like period of last year when business fell off much more than seasonally as the result of unusually poor weather conditions and a series of major accidents . Thus far in January , the available information indicates that total passenger traffic of the industry has been running ahead of the like period a year ago . In the final quarter of 1937 , on the other hand , traffic , as measured by revenue passenger miles . was about 16% lower than in the preceding year , reflecting sharp declines in November and December . Comparative Tread The comparative trend in the fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like 1936 quarter was on an unusually high seasonally adjusted basis , having been 81% larger than in the final quarter of 1935 as contrasted with a 33% gain in the first nine months of that year . In the first quarter of 1937 , however . traffic dropped oti 38% from the preceding quarter as against a comparable seasonal - decline of only 3% in the preceding year . An important influence on whether a higher level of traffic can be attained this quarter will rest on the industry 's safety record and its ability to avoid further accidents comparable to those which had an unfavorable repercussion on air travel a year ago . From an earnings standpoint , combined results for the current quarter undoubtedly will be in the red. , thus continuing the trend of 1937 when the industry as a whole incurred a ' net loss of-about 83,0041400 - for year : Close to ' One-half of -Thli -- lokirloz:the. *erforiis In the first " qtrarter - And tise-reirialiIiier principally in the last quarter of the year . On a monthly basis , operations last year in most cases did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating costs higher than a year ago , some increase in traffic would probably be required merely to hold the industry 's net loss this quarter to the same proportions as a year ago . In addition to higher ordinary operating expenses , the extensive safety programs now being undertaken are adding to current expenses . Further Expansion Seen Although it is conceded that air transportation has now reached a size where its traffic no longer is fully immune to the effects of general business recession , forecasts of the probable 1938 traffic by most airline officials anticipate further expansion this year . The fact that all major lines are now fully equipped with new . larger equipment which was not fully available throughout 1937 is one element in this appraisal of the 1938 outlook . The basic factor of course , is the large amount of new business potentially available through promotion . Undoubtedly , however , the chances of larger traffic for 1938 as a whole hinge largely on whether general business conditions begin to improve in the spring or summer or whether a prolonged slump is in prospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appraisal of 1938 results can be attempted until ' there is clarification art to the status of the air lines in Wishington . On the question of regulation , the prospects are considered favorable for the enactment of legislation for regulation of air lines either by the Interstate Commerce Commission or by an independent aviation commission . In either case , if such legislation follows the lines generally incorporated in the pending McCarran-Lea bin , it is anticipated that the industry would benefit from elimination of problems caused by the multiple division of governmental authority over the lines and from general stabilization of competitive conditions . Air Mail Payments ' Status An even more important immediate question is the status of air mail payments after July 1 . 1938 , on which date the Interstate Commerce Commission is required by the Air Mall Act to fix air mail rates which will balance payments with the " aggregate cost " of the air mail service to the Government . In the fiscal year ended June 30 , 1937 , domestic air mail postage revenues amounted to $12,439.579 or only $282,707 less than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Office accounting procedure , however , a proportionate share of the total costs of the postal service are allocated to air mail with the result that the aggregate coat of the air mail was placed by the Department at $19,117,129 . Consequently , if the above-mentioned clause in the Air Mail Act remains unchanged by the new legislation , the ICC 's determination of what actually constitutes the total cost of air mail service will have a vital bearing on the industry 's future earnings status . The ICC has scheduled a hearing on this question for February 1 . From the standpoint of passenger rates , the general opinion in the industry is that the rate structure prevailing last summer probably will be restored by next spring when the peak traffic season begins . The special reductions now in effect on some lines , although not affecting a large part of the total business , are naturally resulting in somewhat lower average rate per mile than existed last summer .                     