@@701339

txt A careful analysis of reports that the Ethiopian situation may be cleared up without Italy 's resorting to war has revealed no single fact in substantiation . Troops assembled by Premier Benito Mussolini in Eritrea and Italian Somaliland or on their way there total already , according to the best advices , about 200,000 men . Il Duce obviously can not withdraw them empty-handed or even without full hands . That would mean the ruin of his regime . It might even evoke a revolution , which would hasten the European explosion everybody is eager to avert . However , there is not the slightest sign that a withdrawal is contemplated . Dispatches to London from Eritrea and neighboring points to which the Italians have penetrated describe colonial harbors as filled with ships which are being unloaded of men and stores as fast as human ingenuity can accomplish it . Path Prepared for Advance . Italians already ashore are being rushed to the higher ground of the interior , where they are establishing base camps , building roads and generally working night and day despite rains and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any suggestion , therefore , that the pressure of outside opinion or the remonstrances of old friends are likely to induce the Italian dictator to relent seem to have a poor foundation . Apparently he has staked his future on this hazard and must stand or fall on it . On the other hand , the hope of successfully exerting pressure upon Ethiopia to concede the Italian demands seems almost as futile . No one knows precisely what those demands are , because the Italian Gov-1 ernment has thus far been deaf to all appeals to formulate them . There is , however , plenty of collateral evidence to indicate that they are so sweeping as to leave the Ethiopian Emperor merely a shadow of his present authority and that only in a territory so restricted as to approach total dismemberment . It was notable that , in Emperor Haile Sellassie 's telegram to THE NEW YORE : Times foreshadowing the Italian attitude , he mentioned prominently that the demands included a corridor through the heart of his kingdom , in which the Italians would build a railway linking their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exercise absolute sovereignty . This is a revelation of importance , because Italy has thus far never openly made such a demand . Yet the Emperor must have serious evidence of it , since he so emphatically rejects it . It would obviously mean the relegation of his kingdom to a mere Italian subsidiary . Emperor 's Throne Is Insecure . However , apart from this , it is pretty well known that the position of Haile Sellassie is not so secure that he can risk the bitter resentment of his subjects by conceding too much to Italy . Not only has he had difficulty in the past in maintaining his throne amid an aggregation of jealous , unruly tribal chieftains , each a law unto himself in his own territory , but he is continually menaced by pretenders to his throne . When he installed himself on the throne he defeated these pretenders in turn , but Ethiopian precedent forbids killing any royal or pseudoroyai personage except in battle . Several of these pretenders to the throne , therefore , are still alive and domiciled in different parts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , any real excuse which would unite these unruly , rebellious malcontents against the present incumbent would probably entail his losing his throne and probably his life . Since most Ethiopian chiefs remember Adowa ( where the Ethiopians defeated an Italian force forty years ago ) and have no knowledge whatever of the progress of modern armament since then , they would prefer to fight Italy rather than yield a single bit of territory or a prerogative . So the Emperor 's position is easy to conceive . He dares not , even if he would , make any considerable sacrifice to avert an Italian onslaught . The only possible basis , therefore , for the optimism with which public opinion is tending to view the Ethiopian situation seems to be in the better inter-European relations that have developed since the speech of Sir Samuel Hoare , British Foreign Secretary , in the House of Commons . While the speech has been received with chilly comment in Germany and as yet there is no indication that Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler will yield to the British Foreign Secretary 's appeal for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have received the British advances more cordially . One Hope of Persuasion . Real cooperation between France and Britain , possibly with some American diplomatic backing in sternly presenting the evil consequences of his Ethiopian adventure to Premier Mussolini , seems to afford the only possible hope of effecting a compromise . There are two sides to this : Italy must be persuaded to moderate her demands , and Ethiopia must be coerced into yielding enough to satisfy her irate opponent . The present situation affords scant prospect of success in either direction . Yet the need is so urgent that it may be taken for granted that the effort to meet it will be in proportion . If Italy declares war on Ethiopia , another member State , all that the League of Nations stands for will be stultified . If the League acts against Italy , the latter will leave Geneva ; and , however the League might be considered to be strengthened morally , the fact would remain that four of the world 's great powers  --  the United States , Japan , Germany and Italy  --  would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russia  --  still upholding it . The League 's writ no longer runs in America , Asia or Africa . The result of Italian withdrawal might be a certainty that in any circumstances whatever , where necessity might call for , it would no longer run in Europe without that war which the League was established to prevent .                     