@@701227

txt Doubtless not all the persons demanding the continuance of the NRA in substantially its present form for two years are actuated solely by a concern for the national welfare . Some wish to keep their NRA jobs in Washington or on Code Authorities ; others , representing some business unit , wish to continue to control prices and trade practices in their own interest . The existence of this self-seeking propaganda should not blind us , however , to the merits of the arguments that the disinterested opponents of the Senate NRA . resolution have put forward . The ablest critic of the Senate resolution is Mr. RICHBERG . His central argument for wishing the existing NRA continued is that it provided for the re-employment of from 2,500,000 to 3,000,000 workers exclusive of those engaged in certain seasonal industries . If the NRA were abandoned , he testified before the House Ways and Means Committee , I would hate to estimate the number that would be thrown out of employment , since the full effect would depend upon the extent of collapse of hours and wages provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think it conservative to say that you might find 2,000,000 additional wage-earners on relief rolls . This argument rests on the fact that , when the forty-hour week was adopted in most of the codes many industries previously working longer hours immediately took on more workers to turn out their accustomed amount of goods . This was reflected in a sharp drop in the unemployment figures in the three months from June to September , 1933 . But unemployment is still at substantially the same figure as it was then . A study by the National Industrial Conference Board of manufacturing changes from July , 1933 , to February , 1935 , showed that while employment had increased 13.6 per cent , labor costs per unit of output had gone up 44.8 per cent and output had declined 6.2 per cent . The increase in hourly wage rates to offset the shorter hours , in other words , forced up prices , and this in conjunction with price-fixing led to a restriction of sales and hence of production . It is impossible to predict exactly what the effect on employment would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But if the foregoing analysis is correct , it means that even if abandonment of present NRA codes were to lead to an increase in unemployment for a few months , the long-run effect would be an increase in employment through wider markets and a sounder adjustment of the price - structure . Some of Mr. RICHBERG 'S other points are well taken . One of these concerns the practical absurdity of trying to revise some 700 codes in a period of thirty days . Another relates to the legal vagueness of the'Senate 's declaration against " price-fixing , " which by itself does not mean either " pricefixing by private agreement " or " price-fixing by governmental action . " The proposed House resolution , however , while it is against " price-fixing by concerted action , " sanctions endorsement of provisions to " prohibit discriminatory price-cutting . " This might prove self-canceling in practice , for much of the price-fixing under the present codes is done precisely under the guise of prohibiting " discriminatory " price-cutting . As to the differences between the House and Senate resolutions regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court on the Schechter case will doubtless prove more important than any wording which Congress adopts .                     