@@704389

txt Cordial responses have been received by President Roosevelt from the Catholic , Protestant and Jewish leaders to whom he wrote inviting their cooperation in a world peace move . The public 's reaction to the President 's Christmas peace letter , as expressed in telegrams and letters , was said today at the White House to be overwhelmingly favorable . The Apostolic Delegate , Archbishop Amleto G. Cicognani , sent to the President a message acknowledging for the Papal Secretary of State receipt of the letter and expressing the " profound gratitude " of Pope Pius XII that Mr. Roosevelt had appointed as his personal representative to the Vatican Myron C. Taylor , retired chairman of the board of the United States Steel Corporation . " The Holy Father desires to assure the President that his representative will be cordially received in a manner befitting the highly important mission entrusted to him , " the message stated . The President 's message , Archbishop Cicognani said , brought great joy to the Holy See because it contained " such high hopes of spiritual and civil benefits for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From Dr. George A. Buttrick , president of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America , came a telegram , already made public , accepting the President 's invitation to the Protestant clergy and laity to join in the peace aim , and pledging the council to do everything " to seek under God a world order in which unmerited poverty and lurking fear and the threat of war shall be banished . " Dr. Cyrus Adler , president of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America , said in his letter of acceptance that " it is a noble deed to bring the forces of religion together . " He promised to convey the President 's message to the various rabbinical associations for transmission to their congregations , and declared that he could say " without qualifications that the watchword of the Jewish people in Israel 's mission is peace and that this holds true for all the scattered communities in which the Jewish people have been dispersed and are now , alas , being further dispersed with great brutality . " President Roosevelt announced that Dr. Buttrick and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the views expressed in his Christmas peace letter that he desired that the two religious leaders should see him as often as they liked . At his press conference today Mr. Roosevelt expressed satisfaction that the papal State and Italy would work for peace along parallel lines . The more nations and governments that did things like that , the better it was , he commented . Reporters tried in vain to get the President to tell what Mr. Taylor 's specific duties would be at the Vatican . Mr. Taylor 's appointment will not take him from his work as vice chairman of the Inter-governmental Committee on Refugees , the President said . Of more than 400 telegrams received at the White House concerning Mr. Taylor 's appointment as peace emissary to the Vatican , only four might be called critical , according to Stephen T. Early of the White House staff . The rest were commendatory , Mr. Early said , and other expressions received by mail contained praise of the President 's peace efforts and of his designation of Mr. Taylor as his personal representative to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent since 1867 . The four messages of an adverse nature , Mr. Early said , were based on a misunderstanding of the news reports on the President 's letter to the Pope . He said these messages were written on the assumption that this was a " diplomatic recognition " of the Vatican , adding that when the announcement was made on Saturday he made it plain that the relationship would not be a diplomatic one , but that Mr. Taylor was to be Mr. Roosevelt 's personal representative . Mr. Early , commenting upon Mr. Roosevelt 's invitation to Dr. Buttrick and Dr. Adler to confer with him as often as they liked , said the President held himself open to them here " just as we hope the Vatican will hold itself open to the man we send there . " Welcomes Talk With Critics The President would be glad to talk to any of the critics of his move , Mr. Early said . The White House Secretary reiterated what he said Saturday , that Mr. Taylor would have the same status as that held by Norman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . Mr. Roosevelt has no concern that his naming of a representative to the Vatican will lead to a recognition of a temporal status with the Papal State , Mr. Early explained . " The President has the right under the Constitution , " he added , " to send a personal representative to any place at any time or on any occasion . There is no reason why it should lead to any assumption that it is a diplomatic move . I think the protests are due to a misunderstanding of the President 's plans and motives . " " Fine Move , " Says Martin Kennedy By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Dec. 26 ? Representative Martin J. Kennedy of New York said in a statement today that President Roosevelt 's appointment of a personal representative to the Vatican was " a fine move in the direction of peace . " " The President is to be congratulated for joining with the Pontiff in his efforts to restore peace to a troubled world , " he stated . " I am sure he will have the whole-hearted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want peace . It would be unfortunate if the quibbling of short-sighted people over details should imperil the chances of bringing an end to hostilities abroad . "                     