@@703195

txt A thorough investigation of the Tennessee Valley Authority by a joint committee of the House and Senate was demanded today by- Dr. Arthur E. Morgan , chairman , as the long-standing breach between him and the other two members of the board , Harcourt A. Morgan and David E. Lilienthal , reached a point where healing appeared utterly impossible . This newest manifestation of the feud in the TVA directorate was precipitated by the decision of a Federal Commission , in Knoxville , Tenn. , yesterday , denying the claims of Senator Berry and his associates for marble properties allegedly destroyed by the Authority 's Norris Dam . From the wording and tone of a statement issued for him here tonight , Dr. Morgan took the commission 's decision as a complete vindication of the stand he took at the outset , and in which he was not supported by his associates , that the Berry claims were nothing short of an attempt to exploit the government . Morgan Testified at Hearing Dr. Morgan , who is vacationing in Florida , testified recently in the condemnation proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view ? and charging that his fellow-TVA directors wanted to conciliate the claims . Dr. H. A. Morgan and Mr. Lilienthal responded with the accusation that their chairman had testified with " false and malicious inferences . " Taking the commission 's rejection of the Berry claims as his cue , Dr. Morgan contended that this case represented the kind of difficulty with which , ELFI chairman of the i IVA Board , he had been faced in 1 the effort " to maintain good stand1 ards of public service . " He expressed a fear that the whole TVA program , in which he claimed a firm belief , was jeopardized by this sort of business . " The real difficulty , " he said , " has been in the effort to secure honesty , openness , decency , and fairness in government . The Berry - marble case is an instance of this difficulty . " Dr. Morgan 's demand for a joint Congressional inquiry found - two measures already pending seeking investigations . One by Senator Norris , would have the Federal Trade Commission undertake the task , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House committee . Dr. Morgan maintained that it would take a joint committee to give adequate representation of all iimportant attitudes toward the TVA . An investigation ? by the Federal Trade Commission would be restricted , he felt , because it would be an inquiry by one governmental agency into the affairs of another , while a study by a single committee of either the Senate or House would have certain unavoidable limitations as to personnel . The TVA , Dr. Morgan contended , " deserves a fair and open hearing , which is full and impartial , with nothing hidden and without predilection for or against any person or against the TVA itself . - He said that the TVA was not only important within itself , deserving the most careful , administration and guidance , but that it represented the case *of a new form of governmental organization , a new policy toward the fertilizer industry . " It is important not only for itself but as a type of governmental method and attitude , " he said . Reviews Berry 's Marble Case Most of Dr. Morgan 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marble case . He said that he first became aware of the *seriousness of the Berry claims in June , 1936 , when he read reports of geologists , marble experts and others - to the effect that the claims ' were for millions of dollars and , from the same experts , that the properties were actually worthless as to commercial value . The claims seemed to him then , he said , to represent an effort to " exploit " the government , consequently he prepared a memorandum to bring the experts ' reports to the attention of the other two . TVA directors , urging that no settlement be made until the propriety of the claims could be determined . Dr. Morgan recited that ' in July , 1936 , during his absence and without notification to him , Dr. H. A. Morgan and Mr. Lilienthal entered into a " friendly agreement " with Major Berry , then President Roosevelt 's Coordinator for Industrial Cooperation , to determine the value of the marble , which by that time was mostly under water and inaccessible . The agreement was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether there was evidence of bad faith . " Says He Protested Pact " I vigorously and repeatedly protested this agreement , " Dr. Morgan said , " holding that it seemed to give color of propriety and legitimacy to what appeared to me to be an effort to exploit the government . " He also disclosed that he had entered into correspondence on the subject with Mr. Berry , in which he insisted that the primary importance of the matter was not the economic value of the deposits , but the propriety with which the matter was to be conducted , especially since the leading figure in the ownership , Major Berry , was a public official . His protests against the marble settlement continued from " June , 1936 , to February , 1937 , Dr. Morgan said . On Feb. 25 , 1937 , Directors H. A. Morgan and Mr. Lilienthal formally reaffirmed the " friendly conciliation agreement " at a board meeting , according to his story . Dr. Morgan did not dwell long upon the recent condemnation proceedings which , at their first stage , ended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associates . He avoided making any public statement on the subject , he said , until the day the condemnation hearing was to close and when all prospects had passed that the other directors would take steps which , " it seemed to me , were necessary to protect the public interest . " It was his testimony on that occasion that brought the accusations of " false and . malicious inferences " from the other board members . TVA Headquarters Silent By The Associated Press . KNOXVILLE , Tenn. , March 2 . ? No official source within the TVA would comment tonight on the accusations made by Dr. A. E. Morgan in . a statement released in Washington . Both David E. Lilienthal and Dr. H. A. Morgan , who bore the brunt of the criticisms , were out of the city . Lilienthal left this afternoon for Washington . Whether he knew of the statement when he left could not be learned . Dr. Morgan 's home reported that he was on a. speaking tour and that his itinerary was not known here . However , James Lawrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement earlier today in which he said the Federal Commission 's decision in the Senator George L. Berry marble case veal a " vindication " for the board of directors of the Authority . Chairman Morgan made his first I public criticism of his associates in testifying last December in the Berry marble case . He disclosed then that he held a minority role on the TVA board and said he had little voice in its affairs .                     