@@701809

txt The intrusion of government into competition with private enterprise , " except in situations where the public welfare can only thus be served , is wholly destructive , " according to the Committee on Government Competition with Private Enterprise , it was announced today by George L. Berry , Coordinator of Industrial Cooperation . The committee 's report was made available to President Roosevelt . The report , after setting forth exceptional circumstances under which the government was justified in entering private industry , concluded that the government 's function was to protect the economic activities of its citizens and not to supplant them . It was pointed out that withdrawal from private enterprise would reduce governmental expenditures and increase Federal revenues . THE TEXT OF THE REPORT The report reads : " Your committee has completed a preliminary study of the subject assigned to it and has reviewed such reports of public and private agencies as have been available in the short time since its formation . It is anticipated that additional data in the nature of reports , statistics , &c.,; may later be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may desire to submit a later report . " At the outset of our studies and deliberations the committee unanimously adopted the following reso-lution : " ' That government competition with private industry for the purpose of this committee 's report shall be construed to mean direct competition by the Federal Government with private enterprise . ' " Your committee recognizes that there are distinct types of government participation in business which should be continued and encouraged , for example : " A  --  Certain governmental activities aimed toward the advancement of science and scientific knowledge , the acquisition and distribution of information to commerce , agriculture and business . Such functions are normal governmental operations , normally planned and executed by Federal departments and not economically feasible by private business . " B  --  Such governmental functions as the national defense program , the maintenance , control and improvement of navigable waters , flood control , irrigation and prevention of soil erosion which are normally governmental functions but which in these facilities of private enterprise should be utilized in the interest of economy and efficiency . Conditions Where Justified " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following conditions is the government justified in entering into competition with private enterprise . " 1 . When required to assure adequate preparation for , and creation of , the facilities for national defense . " 2 . For the conservation of natural resources . " 3 . When for any reason private enterprise . fails to conduct needed scientific research and exploratory activities to advance industrial development or in the interest of public health and safety . " 4 . When . for any reason private enterprise fails to render a service necessary for the general welfare . " Government competition with private enterprise is not normally justified to preclude the possibility of the exploitation of the public by private industry , since the antitrust laws may be relied upon to control and correct this situation . " The intrusion of , government into competition With private enterprise , except in situations where the public welfare can only thus be served , is wholly destructive . It invites and cultivates a growth of bureaucracy . It necessarily increases government expenditures while decreasing tax revenues , and it operates to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Citedm " Once embarked upon this course , the government is placed in the difficult position of having either to absorb the functions of private enterprise which its competition has destroyed or of withdrawing completely from the devitalized fields of private activity . " Withdrawal is always difficult because of the human equation operating ' through the entirely natural desire of government employes to continue to hold their jobs . Any activity once introduced into the government inevitably tends to expand to larger and more formidable proportions . " The government 's true function is to protect and promote the economic activities of its citizens , not to supplant them . " Government competition is felt to such an extent that an enumeration of examples is beyond the scope and ability of this report , 11 but an example is found in pres- ' , ent government competition with the construction industry , not only because of the size and controlling importance of this industry but be , cause of its influence on all branches of heavy industry which , through construction , provide the foundation and framework for the prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of production and employment , this industry normally is of primary importance as a stabilizer of labor conditions through its widely diversified employment , ranging from the professions of de ' sign and supervision , through the various skilled trades and construction arts , to the unskilled labor on the work , and from there to the factory , mill , forest and mine for the procurement of materials of construction . " Construction materials reach into all branches of industry and their production and incorporation in construction constitute the most important normal field of employment for all classes of labor . " A revival of private industry will permit the return of labor to ' its normal occupations , will hasten the return to American standards of efficiency and maintain the dignity of labor which has made the American working man the nation 's greatest single influence for the advancement of democratic ideals . Conclusions of the Report " In conclusion , except as set out in the opening paragraphs of this report , your committee finds : " 1 . The expansion of government function into fields of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disturbing element in the nation 's business . " 2 . That the government expenditures will be reduced and revenue increased if the Federal Govern . ment withdraws from competition with private enterprise except under the conditions hereinbefore specified . " 3 . That the government 's function is to protect and promote the economic activities of its citizens , not to supplant them . Under normal economic conditions , government competition with private enterprise is conducive to the destruction of the nation 's established profit system and contributes to the development of a socialized industry . " And finally your committee recommends that the Federal Government pursue the sound policy of using to the maximum the facilities of private enterprise . "                     