@@700617

txt Details of legislation , which would nationalize silver , eutablish it as a basic monetary and reserve metal , and provide for gradual disretionary purchase by the Treasury were discussed in conferenceq between Treasury officials and members of the sliver bloc in the Senate . It was stated that no conclusion/ were reached and that Secretary Morgenthau would study over night the various plans submitted , confer further with President Roosevelt and report to the Senate group again Thursday Meantime , it was clearly indicated in high Administration quarters that the three-point plan would be acceptable to the Administration , even though it contains mandatory R. well as permissive features . However , the Administration naturally can approve no legislation in advance of drafting . Borah Withdraws From Parley Another development of the day ? aq withdrawal from the silver conferetee Seliatoi Borah. setting up the possibility that a fight for more extensive silver purchases than contemplated in the three point plan may be conducted in the Senate . Senator King of Utah . acting as spokesman for the groups , stated that no definite legislative draft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definite plan to present on Thursday . It is understood that Secretary Morgenthau presented a silver bill to the conference at the Capitol Wednesday , which was not agreed upon . and the silver group of the Senate presented a plan which the Secretary hesitated to accept . The result was that the whole Ili isttet all he studied by the Treasury experts and a plan submitted at a further meeting on Thursday . Permissive or Mandatory f ' Senator Borah in quitting the conference held that the legislation under discussion was permissive . This was not the vice. - of Senator King , nor the view of President Roosevelt , who pointed out that the nationalization of silver would be a mandate of Congreuet and that the proposed declaration for ? estabnahiaent of monetary reserve of 75% gold and 25% silver would be a statement of national policy . However , the policy would not be made effective immediately so - there would also be that permissive feature . In the view of Senator King , nationalization of silver and a declaration for 75-25 monetary reserves would be mandatory . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Senator King , which would not pin the Treasury to a scientific quantitative purchase program . If the views of Senator Borah are carried out it would call for a six months ' suspension of any silver legislation and the issue would be taken before tht people of the country . Conferees Withhold Details " The proposed legislation is permissive in character and I am not interested in it at all . " Senator Borah said . " I think we had better wait and discuss this matter before the people during the next six months and then see what we can get . This proposition does not provide for any currency at all " In explaining the proceedings at the conference Senator King stated that a number of senators had submitted proposed drafts representing in part their views as to silver legislation . The Secretary of the Treasury also submitted a draft . The conference voted to bind members not to discuss details of the proceedings which took place between Secretary Morgenthau and the silver Senators . The groups was disposed to await Mr. Morgenthau 's report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . While the White House was admitting the presence of some mandatory features in the proposed silver legislation . It was also pointed out that these features were in accord with long determined Administration policy , and that the infiltration of silver into monetary reserves was the feature of a resolution carried to the London economic conference last summer . Roosevelt 's ' Views The new consideration , according to the President , is the plan for silver nationalization . The President does not believe he has the power to nationalize silver under the Thomas amendment , but is inclined to agree that silver , if made a reserve metal . should be treated the same as gold , except that silver coins would not be removed from circulation as gold coins have been Those who sought answers to a number of specific question.s which were raised by possibility of adoption of the proposed three points were left disappointed . How much silver would have to be purchased to achieve the 75-25 ratio was uncertain . Treasury officials apparently assumed that the silver purchased by the Treasury would be arbitrarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were done the amount to be purchased would be much less than if the silver were given its market value or the value of 50 cents , at which figure it is proposed to take over domestic stocks . Neither had the conferences reached consideration of such questions as to how nationalization would affect silver imports . It was suggested that these might be governed by regulation to be permitted under the terms of legislation now being drawn . Pittman Prepares Draft Senator Pittman indicated that he had prepared a brief draft of policy language for Herman Oliphant , treasury assistant , which would not only authorize , but direct , that the silver policy be carried out . The indications are that the mandatory features in the silver legislation with respect to policy will be stronger than anticipated , although President Roosevelt must ' give his anal consent before the legislation is taken to Congress for action The draft according to Senator Pittman , would authorize and direct the Secretary of the Treasury to establish and maintain a metallic reserve of which 25.7 " c would be silver . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made a primary monetary oasis of currency . It also contains a proviso of at any time the world price of silver exceeds per ounce , the Secretary of the Treasury sell silver and replace it later when he can do so without disturbing world monetary conditions .                     