@@701184

txt An outline of German rearmament and its ostensible purpose , in so far as either of these can be revealed without exposing military secrets , was given today by Air Minister Hermann Wilhelm Goering at a luncheon tendered to him and his wife by the Foreign Correspondents Association of Berlin . Germany 's rearmament , General Goering said , is " Germany 's greatest contribution to world peace " because it is purely defensive and removes from other powers the temptation to settle their own differences at the expense of an unarmed country in the centre of Europe . He likewise insisted that Germany was willing to go as far in disarmament as any power , but neither further nor first , and he warned that Germany 's defensive forces generally and her air fleet particularly were already so strong that whoever dared to attack her would do so at considerable risk . Wants League Apology . At the same time he announced that " what Germany gave herself she will keep " and that she would not go back to Geneva under any circumstances  --  or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From General Goering 's luncheon speech released for publication and from some later informal conversations over coffee cups , which is usable as information , but not for quotation , there emerges the following composite picture of the German program as General Goering presented it : First , Germany is determined to carry through her program for a conscript army of thirty-six divi-I sions approximating 500,000 menH Conscription will become effective Oct.1 and the term will be one year except for technical divisions , the members of which will serve longer voluntarily . From other sources it is learned that twenty-seven of these divisions are supposed to be already in existence in more or less full strength and the rest are sup- ' posed to be still in skeleton form . Secondly , Germany 's air fleet has already achieved parity with Great Britain 's and , in General Goering 's own words in his speech , " will always be as strong as any combination in the world for or against peace . " In later conversations General Goering explained these words by saying that Germany sought air parity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioning the idea of a combination and without claiming parity with Soviet Russia 's far larger air fleet . He declined to reveal the actual strength of the German air fleet , but , citing a Berlin colloquialism , he said it was " small  --  but 0-ho ! ! " He further emphasized that the German air fleet was the most modern in existence ; that the morale of its personnel was better than that of any other air force , and that the German anti-aircraft guns were , according to his belief , the best and most effective in the world . But he ridiculed rumors of un- derground airports and " death rays " able to stop the motors of a hostile air fleet as fantasies of fertile imaginations . Zeppelins , he added , have been discarded as war craft because they have proved too vulnerable and would become an easy prey of any little airplane . Thirdly , Germany 's navy , for which the Reich wants a strength equal to 35 per cent of the British Navy , is designed to be a coast defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new submarines , as they were out of his jurisdiction , but he did say that Germany had no interest in aircraft carriers because she had no intention of going abroad . For the purposes of the naval air fleet , which will be merely part of the general air fleet , he said , the airports along the coast will be quite sufficient . Sees Russian Threat . In amplifying the political pronouncements of his speech General Goering remarked that he could not understand how Britain could feel herself threatened by Germany , but he dwelt strongly on the threat that Russia 's armaments , especially the Russian air fleet , presented to Germany . He seemed particularly proud of Germany 's achievements in antiaircraft guns , particularly the aiming and plane-locating devices perfected by the famous Zeiss optical works at Jena . Although he withheld details , it appeared that the aiming was being done according to searchlight beams and sounddirection finders . A German air squadron , General Goering said , comprises 81 pilots and approximately 100 planes , the excess planes consisting of special service planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squadrons was parried by the Air Minister with a laugh . However , squadrons have already been named after three German war aces , Richthofen , Immelmann and Boelke , and one presented by the Storm Troops after Horst Wessel , the Nazi party martyr . According to the latest available information , the British air force has 1,080 planes , of which only 560 are available for home service , while the French have 1 ; 670 ; somewhere between these two figures , therefore , would lie the German air fleet 's strength . At the same time General Goering made it plain that if others increased their strength Germany would follow suit and since in his speech he outlined how she had built up her air fleet in short order by elaborate industrial preparation she has no fear of getting behind . It appears that Germany has all the pilots she needs . They were trained in passenger and sport planes , and each accepted pilot has more than 100 flying hours to his credit . Also each pilot after having completed his training immediately took on two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion . In addition , it seems that in case of emergency Germany could makeuse of her passenger planes , although not as fighting planes but only for limited purposes .                     