@@699598

txt The setting aside of a city high School for New York 's specially gifted children , so that they may receive particular attention and training in accordance with their ability was advocated yesterday by Dr.Abraham Flexner , director of the Institute of Advanced Study and noted educator . He addressed the ninth annual meeting and luncheon of science teachers of New York at the Biltmore , attended by more than 650 teachers in the various sciences in the city 's public and high schools . " There is much talk nowadays about economic waste , " said Dr. Flexner , " but no one says a word about the tremendous intellectual waste that goes down into the gutter in the city of New York . Some years ago , when I was a member of the Board of Education in Mayor IMitchel 's administration , I proposed setting aside one of the city 's high schools for the city 's gifted children , irrespective of race , creed , color , social position or wealth . My proposition was defeated by a vote of something like 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you to do your utmost to bring this thing about . While we must do all we can for the average child and the subnormal child , we must not do it at the expense of the gifted child , who is now being held back by the children of average mentality . " A democracy like ours must have leadership of brains if we do not want such calamities as took place last week to be repeated . possibly on even a larger scale . Such intelligent leadership for the future will be vastly helped by the bringing together in one school of all the brilliant children of the city . " The Institute of Advanced Study at Princeton ( of which Dr. Einstein is a member ) is now in the process of formation . The work of such an institute would be greatly aided by work in pre-college and even elementary schools . " Dr. Karl T. Compton , President of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , another speaker , said that one of the most serious criticisms of our methods of education in science is our tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of preliminary information which has already been worked out 1 for others and is laid out before him for his own benefit . Such a study , Dr. Compton pointed out , deprives the student of the enthusiasm of discovery and the feeling of cooperative contribution to the subject characteristic of the young student . For this reason , he added , the chief problem- - before a science teacher is that of presenting his subject in such a way as to enlist this cooperative spirit of inquiry on the part of the student . Constructive thought given to this problem is of far more value to the science teacher than the more usual kinds of emphasis on educational methods , he held . The luncheon was given under the auspices of the New York City Science Council , the Chemistry Teachers Club , General Science Association , New York Association of Biology Teachers , Physics Club of New York and the Physiographers and Geographers Club . . ether speakers at the meeting were Dr. Harry N. Holmes of Oberlin College and Dr. Harold G. Campbell , deputy and associate superintendent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ De Witt Clinton High School , was the toastmaster . Dr. H. H. Sheldon , president of the American Institute and chairman of the Department of Physics at New York ? University , introduced Dr. Compton . Dr. Holmes , who spoke on recent applications of colloid chemistry , told of several recent developments in that field , demonstrating some of these by experiment . Dr. Holmes is now engaged in research on the border line between colloid chemistry and medicine and is now using colloid technique in an effort to isolate vitamin A , having already obtained a tremendously rich concentrate . Dr. Holmes said that oil sande , which contain tremendous amounts of hitherto unrecoverable petroleum , can now be made to disgorge their oil by flooding these sands with water containing sodium hydroxide or other substances strongly attracted to the surface of the sand grains . He also told of a new method of making mayonnaise with soy-bean flour paste instead of eggs as the emulsifying agent . Touching on the field of medicine Dr. Holmes said that the application of the principles of colloid chemistry to cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cancer problem . Guests at the luncheon included Dr. Paul Klepper , dean of City College ; Dr. Joseph K. Van Denburg of the Board of EducationA Sinclair J. Wilson , acting director , of high school organization ; Dr. , J. L. Tildsley and Herman Hal Wright , district superintendent assigned to high schools ; Dr. George H. Sherwood , director of the American Museum of Natural - History:f . Dr. Warren Knox of the State Department of Education ; Dr. Otis , W. Caldwell ; of Teachers College ; ; , , Dr. J. Cattell , editor of ; Science and other publications , and : , Robert P. Shaw of the Museum of Science and Industry . R. H. Hopkins , president of the Physics-OWNwas chairman a the luncheon . ' : committee .                     