@@704058

txt The idea of a Federation of nations achieved official status in the House of Commons yesterday for the fiist time when the Government was asked to take the initiative in promoting joint action with the United States and other powers to draw up a policy along the lines now being sponsored in Britain by a new organization known as " Federal Union . " Although Mr. R A. Butler , Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs , refused to commit the Government to undertake such initiative at the present time , he said in answer to a question by Mr. Reginald W. P. Sorensen , Labor , " The Govern ment are fully aware of a desire among many nations for as wide a measure of international cooperation as possible and will always , as the Prime Minister has stated on numerous occasions , be ready to consider , any useful suggestions ' to achieve that end . " Recent events in the Far East , coming atop the uncertain European situation , are seen as a reason for Mr. Butler 's contention that the " present circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sorensen continued to press Mr. Butler , asking did he realize that one of His Majesty 's ambas- sadors ( presumably referring to the Marquis of Lothian , Ambassador-designate to the United States ) had been proposing something very much along these lines , and was not the fact and extent of American public opinion favoring the scheme sufficient cause for British initiative . Mr. Butler , however , persisted that there were " certain difficulties at this particular moment . " Organizers of Federal Union nevertheless are gratified at the significance given their cause by the references in the House of Commons and expressed confidence today that the movement in support of the Federation now started would see a vigorous growth . They believe their organization will be a leading force in the building up of a more practical successor to the League of Nations . The Federal Union 's aims are , first , a federation of all free states and ultimately a World State ; its supporters are many and influential , including Lord Astor ; the Trade Union leader , Mr. Ernest Bevin ; the former editor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs expert , Mr. Lionel Curtis ; Mr. Arnold Toynbee , historian , and Dr. Edith Summerskill , Labor M. P. Long-Cherished Ambition The week end of July 1-2 , when Federal Union 's plan of campaign is to be decided at a conference , will be a momentous one in the annals of this organization and therefore of no little significance to the world , in the eyes of more than a score of British men and women whose names are household words in different spheres of life in this country . The conference is to be divided into three parts  --  general discussion , means of spreading the federal doctrine , and organization . Of course there is nothing very new about the idea of " Federation . " The poet Tennyson spoke hopefully of " The Parliament of Man . " More lately Mr. H. G. Wells , Lord Davies , and Lord Lothian have visualized such a way of solving present-day problems . M. Aristide Briand and others in their plans for a United States of Europe were working along similar lines . What is new is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of worldwide federation as an alternative to the " suicidal policy " of seeking security by piling up armaments . Mr. Clarence B. Streit 's book " Union Now " has aroused great and far-reaching interest in the federal plan . Lord Lothian wrote of this American author 's book as one which history would subsequently recognize as marking an epoch . Mr. Streit 's present campaign in the United States to gain support for a world union is being closely watched here by supporters of the scheme , for it is recognized that United States experience in federation would be of incalculable value in an extension of the idea . League 's Defects Weighed The plan received impetus last September from three young men , Messrs . Charles Kimber , Derek Rawnsley , and Patrick Ransome , to probe the breakdown of the League of Nations and to find a way to stop the drift toward war . Their findings were that the League had two main weaknesses . In the first place , although national governments consented to discuss international affairs they always reserved the right to reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the recommendations were made by nominees of national governments , they inevitably derived from considerations of national and even of party self-interest rather than from those of international well-being . Both these characteristics of the League according to Federal Union were the outcome of its insistence on national sovereignty and it was this insistence which , in the investigators ' view , was the fundamental cause of the League 's failure . The Union 's policy therefore advocates a Federal Union of those nations which hold that the State exists for the freedom and responsibility of man , and that government must be conducted with the consent of the governed . National Autonomy for Members This constitutional Union would assure national autonomy to all units within the Union in those affairs which are solely of national interest . It would establish legislative , executive , and judicial organs representative of and responsible to all the citizens of the Union for such common affairs as defense and order , currency , trade , communications and migration , and possess the taxation and borrowing powers necessary to finance its own activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the established democracies would form the nucleus of the future world federation . Such a nucleus would be open to accession by other nations which accept its basic principles ; and to act as a loyal member of any larger organizations designed to promote international co-operation . Federal Union is not so much concerned with the question , " Will the principle of world federation be adopted ? " it shows more confidence in asking , " When will it be adopted ? " The activities of the organization have so far intentionally been given little publicity , while a strong list of supporters was being collected . But at the coming conference an intensive campaign will be worked out . Several branch organizations have already been formed .                     