@@701729

txt From the lips of a frightened garage employe came testimony yesterday that Meyer and Harry Luckman. called less than two hours before Samuel Drukman 's death for the automobile in which his battered and strangled body was found crammed in the rear compartment . The session before Supreme Court Justice Rogers and a jury in Brooklyn , with the Luckmans and Fred J. Hull on trial for murder , marked the appearance on the stand also of District Attorney William F. X. Geoghan , who was superseded In the case by Special Prosecutor Hiram C. Todd . Mr. Geoghan told of his interrogation of the Luckmans the night of March 3 after Drukman 's murder bad been discovered in the Luckman garage at 225 Moore Street . The garage washer and attendant , who for nine months had maintained silence because , he said , he realized it was a bad case and was " afraid , " believing " Meyer Luckman to be a bad man , " provided the day 's excitement . Holds Firm to Story . The witness was Christian Olson , employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owned by Joseph Pitman . Olson , blond-haired , wearing his work sweater , was uneasy on the stand , but held firm to his story despite a severe crossexamination . He said that on the afternoon of March 2 last the Luckmans drove the car to the Pitman garage and that Pitman instructed him to store it free of charge . Next afternoon , said the witness , he observed the Luckmans telephoning from an adjoining restaurant . " About 5:30 or 5:45 P. M. , " went the testimony , " they came for the car . Harry Luckman drove off in it , with Meyer Luckman . They left in a hurry . " Olson identified a photograph of the car containing the body as the machine referred to in his testimony . Several State witnesses have sworn that Drukman told them of a business appointment with Harry Luckman the evening of March 3 . Drukman left his home in Flatbush at 6 P. M. Police reached the Luckman garage , in response to a telephone alarm , at 7:30 . Under cross-examination by James D. C. Murray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuff , attorney for Meyer Luckman , the witness admitted that he never told anybody , before being called before the extraordinary grand jury on Jan. 13 , about the car . He explained , " I did n't dare . " He testified then , he said , only because he , like other employes , had been subpoenaed . Gives Reasons for Silence . Asked why he did not tell Pitman about the incident of the hurried departure of the automobile , the witness said that , after reading the newspapers , " I was afraid because it was a very bad case and I was afraid of being implicated in it . " Ile added , " I knew I was up against bad people . " By that , he explained , he meant Meyer Luckman . A defense motion for a mis- trial , like two similar moves during the day , was denied . Mr. Geoghan testified that for I several hours after the arrest of the Luckmans and Hull he questioned the Luckmans in the Stagg Street police station . He did not see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luckman 's hands and clothes and that this prisoner asserted he had been beaten up in the garage by thugs . The Kings County prosecutor said he did not see any police beatings . He told of having a de-1 tective assigned to an adjacent cot when Hull was sent to Kings County Hospital , hoping the detective would obtain a confession . Phone Operator on Stand . Sylvia Greenberg , who was a switchboard operator for the Star Flour Company , at 2 Broadway , Manhattan , testified that in October , 1934 , Meyer Luckman tried to choke Harry Kantor , then bookkeeper for Luckman . Similar testimony was given by Fred Leman , bookkeeper for the flour company . The Luckmans did the Star company 's trucking . It has been alleged by the State that Kantor , too , was marked for death for failing to reveal pecula- I tions by Drukman , who lost thou-1 sands of dollars of the garage 's money on horse races . Kantor jumped or fell from a sanitarium window in Chicago last October . " Kantor was in an outer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into an inner office , coming out excited in five minutes , " Miss Greenberg said . " He used profane language . He walked over to Kantor , put his hands on Kantor 's throat and said that Kantor and Drukman had been stealing money from him and he would fire them . Kantor screamed . Luckman stopped . " Patrolman Paul Storll said that at a livery stable near the Luckman garage he arrested a fourth man , one Frank Szerwicki , who was produced in court . The man was released the same night . He proved to know nothing about the crime . The trial will be resumed at 10 o'clock this morning .                     