@@701986

txt Mayor La Guardia and his official family received a warm welcome from Bronx residents yesterday afternoon when he moved the headquarters of city government to the century-old Bartow mansion in Pelham Bay Park . Borough President Lyons of the Bronx headed a welcoming delegation that met the Mayor when he crossed the Harlem River into the Bronx at 155th Street . For threequarters of a mile trucks were strung out bearing words of greeting . " Welcome to the Lyons Den " said one ; others read " The borough of universities welcomes Mayor La Guardia " and " Good health in the most beautiful borough in the world . " The Mayor stayed at his Summer home in Westport later than usual yesterday morning and did not reach the city until an hour before noon . His first official act of the day was to visit the new baby health center at 136 East Third Street , in the First Houses housing project . He was accompanied by Victor Ridder , local WPA Administrator , and a group , of Health Department officials . Rocks One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the center , chucking infants under their chins , and even rocking one to sleep in his arms , all the while with a broad smile on his face . Dozens of eager mothers begged him to hold their children . Photographers snapped pictures continually . The Mayor 's car swept up to the Bartow mansion at 3:30 P. M. The Mayor and Mr. Lyons posed for photographers , inspecting a converted Police Department patrol wagon carrying the legend " City Hall Bus  --  Official Business . " The bus , driven by Herman Spumberg , Police Department chauffeur , will convey visitors between the Summer City Hall and the subway station . The Mayor and Mr. Lyons then entered the Mayor 's new office in the mansion , where the Mayor administered the oath of office to four newly appointed city officials . The four were Chairman John H. Delaney of the Board of Transportation , who was reappointed for a four-year term ; Frank X : Sullivan , a member of the board , who was reappointed for six years ; General James Robb , who was named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Singstad , and Magistrate Bernard Kozicke of Brooklyn , who was promoted to the Special Sessions bench . In swearing in Mr. Sullivan the Mayor recalled the strenuous opposition the commissioner and Chairman Delaney had given him in several of his campaigns for public office . Welcoming the Mayor on behalf of 1,500,000 Bronx residents , Mr. Lyons recalled that in 1790 Lewis Morris urged that Morrisania , now part of the Bronx , be chosen as the capital of the nation . After recounting the easy accessibility of Morrisania both by land and by sea , Mr. Morris had said : " Morrisania has always been pariticularly noted for health and salubrity , and that ague and fever is unknown here . That persons from other places , emaciated by sickness and disease , visit Morrisania for II health restoration , and that after a short visit they recover and are speedly reinforced in health and vigor . " Mr. Lyons said the Bronx still preserved the attributes mentioned by Morris , and had acquired others equally pleasant in the last 150 years . He gave the Mayor a huge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bronx people . In response the Mayor said : " I would not be frank if I did not admit that the sincere spontaneous welcome had affected me . II just thought that we would come up here some day , unnoticed , and I had n't expected such a warm welcome . He Hopes for No Headaches " I hope there will be no aches here , and no headaches either . Jim , you can contribute a great deal to that . " It is nothing unusual for the seat of a city or State government to be transferred during the Summer months . It will be a busy Summer , with the budget coming up , and a new WPA program under way , so I must be here . I find the surroundings very pleasant . " Mr. Lyons , who has been trying to get the Board of Estimate 's approval for his plans for a westerly approach to the Triborough Bridge in the Bronx , handed the Mayor his first official communication dealing with that subject . With a Wry grin the Mayor admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five patrolmen under Captain Louis Stillman of the Forty-fifth Precinct were on the grounds for the Mayor 's arrival and a mounted policemen patrolled the entrance road . The Mayor has a teletype machine connecting with City Hall downtown for the transmission of lengthy official documents . The Mayor was unable to go to his Summer home in Westport last night , since he had to go to Queens to take part in the formal dedication of a new $1,500,000 swimming pool in Astoria Park . It was constructed with - PWA funds . More than 20,000 people attended ' the ceremonies . Training of Young ' Urged Speaking at the swearing-in ceremonies , the Mayor suggested that because of the importance of the city 's transit problems young understudies should be trained to eventually take over the work now being done in the Board of Transportation by Chairman Delaney and his colleagues . " I would like- to make one suggestion , " he said . " Because of the specialized knowledge in transit , and the value of-experience in fiuft : field , I would recommend that two 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Mayor had added to his affection for Mr. La Guardia , he said . The Mayor then appointed General Robb . Mayor La Guardia complimented Justice Kozicke on his " splendid judicial record " ? and laid particular stress on his use of " swift and impressive justice for organized crime , racketeers and gangsters . " Following the ceremony Borough President Lyons was host at an informal reception at Thwaite 's Restaurant on City Island . . The Astoria swimming pool was dedicated last night by the Mayor and other city , State and national figures . Harry L. Hopkins , Federal WPA Administrator , who participated in the ceremonies , declared that the pool was " the finest in the world . " Mr. La Guardia , after switching on the lights officially opening the pool , paid tribute to all concerned and especially to Park Commissioner Moses , who also was present . or three promising young understudies be named to work with the commissioners and get the value of their training . The work is so important to the city that we need to train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have such a system in operation before long . , " Mr. Sullivan 's new term will expire on Tune 30 , 1942 . Mr. Delaney 's new term runs until June 30 , 1940 . Charles Halley Jr. , . third member of the board , serves until 1938 . " After mentioning his fifteen years of work with Chairman Delaney , the Mayor complimented him on his knowledge of transit . " No one in the city knows transportation problems better than you do , " the Mayor said . " More than that , you have worked out a transportation system which I hope to see in effect soon . Because of the value of your services , I asked my predecessor not to make any change in your office . " In response Mr. Delaney said that much of what he felt could not be                     