@@702365

txt John L. Lewis , chairman of the Committee for Industrial Organization which precipitated the General Motors strike , moved his headquarters from Washington to Detroit tonight to take active command of the union forces . His decision was made some hours before the injunction restraining the strikers from occupying the plants in Flint was signed by Judge Gadola . As Mr. Lewis left Washington late in the afternoon he showed none of the belligerency which he has sometimes displayed during the last few weeks . . He was in a jovial mood , and laughed frequently at stories told by reporters which dealt with the strike situation . A reporter asked him : " In view of the court decision and the fact that violence is certain to follow if workers ignore the order , is it reasonable to believe that you will advise the workers to continue to occupy the plants ? " " Do your own guessing but do n't attribute the answer to that to me , " said Mr. Lewis , smiling . To Set Up Detroit Headquarters The Assistant Secretary of Labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office just ten minutes before the labor leader left for his train . Leaving his office afterward Mr. Lewis quoted , to a few persons who accompanied him : " Let there be no moaning of the bar when I put out to sea . " He did not explain the allusion . During the short ride between the capital and Baltimore , where all but a few reporters left his train , Mr. Lewis said : " We have repeatedly indicated our willingness to confer . Failing to secure such a conference as the result of the unyielding attitude of General Motors , we have no alternative but to carry on . " Some thought this statement lacked the degree of vehemence marking previous utterances and indicated that he would seek early negotiations with General Motors officials . Pressed for details as to what he would seek to accomplish tomorrow , Mr. Lewis said : " I will set up headquarters tomorrow in Detroit . After I confer with Homer D. Martin ( president of the United Automobile Workers ) and the gang and our attorneys , I will know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it has been ; that a controversy exists and that a conference is indicated : Every moral and logical consideration indicates a conference between the contending parties . After all , that is the only known way to end a controversy unless one side wants to wear out the other side through exhaustion . " Common sense would indicate - that the sane course to pursue is for both sides to confer without conditions or stipulations . " Sees " Devastating " Effects " Have you talked with the White House or with Secretary Perkins during the afternoon ? " Mr Lewis was . asked . " I am non-committal on that , " was the reply . He said that " obviously the controversy has devastating repercussions on the business , industrial and social life of America , " and then said : " I wo n't have anything more to say until tomorrow morning , unless something new comes to me an the train tonight . " He was surrounded by copies of late editions of afternoon newspapers . He had been talking by telephone to leaders at Flint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new developments than were those who questioned him . Ora Gasaway , member of the board of the United Mine Workers , accompanied Mr. Lewis , as did an official stenographer from union headquarters . President Roosevelt - when questioned . at his press conference about the time Mr. Lewis was boarding his train declined to discuss the automobile strike situation . He said that he had nothing on the strike within the last twentyfour hours , although it hail been reported that Secretary Perkins gave him a picture of the situation as it existed this morning . Asked again if the government would take a hand , Mr. Roosevelt told his questioners that such a possibility was very " iffy . " Miss Perkins spent the entire day at her office in the Labor Department , and it was said that she conferred frequently by telephone with one of her labor conciliators at Flint , but she made no statement . Senator Neely of West Virginia introduced today a resolution authorizing an investigation of " every angle " of the General Motors structure . The La Follette subcommittee investigating labor espionage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its plan to start an inquiry into the company on Feb. 10 . Provisions of Neely Bill By The Associated Press , WASHINGTON , Feb. ** inquiry into General Motors proposed by the Neely resolution would cover corporate structures , salaries and bonuses , profits , income taxes paid by officials , technological progress and , " unearned increments . " The study would aim to determine whether it is " practicable for General Motors and its related companies " to establish a thirty-hour week and " minimum living wage standards . " The committee would be directed to determine the extent to which profits of the companies arise from " mechanization , improved technology , patents , unearned increments in land and other values and increased productive efficiency of employes which should have been made available in the form of lower prices to consumers or increased wages and salaries to employes . " It also asked for an investigation of the corporation 's publicity and lobbying methods , the extent of its " speed-up " methods or production , if any , and their effect on employes , a study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control " of the companies , and an inquiry into the " extent to which activities and policies of the General Motors Corporation or such other companies , are influenced , directed or controlled by foreign interests to the detriment of employes , stockholders and the public . "                     