@@703375

txt A new and more explicit Administration request for legislation to aid the railroads  --  which might , in the opinion of wellinformed Senators , delay adjournment of Con-. congress for as long as two weeks  --  emerged last night as a real nossibilitv . Meantime , new railroad rate petitions to the ICC also appeared in prospect yesterday . These petitions would request 1 . The continuation of the 10 cents per ton increase in rates on bituminous coal , wine to expire at the end of 1938. ' without the pooling for general railroad benefit of the revenues from this increase , and 2 . Additional rate increases on other selected traffic items . Recent official statements have been to the effect that important congressional enactrnenta to help the carriers were improbable this seasion , but yesterday one close White House adviser was quoted as saying that failure of Congress to adopt an emergency rail program . would leave that industry in such condition as to endanger Administration efforts to check the general downtrend in business activity . New Communication Possible President Roosevelt was said yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the views on the railroad problem presented to him by governmental authorities on the subject . This communication may take the form of a message to the House and Senate or a letter directed to Senator Wheeler and Representative Lea , chairmen of the committees in Congress which handle rail legislation . It was recalled here that President Roosevelt sent a railroad message to Congress some weeks ago requesting legislation , but did not specify the type of measure he would like to see made law . Since that message went to Capitol Hill , little or nothing has been done with the matter . Until yesterday 's developments changed the picture it had been assumed that , : the chief executive would not renew his recommendations or enlarge upon them . However , Jesse H. Jones , chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , said after a White House conference yesterday that he still believed there could be no - important-  railroad legislation enacted at this session . Whether Mr. Jones ' pronouncement was based on later information of the Administration 's intentions than that available on Capitol Hill could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of the Administration to obtain congressional approval of an emergency railroad program , which involves both loans by RFC and changes in Section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act for the purpose of revising procedure in railroad reorganizations , first carne to light this week when it was learned that Senator Wheeler was presented with a copy of a bill by A. A. Berle , Assistant Secretary of State . who has become interested in this legislation . and officials of the RFC and other governmental departments . The congressional group interested in rail legislation was advised that the President was anxious to obtain legislation along the lines outlined before Congress adjourned . There is some feeling among members of Congress that the proposed legislation will not materially assist the railroads and that therefore they see no reason for pushing it through at this session . This supports the view that the only way legislation can be enacted this year is for President Roosevelt to take the lead again in urging Congress to do something . It was learned on Capitol Hill that the President is seriously considering taking necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from rail labor , which arises out of the controversy over railway wage cut proposals . Senator Barkley , Democratic floor leader , who has been optimistic about adjournment up until Thursday , announced that it was obvious that Congress could not get away this week and that the Senate would recess from Friday , until Monday in an effort to give conference committees an opportunity to work without interference from their respective chambers . Decision Against . Pooling The decision not to attempt a pooling arrangement desired by the ICC for the revenue from bituminous rate increases was made yes . terday by executives and traffic officials of the Pocahontas railroads and their connecting lines , meeting jointly They voted to seek extension of the higher charges . on the present basis of revenue divisions . Meanwhile , it was learned that a special committee of rail traffic experts is now studying the rate structure with a view to selecting special items on which further rate increases may be sought to boost the carriers ' revenues . Z his study is expected to lead to a new rate petition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the coal rate increase , together with other selected rate boosts last October , the ICC deplored the fact that so large a part of the added revenue from coal increases accrued to the more prosperous Pocahontas lines , and fixed the expiration date of December Si . 1938 on the coal charges unless , in the meantime , some arrangement was worked out so that the needy roads would share more i. the increases . In acting on the recent 15% rate case this spring , the commission reiterated this view and refused to allow further bituminous increases pending the working out of a stooling plan . At the meeting yesterday , the feeling was general that because of the drastic slump in traffic and earnings of the Pocahontas lines as well as all other it would be unwise to attempt pooling as suggested by the ICC . Poor Earnings Showing The poor showing now being made earningswise by the Pocahontas lines may lead the commission to change its view regarding coal rates , officials felt . The Pocahontas roads in-elude the Chesapeake &; Ohio . Virginian . Norfolk &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been before the ICC twice within the last year seeking increased rates . The first proceeding . known as ex parte 115. was the surcharge case of 1935 which was renewed last year when the commission refused to allow continuation beyond 1936 of the emergency charges . which were yielding about 5100,000 ; 600 per year . The railroads sought selected rate increases designed to yield about two-thirds the amount of the surcharges , but got only a portion of the Increases sought . The next case was ex parte 123 , commonly referred to as the 15% case , in which the carriers received a general rate increase averaging about 5.3% as compared with the requested 15% . In view of these disappointing decisions , particularly the last one , handed down in March this year . the railroads have been considering means of seeking further increases to bolster their financial position , which has become serious because of the terrific slump in traffic . WASHINGTON  --  Proposal by railroad labor that the government be authorized to operate the carriers in event of an emergency , growing out of proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , who said they have no intention of giving the measure legislative right of way A resolution providing for government operation of the roads in case of emergency was presented to Senator Wagner ( Dem. , N. Y. ) and Representative Crosser ( Dem. , 0. ) by railway labor unions . Thus far , the proposal has not been introduced in either house , although discussion of it is continuing . J. G. Luhrson. representative of the Railway Labor Executives Association , said that the situation with respect to the resolution calling for government operation of the railroads in exent of a crisis was in " status quo . ' The legislation is still being worked on by attorney for the labor groups , Mr. Luhrson said . Consider Insurance Bill At the same tine , Chairman Wheeler of the Senate interstate commerce committee announced his committee would consider in executive session today the railroad unemployment insurance bill . This action will be taken by the committee because of the progress of the bill in the House , where , the Senator said , its consideration on the floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Association of American Railroads to submit amendments which railroad management would like considered . Mr. Fletcher at the hearings on the bill told the committee that the measure is " at variance with all sound principles of unemployment compensation . " and pointed out that all the approved state unemployment compensation laws employ a different principle from that embodied in this bill . He also charged it was unfair to deny railroads the benefit of " merit rating " which is allowed other employers under state laws . Gives Other Reasons This bill , he said , seeks to make the railroads responsible for part time , occasional or casual workers , many of whom have other employment or other connections . He cited the fact that maintenance of way employes , who receive a few days work a week , in many cases live on small farms and carry on farming operations . Committee Chairman Wheeler introduced into the record a letter from Acting Secretary of the Treasury Taylor recommending against the bill and stating that it was not in accord with the program of President Roosevelt . WASHINGTON @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have declined 32.2% under revenues for May , 1937. according to IL W. Clement , president . Freight revenues were down 36.8% and passenger revenues were off 10.7% from the like month last year , Mr. Clement added . Carloadings for the week ended June 4 showed a decrease of 32.9% compared with the same week last year . Principal decreases were in coal , coke , ore , merchandise and miscellaneous freight , as well as in receipts from connections . WASHINGTON  --  The Interstate Commerce Commission Bureau of Statistics yesterday reported that compensation received by employes of 141 class 1 steam railways , excluding switching and terminal companies , as of the middle of March totaled $147,740,085 . This compares with $136,799.239 received during the previous month and $167,393,896 for March of 1937 . Number of employes on payrolls as of March 15. 1938 , totaled 927,746 , or 15.74% less than the number reported for March 15 of the previous year .                     