@@698635

txt Expressing gratification this morning over the size of his vote in yesterday 's election , President Paul von Hindenburg immediately authorized a statement that he would be a candidate in the second balloting on April 10 . It was not until he arose at his customary hour , 6:30 , this morning that the President learned he had missed being re-elected yesterday by some 160,000 votes out of a total of about 39,000,000 . The Field Marshal had been pursuing a see-saw course in the returns as they came in over his private radio up to 11 o'clock last ' night , when he retired . While government circles view President von Hindenburg 's re-election on the second ballot next month as a foregone conclusion , it is , nevertheless , regretted on all sides that the election must now be fought over again just because a requisite fourtenths of 1 per cent out of the huge poll escaped the Field Marshal 's column . " The interim really holds no uncertainty , " observed one spokesman for the Bruening- Government , adding that so far as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh hold there is no reason why it should not start with confidence that the next President will again be von Hindenburg . President von Hindenburg 's campaign committee , however , realizes that the campaigning must not slacken in view of the all too comfortable optimism prevalent that the Field Marshal 's re-election on April 10 is assured as a result of his magnificent run yesterday . Hugenberg Makes Offer . Dr. Alfred Hugenberg , Nationalist party leader , whose candidate , Theodor Duesterberg , finished a poor third in yesterday 's race , opened up his familiar bargain counter early today by letting Chancellor Bruening know that the Nationalists and the Stahlhelm were willing to have yesterday 's election validated as final by Parliamentary action if the Chancellor agreed to dissolve the Reichstag . The proposal fell on deaf ears at government headquarters , which promptly sent back word that the scheme would not be discussed , because there really was no incentive for such a trade in view of the decisive defeat suffered by the Nationalists yesterday and for the more cogent reason that President von Hindenburg had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medium of political barter . That Dr. Hugenberg has played his last cards and is now completely isolated in the German political line-up is commonly taken for granted in informed political quarters which are further convinced that he will be unable to swing the Nationalist vote that was given to Colonel Duesterberg to Adolf Hitler , leader of the National Socialists ( Nazis ) , next month . The National Socialists sought to- day to cover up their chagrin over their failure to come within hailing distance of President von Hindenburg 's vote by boasting of their gain of 5,000,000 votes over the Reichstag poll of 1930 , and Herr Hitler definitely announced that he would again lead his party as a Presidential candidate on April 10 and would also line up his forces for the Prussian Diet elections , which are now fixed for April 24 . The Nazis increased their vote in Prussia by 2,500,000 over 1930 and must now be counted the strongest Parliamentary group in the Reich , since on the strength of their vote yesterday they could command 190 Reichstag mandates . Hitler Rallies Forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplated a mirage of a Nazi victory in the second Presidential ballot , all newspapers , including even the Hugenbergian , record that yesterday 's vote " means von Hindenburg 's re-election beyond the shadow of a doubt . " The attitude of the National Socialist organs reflects the manifesto issued from the Brown House in which Herr Hitler sounded the call for an attack in the second election . " If every elector in the whole national front will bethink himself of the need of the hour , " it said , " it must be possible for us to win over from the unnatural ranks of our opponents the lacking few million votes and carry our standard to ; victory . " Vorwaerts , claiming credit for the Social Democratic party in making possible the anti-Fascist concentration , declares : " It must be admitted , however , this concentration could not have gained so great a superiority over the enemy without the rallying force of von Hindenburg 's name . The merit of having saved Germany from fascism and civil war belongs in great measure to the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the saddle its followers constitute a strong party , and more than ever it is the duty of the Social Democrats to stand up , to fight and to take care that if Hitler wants to be defeated once more the second defeat shall be more decisive even than the first . " Dr. Hugenberg 's Lcrkal-Anzeiger giving up the Presidency as lost , admits there had been " a tendency to underrate the imponderables that Field Marshal von Hindenburg , with the magic of his name , could throw into the scale of Bruening and Social Democracy " and advises the Nazis " to draw the useful lesson that their trees no more than others have grown into the sky and that they condemn themselves to sterility if lightly they imagine they can do without an alliance with those burgher forces , without which no effectual national opposition is possible in Germany . " This is diametrically opposed by the contention of Dr. Josef Goebbels 's Angriff , which says : " Yesterday proved irrefutably that all national aims can be represented only exclusively by the National Socialist party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which supported Colonel Duesterberg , deplores the victory of the Socialist-Catholic " system , " and , resigning itself to the inevitable on the Presidential i ? sue , holds up the Nationalist conquest of the Prussian Diet as the next objective . The Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung sums up the election as , first , a documentation of the immense popular confidence in President von Hindenburg , and , next , a manifestation of the formidable growth of the Hitler movement . " With all justifiable gratification at President von Hindenburg 's impressive victory , " it says , " the fact must not be overlooked that the problem of national socialism persists in full strength in German politics and demands a solution . " The Tageblatt and the Vossische Zeitung give credit to President von Hindenburg for the defeat of the national opposition and plead that the heartening of the republican ranks should be used for carrying the fight against reaction and subversion to a finish . The Koelnische Zeitung says : " The election not only manifests the immense popularity of President von Hindenburg but also proves that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with dark experiments and means they will pursue the way of reason . " The Muenchener Zeitung is elated at Bavaria 's having given President von Hindenburg an absolute majority . The Frankfurter Zeitung says : " No sensible person will overlook or belittle the growth of national socialism since the last Reichstag election ; but bad enough as this fact is , now it has lost its terror . " In Stock Exchange circles there is talk of a resumption of regular normal trading in the near future for the first time since the July crisis ? eloquent testimony to the effect of yesterday 's election .                     