@@696975

txt Coincident with a statement today by Attorney General Mitchell that he was . Conducting a survey of the activities of Federal District Attorneys designed to reveal- just . what these officials were doing ' to make law enforcement , particularly prohibition . . More effective . it wail revealed that a movement is , under way to place Senator Borah at the head of the joint committee of Congtess which will be-created to study plans for the reorganization of dry agencies and make recommendations for legislation. ? Attorney General Mitchell made public a ' summary of the changes . in the corps of United States Attorneys since Mr. Hoover assumed the Presidency , and announced that a special investigation is . under way to determine whether fifteen of the attorneys who are candidates to succeed themselves should be reappointed . It was indicated that- in each instance the aspirant . for another term would be judged by the record he had made on all phases ? of ? law enforcement , with particular . reference to . his attitude toward the dry laws . New Permit System @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the first time that the administration is working on a new ? plan to govern : . the release and distribution of alcohol , for industrial . purposes . The permit ? system , ? . as now , operated , according to Senator Borah and other critics of the ' prohibition Unit , is a national scandal , and is re- , sp-onsible , in ' the main , . kor , enormous ' diversions to . illicit channels of - alcohol intended for use in industry , : the arts and sciences . Senator Fess of Ohio . a . dry . ex- ' pressed the OpihiOri today that in proposals - looking to e. reorganization of the dry service care should be taken to prevent industrial being diverted to improper channels . In his message to Congress on Dec. 3 President - Hoover ? recommended the transfer of the ' detection ' phases of the Prohibition , Bureau 's work from : the Treasury to the ? Department of ' Justice , but suggested that the- permissive administration - of the dry law should ' be retained in the Treasury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Prohibition Cominissione ? , has asserted that the ' diversion of industrial alcohol to bootleg ! channels had dropped to negligible proportions in the last few years . . " If the good doctor really believes . that , and I am inclined toy think he . does , he is living in a . fool'spara. dise , " . said a prominent , ' Senatorial dry today . . Mitchell Lists Changes . Attorney General Mitchell 's summary of the recent changes in the corps of ninetyknie - Federal District Attorneys follows : " Since itarch 4 one ? United ? States Attorney ' has been ' removed- from office . " Five United States AttOrneya have resigned before " the . expiration ? of their terms , due to unsatisfactory conditions in . their offices. : " Three . United States . Attorneys have ' , resigned before " . expiration of their terms for reasons of their . own . " Two United .. States Attorneys ' terms have expired and they were not reappointed . " Three United States Attorneys ' terms have expired who have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were not old incumbents , and are new to the office . " Five United States Attorneys have been nominated , and nominations are now pending in the Senate , four of which are reappointments , and one to succeed the present incumbent . " Thirteen United States Attorneys ' terms have expired or will expire prior to Feb. 1 , for which no nominations have yet been made . " It was said today that several nominations of new United States Attorneys would be sent to the Senate by President Hoover on Monday . Borah Appears Not Impressed . When the . Attorney General 's statement was shown to him , ? Senator Borah intimated that he did not think the record was impressive from a dry point of view by pointing out that only one United States Attorney had been removed , and that five had resigned due to unsatisfactory conditions in ' their offices . Previously the Senator had intimated that investigation would show that prohibition enforcement was lax in at least seventeen judicial districts .. Attorney General Mitchell declined to by Senator ' Jones that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seller , and that supplemental legislation on this point , as provided by the Sheppard bill , was really not necessary . " I think that under the present law you can get - the purchaser , " Senator Borah said . " Perhaps the law might be made a little more specific as to the culpability of the buyer . If it can be shown by the supporters of the Sheppard bill that enforcement can be made more effective by its passage , I would be inclined to support it . " Prohibition Commissioner Doran refused to confirm or deny the report that the Prohibition Bureau is working on a plan of reorganization of the permit system for controlling the use of industrial alcohol . Dr. Doran declared , however , that a new menace to prohibition has been found in the increased production of corn sugar . Corn ts suoar distilleries are of more concern to drylaw officials than the diversion of industrial alcohol by bootleggers , he asserted . Department of Commerce reports show that the production of corn sugar jumped from 152,000,000 pounds in 1921 to 968,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In a radio address arranged by The Washington Star under the auspices of the National Radio Forum , Senator Jones tonight denied that drunkenness had increased under prohibition . Drinking had declined among members of Congress , despite assertions to the contrary , he added , saying that there was manifest everywhere a better spirit of cooperation toward making prohibition a success . Senator Jones commended President Hoover 's dry stand , and expressed confidence in the ability of the President to deal with the problem . . " I do not know what the attitude of our President was before prohibition became the law of the land , " the Senator said . " He sets an example now that every good citizen should be proud to emulate . " The President preached and practiced prohibition , the Senator said , adding : " He can not work out overnight the task that confronts him . We must have patience and , instead of hampering , help . His personal example should be followed by every good citizen in his home , at social gatherings and in his business affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago- Jae said that before prohibition he had drunk his champagne and his highballs and enjoyed them , but that since prohibition he had drunk none and would not drink any so long as the law stands . That spirit is the essence of good citizen- ? ship . Regrets Drinking in Congress . " There are some Senators and some Representatives who drink . I regret it . They and those who hold office and have taken a special obligation to obey and maintain the Constitution and the laws of the land should do so . Their failure , however , does not excuse any citizen for violating the laws of his country . " In my judgment a far fewer number . of Senators and Representatives drink now than did twenty and thirty years ago . I have seen far fewer Senators under the influence of liquor during the last ten years than I did during the preceding ten years . They will get fewer and fewer as the years go by . " It commonly said by those opposed to- prohibition that many Congressmen vote ' dry ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against prohibition . I ' am sorry that it may be so , but this just emphasizes the strength of the sentiment of the- people back home . " Senator Jones advocated teaching the " evils of intemperance " in the public schools . He said that such a law , recently passed by one State , was " a wise step . " " There should be , and there must be , cooperation upon the part of municipal , county and State officials with the national force , " he continued . " The friends of prohibition must concentrate their influence to bring this about . Then we will sbr the goal in sight . " discuss the criticism . One of the particular problems confronting the Department of Justice , Mr. Mitchell stated , was the difficulty encountered in keeping the posts of Assistant District Attorneys filled with suitable men . Many assistants have resigned recently because , they were attracted by larger salaries than those paid by the Federal Government . Senator Fess is sponsor of the movement to assign to Senator Borah the chairmanship of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was proposed in a resolution passed by the Senate on Dec. 20 . The measure is now pending in the House , where action on it is expected next week . To the committee will be referred the report of the Hoover Law Observance Commission , which will recommend transfer of the Prohibition Bureau to the Department of Justice , the establishment of a unified border patrol , codification of dry statutes and , possibly , the creation of subsidiary courts to deal with minor offenses against prohibition . Report to Be Ready . The joint committee also will have submitted to it voluminous data on law observance collected by John , who was named several weeks ago to make a special investigation of the subject as the representative of President Hoover . Mr. has been pursuing his labors here and elsewhere without any public disclosure of his work , but it is understood that he will be ready to make a report as soon as the joint committee has been empowered to begin its labors . Expressing the opinion that the selection of Mr. Borah as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Fess said : " It is my earnest hope that Senator Borah will consent to take this chairmanship . His recent discussion of the question shows that he is familiar with every aspect of the problem of prohibition enforcement . He could do , a service for ' dry America ' in the chairmanship of this committee that would redound to his credit . It is my intention to recommend that Mr. Borah be . assigned to head the committee . " The Senate resolution pending in the House provides for a committee of six members  --  three Senators and three Representatives . As the resolution originated in the Senate , it is assumed that the committee of six will elect a Senator as chairman . Borah on Buyer 's Culpability . The attention of the Idaho Senator was directed to a recent statement                     