@@699803

txt President Roosetelt today threw full Administration support behind a drne for relict of America 's desperate oil industry in a letter to Vice-President Garner and Speaker Rainey of the House , aavocating immediate passage of control legislation . Meanwhile . in the House , a bill was introduced giving the Got eminent power to control oil production The measure . follou mg the President 's suggestion , will be incorporated with the great nubile . works-cooperation with industry bill . The President reminded leaders of the two branches of Congzess that a serious situation confronts the oil producing industry , which has failed of solution through state action alone . Since a few days after inauguration the President has had committees at work attempting to bring order out of chaos . But this has proved impossible and is so recognized by individual State Governors . Now , through his forceful letter , the President expects speedy action to make possible the control of wasteful overproduction , price-cutting and unjust use of monopolistically controlled pipe lines Intended to give oil producers the same opportunity to bring order into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agriculture and the industries control bill is designed to do for the manufacturing industries , the new oil measure is the fruition of many years of pleading by members of the oil trail Throughout the recent Hooter Administration they sought tune and again for some federal action %Ouch would control domestic production , but were told they would hate to attempt a cure through toluntary agreements within state borders and between the various state goteirtinents . The old bogey of the antitrust laws prevented the Administialion from arriving at anything like a satisfactory solution since the failure of any one oil-producing state or any one major oil field to accept the voluntary agreement made the entire plan unworkable New Ilea Is Brighter But under the Roosevelt Annulustration 's already demonstrated willingness to undertake a libel ation of industry from the stifling effect of unlimited competition in return for government control , the oil producers have renewed their plea this time with excellent prospects of success . A bill has been introduced In Representative E W Mat land ill P of Oklahoma , which is understood to have been drafted for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interior . President Roosevelt is understood to hate written letters to both Vice-President Garner and Speaker Rainey asking that the measure be considered a part of the Administration program of bills to be passed before the end of the special session of Congress . Going even farther In the direction of government authority to control production than does the ndustries recovery bill . the oil measure would confer on the Secretary of the Interior broad and authoritat e power : ( Ii to allocate to each oil-producing state a " fair share of the general market ; ( 2 ) . ix a price for oil ; II ) limit the importation of oil which in no ease is to exceed the daily average during the last six months of 1932 Plugs Possible Leak The last provision is intended to prevent importers from taking advantage of reduced domestic production by shipping in the difference between the new and the old levels . To bring about the domestic reduction the bill proposes to tax at 50 cents a barrel all petroleum produced in excess of the limit fixed by the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent a barrel is assessed to pay costs of administering the law . The question was immediately raised as to whether the proposed limitation on imports would conflict with President Roosevelt 's tariff truce . This , however , is not expected to be a serious obstacle by those who have been studying the question , since the object is not so much to further reduce oil imports , but rather to hold them where they are . To representatives of the oil Ir . industry it seems entirely reasonable that if they agree to prorate domestic production among themselves the importers should be willing to accept a limitation on imports at the present average level . The President 's Stand The President 's text follows . As the Congress is doubtless aware , a serious situation confronts the oil producing industry . Because oil taken from the ground is a natural resource which once used can not be replaced . it is Of interest to the nation that Its production should be under reasonable control for the best inter- eats of the present and future generations . My administration for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oil-producing states and with component parts of the industry but it seems difficult , if not impossible , to bring order out of chaos only by state action . In fact , this is recognized by of the governors concerned . There Is a widespread demand for federal legislation . May I request that this subject be given immediate attention by the appropriate committee or committees ? The Secretary of the Interior stands ready to present any information or data desired . May I suggest huffier that in order to save the time of the special session it might be passible to incorporate action relatin3 to the oil industry with whatever action the Congress decides to take in regard to other industries ? in other words , that consideration should be given at the same time that action Is taken on the bills already introduced and now pending in committee .                     