@@697813

txt One clause of the second English electoral reform bill aims to reduce the Conservative plurality of motor cars hauling voters to the poll . It is the theory of the Government that to have a fair election there must be a fairer use of cars . Some parts of the clause are interesting and illustrate the growing complaints of English judges about the loose drafting of laws . Thus no person may use or permit the use of his car to take to the poll " any " person other than the owner of the " vehicle or member of the family " resident with him . " So a car owner with a chauffeur could n't take him along . Jeering criticisms flew fast in the Commons debate . What is meant by " the poll " 7 Can a man drive to within ten yards of the poll without incurring the penalty of the proposed act ? What is a " family " A Labor voice defines it as " all people of the same name . " Whereat another Labor member answers : Then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Clyneses would have a very unfortunate time . My own family could be taken in a Baby Austin . Still another Laborite said that though he has one of the biggest constituencies in the country , he is not bothered by the more numerous wheels of the enemy : His supporters had been carefully trained to use the other people 's cars , and they did so generously . They went on the principle of exploiting the exploiters . Another section provided for the registration of cars with the returning officer in each constituency , who was to allot them , under direction of the Home Secretary , to various districts . They must convey voters " irrespective of party . " Mr. OLIVER STANLEY wanted to know if any elector walking in the street could hail one of these pooled machines like a taxicab and be carried to the polling booth . The Solicitor General solemnly " thought not " ; and he put far from him the suggestion that the returning officer would let political motives influence him in the distribution of voter carriers . Sir HERBERT SAMUEL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greeted some of the Solicitor General 's remarks , spoke with due earnestness . Many Liberal members doubted if a sufficient number of cars could be had on the conditions proposed . People now lent their cars , submitting themselves to inconvenience , some expense and the risk of damage , for the benefit of their own party . They would have no inducement to do so if cars were pooled . In scattered Liberal constituencies many voters might be kept from the poll under the clause as it stood . Would n't the Government make clear , since the bill did not , what machinery was to take the place of party ofganization in the control of motor cars , and who was actually to use them on polling day ? The Government was in yielding mood . Home Secretary CLYNES consented to include the chauffeur " and ordinary residents in the house of the owner . There should be an amendment permitting the aged and infirm to be driven to the poll . He was inclined to accept the principle of a Conservative amendment fixing a maximum number , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electors , " and , second , in relation to the size " of the constituency . " Cars were to be employed by the candidate or his supporters , not allotted by the returning officer , control by whom was " a wholly unnecessary procedure . " So the clause is to be unmade and remade . Some participants in the discussion referred , significantly , to countries where the working people have the majority of cars . Some time the advantage might be on the other leg , in Great Britain . The most sensible comment on the whole theory of " equalizing " political motor transport was made by a Labor member . Any " clever candidate " could find a way to slip out of legal restrictions on his election haulage .                     