@@698472

txt It takes a case for trial by jury thirteen months to be reached in the Municipal Court , a year and a half in the Supreme Court , and three years in the City Court . Agitation for relieving congestion and eliminating delay has been frequent but futile . Both bar and bench have been severely criticized for many years , and both have met reproof with polite promises to do better . The subject was under serious discussion at the meeting of the State Bar Association ... on Thursday . Among several students of delay in judicial administration , WILLIAM M. WHERRY is the most recent and one of the sharpest in analyzing its causes and proposing a remedial program . His monograph , " A Study of the Organza " tion of Litigation and of the Jury " Trial in the Supreme Court of New " York City , " cuts through a mass of data to show unwholesome conditions in the administration of justice , with special stress laid on defects in the skill , the fairness and the ethics of lawyers . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bar , but Mr. WHERRY gives one instance after another showing how the resourcefulness of a lawyer may be turned to speed if it is for his private advantage , while it is equally efficient in causing delay when wanted . Members of the profession have an excellent record as trustees , receivers , executives in commercial and industrial organizations , but are less effective in public reforms . A report of theirs , referring to conditions in the Municipal Court , is typical of their attitude : " that some " plan to expedite the trial of jury " cases , and thereby to relieve the " congestion due to crowded calen " dars , is sure to be found . " It would be greatly to their credit if they found it themselves . . A miscarriage of lustice maz be . due to the mechanics of trials in the general disposition of litigation ; to the judge and jury ; to the proof , including witnesses ; and to the lawyers . Cases are not classified as they should be for urgency , the length of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money involved compared with the expense of the trial . Judges and juries do not cooperate efficiently . Many cases are cited in which juries were misled by witness or by lawyers , whose tricky practices are seen through by the judge . In all the cases studied , the court and jury took a small part in their actual disposition in comparison with the part played by the lawyers . They have available a great number of motions which they use to cause delay and expense . Preliminary trials are not used as they should be to settle cases which are allowed to survive for months . Mr. WHERRY 'S book appears at an opportune time . It should provide profitable material for the consideration of the State commission Tor investigating the administration of justice in this State , and for study by the joint committee on cooperation in which the bar associations of New York , Brooklyn , Queens , Richmond and the Bronx are represented .                     