@@702524

txt A paradox of recovery  --  only slightly reduced relief rolls in the face of increasing numbers of jobs  --  is being studied here as the Chicago relief commission embarks upon its annual survey of relief cases . now numbering about 85.000 . What appears contradictory is that Illinois , despite evidences of rising employment , still finds one inhabitant in every seven receiving public aid . In March . 1933. when unemployment was at its peak . the proportion was not much different . Then , according to estimates . the ratio was one to about six and one half . The paradox is not peculiar to Chicago nor to Illinois , according to reports , but the situation here is deemed worthy of study because Chicago 's problems are those of any highly-industrialized area . Local relief authorities are convinced there are reasonable explanations of the situation , but they are , nevertheless . requiring all persons now on relief to re-qualify by affidavit . It is not expected to make any great reduction in the annual relief toad. however . What is the explanation ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city who never have been on relief rolls . the commission declares . Some authorities estimate this group as comprising 50 per cent of all the unemployed persons in the city . When jobs open up . persons who have managed to subsist on savings or aid from their families are usually the first to get them . They are usually the most persistent . and employers believe them to be best fitted for jobs . Another factor is the presence of the so-called unemployables , who stay on the public aid books in good times and Dad . In this group are the aged , the blind , mothers with small children . the handicapped . Pensions and special employment are being arranged for them , or have been arranged , but as far as statistics go . these people still appear as recipients of public aid . From 52 to 55 per cent of the relief load is estimated as made up of this group . The public apparently does not realize there is considerable turnover in relief lists . In February , for example , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment , 5711 cases were dropped because families were able to support themselves . But more than that number of new cases were taken on during the same month .                     