@@702351

txt If Germany is ready to take part in a general European settlement , including an accord for the limitation of armaments , France is willing , even anxious , to aid Germany economically and to co-operate with her Politically . This is the diplomatic situation in Europe as seen from France today , after Premier Leon Blum 's address at Lyons yesterday on the eve of Reichsfiihrer Hitler 's expected speech to the Reichstag . No " Bargaining " Denying any desire to drive a bargain with the Reich and deliberately refraining froni making any specific proposal Premier , Blum is felt here to have offered , diplomatically to Herr Hitler the opportunity to announce a plan for economic and political peace . The speech was generally approved . - Five cardinal points of French foreign policy outlined by M. Blum may be summarized as follows : 1 . Frairce is ready for " dircit conversations " with Germany but rejects'the idea of a " separate settleMent " with the Reach ; 2 . The French Government rejects the method of libateral pacts. 3 . France remains faithful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Blufn defined as meaning " no engageinent thatts spedal to France will guarantee the security of France . " France Viii Keep Faith 4 . Faithful to the League , to her " friendships " and to her " contracted obligations , " France 's aim " remains the settlement of all European problems . " " But it is with a general settlement in view or within a general settlement that we are seeking the solution of the Franco-German problem , " M. Blum declared . 5 . M. Blum believes a settlement possible . but agrees with British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden that " at present this possibility depends essentially on Germany . " M. Blum emphasized France 's readiness to co-operate in aiding Germany " by opening credits , by augmenting its supply of raw materials , by opening facilities for settlement or colonization or by other means . " While he subordinated these efforts to an accord stopping the armaments race , Premier Blum said that " war manufactures today occupy such an important place in the production of industrial nations that perhaps it is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which does not have as a complement an international economic convention giving a substitute outlet for enterprise and labor . "                     