@@699587

txt Diplomatic " incidents " with Poland , and France during the last few days are regarded as indicative of the stronger international policy toward which Germany is moving . The promptness and resolution of the League of Nations decision ordering Poland to withdraw immediately the extra forces recently installed to guard the Westerplatte Poland 's arms . depot across the river from the free city of Danzig , are accepted In Germany as a success against what . was interpreted here as a Polish violation of the peace treaty . The League 's action has relieved the situation . Germany 's refusal to entertain Preneh protests against what France etnisidered a violation of the Versiiine8 demilitarlied Rhineland zone provisions finds ready support in national opinion . Baron Constantin von Neurath , Foreign Minister , today could not agree with M. Francois Ponca , French Ambassador , that the Versailles Treaty had been violated by auxiliary pollee and the National Socialist Brown Shirt movement in the Rhineland zone . Kehl incident defended One incident consisted of the 35-hour occupation by storm troops of the police barracks at Kehl @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German press points out , was an internal affair , done in the interest of the public peace and security , adding that only every tenth man was armed with ' Me or revolver . Another incident to which France is said to have taken exception was the seizing of power by National Socialist troops In Rhineland towns such as Cologne , Speyer and Kehl , all of which being in the zone where Articles 42 and 43 of the Versailles Treaty forbids Germany to assemble armed troops or perform military exercises . Baron von Neurath 's altitude is supported by the whole German press , which traces the incident to " exaggerated reports in French newspapers , which are not according to facts , " and the general contention Berlin is that France seized the pretext for a protest against the whole of present Gelman politics . Meanwhile the Government 's control over state legislatures and municipal administrations has been practically completed . Capt . Her- mann Goering , Reich 's Minister of Interior Affairs in Prussia , early this week instructed storm troops and Steel Helmets to refrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration of Justice or with semipublic institutions . Ho declared that ho personally would direct a political purging of public offices in Germany 's largest State . The National Socialist press hails the uniting of all Germany under Fascist rule . Events leading to complete consolidation of this control include the removal of a number of mayors in such important cities as Cologne , Wiesbaden , Frankfort - on - Main , Bonn , Mannheim and a number of further decrees against Communists and Social Democratic organizations in various states . Violence Is reported in many instances against Socialist Officials of strong views . Deinocratto Papers Suspended The decree proscribing the Social Democratic press throughout Prussia , which expired today , has been extended for another 14 days , and such weekly reviews of left wing opinon as the Weltbuelme and the Tagebuch have been suspended six months . The editorial office of Simplicissimus , one of Germany 's outstanding comic weeklies , yesterday was reported to have been wrecked by National Socialist uniformed troops . Tho state of Wlirttemberg yesterday decreed that Social Democratic organizations such as the Retells Banner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confiscated by the police in Stuttgart . Throughout WtIrttemberg uniforms , flags , badges or signs of any Social Democratic organizations have been forbidden and the premises of all Communists and similar organizations on sins grounds expropriated . Dr. Joseph Goebbels , new federal Minister of Propaganda , told newspaper men today that the Government would tolerate sensible criticism , but would " vigorously punish " any press which damages the Administration . Dr. Goebbels has built up an efficient propaganda department for the National Socialist Party , and now as cabinet member controls the press , radio , films and theaters. : ie declared that the Fascist Party would not use terrorism to unite Germany , Instead , it will employ all modem methods at its command to bring about political unity throughout the Reich .                     