@@699126

txt The Ford Motor Co. soon will start commercial distribution in the United States and other countries of the products from its Boa Vista plantation in Brazil . The first shipment of commercial products recently arrived in this country . It consisted mainly of logs and lumber , but rubber , fibres from tropical trees were included . The lumber , amounting to 160,000 board feet , is the first kiln-dried material ever to be shipped out of Brazil . In 1927 the Ford Motor Co. acquired a tract t.f approximately 4,000.000 acres of Jungle land in the Amazon Valley , Brazil . for development as a rubber plantation . As the dense jungle was cleared preparatory to the planting of rubber seedlings , many trees were felled and hauled to the plantation sawmill for conversion into lumber which was used for plantation buildings and for houses for the white and native workers . Some of these buildings contain woods which are said to be more beautiful than many used in the choicest examples of present American cabinet work . Woods Tested 4 Years Soon after the clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commercial use of these woods . Almost four years of experimental work by the Ford Motor Co. both in Dearborn , Mich. , and on the Ford Brazil plantation precedes the first shipping . Exhaustive scientific inquiries into the qualities of the various woods were conducted . They were tested for relative weight , strength , hardness , moisture content . resonance to deterioration , adaptability to interior trim , veneering and cabinet making and also for their ability to tage stains , wax and varnish finishes . These experiments , recently completed , revealed that these new woods were readily adaptable to processing and in many respects were superior to domestic materials for the entire field of fine cabinet work . Most of the woods range from 28 to 56 pounds a cubic foot . Another , of the balsa type , weighs less than 7 pounds a cubic foot . Woods of this type are expected to prove to be of great utility in sound-proofing and insulation . The first commercial use of this imported lumber in the United States wilt be in the new service branch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built to servo the Washington , D. C. , territory . Kiln-dried lumber also will be supplied to manufacturers for conversion into furniture for the new plant offices . To Be Used on Lincoln Interiors Some of the woods will be used in automobiles made by the Ford Motor Co . One use is to be it the interior decorative moldings of Lincoln cars , which previously have been , fashioned of woods imported from northern South America , Central America and Europe . The company also will use some of these woods in the manufacture of patterns , forms and models , replacing the woods now used . Among the first consignment were stumps and crotches of trees found on the Ford plantation . These are to be used in the manufacture of , burl veneers to indicate the possibilities which the Brazilian woods offer . The Ford saw mill at Boa Vista has a capacity for 90,000 board feet a day .                     