@@703925

txt The United Mine Workers flatly rejected late yesterday afternoon a proposal by the Appalachian bituminous operators to settle the stoppage in the soft coal industry , involving 320,000 miners , by recognizing the union as the exclusive collective bargaining agency while refusing to grant the closed shop . Although the negotiations for a new contract were called " hopelessly deadlocked , " the miner and operator sub-committees recessed until 10 o'clock this morning to continue further discussions at the Hotel Biltmore . The negotiators received urgent appeals throughout the day from municipal and Congressional authorities who asserted the shortage of soft coal is rapidly becoming acute . Mayor La Guardia who personally appeared at the conference Thursday to press for a settlement made a second appeal by letter yesterday and explained that he could " not ignore the situation in this city and the discomfort and danger to health and the damage that will ensue " as the result of a shortage of coal . Buffalo Situation " Acute " Representative J. Francis Harter of New York telegraphed the miners and operators that the shortage of soft @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hospitals was critical . Representative Jennings Randolph of West Virginia urged the negotiators to make concessions and reach a settlement . Berry &; Foote , a Philadelphia coal company , telegraphed ' John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , that the New York Shipbuilding Corporation of Camden , N. J. , would have to stop work on one battleship , two destroyer tenders and two seaplane tenders next Saturday for lack of coal . Henry T. Coates , chairman of the coal committee set up by the National Association of Purchasing Agents , announced that industrial plants in this State and in the area south to Hampton Roads and west to Pittsburgh had sufficient coal to operate for another two weeks without serious difficulty . Ernest Kelly , executive director of the Pennsylvania Unemployment Compensation and Employment Service estimated in an address before the American Association for Social Security here yesterday that by night some 110,000 miners in Pennsylvania would have filed applications for unemployment insurance . When the Appalachian bituminous coal operators submitted their compromise proposal barring the union shop , Mr. Lewis pointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penalty clauses " in the old contract that expired March 31 . Penalty Clauses Assailed Under the penalty clauses miners are assessed from $1 to $2 a day when they strike in violation of a contract . Mr. Lewis declared that the - penalty clauses were " a modern version " of conditions under which employers once felt that they could " evict " and " whip with a lash " their employes at will . The scale subcommittee representing the operators announced after their meeting that they had offered the following compromise to end the deadlock : " We offer to make an Appalachian basic agreement and the usual district agreements for two years from April 1 , 1939 , specifying that each operator represented in the Appalachian Conference recognize the United Mine Workers of America as the exclusive bargaining representative under the National Labor Relations Act of such operator 's employes of the classes covered by the agreements , except the employes exempted under such agreements , and specifying further that as a condition of employment each operator will require such employes to be bound by such collective bargaining agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other conditions of employment to be the same as provided in the agreements that expired on March 31 , 1939 . ' . ' As a protection against raids by the American Federation of Labor , Mr. Lewis announced two new demands as conditions requisite to the making of a contract . These demands were , first , exclusive bargaining representation , and second , a ' closed shop . ' " This compromise proposal of the operators grants Mr. Lewis the first of these two demands , viz. , exclusive bargaining representation covering all the employes of all the mines represented by the operators in the conference . " This proposal of the operators gives to Mr. Lewis all the " legal protection for his union that the operators can afford to give under the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act . " It means that for the period of the contract no group of employes , either within or outside of any other union , can ask the operators or require them under the provisions of the act to bargain with them . It may not prevent efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but no provision of the National Labor Relations Act can prevent such attempts , even under a ' closed-shop ' agreement . " The operators can not grant Mr. Lewis 's second request for the reason that management must retain the right to hire men who in their sole discretion are suitable for the jobs to be performed and to direct their working forces and to discharge men who are incompetent . The important problems of discipline and safety being placed by rigid State mining laws exclusively as a responsibility of management , the operators must be free to direct their working forces in order to maintain the discipline and safety standards necessary for efficient operation . To adopt a ' closed shop ' would eliminate from , employment the members of rival unions and men who prefer to belong to no union and would force all mine employes to become and remain members of the United Mine Workers and pay dues and assessments in order to hold their jobs .. Confusing Issue Charged " Mr. Lewis has sought to obstruct and confuse the real issue in the present deadlock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the enforcement or so-called ' penalty ' clauses . Mr. Lewis has been candid enough in the discussions with the subcommittee to state that strikes will be instituted at any mine in the conference territory where necessary to make certain that members of the . United Mine Workers of America do not work in such mine with employes not members of that union . " In other words , Mr. Lewis , in seeking the elimination of , the enforcement clauses , is asking the operators to agree to a condition of open warfare at their properties between the United Mine Workers and other unions or non-members of any union for the express and single purpose of compelling the ' closed shop ' to be accepted by all employes in and around the mines by force . The bituminous coal oporators decline to act as recruiting sergeants- to conscript for life all the mine workers of the Appalachian territory into Mr. Lewis 's C. 1 . 0 . army for his war against Mr. Green of the A. F. of L. " Having gone as far as the law will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new agreements for two years with the rates of pay , hours of labor and all other ' working conditions the same as in the contracts that have just expired , the- operators have gone the limit in their effort to meet Mr. Lewis 's demands and reopen the mines . " In making public the text of the operators ' proposal , Charles ( ) Weill , president:of the Eastern Coal Sales Company , and spokesman for the operators , explained that the statement already had been handed to Mr. Lewis and his associates : Mr. Lewis in commenting on the proposal declared that the operators seemed " to reopen a question which has already been disposed of by the conference  --  namely , the union shop . " He added : " The question over which the conference is concerned is the question of the elimination of the automatic penalty clause previously existing in the agreement . " This proposal of the operators is presented contingent upon the retention ' of the penalty clause . The United Mine Workers are opposed to the retention of the penalty clause for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operators has no bearing on the subject . " Under certain circumstances the proposal of the operators might be a contribution to the conference by the inclusion of eight words , namely , ' members of the United Mine Workers of America . ' Those are the eight words in the seventh line of this paper . " The operators , however , omitted those words and this paper has no particular standing , because it does not run to the issue of this conference . " Mr. Lewis asserted that the penalty clause , had been " a particular source of abuse . " He said the Pittsburgh Coal Company , although previous to the administration of J. D. A. Morrow , one of the operator conferees , had locked out 21,000 men and during the two years that the lock-out continued the liabilities of the company in penalties had run to $25,200,000 . Mr. Lewis explained that it was such instances that formed the basis of the mine workers ' contention that bilateral clauses were in effect only unilateral . Offer Called " Ambiguous " " There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added , " and that is whether the penalty clauses will be eliminated . The closed shop has no bearing on that proposition . Obviously the operators ' proposition is designed to confuse the people 's mind . It would create a condition whereby they could Weaken the United Mine Workers by encouraging members to resign by reason of the open shop . It is easy to see why the United Mine Workers would not be interested in such an ambiguous proposal as the operators now present . ' The mine workers will continue to insist that the operators abandon their demand for the retention of these obnoxious conditions . " Mr. Lewis said he had explained at the conference meeting with the Mayor Thursday the status of the mine workers in mining towns . " In addition to having the right to pay the mine workers inadequate wages , under inadequate working conditions , the operators want the right to fine the mine worker while they might be engaged in breaking up his union . " Mr. O'Neill drew from Mr. Lewis an admission that the Pittsburgh Coal Company case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lewis , commented that it was " exactly like the debt of the Allies to the United States . " Terms Are Defended Mr : O'Neill said he believed the operators ' statement was " a fair statement of their ? position " and that there was " nothing ambiguous or evasive about it . " He declared that the penalty clause had been in operation for six years and that there was not one instance of abuses involving " whips and things . " ? " The coal operators of the Appalachian area have not talked of evicting their workers , " ' Mr. O'Neill insisted . " What they are seeking to do is to reopen the mines and supply the country with coal . The penalty clause may not be perfect , but it is the best rule that has been devised . " Asked what settlement formula was proposed by Mayqor La Guardia , Mr. Lewis said the Mayor had suggested that the automatic penalty clause be revised to operate on a ' mutual basis , with no fine to be collected until guilt had been determined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told the operators they would discuss that question , " asid Mr. Lewis . Mr. O'Neill countered with the suggestion that on that basis the Mine Workers could never be made to say whether or not they were on strike . Asked what issues would be discussed at this morning 's conference , in view of the deadlock on the chief demand of the miners , Mr. O'Neill replied that " we will discuss our plan for settlement of the question by conceding one of the demands of Mr. Lewis . " Text of Mayor 's Letter Mayor La Guardia 's appeal was made in the following letter : " Yesterday I presented to your conference the situation in New York City in reference to our coal supply and appealed for a settlement of the existing dispute . That means that today we are one . day nearer the moment when the city will be faced with an actual coal shortage . I need not now repeat the situation in New York City and our need of coal in the very city itself . " May I state that in my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many labor disputes in which I have aided settling , I have never seen a case where the two sides were closer together on all details and yet seemed so hopelessly deadlock . " You are in agreement on matters of wages , hours and working conditions . There is no dispute that the fields from which New York receives its supplies is . practically entirely unionized . That being so , it would seem to an outsider that there should . be little difficulty in reaching a final agreement . " If the formula which I suggested yesterday , hastily and on the spur of the moment conceived , is not acceptable , surely it should not be difficult for the two sides who have been working together so many . years , to arrive at a satisfactory and fair understanding . " I desire again to make clear that there is no wish on my part to interject myself into the coal dispute , but I can not ignore the situation in this city and the discomfort , danger to health and safety and the damage that will ensue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuel to continue normal operations and activities of this great city . " I , therefore , again and now publicly appeal to both sides for their earnest consideration of the situation in - this and other cities and ask for assurance that the normal supply of coal van be forthcoming and that at no time will the city be left without , the normal supply for the maintenance of its normal functions . " I will again inquire tomorrow if the conference has reached or is approaching a solution . " It was reported last night that the Mayor planned to appear at the scale conference of the miners and operators again today following his return from Boston . No Tmminent Shortage Seen WASHINGTON , April . 14 ( 2B.  - -  A shortage in the soft coal supply is not imminent , exports in coal trade circles said tonight , estimating that since the Appalachian mines susr pended operations April 1 there has been a drop of 4,000,000 tons in the available supply , which on that date was about 41,000,000 tons . The Bituminous Coal Commission , which prepares monthly re -- ports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent than March 1 , when the national supply was 39 , - 300,000 tons . A commission spokesman said the average weekly consumption of bituminous coal at this season is 7,000,000 tons . He added that mines outside the Appalachian field are producing about 1,860,000 tons a week .                     