@@697096

txt Other delegations have informed Aristide Briand , head of the French delegation at the naval conference , that they will consult their governments regarding the French demand for a political pact or pacts as the price of reducing the French naval figure ) , and it is expected that political discussions will be resumed next week-end when Premier Andre Tardieu plans to be in London . The American delegates today are very non-committal about M. Briand 's proposal echoed in Prime Minister Ramsay 's radio speech to the ' United States last night . While the delegation has been divided on the issue , it appears from what one hears at the Ritz Hotel that Senator Robinson may hold the key position among our representatives . Senator David A. Reed has hitherto shown himself rather unfavorable to any commitment to consultation by the American delegation , and it is believed that Ambassador Dwight W. Morrow takes an analogous position . Two Ambassadorial members of the delegation , Charles G. Dawes and Hugh S. Gibson , might be expected to be found alongside Secretary of State Stimson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Briand 's suggestion . It is said that Secretary of the Navy Adams is not yet committed . However , there appears to be not the slightest doubt that the American delegation will act only on a unanimous decision , which means that if any member holds out against a political pact which would include America , the delegation will not come out in favor of it . Wants to Know Positions . In French quarters it is said that M. Briand does not care whether an arrangement for consultation is included in the naval treaty or not . He does not care whether it is a separate treaty or merely a Presidential proclamation . But it is his position that France wants to know what the other powers will do in case war is threatened ? and since she would shape her navy accordingly she wants to know it in advance . It is understood that the British have told M. Briand that whether America does anything or not they may agree , in case of a crisis , that they will cooperate immediately in a League of Nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whether they will go further , as , for example , as far as mutual aid against aggression , remains to be seen , and it is indicated that it depends largely on whether the United States will agree to consult in case of an international crisis . In the meanwhile the conference this week devolves into a debate between the English and the French aver tonnage figures . This debate will be directed by First Lord of the Admiralty Alexander and Minister of Marine Dusmenil , with the Amerimns as observers . These discussions were called for consideration of Eu- ropean figures , but the Italians declined to participate on the ground that they could not make known their figures until they knew finally those of France , with which nation Signor Mussolini claims the right to naval parity . In today 's discussion it developed that while the British advised the French that their figures , to which the British figures are to be adjusted , were too high , the French technicians advised the English that their figures were too low for the vast naval needs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ready to referee if a quarrel develops . It is known that some British quarters can see no reason why Britain should antagonize France to make parity cheaper for the United States , as they put it . It may be assumed that in these Anglo-French discussions the French will be asked to make clear just what concessions they would offer in exchange for political arrangements . This question goes to the root of the matter , and naturally the French reply will depend on what they are offered . It is understood that the French have prepared a statement setting forth that they regard their fleet as existing for two purposes , one to keep their colonial empire together and the other for European defence . It is said that between these two purposes they divide their fleet equally . On the 50 per cent they say is needed for colonial purposes they will not reduce , but as for the other half they can reduce if European security is promoted further . Since the French construction program calls for 40,000 tons annually , or 240,000 tons between now and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cut will apply to 126,000 tons of construction . However , this calculation would omit the possibilities of transfer from one fleet to another . It is often said that M. Briand is prepared to offer a reduction of from 100,000 to 150,000 tons , depending on what is offered him in the way of a treaty . Thus it is seen that the conference is in a very complicated situation . A good deal , although not all , depends on whether the United States will give M. Briand an answer to the question of what we intend to do if war is threatened . If America agrees to make a commitment , political negotiations will he enlarged . If she does not , it will become a question of what England will offer France in case of conflict . It is probable that not until these political queries are answered will the conference be able to get down to what may be regarded as the rock-bottom French figures , which , when reached , will permit the British to state their final figures with which America will seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American cruiser strength remains in abeyance , as does Italy 's demand for parity with France , with which M. Briand seems no more sympathetic than M. Tardieu.                     