@@698652

txt Long before the war Not the the traditional German Napoleonic discipline and respect Touch . for law used to be humorously summed up in the warning that no revolution in Germany must ever be expected unless by the permission of the police . The manner in which the German people dealt with monarchical institutions after the Armistice and have conducted their public affairs since then has been cited as confirming the satirical prophecy . Further vindication comes when AeoLr HITLER applies to the courts for a writ of injunction against the Prussian police , who have been raiding his local headquarters . In an enemy of the republic who has been openly proclaiming his intention to seize power in Germany , this law-abiding behavior of the Fascist leader strikes one as inconsistent and unimpressive . The other day it was reported that Ilrrtsa gave his word of honor to General GROENER , Minister of the Interior and Defense , that the " Nazis " would restrict themselves to lawful agitation . The procedure certainly does not suggest the picturesque march on Rome by which Mussomsi came into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summoned to Petrograd to set up the Dictatorship of the Proletariat . PADEREWSKI has made A another great gift . A few Gift weeks ago in playing to in Kind . the greatest audience ever assembled for a piano recital he made a magnificent contribution to the support of unemployed musicians in America . His new donation of $6,000 is in money , but is to be transmuted into musical skill and so is in effect a gift " in kind . " It is to be used in providing musical instruction by the best of teachers for New York children of exceptional musical promise . This fund has been given to the Committee of the Philharmonic-Symphony Society on Ensemble , Musical Training and Scholarships , which has been carrying on such work for ten years as an outgrowth of WALTER DAmsoscn 's concerts in the public schools . It has not only employed musicians " of the first desk " to give instruction , but has helped in the purchase of instruments and music for the students . The purpose Is not primarily to produce professional musicians but rather to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put this instruction , it will be the proud distinction of those who enjoy the benefit of this particular fund that they are the pupils of the great PADEREwSKI himself . Say not the struggle Beauty naught availeth . The and anti-billboard campaignBillboards. ers , fresh from reverses on certain State fronts , have pushed their lines forward along the approaches to the Capital City . The famous Baltimore-Washington Pike , " Highway No. 1 " on the Federal road maps , used to be one of the worst offenders in the matter of disfiguring signs . Thanks to the efforts of the American Civic Association and its allies , nearly 20 per cent of them have been removed during the last year . Maryland also has a law which is bringing about the abandonment of many of the smaller " snipe " signs . The situation on the other side of Washington is not so encouraging , since the Virginia bill to tax billboards met with defeat . The completion by the government of the Mount Vernon Memorial Highway , however , " guarantees the Federal City one approach where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The great public inAmerican terest shown in LonArt don exhibitions during . Londonrecent Winters of for French , Dutch and Italian art may have prompted the suggestion of an early showing of American art at Burlington House . Perhaps discussion of the peril of Europe 's being " Americanized " may have led to a desire on the part of Englishmen to see the work of American artists . Certainly the proposal is a compliment to American artistic endeavor . Were the plan to exhibit in London art treasures owned in America , the display would undoubtedly be richer . As it is , the original scheme is broadening to a wider range . The first idea was to include the work of American-born artists who worked abroad , such as SARGENT and WHISTLER . Then a letter to The London Times added that it would be well to have concerts of music by modern American composers . Another suggestion is that American architecture , as the " foremost American art , " be included , showing the evolution of the skyscraper , as well as fine American university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is not more to offer that is outstanding and nationally characteristic . But in architecture there have been striking developments , strictly indigenous to the A Iv . c.v. ; n.m ve  --  daYI                     