@@704356

txt Moscow can not wait . The official organ of the Communist International opens an attack on Rumania , combining in one blast the threats directed against Finland as a prelude to invasion and the arguments accompanying the occupation of Eastern Poland . Bucharest is " advised " to negotiate a pact with Russia similar to the surrenders forced on the Baltic states . At the same time conditions in Bessarabia are discovered to be so ' ' unbearable " that Moscow may consider it a duty to " rescue her oppressed brothers . " Since journalists do not talk out of turn in Moscow , this can not be dismissed as mere newspaper talk . It sounds like the opening gun of the next campaign . The direction of the threat is not unexpected , of course , but it would be interesting to know why the Soviet Government shakes a fist at the next victim while its hands are full in Finland and the amazing stand of this midget state against Colossus is fast consolidating outside support behind Finnish resistance . Is Stalin showing his defiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the neutrals force his hand , so that he hurries to grab what he wants before it is too late ? Does the menacing gesture represent an attempt to forestall the British effort to prevent the delivery of Rumanian goods to Germany ? Or is Moscow covering up the setback in Finland by a move to spread and complicate the war ? These questions are reflections of the great question mark hanging over Europe : Is Stalin acting with Hitler or against him ? If Russia means to move on Bessarabia before the fate of Finland is settled , the secret of the NaziSoviet compact may be noon disclosed by events . But judging from the strange quiescence in Berlin while Moscow takes the lead in the drama of aggression , Hitler himself is not too sure whether he is trainer or prey as the Bear walks abroad . The crucial question is not answered , but the first open Soviet threat on Rumania helps to explain why Italy is so concerned over the fate of Finland and why the Balkans have been so agitated in recent weeks . Planes bought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , flown by Italian pilots , to reinforce the Finnish air force . Since the beginning of the war Italy has declared that she could not be indifferent to Russian invasion in the Balkans , and Italian sympathy for Finland , like the tension in the neighboring peninsula , indicates that the underground battle going on in that region has been as active as the undersea fight in the North Sea . This is further indicated by a Russian press attack on Tinley coinciding with the threat to Rumania , and by the decision in London to permit British supplies of fighting planes and munitions to go to aid the defense of Finland . " Neutral " Russia is fighting the Allies in the Black Sea and being fought by British planes in the Baltic . " Neutral " Italy is threatening to intervene if Russia pushes south . The " neutral " Americas , led by the United States , are considering all sorts of measures to assist the first neutral state to be invaded . It is a widening war , but always the same war , anybody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unpredictable that when Presiden Roosevelt announces that Americas foreign policy is " on a twenty-four hour basis " he is merely expressing th limit of certainty in a world that live by the day .                     