@@697401

txt WINNING MODIFICATIONISTS . Need of Assurance Against Saloon 's Return a Factor . To the Editor of The New York Times : In your leading editorial of yesterday , " A Portentous Change , " you make a significant prophecy . Referring to the growing mass of public opinion pushing toward a change in our prohibition laws , you say : " It may not be outright repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . That could not come for a long time . It may not be adoption of any of the specific modifications of the Volstead act which have thus far been offered . But something will have to be done . " As an almost , if ' not quite , charter member of the . Association Against the Prohibition Amendment , the writer yields to none in his desire to see the Eighteenth Amendment repealed , regarding the indicated operation as less like the removal of an inflamed appendix than like the removal of a surgeon 's scissors accidentally sewn up in a wound . But even before The Literary Digest poll , some political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized also that on account of the large majorities needed to effect a change in the Constitution ( action by thirty-six of the forty-eight States ) , the votes of many modificationists would have to be added to the votes of repealists to secure action within a reasonable time  --  that is , before the country should have become so encrusted in its adaptation to a system of bootlegging , nullification and home brew that political interest could no longer be aroused . The modification vote doubtless includes many who still believe in the prohibition principle but are fairmined enough to realize that in practice it has failed , and who are therefore ready for a change , provided they can be assured there will be no return to the evil saloon conditions which preceded the prohibition era . To reduce the situation to terms of the nursery : Willie Dry has a large red apple which is too hard and green ( internally ) to eat . Tommie Wet says to him , " I have a large ripe peach , ready to eat , which I will trade you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see your peach first  --  and feel of it . " There can be no denying the fact that the drys are in actual possession of their red apple , and even if they can not eat it Ithey have something to trade with . It is not surprising , therefore , that many sincere modificationists are " from Missouri , " and it would seem no more than practical political sagacity to recognize the condition that confronts the advocates of repeal . The symposium of repeal plans which appears in your issue of Sept. 21 , quoting the views of Governor Roosevelt , Ambassador Morrow , Gubernatorial candidate Tuttle , Governor Ritchie . President Butler and ex Governor Smith . should be studied carefully by all interested in this important issue  --  and who is net ? Each of these political leaders must have in mind the necessity for votes to accomplish anything , and the sincerity of none should be questioned because he seeks a plan that gives promise of winning over sufficient modificationist votes to bring about early political results . Many of us believe that this can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the repeal plan , there is : ( 1 ) Assurance that dry States will be protected by the Federal GovernIment from importation from wet States and foreign countries . and ( 2 ) Assurance by State organizations of political parties that adequate State laws will be passed to prevent the return of the saloon . ERNEST T. CARTER .. Stamford , Conn. , Sept. 29 , 1930 . Foreign-Born Lawbreakers . To the Editor of The New York Times : In regard to TILE TIMES editorial " Immigrants and Crime , " I am entirely of the opinion of your correspondent J. D. Mason that the underworld problem in our big cities is due to immigration of an undesirable character , and my opinion is based upon the knowledge I gained while serving on the jury in the criminal and the Federal courts . In both courts the criminals on trial were overwhelmingly alien , and very frequently interpreters had to be called in to translate the testimony of the witnesses . In the Federal court , the bootleggers brought to trial were about 75 per cent foreign born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I wrote to United States District Attorneys all over the country and to the Prohibition Bureau in Washington to inquire whether the same alien preponderance existed in other States . I learned that bootleggers everywhere are from 75 per cent to 90 per cent foreign born , and it is obvious that if these foreign-born violators of the law could be deported it would not be difficult for our courts to handle the remainder . In speaking of bootlegging as an alien industry I have often been met with the argument that if there were no drinking of bootlegged liquor there would be no bootleggers . It would perhaps be as difficult to answer the question , Which came first , the bootlegger or the drinker ? as it has been to solve the world-old problem of the priority of the chicken and the egg . We do know , however , that if we should abolish either chicken or egg we should soon have neither , and it is equally certain that if we could summarily deport our foreign-born criminals , including bootleggers , we should be rid of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liquor . The Director of Public Safety of Philadelphia has said publicly that the vast majority of the criminals with whom he has had to deal are aliens and the children of aliens . There is only one thing they fear , and that is deportation . IMOGEN B. OAKLEY . Philadelphia , Sept. 25 , 1930 . INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT . Former Register Urges Our Adher-. erne to Rome Convention . To the Editor of The New York Times : I have just had the opportunity to read the article " Authors ' Rights " in your issue of Sept. 2 . I am for the time being a long way from Washington and the copyright office , but I am as keenly interested in copyright advancement as ever . Traveling in Europe , the frequency with which one observes books by American authors translated into Spanish , French and Italian offered for sale in all the numerous book shops in large cities emphasizes what you say as to the urgent need of our authors to secure for themselves the automatic protection accorded everywhere to authors who are nationals of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is reasonable to believe that we are nearer entry into this union than ever before , and that the bill for the general revision of our copyright laws , which also provides for the entry of the United States Into the copyright union , may become law during the coming Winter session of Congress . It is sincerely to be hoped that the enactment of Mr. Vestal 's bill may be secured . You say , however , that " to be fully effective it must be passed before the end of this year , as our invitation to join the Berne convention will be withdrawn at that time . " You will permit me , I hope , to offer your readers a few paragraphs in explanation of the actual situation as regards international copyright The invitation to enter the International Copyright Union is a standing invitation . The United States may enter at any time , and we can assert very positively that such entry would be acclaimed with the sincerest expressions of gratification upon the part of all European members of that union . Not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union the greatest forward step with respect to international copyright advancement which our country can now take , but it would probably mean more for the actual extension of world protection for the productions of authors , artists and musicians than any other single act within the power of any country . The " Convention Creating an International Union for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works " was signed at Berne , Switzerland , Sept. 9 , 1886 , and was ratified on Sept. 5 , 1837 . It is commonly referred to as the " Berne Copyright Convention . " The text of this convention was thoroughly revised at Berlin and signed there on Nov. 13 , 1908 , and is designated " Berne Convention Revised . " At the copyright conference at Rome in 1928 a new text , embodying a few but very important changes , was signed on June 2 . It is the fundamental purpose of the union to secure to the fullest extent all possible uniformity in the legal protection of literary and artistic property throughout the . world . It is therefore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adherence of all countries to the came text of the copyright convention . It was therefore provided at Rome that this convention of 1928 should replace in the relations between the countries of the union the Berne convention of 1886 , and that after Aug. 1 , 1931 , new countries seeking membership must adhere to the convention of 1928 . But with a desire possibly to facilitate the entry of new countries into the union , it was provided that such countries might secure membership up to Aug. 1 , 1931 , by adherence to the copyright convention signed at Berlin in 1908 . The present copyright bill provides for adherence to the copyright convention of 1908 . It is not clear , nor is it explained , why the United States , after a delay of nearly forty-four years , should now propose adherence to a convention which is already twenty-two years old and which will be definitely discarded on Aug 1 , 1931 . The amendments accepted at the conference at Rome in 1928. which were adopted after long and serious discussion by delegates from the many countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than twenty years of the best and most expert European thought in relation to international copyright advancement . The new articles approved will inevitably mean much with respect to an author 's adequate legal protection for his works throughout the world . Why should our authors be deprived of such advantages as would come to them throughout the countries of the union ? It would be a , very regrettable act for our country deliberately to be thus compelled to take a back seat in the copyright council of the world . I confidently believe that Mr. Vestal , chairman of the Patents Committee of the House. , who has shown his sincere belief In. international copyright advancement . will see his way clear to propose an . amendment authorizing adherence to the copyright convention signed at Rome on June 2 , 1928 . THORVALD SOLBERG , Former Register of Copyrights . Madrid , Sept. 18 , 1930 . Champions Born , Not Made ? To the Editor of The New York Times : Your editorial today " Explaining Bobby " ( as did your similar editorial . several years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ers , Bobby Jones , Alexa Perry Adair , Watts Gunn ) omits any reference to the highly important factor of inheritance . Bobby Jones 's exceptional mental and physical qualities and the rare synchronization in him of mind and muscle certainly are the inheritance from a line of ancestors who were potential athletes , and one of whom , his father , Robert P. Jones , now a leading lawyer , was a noted college athlete . Watts Gunn , another Atlanta golf prodigy , is the son of a father . Judge Gunn , who as a college baseball pitcher made a record ( as Grantland Rice can testify ) perhaps unequaled in twenty-five years . cIFTARLTON OGBURN . New York , Sept. 29 , 1930.                     