@@703917

txt The Cabinet decided today that any aggression upon Greece , Turkey or other countries in the Eastern Mediterranean would be regarded by Britain as an " unfriendly act . " A solemn declaration to this effect will be made by Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain at a special one-day session of Parliament that has been summoned for Thursday . The exact form of the statement will depend partly upon diplomatic interchanges with the Balkan nations in the next few days , but the Cabinet subcommittee on foreign affairs began working it out tonight , and the Cabinet as a whole will have a final opportunity to approve it Thursday morning . While the Ministers were meeting today in the first Easter Monday session of the Cabinet since the World War , British warships were steaming off to undisclosed destinations in the Mediterranean ready for any emergency . The 30,000-ton battleship Warspite , flying the flag of Admiral Sir Dudley Pound , Commander in Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet , was at sea after having quickly left San Remo on the Italian Riviera , where she had been paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vice Admiral Geoffrey Layton , left Naples , Italy , with a flotilla of destroyers on secret orders . Orders recalling the men to their ships were broadcast from all British naval stations in the Mediter- is expected to ne a nroaa statement of principle covering the Mediterranean and perhaps the Black Sea as well and e applyin to aggression not only by Italy applying from any quarter . Already it is being described as an " umbrella declaration " that Mr. Chamberlain will throw up over British interests in an extremely wide area . Greek Scruples Are Snag The absence of a positive British pledge to Greece today was due to Greek scruples even more than to any desire here to spare Italian feelings . The original British intention of making a mutual assistance pact with Greece has been shelved because Greece is unwilling and unable to give any reciprocal pledge such as Poland gave Britain last week . The Greeks not only are afraid to antagonize Italy but also dread any jeopardizing of their excellent and profitable trade relations with Germany . The Greek reluctance is not surprising in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British Government , through Sir John Simon , Chancellor of the Exchequer , rejected a Greek plea for a loan in London and refused a Greek request to import larger quantities of Macedonian tobacco . From this the Greeks drew the conclusion that the British could not want their help very much . Accordingly , they have left it to the British to make a one-sided guarantee ; Thursday 's declaration will be the British answer . The prospects of Britain 's projected anti-aggression alliance in Eastern Europe will depend partly on the attitude of the smaller powers . The only bright spot in the pictura tonight was Turkey , which was thoroughly aroused over the implications of the conquest of Albania and which may be powerful enough diplomatically and militarily to swing the other Balkan States into line . Otherwise there was little comfort for the British as they surveyed the Eastern European scene . Yugoslavia appeared to be immobilized , not only unwilling to offend Italy and Germany but actually to have been cooperating with Italy in making the invasion of Albania possible . Bulgaria was more intent on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ check the progress of the Axis powers eastward . Rumania , through Dr. Viorel Tilea , her Minister to London , again pressed the British today for a one-way guarantee , but she showed no signs of making a reciprocal pledge on the Polish model . The whole situation , as the British saw it , could be transformed if Russia were willing to play a positive role by joining Britain and France in a guarantee of the Eastern European nations . So far , however , the Russians appear suspicious of the British " game " and the British are equally dubious of the Russian tactics . There is a growing belief here that the Soviet Government does not really care whether the Axis mile eastward and that Russia is more interested in staying out a war than in averting it by preventive measures . London-Moscow Talks Desultory The British are not exactly turning somersaults in trying to win Russian cooperation . Certainly there are no outward signs of a realization in Downing Street that Russia may hold the key between peace and war in the immediate future . Desultory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but their outcome must remain a question mark for some time ? perhaps the biggest question mark of all in a difficult and increasingly dangerous situation . In the circumstances it is no wonder that the British are looking anxiously at the state of PolishGerman relations . Thoughtful observers here are afraid that the Germans may be preparing an ultimatum to Poland in the belief that the Anglo-Polish alliance is just a bluff that must be called . The sudden calm that has settled over Berlin is thought to be ominous , for if such an ultimatum were to emerge it would in all probability bring a general war  --  and at a moment when Britain had not completed her chain of alliances . This , and not Italy 's policy in the Eastern Mediterranean , is the ' , eason why Britain will be driven into more and more energetic diplomacy in Eastern Europe in the next few days , and there is hope tonight that when Mr. Chamberlain faces the House of Commons on Thursday he will have more tangible results to show than are apparent now . ranean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for four hours ' ? notice to sail , and troops of the garrison marched to their war stations with gas masks and steel helmets . On the island fortress of Malta anti-aircraft guns and coastal defenses were manned as a hurried " precautionary measure . " In London the Admiralty would " neither confirm nor deny " that British and French warships were massing off the strategic Greek island port of Corfu , near the southern tip of Albania , The Associated Press reported . All this was in consequence of the Italian invasion of Albania , which had suddenly awakened the Cabinet to the dangers facing British strategic interests in the Eastern Mediterranean . In spite of the new assurances from Rome over the weekend  --  assurances that probably will be repeated specifically to Greece in the next few days  --  events would seem to be pushing Britain into an ever stronger stand against Fascist expansion toward the east . Unexpectedly , . however , the Cabinet decided this morning not to denounce the Anglo-Italian treaty of last year , which pledged maintenance of the status quo in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some Ministers are believed to have urged , Britain intends to send a note to Rome reminding the Italian Government of its promise to withdraw its troops from Spain as soon as the civil war was over . Spain Is Viewed as Key As seen in Downing Street , Spain , not Albania , is the touchstone of Italian intentions in the Mediterranean . The British will base their reminder upon a letter annexed to the Anglo-Italian agreement in which Count Galeazzo Ciano , Italian Foreign Minister , promised " that if evacuation has not been completed at the moment of termination of the Spanish civil war all remaining Italian volunteers will leave Spanish territory and all Italian war materials will be simultaneously withdrawn . " It is understood that Premier Benito Mussolini has sent still another personal note to Mr. Chamberlain , this time promising that the Italians would leave Spain as soon as Generalissimo Francisco Franco had made his formal entry into Madrid . Nevertheless , Mr. Chamberlain 's government will make an official inquiry in Rome and will expect a prompt and unequivocal answer . If the Italians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain will have no option but to regard the AngloItalian treaty as dead and to give up whatever hopes he may still have of averting a life-and-death struggle between Britain and Italy in the Mediterranean . Mr. Chamberlain 's familiar attitude of differentiating Italy from Germany is said to have played a decisive part at today 's Cabinet meeting and , in fact , in all the day 's Ministerial consultations . The Prime Minister no longer trusts Signor Mussolini 's good faith , but he still pretends to do so and sees certain advantages to Britain in the pretending . Not Sure Italy Would Aid Reich Strange as it may seem in the light of recent events , Mr. Chamberlain and his most trusted advisers are not yet convinced that Italy will fight beside her mighty partner in the Axis when the fatal crisis in Europe comes . War with Germany is coming to be regarded as inescapable , and perhaps before very long , but high quarters here have not entirely given up the hope that Italy will declare her neutrality , at least during the first few critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain is by no means sure that Premier Mussolini intends to push eastward into the Balkans for hegemony in the Eastern Mediterranean . This belief is fortified by reports reaching the government that Italian war industries are working at low pressure , that stocks of essential raw materials are small except for petroleum , that there has been no rise in the supplies of glycerine , which are usually a sure index of any nation 's war preparations , and that in spite of having 1,250,000 men under arms at present official figures in Rome put the figure at 950,000 , Italy is not able to embark on a big war now and is not showing any intention of doing so . Accordingly , the Cabinet 's attitude today was one of " go slow " in antagonism toward Italy , either in denouncing the Anglo-Italian agreement or in diplomatic and naval retorts to  --  the invasion of Albania . Instead of confining itself to Greece , Thursday 's declaration                     