@@698428

txt The chief bustConventions ness before the and Democratic NaPsychology. tional Committee , meeting tomorrow at Washington , is not what has been mostly in the press in advance . With Chairman RAMOS 'S home-rule prohibition amendment it has nothing to do , and will not be asked to do anything , that being the function of the national convention . Its real reason for assembling is to choose the time and place for the latter . If a proposal is made to reverse the usual order and hold the Democratic National Convention before the Republican , it is said that the committee will refuse . Not that it is unconscious of the force of the argument that , the Republicans being on the defensive already , it would be good psychology to keep them there by firing the first shot in the 1932 campaign . But there are several Presidential primaries early in June , and not until the end of the month  --  or after the Republican convention  --  will sufficient time have elapsed to certify the results and start the delegates for the convention city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the money guarantee than psychology . But , sums being equal , politicians are inclined to choose a mid-country location in a city where there are newspapers friendly to the party . This may have some influence on the choice which must be made among Kansas City , Chicago , San Francisco and Atlantic City , the chief contenders . The poisonous exAutomobiles haust from automo as biles is generally Exterminators. regarded as an unmitigated evil . Reports of motorists killed by their own engines while doing a bit of repairing In a closed garage are not infrequent ' . Such accounts perhaps suggested pie idea of turning these waste gases to good use . In a letter to The London Times an Englishman writes that he uses - the exhaust frog ' hid . rotor -- tQ ' kill field rats in their holes in his garden and grounds . Ordinary garden hose thrust down the rat hole is connected to the exhaust and the motor is started . Shortly afterward the rats dash out , only to be faced by a domestic battalion of cats , terriers ? or failing these  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holes are then plugged . A severe test would be to apply it to the hardy rats of Roslyn . The gallant sportsmen who a short time ago prepared to go rat-shooting there until forbidden by the authorities , might be glad to take up the battle mounted in motor cars . Somebody with a The Slump reverence for old in tradition has sugPopcorn. gested that there ought to be a league for the preservation of popcorn and a campaign to restore its former uses . Time was when popping corn was a popular Winter sport . The proper setting was a big kitchen with a. roaring fire in the coal stove , a red cloth on the table , and a purring cat to look on by the light from the prism-decked hanging lamp . The corn was shelled by rubbing two ears together . The popping was done in a big iron skillet , or in a wire screen popper with a long handle . Fragrant and white , it was turned into a big bowl and generously sprinkled with salt and melted butter . The children crunched snowy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nowadays nobody pops corn . Report has it that in New York City there are not more than ten or twelve popcorn stands . Any lover of the delicacy who can , offhand , think of more than two is lucky . Even at Coney Island , where the popcorn trade should be brisk , one can walk the length of the Boardwalk without seeing a stand . Perhaps modern invention has made the pioneer delight of eating popcorn seem an anachronism . At any rate , there is not the old joy in corn popped in a little electrical gadget that there used to be in the delicious stuff that was energetically shaken in a frying pan over a redhot stove . A German techni cian sees a city as Breathing a great organism of a constantly inhaling Metropolis . and exhaling vast breaths up and down in the atmosphere . In Berlin , he estimates , the breathing of human beings and animals and the exhausts of automobiles and chimneys produces at least 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide a day . Trees and other living plants absorb only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also inadequate to change the city 's air . Professor STODIECK vaguely suggests a gigantic fountain of air to cleanse the atmosphere . A good deal of thought has gore into the ventilation of buildings . The man who walks the streets in the city , however , must breathe whatever " unconditioned " air there happens to be floating around . If a practical plan could be found for shooting fresh air through the canyons of New York when there are no west winds , it would undoubtedly make life pleasanter . The millions of breaths that make up the city 's total would be thankful for an artificial lung to pull them through the hot months .                     