@@700637

txt Leaders of the steel industry were urged to shut down their mills and fight a strike rather than submit to the demands of the Amalgamated Association of Iron . Steel &; Tin Workers and other professional labor unions . in a call for united action sounded by Tom M. Girdler , chairman of Republic Steel Corp. , before several hundred members of the American Iron &; Steel Institute at the annual session of that body Thursday . Mr. Girdler said at the end of his speech that he had a little farm and a few apple trees and before he would deal for the rest of his life with William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , John Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , and " the rest of them , " he would retire to his farm . Davenport on New Deal At the Institute dinner , Eugene G. Grace , president of Bethlehem Steel Corp. , was awarded the Gary medal for distinguished service to the industry during the past year . Frederick M. Davenport , former Congressman from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Deal , but declared the government was taking on too many tasks of a complicated nature , and thought the administrative structure should be simplified . At the morning meeting . some of the labor legislation designed to help recovery was decried as harmful by leaders in the industry , notably William A. Irvin. president of United States Steel Corp. , and Ernest T. Weir . chairman of National Steel Corp . The latter asked for an end to emergency legislation on the grounds that the emergency is past . Schwab Sees 55% Rate Profitable Charles M. Schwab , chairman of the Institute , told the members that if the current rate of about 55% operations could be continued , the price schedules for the third quarter would permit most steel companies to earn something on their investment . The stockholders , he said , are entitled to a return on their investment , and no government policy can endure which would pauperize any section of our population . He asserted that the time had arrived to remove all barriers to natural and normal employment : - and that certain legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any legislation regulating the sale of securities , he said , should be drawn along lines contemplating free business activity as operated by honest men . Contending that the anxiety which business feels toward pending legislation is very real . arising from the experience of business men in the past , he expressed the belief that the public is now beginning to appreciate the dangera that lie In the enactment of legislation that may unbalance our economic structure . Mr. Schwab resigned as chairman of the Institute at a meeting of directors in the afternoon . He had held the post since 1927. having succeeded the late Judge Gary . No one was appointed to succeed Mr. Schwab at yesterday 's directors ' meeting . Only Temporary Advantage " You are all reading in the papers about a great big steel strike , " Mr. Girdler told the steel leaders . " I believe that is the thought of everybody in this industry , and that we are not recognizing the Amalgamated Association , or any other , even if we have to shut down our steel plants . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage by fooling around with a professional labor organization I wish you would get it out of your mind , because if he does get a temporary advantage ? it will be temporary ? it will help to make it harder for the rest of us . I do n't think any of you are going to do it . " I know that the men who sit around in New York week after week are n't going to give In to professional labor , " he continued . " We will deal with our own employes and spend as much time with them as they want ; talk ever everything all the time . think the results under this collective bargaining plan , which has been carried out successfully over a long period of years by some of the companies are well known to the other companies . I think the results under that plan are marvelous We have in our own company men who have been members of the labor unions all their lives " Reading the records of most of these employes ' plans , you will find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled just the way the employe wanted them settled . " Weir Pleads for Harmony An appeal for harmony of action on problems confronting the steel industry was made by Mr. Weir in a brief address to the meeting . He raid in part : " Not feeling in a particularly optimistic frame of mind regarding either the steel industry or industry in general , I will keep away from discouraging details and confine myself to a few general statements . " Steel is usually considered the outstanding basic industry of the country and as a result , is expected to provide leadership in industry . This as a great responsibility because it is always difficult to furnish effective leadership . In fact , today , in the world over , the crying need is for sound , dependable and constructive leadership . All of us , individually and collectively have a sincere desire to be constructive . To be constructive we must give the most careful thought and consideration , not only to our own problems , but to those extending beyond the confines of the steel industry , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the major problems of industry require much the same type of statesmanship , whether you find them in the steel , oil , automotive , or any of the other great lines . Asks Loyalty to Principles " For years , the steel industry has nad definite principles in certain matters which , through experience , have become thoroughly established as necessary to the welfare of the industry and those in it . In this present period of great uncertainty , demands for changes are being made continually without any foundation of knowledge or appreciation of the real facts . We have always believed in our principles Nov more than ever , we should hold fast to them and if necessary fight for them . As we grOw older and learn more of life and its problems , I think we find that a great recompense comes from loyalty to principles . " The uncertainty in times such as these caused by the many and conflicting opinions as to what is necessary or imperative to restablIsh normal prosperity to the country , makes it very easy to lose our established moorings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the easy way Is not the constructive route to follow It behooves us , therefore , to make no fundamental changes in our principles until after the most careful deliberation ; and then not by individual action , but through the collective will of the industry . Sees Better Relationship Among Leaders " Through a close contact over the past year there has developed among the caecutives of this industry greater harmony of purpose , more conndence in each other , and certainly clearer understanding of the problems within the industry . We can achieve much greater progress e the effective work now being clone if this same principle is applied throughout our entire atganization . May I express the hope that all of us. here to represent the different companies will work together in a close and sincere relationship with our competitors , realizing that today , more than ever before , we face industrial problems . In a major way , solution of the problems can conic best through cooperation In unity is our greatest strength and only in this way can be prevail . As I view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the struggle of the present will come a deeper tin derstanding and a more constructive relation ship between us . " We have many and great problems confronting us ? responsibilities that are in proportion to the size of this industry with its investment of five billions of dollars and with the dependency upon it for livelihood and proper living standards of millions of people . Only through harmony of understanding and action through the industry can we solve our own problems , Make our own business prosper , and give protection to our own stockholders , employes and management , as well as the public , and also furnish to all industry that progressive , constructive leadership that is expected of us . " Irvin Sees Replacement Need Mr. Irvin said the rather liberal demand for steel products in recent months clearly indicated the need of the country for the replacement of stocks for immediate consumption . He added : " IL has been evident that a part . of this demand has been created by government aid for new projects and the necessary replacement of transportation equipment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Immediate consumption , would seem to indicate confidence by the buying public in the future prosperity of the country . " Opposes Wagner Act Mr. Irvin went on to plead against the provisions of the Wagner labor bill , asserting that while the purposes of the bill were laudable the barriers which it would raise between employes and employers would go far to defeat those purposes . He defended the present employer-employe relationship in the industry , and pointed out that this friendly relationship might be broken up , especially now that " the skies are clearing and we can see , not so far ahead . I hope , the resumption of profitable operations and fulltime employment . " Mr. Irvin spoke against lowering of steel tariffs , saying that with costs increased foreign competition would become ruinous . The Steel Corp . president said the outlook in the railroad field for development of new , light , rolling stock was a hopeful sign , and that special steels in the transportation field would be needed . In conclusion he defanded the conduct of the steel trade under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tower , executive secretary of the American Iron Sic Steel Institute , reviewed the operation of the steel code . He stated that the code had helped the national recovery program very substantially , and that with some modifiest'ons it should be extended beyond May 31 . He stated that the code was one of the few to have the voluntary adherence of virtually the whole industry from the outset and had been widely recognized as the most nearly complete code for self-government so far devised for any industry . Mr. Tower continued with a review of the Institute 's committees and the organization of the board of directors , which administers the code , pointing out the complexity of the problems involved and saying that only the steel men themselves , who are intimately aquamted with those problems , would be capable of handling them . He said that approximately 400 cases of alleged violations have been or still are in process of investigation by the Enforcement Division . In reviewing the operation of the labor provisions , Mr. Tower said that some 80,000 more men were employed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations ( about 55 ' , 1 were near the pre-code rate in 1933 . Working hours per week in the seven months ended with March were only 33 , or 7 helots the code minimum , and since last June the average working hours per week per employe decreased nearly 14 , , while the number of employes gained 20 ' , . Mr Tower added , saying that total monthly payroll was up more than 47 , a Detailed reports concerning employes , wet king hours and pay-rates have been required of all members , Mr. Tower said , stating that these reports showed remarkably few violations of labor provisions Mr. Tower re aisecl the commercial provisions of the code which relate to filing at price schedules , etc. , stating that contrary to common gossip these provisions did not need to be rewritten and had functioned v. ell although the problem was very complex . Referring to the reports of the Federal Trade Commission and the Darrow hoard . Mr. Tower said that neither was written with any real Icno  --  leclge of all the /acts or understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commercial provisions of the code , Mr. Tower said that Cher e was no price fixing , and that , measured la the me:voice in wages . increase in prices of steel products had not been unduly great , Mr. Toy er said that comparing the best and the second half of le:la there had been a gain of ** 000 in total income against a S108.000.000 mcrease in payrolls rolls by the 190 members of the code Of this total the 37 integrated companies accounted for 5100,000.000 of the increased payroil and 511 - 000,000 of the increased income . while the 1:13 non-integrated companies ' payroll was up only SS.000.000 against an income gem of 510,000 , - 000. indicating that the small producer has not been oppressed , he said Mr. Tower c oncluded by saying that the large producer must be protected from destructive competition as well as the small if the industry is to he placed on a seund basis . e ? race on Emplose Representation Plans Mr. Grace , in expressing appreciation for the Gaie , medal , discussed the cooperation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the industry knew of the needs of the employes from practical experience He sane " Our employe representation plans . who h : n principle , are substantially alike throughout our industry , are not highbrow or theoretical The are thoroughly practical They embody ' a mutuality of interest- They do not provide fist outsiders or organizations foreign to our moustry to dictate to the men and management as to ha ' constitutes proper relationships between them We believe that is best supplied by the pre-ties interested " We have been criticized by organized labor because of our open shop beliefs rum for the establishment of our employes representation plans , but I believe I voice the opinions of evecaine when I any that we shall continue to maintain the open shop and by so doing insure to the employes the recognition and reward for : nib , . ohm ' effort as against the closed union shop where all men are equal . Few ompanies in Black Since ** Began - Criticism we welcome If we arc ts rong /1 any phase of conducting our business . retrisr in relations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The liabilities in a business require the management 's attention Asset , usually fake care of themselves , provided they are not clestoo ecl or dissipated by an excess of liabilities " So many radical changes have taken place . n the method of conducting business that there is much to be learned . Experience alone must be our daily guide . Experience will show us our mistakes and dictate to us the necessary changes which we will not be reluctant to make . " But few companies , since the depression took hold , have been able to show a profit The industry as a whole still lost money in the first quarter of this year . This , or no Whet industry , can survive indefinitely on any such basis , for only by a profitable business can the interest of the stockholder , the emplave , the moussemem and the public be truly served and protected "                     