@@703659

txt Installation of biennial legislative sessions , approved by the voters on Tuesday , has saddled a major statute and rule revision task upon the incoming 1939-40 General Court and the new Republican administration of Governor-elect Leverett Saltonstall , it was revealed today . Although it has not yet been officially determined whether the voters favoring biennial sessions constitute at least one third of the total persons casting ballots on Tuesday , all doubt was removed when it was , found that with only one tenth of the State unreported , 649,621 votes were counted in favor of biennials to 372,508 against . The total ballots cast are estimated at 1,850,000 , 30 per cent of which would be 555,000 . Even now , State officials are preparing for the inauguration of biennial sessions and a biennial Sta , e budget , thus ending the system which has endured in Massachusetts for three centuries . Upon the shoulders of Carl S. Raymond , State Budget Commissioner , falls the heaviest immediate load , for he must prepare the State 's first biennial budget and have it ready for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still to Figure 1940 Although Mr. Raymond has in hand most of the department expenditure estimates for 1939 , he has not yet asked the departments to submit similar estimates for 1940 , which are necessary for the new budget program . Such figures , of course , will necessitate revision of departmental planning which has been restricted to the annual period , which many budget experts contend is the best for strict budgetary control , Mr. Raymond pointed out the problem of estimating for two years the cost of fuel , food and the like , which varies constantly . Therefore , it is believed reserves must be established to care for financial emergencies or the new budget must contain maximum appropriations for the departments , with the Stay : Budget Commissioner or some other officer or commission closely connected with the Governor delegated to force economy on the departments . Which procedure will be adopted can not be determined at this early date . It is exnected that Governor-elect Saltonstall will confer with Mr Raymond shortly after Thanksgiving . That every effort for economy will be made by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as for the past eight years Republicans have been attacking Democratic administrations on the ground of extravagan4e . Wilt Need New Laws Along with preparation of the biennial budget , it will be necessary to revise the financial laws of the Commonwealth inasmuch as they are based entirely upon an annual budget system . Henry D. Wiggin , counsel of the , House of Representatives , Is now combing the statute books to determine necessary changes . At the same time , Irving N. Hayden , clerk of the Senate , and Frank E. Bridgman , clerk of the House , are study- Mg respectively the joint rules of the General Court and the rules of the House to discover rules which must be revised to fit the new biennial sessions system , Even now they have found several changes which must be placed before the 1939-40 Legislature for approval . On the other hand , fears that legislation Increasing the borrowing power of cities and towns would be necessary as the result of biennial legislative sessions have been quieted . Theodore N. Waddell , director of the State Division of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared no such borrowing legislation would be necessiny inasmuch as the cities and towns have not even approached their legal debt limits , that they have sufficient margin to provide for any emergency . Furthermore , any general emergency condition among the cities and towns would result in a special session of the Legislatuie ho said . One Major Change Needed The only major change necessary , he declared , will be a bioadening of the authority of the State Emergency Finance Boai d to allow cities and towns to borrow for welfare relief purposes . This change , he added , can be effected without difAculty . Among the legislators talk is already circulating in connection with salary increases . In the past the members have been paid $2000 for each annual session . With the inauguration of biennials , the legislators will be paid only $2000 for a movement is being started to boost the two-year salary to $3000.                     