@@699139

txt For the benefit of any who did not know that Governor ROOSEVELT is opposed to government ownership and operation of the common run of electric public utilities , he has made his position clear . " I state to you categorically , " he told his Portland audience , " that as a broad general " rule the development of utilities " should remain , with certain excep " tions , a function for private initia " tive and private capital . " No conservative can object to that . Even the exceptions that he notes will be widely approved , up to a point . Hundreds of American communities , dissatisfied with existing service , have embarked , for better or for worse , on the seas of public ownership . In all such cases , however , as in the development of the large waterpowers to which the Governor also refers , leaders in the industry like Mr. YOUNG have always insisted that the enterprise should stand on its own feet , without subsidy , direct or indirect , so that the economic check may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any proposal to put the Government into the business of building competing transmission lines for the distribution of electric current , whether from the St. Lawrence or from Muscle Shoals . The Governor seems to be still considering that plan , at least as a last resort . And when he says that " State-owned or Federal-owned " sites can and should properly be " developed by Government itself , " he is apparently ready to throw overboard the Federal leasing system , which on the whole has worked well . In blaming overcapitalization and watered stock for excessive rates , the Governor will find little support among recognized economists . No one can say that Professor RIPLEY of Harvard is a tool of the " Power Trust . " He has been one of the hydroelectric industry 's most outspoken critics . Yet in an article on the subject of holding company abuses he referred to the " common " misconception that somehow over " capitalization creates in and of it " self a higher scale of charges for " service , " and went on to remark that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiarly vulnerable , he found , with respect to the top holding companies , " which of " course have nothing to do with " rates , " that are based not on capital but on plant . If they have been excessive the trouble has been with the commissions . Behind them stand the courts , which have lately stressed reproduction cost as the preponderant element in rate-making . Governor ROOSEVELT prefers the " prudent investment " theory . But there are many within the industry who would be glad to have original investment given more emphasis in prospective judicial decisions . Times have changed and so has the price level . The electric light and power utilities of the United States today are said to represent a cash investment of something like twelve billion dollars . It has been calculated that they could be reproduced , at present prices of labor and commodities , for eleven billions . Rates based on original costs , whether " prudent " or otherwise , might be actually higher than those prevailing now . Governor ROOSEVELT is unfair to the President when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and control , " though he admits that Mr. HOoviaa had something to say on the subject in his acceptance speech . The fact is that Mr. HOOVER had not been in office five minutes before he was calling for further Federal regulation . He followed up his brief allusion to it in his inaugural address with a more extended discussion of the subject in his first annual message to Congress in 1929 , in which he advocated making the Federal Power Commission the ultimate arbiter of interstate transmission . He has renewed that recommendation every year since , and the Republican platform takes the same ground . Mr. ROOSEVELT would go further still in dealing with holding companies . Abuses in that field have , indeed , been such as to demand attention by the lawmakers.                     