@@699582

txt The back-to-normal movement In local banking shifted into high gear today with the removal of the $10 withdrawal restrictions on state savings banks by Mr Arthur Guy , Massachusetts Bank Commissioner . Mr. Guy 's action permits mutual savings banks to make payments up to 5100 without restrictions as to the purpose or use of such payments . Even larger sums may be withdrawn if the savings bank 's officials approve the cause for larger withdrawals It is also expected that an an- nouncement concerning cooperative banks will be made within a day or so . The ruling issued by the state banking department states in pea : " Commissioner Guy has planned this increase tin authorized withdrawals ) with a view to meeting the normal needs of depositors and at the same time to conform with the President 's proclamation of March 6 , and with the regulations since issued by the Secretary of the Treasury which compels drastic prevention of hoarding . " The commissioner has authorized the banks in their discretion to further limit the maximum withdrawals permitted , subject to his approval . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the Judgment of the bank , exigencies of specific cases so requite The mutual savings bank , which will all move toward resumption of not business under this order are 193 banks with total deposits exceeding $2,000. - 000,000 , represented by 3,000,000 depositors . " The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston today announced the list of member banks in New England in other than clearing house cities which may open for business today . The list announced today was the ' third step in the progressive opening of commercial banks as authorized by Cede , al authorities . Restrictions against hoarding and the withdrawal of gold and gold ceitificates ' remains in force . Sentiment of the retail mercantile field improved noticeably today despite the continued rain which retarded normal activities of shoppers . Retailers were satisfied at the firm opening of the stock market and the buoyancy- shown following the opening . Mr. P. A. O'Connell , president of E. T. Slattery Co. and acting president of the Retail Trade Board of the Boston Chamber of Commerce , in an interview today said , " I ant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 . I do not anticipate or want any boom , but indications point to progress along the better paths of a slow steady upgrade . The public is beginning to pay deferred bills . Our collections wet e substantially larger yesterday and today against charge accounts and expended credits . More cash is coming out ns the banking situation becomes mole settled . "                     