@@702959

txt Views of senators and representatives flocking into Washington for the extraordinary sessions of congress beginning tomorrow indicate a deepening distrust of Roosevelt social awl economic panaceas and spreading opposition to further experiments in collectivism . On every side the discussion centers tics on the passage of the bills for which the President called congress back to Washington but on the formutation of other measures calculated to undo the mistakes of the Roosevelt economics , encourage private enter . prise , and thereby check the new depression that Is gripping the country . Increasing demand for repeal or radical modification ot the Roosevelt taxes on business , particularly the undistributed earnings tax , bids fair to force action at the extraordinary session notwithstanding the effort of the administration to postpone all tax legislation to the regular session beginning Jan. 3 . Interest in Program Wanes . Coupled with the insistence on immediate tax relief for business is a waning interest in measures on the President 's program for this session , particularly the minimum wage and maximum hour bill and the seven TVA bills . There also is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promise a higher food prices . Intense interest attaches to the message the President will send to congress tomorrow , a message upon which he was putting the finishing touches tonig7it . There is interest not so much in what he will say in recommending passage of the crop cuntrol , wage and hour , government reurganization , and nation-wide TVA buts , for which he called the session , as in what he will say regarding the steps he is taking to rescind previout radical measures and reassure the business community that private enterprise for profit is to be encouraged by the government . in this category tall the lightening of the tax burden ot business , in regard to which the President already has tacitly agreed to a retreat from Moscow , the encouragement ot private capital to embark in widespread residential building , relief for the railroads , and a peace settlement with the pubic utilities which is to be discussed at a conterence Mr. Roosevelt wilt have with utility executives this week . Roast Impossible Now . It will be the first message in which the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration has brought the country . The new depression that has been deepening tor the last live weeks has turned all such " pointing with pride " a little sour . irreverent persons are beginning to ask it we have been visited with this new depression because he " planned it that way , " as Mr. Roosevelt said of the degree of recovery a few years ago . this loss et prestige suffered by himself and his policies is widely surmised to be the reason that Mr. Roosevelt chose not to appear personally before congtess tomorrow to deliver his message . Congress will meet under circu ? stances tar different from those that caused the President to call IL into extraordinary session . Never belure ha : : there been recui tied a inure dra ? matte turn ut the political kaleido ? scope in su snort a time . Wnen the lust session ui congress adjourned Lhe esident had sullered a great admin ? alum in the defeat 01 Ills court packmg Dill by his own party . Shortly theteallet lie became the butt of ridicule when Hugo Brack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outstanding liberal , was exposed at a tormer member of the Ku Klux Klan . Western Trip Recalled . To repair his prestige and take the public mind off the Black affair the President set out on a tour , choosing the northwest , the population of which had benefited tremendously from the relief and pump priming expenditures of the Roosevelt regime . The tour became a progress of triumph . Mr. Roosevelt came home so elated that he judged the psychological moment had arrived to carry into effect the legislative program that had failed in the last session because of the occupation of congress with the court packing battle . He summoned congress in the middle of October and went on the air in a fireside talk in which he made it clear that it was his intent to reestablish through crop control and wage and hour legislation the collectivist structure which the Supreme court demolished in the NRA and AAA decisions . Democratic Split Widens . For months there had been signs of slackening business , but with the call for the special session to enact new social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fortnight the President was brought to a realization of the crisis . He immediately undertook to woo business with fair promises , culminating in the pledges of the Morgenthau speech to reduce business taxes , reduce expenditures 700 million dollars , balance the budget , and encourage expansion of private enterprise . The split in the Democratic party over the court packing bill has been widened by the Impact of the new depression . The tide is running strongly against the President on the question of his economic experiments , It is difficult to find a Democrat today who stands for ' unqualified retention of the Roosevelt tax on undivided profits . The conservative Democrats are in a militant mood , reflecting the tone of Senator Pat Harrison 's D. , Miss. telegram saying that the tax " must " be repealed . Senator Alva B. Adams D. , Colo. said he believed that modifications should be enacted at the extra session to allow exemptions for purchases , plant construction and improvement , and payment of debts . In addition , he said he was considering an amendment which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the , money thus spent . ' " Business believes the undistributed profits tax is an unfriendly gesture , and business is frightened , " added Senator Adams . Demands Tax Revision . Senator Dennis Chavez D. , New Mex. demanded immediate modification of the tax to give business " a chance . " Representative Allen T. Treadway R. , Mass. , ranking minority member of the ways and means committee and also a member of the tax subcommittee , said the current studies of the latter had shown that the treasury " recognizes " that both undistributed profits and capital gains taxes are unjust . " The undistributed profits tax , " said Representative Treadway , " is really a penalty tax , working the greatest hardship on those least able to pay . "                     