@@703435

txt Sixth of a series of articles attempting to present a cross-section of political thought as it bears on the congressional and state primaries and elections due this summer and fall . BY BERNARD Kt LGOIRE Chief of The Wall Street Journal Washington Oureau AKRON , Ohio  --  The city of Akron and the rural communities immediately surrounding tt have , on more than one occasion , held the balance of power in Ohio elections . It is a district In which almost anything can happen because ? as the old-timers explain  --  almost everything has already happened here before . One of the- most widely advertised " tests " of C. I. 0 . political strength took place here last fall , for example when a Republican . Mayor Schroy , originally elected with labor union support , was re-elected by a substantial majority over s . Democratic-C . L 0 . candidate on the sole major issue of **35;433;TOOLONG . Labor 's Non-Partisan League took charge of the Democratic organization , conservative Democrats swung over behind the Republican contender and the biggest total vote in Akron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This municipal alectiott , like several others in Ohio . has frequently been interpreted by distant political experts as a sign of growing Republican strength for the regular 1936 elections . A close examination of the scene does not support this theory . In fact , when all the cross-currents are analyzed , it seems ? at this early date  --  that the chances - are distinctly against a G. 0 . P. victory in the 14th Congressional district , of which Akron and Summit County is the center . Good in Washington Ohio municipal elections are notoriously unreliable guides to state and national election results and this year promises to be no exception . Although the incumbent Democratic congressman . Mr. Dow W. Harter , actually took part in the C. I. 0 effort last year to unseat Mayor Schroy , he has successfully avoided a direct link with the labor organization . The C. 1 . 0 . does n't quite trust him , and yet It can hardly come out in opposition to him . On the other hand . Mr. Harter has the reputation among local businessmen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the district " . Federal funds have been kept available for various projects and , so It is thought here , another giant dirigible is in the offing . Akron makes all the dirigible airships manufactured in the United States . The district offers just another example of how big national issues become secondary in the - " off-year " campaigns . Akron voters decided they did n't want the C. L 0 . in control of their local government but , on the whole , there are few indications that any such spirit of revolt against a " radical " trend will prevail in the 1938 state and congressional contests where no such single issue can possibly b. presented . Gubernatorial Race The forthcoming gubernatorial race presents curiously confusing aspects so far as Akron is concerned . In the first place , this is Governor Davey 's old stamping ground . In the second place . businessmen large and small , in this neck of the Ohio woods , regard labor policy as the issue in the present campaign . On this single issue , if nothing else , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the troops when the C. L 0 . went on rampage in northern industrial Ohio . It is not true in the southern sections of the state , but up here when strike violence actually took place the governor 's policy won him friends . Local businessmen make no bones about their attitude , and they swallow everything else about the " Davey Deal " in Ohio with evident relish . Local C. I. 0 . officials are supporting Charles Sawyer in the Democratic primaries on August 9 against Davey . If Davie wins . they will have to choose between him and the Republican nominee , John W. Bricker . As one official phrased it , " that would be a choice between the devil and the deep blue sea . " An Between Siiii.wyer and Bricker But here 's another interesting aspect of the the situation : If Davey wins the Democratic nomination he will have friends and contributors among the conservative areas of northern Ohio . This will handicap the Republican state organization . But if Sawyer wins and runs against Bricker the question of conservative support will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuaded to take a Arm stand with respect to strike violence and property protection . The C. I. O. will naturally regard that candidate as its enamy , and then the lines that lead to the November elections will be really drawn . ? . ? A local merchant is keeping step with the Limos by running large advertisements inviting WPA workers to open charge accounts for " clothing and jewelry . " In type nearly an inch high the firm proclaims that it " Salutes WPA Workers . "                     