@@700978

txt Reports from the floor where the count of the Saar plebiscite vote is being made are that there has been an overwhelming sweep by the Nazi Deutsche Front . At midnight the public counting of the vote in this momentous Saar plebiscite had been in progress for seven hours . The prospect was that another seven hours of steady work would finish the task . Not only will the result decide the destiny of almost 1,000,000 people in this most crowded section of all Europe , but it will affect the future relations of two great nations  --  and possibly the peace of all the world . The Council of the League of Nations will meet privately this morning to begin its discussion of what disposition to make of the Saar , according to a dispatch from Geneva . The big Wartburg Hall , brightly illuminated amid the dark streets of this industrial centre , presented a strange scene last night . Imagine a hall the size of a local town hall , with a gallery around three sides and a platform occupying the further end . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at which Iare five persons , one an American I woman , composing the Plebiscite Commission . In the body of the hall are some fifty roughly improvised pine tables arranged accord , ing to districts , which are set forth on cardboard signs overhead . At each table are five persons . Many I move about from table to table on various errands . There is no confusion ; all is perfectly organized . Beside the tables stand the ballot boxes containing the votes . The slot in the top of each has been sealed by screwing over it a strip of board with the League of Nations seal covering each of the four screws . From time to time a box is unlocked and its contents are dumped on the table . Then the envelopes containing the ballots are counted and checked . Next the envelopes are opened and the votes examined , sorted and totaled . Each vote is examined and counted twice . Doubtful ballots are referred to the commission sitting on the platform , which decides on the spot whether they are good or not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor is a Saarlander , a German or a Frenchman . All are neutrals imported for the job . On Sunday they were supervising the voting . The counting of the vote was postponed to give them a rest before tackling the second half of their task . Yesterday afternoon only journalists and newspaper photographers were permitted to enter the gallery . All were admitted by tickets and the issuance of the tickets was a most meticulous proceeding . All , moreover , were searched before they were admitted lest any might Garry a weapon or a bomb . Armed police guarded the doors and filled the corridors . Outside British Tommies in steel helmets and carrying full field equipment surrounded the hall . No one engaged in the count was permitted to leave the hall . Red Cross nurses were on hand in case any one became 111 and the hall contained a restaurant . From the outset the counting proceeded at full speed . It began at 5 o'clock in the afternoon when with the tellers in their places and the plebiscite commissioners seated on the platform the Swedish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brief address . He said that the plebiscite so far had been conducted most successfully and had proceeded in perfect order . Therefore he wished to express the commission 's great satisfaction . " And now let the count begin , " he said . Then everybody went to it . It is true that so far everything has gone well . Nevertheless , this enterprise is not yet out of the woods . There was anxiety last night in Saarbruecken not over the result of the plebiscite , but over what might follow its announcement . Nobody will work in the Saar today . It will be an undeclared public holiday . That means everybody will be in the streets . And in that there is a possibility of trouble . The Governing Commission tried to avoid it by imploring industrialists and merchants to keep their establishments open . But the employers asked what use that would be . Their employes had decided not to work anyway . A parade of soldiers of the International Force has been suggested as a warning to possible disturbers and something of the kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every policeman even firemen will be on duty and on the alert . There was a small panic yesterday morning over the closing of the French frontier . Long before the French Consulate opened there was a queue of a hundred persons before the door seeking visas to get out if need be . The frontier closing , while natural enough in view of the possible rush of fugitives , has thrown a real scare into the ranks of the Communists , the Socialists and the few Jews that there are here . They feel caught like rats in a trap between the guarded doors of France on one side and Germany on the other . Yet there is not ostensibly much reason for the scare . Whatever the result of the plebiscite the League of Nations must rule here for a month at least and the League and its Governing Commission have the International Force to back them . There will surely be time for emigrants to get out . On a longer view , however , the prospect is not so good . The German protection guarantee given to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only Jews and them only in part . Germany has promised not to apply the " Aryan " regulations to the Saar for one year . As to Communists , Socialists and even opposing Catholics , they are protected only if they have been Saar residents for three years  --  and that protection covers only their franchise rights , for whatever in the new Germany these may be worth . There is no rosy prospect for those who have openly taken a stand against Germany and for the status quo . They have only German complaisance to hope for and League backing to make it good . For some weeks at least , however , the League troops will still be here . They face militant pro-Hitler sentiments . Every picture of the Fuehrer , stripped of its covering , beams on admirers now .                     