@@697872

txt Increases in tariff duties by Canada , the twenty-sixth country that has raised its rates against American imports since the Hawley-Smoot tariff law became effective , were regarded by Democrats today as a retaliation against the United States , while Republicans asserted that the action by this country 's largest customer was chiefly to protect Canadian industries and increase her revenues . The opinion was expressed by Democratic and Republican Insurgent Senators that the higher duties imposed by Canada against American products would tend further to depress American industry and be a blow that would be seriously felt at this time of decreased exports . They predicted that there would be increased unemployment in the United States in the next few months as a direct result of the tariff wall erected by Canada and other countries against the United States , with the result that tariff would become the supreme issue in the 1932 Presidential campaign . As to the action itself , Senator Borah summed up their opinion with the comment that " Canada has done what might be expected . " Means More Factories Abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased Canadian duties would be to encourage the building of American factories in Canada , which would mean reduced employment in the ? United States and the increased use of American capital abroad . Eighty-seven American factories , including many motor concerns and specialties in the manufacturing of steel , have been erected in Canada since the Hawley-Smoot law became effective and more than 600 American branch factories are now operating on Canadian soil . In the opinion of some students of economy this use of American productive capital in foreign countries is the most far-reaching effect of the American ? high tariff , and one that can not be corrected by a revision of the rates in the future . The view of State Department officials , after a cursory study of the new Canadian tariff , is that it contains no discriminations against the United States , and this government therefore is expected to accept it as a domestic question with which the United States has no concern . State and Commerce Department officials are making a close study of the new rates to determine definitely whether they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , in the past , has considered the British preferential tariffs as discriminatory and this is probably the only aspect of the new Canadian tariff that might furnish a cause for protest . Relatively few rises in the new Canadian tariff are in the British preferential rates . Canada Did n't Protest Our Rises . Canada did not protest against the Hawley-Smoot tariff law , and since Canada has followed American tariff practice , no protest is expected to be forthcoming from the United States . While unwilling to be quoted , a number of Federal adminisrative officials familiar with the international tariff situation expressed the opinion that the increases in Canadian import duties were not designed in retaliation to the United States . Direct ' discrimination against exports from the United States could not be deduced , it was argued , since rises in the " general " rates , which apply to the United States , will apply as well to other nations with which the Dominion has no commercial treaties . Verification of the downward trend of Canadian industrial output and consumption , as a motive for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made available at the Department of Commerce , showing that total Canadian imports from the United States during the twelve months ended March 31 , 1931 , amounted to $584.429,301 , compared with $847,442,037 during the preceding twelve months . Total United States exports to Canada during the calendar year 1930 were valued at $659,300,000 , compared with $948,400,000 in 1929 . Imports to the United States from Canada in 1930 were valued at $402 , - 300,000 , as against $503,500,000 in 1929 . Auto Industry to Be Affected . The increase in the number of American branch factories in Canada , which Federal officials now expect . would apply particularly to automobile factories , manufacturing high-priced passenger cars for Canadian consumption or export . The . expectation is based on the rise in duty on such cars from 27% to 40 per cent and an increase from 25 to 60 per cent in the drawback or rebate duty on automobile parts shipped to Canada for assembly . This drawback provision , as understood here , Is that , in the event the automobiles are exported following assembly in Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rebate of 60 per cent of whatever duty was paid on importation . By increasing the duty on assembled American automobiles shipped to Canada and the amount of duty drawback of re-exported parts , a double inducement will be given American automobile manufacturers to establish branch assembling factories in that country , it is believed . The Ottawa provision prohibiting further importation of used cars was considered as having little significance by officials of the Commerce Department 's automotive division . In the first three months of 1931 , to which the department 's records are limited , exports of used passenger cars from the United States to Canada were only fifty-one and of used trucks only twenty-one . A Commerce Department report In January placed the number of American branch factories of all sorts in Canada at 524 , or more than in any other single country , and surpassed only by the combined total of all Europe . These represented American investments of $540,593,000 , and did not include American investments of $278,875,000 in paper and pulp manufacturing establishments , they being excluded " because there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or size . " The bounty of 5 cents a bushel on Canadian export wheat , announced by Premier Bennett , wheat belt Sen ators say , will furnish the Canadian farmers with a great advantage over the American farmer . This was an aspect of the Ottawa developments that gave the Western Senators concern and one which , if not overcome by some similar action in the United States , they assert , would give Canada a decided lead over the United States in disposing of surpluses in foreign marets . Shouse Sees " Alienation . " Jouett Shouse , chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee , asserting that the Democrats would gladly accept the challenge issued by the Republican National Committee on the tariff , said of the Canadian action : " Canada 's latest tariff increases on goods imporrted from the United States is one more blow to our industries already suffering from the ruination of our foreign markets by the Hawley-Smoot tarirt . " The Administration could not have inflicted greater punishment on American business had it deliberately sought to alienate our best customer . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set the fashion of levying embargo duties , and we can not expect our neighbors to be any leF1 =elfish in their dealings with us than %ye are in our transactions with - Snator Hastings , Republican , of Delaware , accepted the Canadian tirif : as justified and as showing the wisdom of the increased American tariff rates . Sanator Glass , Democrat , of Virginia . said that the Ottawa move was " another indication of what is going on all over the world . We have erected an insurmountable tariff wall against the world , and they are retaliating against us . " Senator Shipstead , Farm-Laborite , of Minnesota , emphasized the " effect of lessening the exports of American industry " and " the spectacle of American capital and factories exported to foreign soil . " Senator La Follette , insurgent Republican , of Wisconsin , asserted that the new Canadian rates were " simply natural reactions to the inordinate rates of the Grundy bill . " $40,000,000 TRADE CUT SEEN . Ottawa Expects This Gain Against Us ? Magazine Publishers Here Act . Special to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's taxation proposals apparently have met with approval , but there has been no Lefinite expression of opinion on the tariff changes . The government states that the tariff revision is incomplete and many changes proposed have been deferred to another session . The Liberal party 's opposition opinion will be voiced by J. L. Ralston Thursday to indicate the policy to be pursued in the discussion in Parliament . Some manufacturers have expressed disappointment that their demands for further protection did not receive favorable consideration . The British preference in nearly all tariff changes was " pegged " at the existing rate , so that the protection given Canadian iiidustry and agriculture is against foreign countries , principally the United States . No official estimate has been made of the effect of the changes on imports from the United States , but it is unofficially asserted the government expects to reduce the adverse trade balance by nearly $40,000,000. defined by Premier Bennett , will be educational , scientific and religious . The list prepared by the department will be submitted to the Cabinet for final acceptance . George Lucas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the major magazine publishers of the United States , left last night for Ottawa to find out from Canadian officials just what effect the new tariff regulations will have on magazines imported from the United States . The action to be taken by the association , Mr. Lucas told The Associated Press before his departure , depends on the information he obtains . To Decide on Exempted Magazines . OTTAWA , June 2 ( Canadian Press ) ? Officials of the Department of National Revenue will consider each magazine coming into Canada and decide which shall be exempted from the 15 rents a pound duty which will be imposed under the provisions of yesterday 's budget . The duty will take effect July 1 . The magazines to be exempted , as                     