@@698645

txt When the House of Representatives revolted today , with Democrats most numerous in the ranks of the rebels , the fears of far-sighted party leaders , who deplored the results of the Congressional elections and by-elections in 1930 and since , came to bitter fruition . The House has taken Its first long step on the path to disorganization , and the consequences of this to the Democratic party , which is responsible for its actions , were being gloomily assayed here tonight by many responsible Democrats . They witnessed this afternoon the sight which they have been dreading and which the leadership of Speaker Garner has thus far been able to avert : the great proportion of the Democratic membership present ( less than half the membership was in attend a ! ce ) following Representative La Guardia of New York into action against a vital section of the party 's economic program . Most Noise from the Democrats . They saw five Democrats to one Republican on their feet , shouting their votes against the bill which Acting Chairman Crisp of the Ways and Means Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although the major provisions of this tax bill had the support of the Republican leadership , the Democratic leadership and the Administration , the first of them was riddled today by shot from members of the party responsible for drafting these provisions . Democrats who , since the 1930 elections revealed virtually a tie in the House , have been fearful of the consequences of organizing with a small majority in times like these , recalled , tonight with dismal satisfaction how well they had foreseen the dangers to their party . They realize that in a campaign fought over economic conditions they must be prepared to defend the Democratic party from the familiar Republican charge that it is undisciplined ; that it is half-brother to the Socialists and the Western Progressives ; that it promotes class legislation against persons of property ; that , especially in a time of depression , the country 's recovery can not be entrusted to such a party . They had been almost persuaded through the hitherto firm and successful rule of Speaker Garner that their fears of 1930 and 1931 were baseless . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to use as their campaign cry . Tonight In their fancy they heard the mocking response : " And how ! " It may be that the Garner leadership can overwhelm its joy-riding deserters in a full House vote to save the manufacturers ' sales tax , though that is greatly imperiled by the reenactment today of the wartime sur- taxes and the 1 per cent increase in the normal tax on incomes over $8,000 . But there was no resemblance ' to Sheridan 's trumpet-call to his flee , ing troops at Seven Pines in the ' Speaker 's cautious comment on the , ' vote today . His remark that the " means " of balancing the budget are " inconsequential " was taken as anything but a rebuke by the Democratic-La Guardia bloc . Such is the reasoning of politicians ? . hat the Republicans may sacrifice some of the advantage which the rout of the Democratic leadership today would gain for them in the campaign by swelling considerably on roll-call the ranks of the re , volters . It having been demonstrated that Mr. La Guardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Crisp , Republicans are asking themselves whether that wo n't last lung enough for 1932 campaign needs , and whether it is not wiser now to avoid responsibility for saving the Democratic tax bill , sales levy included . The Democrats stamped and shouted in the House today because " the rich " were being saddled with wartime taxation , not bothering at the moment to ask themselves if the rich are rich enough to contribute that much . Since Mr. La Guardia and Representative Swing of California , both Republicans , gave their names to the amendments which broke the committee bill , the average member may have felt that the public will not accept a characterization of the Democrats alone as untrustworthy of power . But those party leaders who in 1930 hoped for a safe majority , or none at all , fear that the reverse will prove true unless , on a full vote in the House , the damage can somehow be repaired .                     