@@701312

txt LONDON , July ** British public reaction to the foreign policy of the recently reorganized Tory government is divided and subdivided . Sir Samuel Hoare , the Foreign Secretary , plus Anthony Eden , Secretary for . League of Nations Affairs , is having much greater difficulty satisfying his own and European countries than did Sir John Simon plus Mr. Eden . The outstanding issues that have come to a climax within the first month of the new administration of the Foreign Office have been the Anglo-German naval agreement and the pending efforts of this country to prevent an Italo-Ethiopian war . The naval arrangement whereby the British allow Germany to have sea power equal to 35 per cent of theirs was a diplomatic success , according to British opinion . It received warm approval from press , public and Parliament , and the adverse home criticism was negligible . But that same naval treaty that was hailed as a wise and common-. sense move on behalf of peace is now operating as one of the chief handicaps to British efforts to prevent an African war . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity for attacking Ethiopia , unchecked by the League of Nations , lies in the present discord between London and Paris . Britain is now making a desperate attempt to prevent his dealing a severe blow to the League , which is just now suffering the most dangerous political malady the collective peace system has yet known . Many Devices Used . The British have a fear amounting almost to a conviction , daily increasing , that Mussolini can not be stopped . Hence , Sir Samuel is resorting to frantic and fantastic devices to stave off war . But there is no unanimity of British opinion on this second , or African , phase of Sir Samuel 's policy to avert disaster by giving Ethiopia a strip of land in British Somaliland on the assumption that she would , in consequence , make concessions to Italy that would appease Mr. Mussolini . That venture ended in failure when II Duce scornfully rejected the proposal made to him by Mr. Eden and gave the British envoy to understand that war was now practically inevitable . But the repercussions from that incident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Somaliland suggestion . Italy denounces it as a trick and public opinion here is aroused to a high pitch of indignation by the revelation that the government had even contemplated ceding 600 square miles of territory , together with a seaport , to Ethiopia . Ethiopia has received no help . So the government 's unpopularity , for the moment at least , is increased both at home and abroad by its foreign policy . Emphasis on the fact that it offered to give away something without compensation for the sake of peace has only added to its embarrassment . The French and Italians do not admit that this was from an altruistic and disinterested motive , but claim that Britain was manoeuvring to gain further advantages for herself in Africa . On the other hand , the Tory members of the House of Commons are furious that the government even contemplated surrender of British territory without getting something as an equivalent . Solicitude Is Shown . There is a mixture both of greed and a new and sudden solicitude for the welfare of the native tribes of Somaliland . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press and Parliament to that the government offered to give without receiving , there is a more idealistic undertone in the comment , of Socialists and Liberals to the effect that the government had ignored the sacred obligations of British trusteeship by proposing to transfer helpless natives to the sovereignty of Ethiopia . It is recalled that in 1923 , when France and Italy were both advocating admission of Ethiopia to the League , Britain opposed it on the ground ' that Ethiopia was a barbarous country still ' tolerating human slavery . But this divided British opinion concerning the government 's methods does not impair the unanimity of feeling in this country that the objective of preventing war in Africa should be attained . Not only is the League at stake , but Britain and her dominion of South Africa are both desperately afraid of a serious effect on the black people throughout the African Continent that might come from Italy 's defeat by Ethiopia . Such an outcome of a war is by no means ruled out of calculations as impossible . It would give new point to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " India would be greatly in terested in such an ending to Mr. Mussolini 's madness . So the British Government is not only harassed by the present antagonism of its old allies in Europe , but it must consider the po1-115 COURSE DEBATED I Underwood etc Underwood . Sir Samuel Hoare , whose policies are ' , renting criticism in Britain . Utica ' effect on the eve of a general parliamentary election after 11,000 , - 000 voters have declared their devotion to the League in the recent peace ballot . It must also consider the effect of a false step on the dominions . The only assurance it seems to have in its difficulty is that the country would not demand shirking of military or economic consequences should Britain succeed in getting the League to take action against Italy . It is equally sure the British public would not tolerate action by this country alone to avert an African war .                     