@@699732

txt Nazi storm troopers , acting today on orders of the National Socialist shop cells organization , topped off yesterday 's May Day wooing of German labor by seizing all offices throughout Germany of the free labor unions , the chief bulwark of the Socialist party . All union leaders who could be reached were taken into custody pending investigation of their political activities and business transactions . The raids were carried out not by the government but by the socalled action committee of the Nazi shop cells under the leadership of Dr. Robert Ley , newly elected president of the Prussian State Council . It had all been secretly prepared and the raiding took place with such suddenness and rapidity that few leaders were able to escape . The police were conspicuously absent , but there were no disorders . The employes ' unions were asked to carry on with their ordinary work and did so . Periodicals Are Banned . Ali* periodicals published by the ft eb ' unions will be discontinued and in their places subscribers will receive the Nazi trade union organ . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other leaders . Afterward Dr. Ley called a press conference , at which he characterized the action as " the second phase of Germany 's national uprising . " The free unions were seized , he said , because the present regime wants to avoid the mistake of the Weimar regime , which , after the revolution of 1918 , believed its opponent dead . " Marxism today is playing dead . " he declared , " but it is not yet altogether abolished . It is therefore necessary to deprive it of its last strength . " According to Dr. Ley , the unions are not to be broken up , but will continue as labor organizations , their management passing into the hands of nationally minded men . Thus the surprise coup was directed wholly against the Socialists . In view of the fact that most Socialist leaders are paid secretaries of the free unions , thus closely linking the party with the union machinery , the blow will undoubtedly be an effective one . Will Be Nazi Bulwark . Dr. Ley said that . the seizure of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor front and a fundamental reorganization of all labor unions in accordance with the Nazi program. , In other words , the unions are to be kept alive as another Nazi bulwark . The Cabinet will discuss the problems raised by today 's action at Thursday 's session , and it is believed this " coordination " of the former free unions will be solved soon by legislative action , marking the end of the labor unions as opposed to the organizations of ernployers . This old " horizontal " alignment will be replaced , according to the National Socialist party program , by a " vertical " organization to include employers and employes alike . Professional organizations are to have a high degree of self-government . The free unions ' were the largest organization of unskilled manual labor in Germany , although in recent years as a result of the business depression they had begun to lose their hold upon a large proportion of the working classes . Still they had a membership of more than 4.000,000 against the membership of 700,000 in the Christian unions which came next . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposal , their annual income being about 185,000,000 marks . The mark is currently worth 2.75 tents . These funds . so the Nazis charge , have been misappropriated in the past for political and possibly private purposes . They will not be seized , it is said , but will continue to be used for sick benefits , insurance and other legitimate labor purposes . All charges of graft will be care- fully investigated by the new Nazi management , Dr. Ley announced . He specified only one charge , however . It concerns a bank balance of 3,000.000 marks " which can not have been earned . " Among those arrested are two chairmen of federated unions , Theodor Leipart and Peter Grassmann , who recently were announced to have pledged themselves to cooperate with the new government . " But such men who until recently have slandered us , " said Dr. Ley , " ca nnot possibly take a sincere part in the national uprising . "                     