@@703604

txt The State Department promised today that it would " take all necessary measures for the protection of American rights and interests in Palestine . " At the same time , Louis D. Brandeis , venerable Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court , who has long been active in support of the movement for a . Jewish National Home in Palestine and other problems affecting the welfare of Jews , made one of his rare public appearances outside of the court when he ceonferred with President Roosevelt at the White House early this evening . The position of the State Department was expressed in a statement that said that the American Government expected to " have an opportunity to submit its views to the Britisk Government with respect to any changes affecting American rights which may be proposed in the Palestine Mandate , " and pointed out that these rights were defined by the American-British Mandate convention or treaty of Dec. 3 , 1924 . " The statement was announced by Secretary of State Cordell Hull at his press conference as a reply to the thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the State Department from American citizens and Jewish organizations . The department issued the statement after Secretary Hull had received a delegation of prominent American Jewish leaders who submitted a memorandum urging the intercession of the United States . TEXT OF STATEMENT The text of the State Department 's statement follows : Within the past few days this government has received a large number of telegrams and letters from individuals and organizations in the United States concerning the Palestine situation , with particular reference to the reported possibility of the application by the British Government of a new policy with respect to that country . It is obviously impracticable to reply separately to the many communications which have been received and this statement is therefore being issued in lieu of individual answers . As is well known the American people have for many- years taken a close interest in the development of the Jewish National Home in Palestine . Beginning with President Wilson each sue -- ceeding President has on one or more occasions expressed his- own interest in the idea of a National Home and his pleasure at the progress made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Palestine was further manifested by the Joint Resolution of Congress signed by the President on Sept. 21 , 1922 , recording the favorable attitude of the United States toward such a homeland . In submitting the resolution the House Committee on Foreign Affairs reported that it " expresses our moral interest in and our favorable attitude toward the establishment in Palestine of a National Home for the Jewish people . It commits us to no foreign obligation or entanglement . " America Played Large Role It is in the light of this interest that the American Government and people have watched with the keenest sympathy the development in Palestine of the National Home , a project in which American intellect and capital ' have played a leading role . On several occasions this government has brought its views regarding the rights of the United States and its nationals in Palestine to the attention of the British Government . As recently as 1937 a formal exchange of correspondence took place and the following self-explanatory paragraph is quoted from the concluding note dated Aug. 4. 1937 , communicated by the American Ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressing satisfaction and appreciation for the assurances furnished that His Majesty 's Government intends to keep the United States Government fully informed of any proposals which may be made to the Council of the League of Nations for the modification of the Palestine Mandate , I am instructed to request that these proposals may be communicated to my government in ample time to enable it to determine what , if any observations it may desire to make with a view to the preservation of American rights in Palestine . " Convention Defines Rights spect to any changes affecting American rights which may be proposed in the Palestine Mandate . These rights , which are defined by the American-British Mandate Convention or Treaty of Dec. 3 , 1924 , comprise non-discriminatory treatment in matters of commerce , non-impairment of vested American property rights , permission for American nationals to establish and maintain educational , philanthropic and religious institutions in Palestine , safeguards with respect to the judiciary , and , in general , equality of treatment with all other foreign nationals . The rights of the United States in connection with any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forth in Article 7 of the above-mentioned treaty , which reads as follows : " Nothing contained in the present Convention shall be affected by any modification which may be made in the terms of eie Mandate , as recited above , unless such modification shall have been assented to by the United States . " This Article is substantially identical with corresponding articles included in eight other existing agreements concluded by this government with respect to the mandated territories of Syria and the Lebanon , former German islands in the North Pacific ; French Cameroons , French Togoland , Belgian East Africa , British Cameroons , British East Africa and British Togoland . No Preventive Powers None of these , , articles empower the Government of the United States to prevent the modification of the terms of any of the mandates . Under their provisions , however , this government can decline to recognize the validity of the application to American interests of any modification of the mandates unless such modification has been assented to by the Government of the United States . It is the department 's understanding that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago to make It is expected , therefore , that recommendations with respect to this government will have an op= partition , will make its report to portunity to submit its Views to the British Government at the the British Government with re- end of this month , and that no decision will be reached by that government on the subject until after an opportunity has been had to give consideration to that report . In reply to a question in the House of Commons on Oct. 6 , 1938 , Mr. , British Colonial Secretary , is reported to have stated that the House of Commons would not be in the position of having to confirm or reject a decision already taken and put into operation , but would have an opportunity of considering the policy before it was adopted and put into operation by the British Government . The department will , of course , continue to follow the situation closely and will take all necessary measures for the protection of American rights and interests in Palestine . Courteous Reception The delegation that called upon Secretary Hull after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said afterward that it had been most courteously received . The delegation was headed by Dr. Solomon Goldman of Chicago , president of the Zionist Organization of America , and Dr. Stephen S. Wise of New York , president of the American Jewish Congress . It was the same one that submitted a memorandum yesterday to Sir Ronald Lindsay , the British Ambassador , for transmission to his government . Regarding the call of Justice Brandeis on the President , the White House announced only the purposes of the discussions and the fact that the justice had come there at the request of the President . From the brief announcement it was assumed that the conversation had to do with the problem of Jews in Germany emigrating to other lands , a matter being pressed by the Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees in London , rather than on the direct issue of the Palestine mandate . From other reliable sources , however , it was understood that the immediate Palestine situation was what prompted the visit between President Roosevelt and the Supreme Court Justice because of the threatened ban on further Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              