@@697065

txt = Stocks turned downw-ard yesterday under the heaviest selling encountered by the general list in nearly two weeks . A. check to the forward movement in the principal trading issues was brought about by a number of developments which caused renewed uncertainty over business conditions . Probably the most important influence in this respect was the statement on freight traffic for the week ended February 8 . This report showed continuation in the declines from the corresponding periods a year ago that have been in vogue for several months Isloreover , the latest figures set forth a falling off of 12 , - 313 cars from the preceding week , contrasting with the weekly gains shown in the last four or rive statements . Oil shares were freely offered on the gain of 39.150 barrels daily made in crude produc  --  tion-during ntiss week ended February 15 . Steel common and tie Independent steel shares were subjected to pressure , following publication of the weekly trade reviews whose recent optimistic tone was considerably modified- Woolworth , Sears-Roebuck and other merchandising shares broke to new lows on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodity markets , where wheat sank to new lows for the season and cotton dropped S1 a bale . ? . United Fruit was a weak spot of the miscellaneous class , breaking to a record low for the present shares on liquidation ascribed to New England investors . Selling gradually broadened until the fourth hour when the market was under general pressure . However , signs of better support appeared toward the end of the session , and pivotal shares developed a somewhat better tone . Important buying proceeded on a scale down in representative shares throughout the list . This accumulation was based on the belief that current unsettlement in business had been taken into consideration by the drastic declines last October and November , which constituted the shortest and most severe bear market in history . Many leading bankers fee that the autumn break clearly foretold the present falling off in industrial and commercial earnings . lust as the forward movement in the railroad , industrial and utility averages since the first of the year has been saying that general trade was going to enjoy substantial improvement later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like Radio Corp . and Columbia Gra.phophone which have been in a declining market for more than a year . Indications of excellent buying were also in evidence in various utility shares , particularly International Telephone . American Water Works and North American . ? Weekly reviews of the steel trade reported , further gains in aggregate output for the industry but greater irregularity was noticeable ; and the improvement lacked the breadth and power of recent weeks . This appeared due ' largely to varying demands from automotive makers , some manufacturers calling for larger tonnage while others were taking somewhat smaller lots . Railroad and structural demands continued a strong feature , but makers of merchant pipe , sanitary ware and radiators have not been increasing schedules . Prices for steel products remained unchanged in the past week . ? I ? Heavy selling of United Fruit was started by the reference made by Victor M. Cutter , president of the company , to the unfavorable conditions existing in South America . In his statement to the stockholders at the annual meeting , Mr. Cutter said : " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the poor market prices of coffee . sugar , cocoa and other Latin American products The coffee situation is far from reassuring . The decline , approximately half the price prevailing a year ago . has caused embarrassment , and it must be remembered that coffee is the first money crop in the Caribbean area , bananas being second . " Ho ? ever , Mr. Cutter pointed out that no apprehension need be felt as to the permanent character of our trades with the South American republics as all countries dependent upon agricultural products to a large extent are bound to have alternate periods of prosperity and depression . Atlas Powder rose to new high ground for the year on buying attributed to Wilmington interests sponsoring the market for the stock . Atlas has a small capitalization , with a limited floating supply . and the stock responded briskly to comparatively small buying orders . Recent accumulation has been based on the outlook fox gains in heavy construction work this year . which are counted upon to bring about an increase in the company 's earnings this year over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvester 's recent advance to new high ground for the year , above 93. attracted considerable attention in view of the depressed condition of the grain markets . Recent buying of the stock by a strong Chicago group has been due to the expectation of an excellent showing in the company 's 1929 report . In addition , buying of Harvester has been actuated by the sustained character of farm implement business . December sales of the principal agricultural machinery companies , as compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago , were 12.7 , " : - above November . and showed a gain of 22 , - ; ; - , over December . 1928 . For the full year 1929. it is estimated that farm implement sales were 15,7 ; above 1928 . Further gains have been reported since the start of the current year .                     