@@697052

txt Attempts by Prohibition Administrator Maurice Campbell , in New York , to padlock the Hotel Manger as a result of recent raids in which prohibition agents were alleged to have made liquor purchases , do not indicate a national policy aimed at padlocking of hotels in which liquor law violations are charged , Dr. James M. Doran , Prohibition Commissioner , declared today . The Manger case is a local case which will be handled by both Prohibition Adminstrator Campbell and United States Attorney Tuttle , Dr. Doran said . He has not had a complete report of the alleged liquor law violations uncovered by the raids , he said , although he discussed the matter with Mr. Campbell by telephone today . " It is not the policy of the department , however , " said Dr. Doran , " to ask for the padlock of hotels unless it is proved that the management is involved in the liquor law violations . " This is rarely the case , Dr. Doran said , since under the usual practice minor employes , such as porters and bellboys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge of the management . He also said that the officials of the larger hotels were cooperating with the department to uphold the law . Campbell Makes No Comment . Prohibition Commissioner Doran 's statement that Prohibition Administrator Maurice Campbell 's hotelraiding tactics were not part of the department 's national enforcement policy brought no comment yesterday from Major Campbell . The commissioner 's statement not only placed upon the local administrator 's shoulders the entire responsibility for his hotel raids , but disclosed that Major Campbell apparently is acting upon his own initiative without waiting for Washington 's approval of his drastic enforcement ideas . United States Attorney Tuttle 's continued refusal to discuss Major Campbell 's raiding tactics , or his recent announcement that his agents would arrest individual possessors of liquor in public places , has left the administrator still more alone in carrying out his prohibition plans . Indications that the administrator has embarked on virtually a one-man war against hotels and individual liquor possessors is further emphasized by the recent statement of Assistant United States Attorney Robert B. Watts , Mr. Tuttle 's chief aide in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an entire hotel in which employes only were charged with Volstead act violations . Major Campbell was made the target for an attack yesterday by Thomas D. Green , president and executive director of the American Hotel Association , who criticized placing prohibition agents in hotels as guests solely to induce employes , through " bribery or persuasion , " to violate the law . Sees Widespread Protest . " Incidental to hotel association activities and cooperation in adopting the present methods of protecting the business , " Mr. Green said , " perhaps the question of the method of prohibition enforcement will develop to be one of the most vital importance in the hotel man 's efforts to protect his business . The American Hotel Association thus far has not committed itself to either side of the question of prohibition as such . Nevertheless , there is a decided feeling , as I gather it , from the bulk of our membership in protest against what seems to be an unreasonable enforcement of the law , to say nothing of a lack of enforcement in many sections . " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this time has to do with the methods of perhaps over-zealous officers in their efforts to enforce , stepping beyond the limits of ethics , if not the spirit and intent of the law itself . " The practice of planting prohibition agents in our hotels , who come there and register as our guests , solely for the purpose of inducing our employes either through bribery or persuasion to procure for them liquor in violation of law should not be countenanced . Of course , there may be particular instances where a particular proprietor through laxity of management or otherwise will allow his hotel to be conducted in a way which no honest citizen would attempt to justify , but this should be no excuse in adopting a practice of inducing employes to break the law , because it is a well-known fact that no matter how great the degree of supervision exercised by the proprietor in the conduct and management of his house he can never feel safe when such stool pigeon methods of enforcement are resorted to and tolerated . " The hotel business , now ranking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large an interest for the average hotelkeener to take chances and flirt with the law , realizing as he must how disastrous the consequences may be on his investment . It would , therefore , be my thought that we stress before the press , the public and our officials the difficulties which surround our business and ask their cooperation in limiting enforcement to such methods as are reasonable and fair to all concerned , including the hotelkeeper with his large investment . " Boland Calls on Tuttle . to his office and Major Campbell was reported as being with his brother from Pennsylvania , who was visiting the city and staying at a hotel . At the Federal Building Mr. Boland said : " I do not believe there should be any prosecution for supplying soft beverages or ice as accessories , unless they are served with the knowledge that the law is to be violated and offenses are flagrant or repeated sufficiently often to prove knowledge . Hotels are in the business of selling personal service , and courtesy is a part of that business . " Mr. Boland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks to appear before the committee which is holding hearings on prohibition , declared that a hotel man could not afford to ask guests calling for " soft " drinks the purpose for which they intended to use them . Mr. Tuttle said late yesterday afternoon he was still waiting for the reports of the agents who raided the Hotel Manger and the Cornish Arms . He declared he had not yet conferred with Major Campbell as these reports , which the administrator promised to forward to him , would first have to be received and read before he could discuss them with the administrator . Frank A. K. Boland , counsel for the Hotel Association of New York City , called on Mr. Tuttle at the Federal Building yesterday afternoon , but the United States Attorney refused to discuss with him Major Campbell 's new enforcement methods or his recent threat with respect to individual possessors of alcoholic beverages . Mr. Boland received , in effect , the same answers Mr. Tuttle recently gave to questions asked by reporters  --  that the questions were " academic " and that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Federal Building saying he was going to call on Major Campbell . He did not return                     