@@703137

txt Large chemical products are not about their probable earnings in the first quarter of this yeln- with January sales on the average showing a larger decline from business a year ago than December . In addition there is little indication of any pick up in February . Heavy chemical such as alkalis and sulphur and sulphuric acid , however , seem to be holding up much better than the general run of finer chemicals mainly because the basic materials are in the bread and butter class and are less subject to wide fluctuations in demand . du Pont 's business in January is understood to have been at least 25 ' , under a year ago . while other companies in similar lines are running as much as 30% behind . du Pont in its annual report stated that the fourth quarter of 1936 was about 16% below the corresponding 1936 period . Unless there should be a marked recovery in the next thirty days sales in the current quarter will be materially below the fourth quarter and with earnings correspondingly affected . Although the chemical Industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , which consumes dyes and a variety of finishing chemicals , and on the motor industry , which probably Is the most important consumer of lacquers and protective coatings . With stocks on manufacturers ' hands still large in both of these major chemical consumers , there seems little reason to hope for any increase in operations in the current quarters even if stocks move into consumers hands fairly well . Sulphur business in January was fairly good , running close to the same month a year ago with sales being made to fertilizer producers preparing for spring business . Alkalis , including caustic soda and soda ash which go mainly into rayon and glass , picked up slightly from the December low level and the industry is hopeful for a more pronounced gain in the second quarter . The oxygen and acetylene gas business did better in the last two weeks of January than in the first two weeks with demand coming from a variety of general consumers .                     