@@701376

txt The speech of Sir Samuel Hoare , British Foreign Secrgtary , in the House of Commons yesterday served to distract Italian attention from Geneva today and focus it upon London , which is regarded here as the headquarters of all the efforts being made to thwart Premier Benito Mussolini 's East African plans . The indignant chorus of protest against what Sir Samuel had to say about the Italo-Ethiopian situation pushed the discussions of the League of Nations Council into the background and concentrated upon Britain all the suppressed animosity with which people here regard the powers guilty of " lack of understanding of Italy 's most vital needs . " The truth of the matter is that Italy does no ) fear the League , feeling sure that nothing will be done in Geneva capable of altering the ' course of events , but looks forward with considerable apprehension to the possibility of Britain 's taking an attitude of rigid intransigence toward the impending campaign against Ethiopia . It is reported tonight that new military measures on a very large scale are about to be announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of Sir Samuel Hoare 's speech . More probably , however , the new measures will coincide with the end of the Council meeting . These probably will be Italy 's final preparations for war against Ethiopia . The impression is general , in fact , that the climax can not now be far distant , and it would not surprise any one if the rupture were to come sooner than was expected a month ago , in order , among other things , to cut short the suspense under which Italy and the rest of Europe are living , which is considered more deleterious even than war itself . The Giornale d'Italia this evening in an obviously inspired leading article signed by its editor , Virginio Gayda , defines Sir Samuel 's speech as " ill-omened " and particularly emphasizes what it termed its inflexible and almost threatening tone , which " corresponds to the open hostility that characterizes the official British policy toward Italy . " In particular , asks the Giornale d'Italia , what does the " appeal to force " with which Sir Samuel concluded his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the intimidatory manoeuvres with which ? Britain is experimenting against Italy , the newspaper declares , it will be regarded here with nothing but contempt . Speech Examined in Detail . Mr. Gayda then examines in greater detail some of the points of Sir Samuel 's speech . In the first place , he again stated that Britain looked with sympathy upon Italy 's need for expansion , but refrained from saying how he proposed to satisfy this need . " Does Britain consent to the League 's taking up the problem of redistribution of mandates ? " Mr. Gayda asks . " It seems that she does not and has no intention of giving up any of her mandates . " Italy is therefore seeking other outlets . She has turned her eyes to territories that are neither British nor French , thus avoiding embarrassing problems for the League and for European relations , but Britain wishes to block even this road . " The most that Britain proposes to do for Italy is to examine the possibility of guaranteeing , together with France , the security ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these are mere words , since Britain has always refused to assume any new international commitments , even in Europe . How can one believe , then , in her sudden change of front when confronted with the Ethiopian case ? " As for Sir Samuel 's statement that he . wishes to defend the League 's prestige , Mr. Gayda says that Italy would like to have it explained to her why Britain did not feel equally hurt by the affront made to the League by Japan 's operations in China . Distrusts British Manoeuvres . " We have been waiting months for this explanation , which has not come , " he writes . " Until it is given to us we have the right to distrust Britain 's manoeuvres in Geneva . " It is worth adding , says Mr. Gayda , that Italy is not against the League but against Britain 's interpretation of the League . One can not invoke Articles X and XVI of the covenant against Italy and forget Article XIX , which gives Italy the right to raise the question of revision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any case , it is absurd to say that one wishes to protect the League by endangering its very existence . Mr. Gayda next takes exception to a passage in Sir Samuel 's speech tending to give the impression that France supported Britain in her action against Italy . The truth , he says , is that Italy has greatly appreciated the friendly attitude hitherto shown by France and that it is Britain that is attempting by every possible means to obtain French support for her policy . " The British Minister 's language , " saws Mr. Gayda , " was far from respectful to France and did not at all reflect the prudence of which he boasted . We need say no more . We await the French reaction . " The Giornale d'Italia finally objects strongly to what Sir Samuel said about a conflict of races as a consequence of the Italo-Ethiopian Controversy . " Britain knows well that Italy does not share the Anglo-Saxon contempt for the colored races , " it asserts . " Britain knows well that the conflict between Italy and Ethiopia is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not a representative of Britain who should bring up this absurd problem of races , for the whole of history bears witness to the harshness of British repression and oppression of the colored races in Asia and Africa . Surely Britain does not wish us to reopen the pages of British colonial history and government in India . Sir Samuel 's speech on this point was not honest . It was not even responsible . "                     