@@701175

txt The machinery for the $4,000,000,000 spending program designed to pro , vide a job for every employable person on relief rolls was completed by President Roosevelt today with the designation of Harry L. Hopkins as Administrator of the Works Progress Division . In his new assignment Mr. Hopkins will act as the President 's eyes and ears in watching the progress of all efforts launched by the President in the job-providing endeavor , and supervise employment of the jobless and the purchase of supplies . The President said at a press conference today that Mr. Hopkins would rank equally with Frank C. Walker , director of the National Emergency Council and chief of the Division of Applications and Information , which will examine proposed work projects , and with Secretary Ickes , chairman of the Works Allotment Division , which will advise the President on projects for which allocations are to be made . Group Confers at White House . Completion of the preliminary work in the largest assault yet made by the Administration on the depression was signaled tonight by the convening of a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferees were Mr. Walker , Mr. Hopkins , Secre-taries Ickes and Morgenthau ; Joseph P. Kennedy , chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission ; Rexford Guy Tugwell , UnderSecretary of Agriculture and Director of Rural Resettlement in the relief program ; Rear Admiral C. J. Peoples , chief of procurement for the works program ; Daniel W. Bell , director of the budget , and Charles West , contact man between the President and Congress . At the White House conference tonight President Roosevelt spent three and a half hours giving his aides a detailed r  --  sum ? of the ideas behind the work-relief program . He traversed the field which he had explained at his press conference earlier today and then went over in detail the announcements he made in the past four days . Other developments in organization work by President Roosevelt today included the naming of Mayor La Guardia of New York as representative of the Conference of Mayors on the Allotment Board , and the naming of Robert E. Wood as the board member for the Business Advisory Council . Mr. Roosevelt concluded the clarification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formal statement outlining Mr. Hopkins 's broad - duties as chairman of the Works Progress Division and then by explaining to newspaper men at his press conference the operation of the machine which he has constructed . Hopkins Keeps FERA Post . Mr. Roosevelt made it clear that he himself would control the whole program , reserving the sole right to allocate funds and to superin- tend their usage , although fifty government agencies would aid in the operations . Since the FERA under Mr. Hopkins has the most complete statistics on unemployment by regions . the President gave to the progress division the task of supplying statistics on employment needs . This division also was charged with the task of procuring supplies for the program and , finally , " of keeping in touch at all times with all projects and reporting on the progress made . " Mr. Hopkins was instructed to continue as chief of the FERA , which will go on caring for persons for whom no employment can be found , and originating small works projects . In outlining his plan , the President asked his audience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more circles across the bottom representing a long list of established agencies , such as the Civilian Conservation Corps , the Bureau of Public Roads and like administrative agencies , together with three newly created ones to deal with rural resettlement , grade-crossing elimination and rural electrification , which will be the actual operating bodies to carry out work projects . Above these he pictured three larger circles representing , first , Mr. Walker 's sifting organization ; second , Secretary Ickes 's Allotment Board , and . finally , Mr. Hopkins 's progress group . Above all , he said , should be . placed a single large circle representing his own authority . All proposals , whether for public works by the Federal Government or for loans to political units for works of their own , are to be submitted first to Mr. Walker , whose organization will refer them to appropriate government agencies ? the little circles  --  for study and review and then reclaim them for study in the light of expert reports . These studies completed , the Walker group will list suggested operations on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relation to the unemployment problem in the district that will be benefited . Exceptions in this group-1 ing arrangement will be made for ' nation-wide projects , such as the CCC . When the first group has passed ' upon applications , these will be forwarded with all pertinent information to Secretary Ickes 's allotment division , which will consider the projects in round-table conference and , in turn , pass applications on to President Roosevelt for allotment of funds . The President will use his own discretion in this , but he said he would probably rely largely on the - ecommendations of the Ickes ) oard . When he approves . a project the lotice of approval will go simulaneously down to whatever indi/idual agency is to carry out the work , and to Mr. Hopkins , who henceforth will be charged with re3ponsibility for seeing that schedules set for definite works are carried through . The procurement division , headed by Admiral Peoples under the supervision of Mr. Hopkins , will then ask for bids for supplies . The representatives of the United States Employment Service , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons employed on projects and they in turn will notify private employers that they may have for their needs any number of men required from the lists of those temporarily working on public projects . Asked about the method of checking on loan projects such as those that will be done by cities , Mr. Roosevelt said that in cases of delay the facts would be published , together with whatever explanation might be made . He pointed out that a precedent had been set by PWA , which occasionally had reyoked approved allotments in the face of dilatory action . The President said it was manifestly impossible to give an idea how long it would be before work was started , but he repeated a previously expressed hope that November would see it in full swing . Pending applications before PWA , the President stated , must be processed by Mr. Walker 's organization for study as to time elements involved and because of new regulations to be established liberalizing repayment clauses . He observed , humorously , that Mr. Tug-well was represented by one of the small circles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of money . The President said that work had been virtually completed on laying out employment regions . He added that there would be in each a coordinator who would operate under Mr. Hopkins . Replying to a question as to how Mr. Hopkins would determine the security wages to be paid in each area , the President said he did not know . About 1,500 applications for jobs with the National Emergency Council were received today as the NEC opened an employment office on one of the principal downtown streets of the capital to recruit employes for the new Division of Applications and Information . A steady stream of job seekers flowed through the office all day , but the rush was not as great as officials had expected . It has not yet been determined how many employes will be hired . OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT . The final announcement of the work relief organization made by the White House read as follows : The fourth and final announcement by the President regarding the administrative machinery for the handling of the works relief program provides for setting up a Works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , accurate information must be available in regard to the actual number of employables whose names are on existing relief rolls . As the works relief program is intended to take care primarily of these people , the projects must be allocated in proportion to the numbers within a given work area . The Progress Division will be in charge of these figures and will keep the other divisions informed at all times . Next , after allotments have been made , it will be the duty of the Progress Division to see that the actual persons to be employed on the separate projects will come from those whose names are on the relief rolls . It also will be necessary to determine the amounts of security Payments in different areas of the country . The United States Employment Service will have general charge of re-employment of persons on work relief who desire to return to private employment or who are needed in private employment . The Progress Division will coordinate this work among the many administrative divisions . Another important function of the Works Progress Division will be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be handled by an office in the Progress Division which will be headed by Rear Admiral C. J. Peoples . now the procurement officer of the government . Check on Projects Provided . Finally , the Progress Division will be charged with keeping in touch at all times with all projects and reporting on the progress made . The agents of the division in the field , where there are not sufficient adequate projects in any work relief area , will explore possibilities for additional work and make recommendations thereon . Mr. Harry L. Hopkins will act as Administrator of the Works Progress Division . He , of course , will continue as Administrator of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration , the work of which will , however , diminish in proportion to the number of persons on the relief rolls given employment under the Works Relief Program . As previously stated , the care of unemployables on relief rolls during the same period will revert to States and municipalities . If in the progress of making and carrying out allotments sufficient employment in a given area is actually not provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to take up the slack through the creation of local work on very small projects which , because of their size , would not clear through the works allotment board . These projects can be planned and put into operation and completed in a very short space of time . They will be definitely useful . The general work of the Works Progress Division also will include recommendations designed to keep the actual work of the great majority on projects located as close to the homes of the workers as possible .                     