@@701223

txt The position of Europe 's gold bloc became more shaky at the week-end . The tottering condition of Europe 's gold currencies was revealed in a collapse in the market for future French francs . For the past few weeks , 90-day francs had been quoted at , an exceptionally heavy discount of about 7% points under spot . On Friday . the discount widened to 10 . On Saturday it dropped to 15 . In none of the great attacks on the franc and other European gold currencies which followed the American suspension of gold two years ago last April has the franc ever been depressed to such a low level . It means that the Dutch guilder , itself just recovering from the formidable attack following the devaluation of the Belgian currency , is now relatively stronger than the French franc , both on a spot and forward basis . Based on Saturday 's rates , a 15-point discount for French francs was the equivalent of slightly over 154 points for 90-day guilders , which the market quoted at a discount of 150 points . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilder sank to a far greater percentage discount in the last attack than the French franc has now . The current weakness in the franc , however . probably has more significance to Europe 's future because it has generally been felt that the French franc would fall only after the guilder and the Swiss . It is now seen to be as vulnerable . Switching of the bear attack from spot French francs to the forward market on Friday and Saturday coincides with the first intervention in weeks of the British Exchange Control . Sterling had been rising steadily as French capital has moved to London . but up until Friday the British Control made no effort to halt the movement . On Friday it stepped in but was swept aside as sterling continued to be bid up . On Saturday it was more successful and managed to stem the rising tendency . Apparently . speculators finding their way blocked to profit in the spot market . by opposition of the British Control , have turned to the forward market , in which there is no control . The pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward rates on Dutch guilders and Swiss francs , the discount on which had been growing narrower until the appearance of the British Control , but which now are dropping in sympathy with the franc . By Thursday , 90-day guilders had improved to 110 points and Swiss francs to 130 . The corresponding quotations on Saturday were 150 and 170 . The strike of seamen on the French Line can be blamed to great extent for the weakness of the franc Delay in sailing of the S. S. Champlain and spreading of the strike to the new Normandie , Lafayette and the Paris , threw Jostacles : n the free export of gold out of France . as it reduced the sailing. , available for gold at a time when clefen-qe of the currency made it imperative that not the slightest delay Occur . The United Press reported on Sunday that the strike has been settled which does away with the fear of the possibility of a general dock strike which would necessitate gold shipments ta New York by way of air to England . The , damage , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strated to the speculator that the franc potentially La as vulnerable as the other gold currencies Element of Strength The very weakness in the forward rates , however , contains an element of considerable strength . The greater the discount on the futures , the more expensive it becomes for speculators to hold short positions for any length of time . If the French Government can make any progress toward correcting its financial position and hold to its determination to maintain the value of the franc . the position of the speculators may become vulnerable because of the expense involved The spot franc containues fairly stead , all things considered . although the French shipping strike last week allowed the rate to drop slightly lower than lt would ordinarily . There is a constant and heavy demand for French francs , offsetting the capital flow , in order to buy gold in Paris for shipment to New York Up to Friday , 966,000,000 had been engaged in a week . In addition , the Bank of France is being called upon to supply gold for shipment to England where it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ price for gold is dropping . but this Is because sterling itself is moving up in terms 01 gold . Actually , on a comparative basis , gold is worth more in terms of francs in London than it is in Paris , due to the steady demand for metal as capital seeks refuge in London . On Saturday , the London gold price was fixed at 141s Sd. unchanged from Friday . This price , however , was one shilling , or 12 pence , higher than a theoretical price as indicated by the sterling price for gold Gold generally can he exported profitably from Paris to London whenever this premium reaches about 6 pence . As a result of the high premium which has been running daily , the vaults of the Bank of Fr. am r. are now Lontri tatting about es much gold to the insatiable appetite of the London market as do the mines in South Africa . traditionally the largest source . During the three days ended May 16 , for example , imports of gold into the United Kingdom were Na.lued at i4,740.988. of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from France . Wrth the demand for gold in London as great . if not greater than ever before , the Indian shipments hate dwindled away to insignificant proportions . Since September , 1931 , India has dehoarded something oter ? 177.500,000 of metal to meet the hoarding demand from the t estern World . In recent w eeks , how ever , the supplies from that source , previously as important as the South African mines . have fallen away . Last week total shipments from India were valued at only 44,236.                     