@@703952

txt Trade Encouragement Urged New Administration Policy Suggested as Greatest Aid to Recovery TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORKTIMES : A powerful two-edged sword is available for use in balancing the Federal budget . Expertly wielded , no other weapon could compare with it . It is the sword of business recovery . With business on its feet , revenues would rise ; the need for aid to unemployed , to agriculture , to sick business would tend to vanish . No more effective means to solvency exists . Yet Mr. Roosevelt , in 1937 , with prosperity like a bird in his hand , let it slip . And where definitely does he stand to-day ? No one seems quite sure . While he was cruising on the Caribbean , Mr. Morgenthau unfurled a recovery flag and offered business aid with taxes . Mr. Hopkins made a friendly speech in Iowa . Stocks  --  and let no one say that business ignores official encouragement  --  rose several points . Then Mr. Roosevelt returned . Did he use his newly bronzed vigor to get behind and push @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breathing spell " was reported as " emanating ? ? * indirectly from the White House , " true enough . But it was coupled with a demand for another 150 million dollars relief money . When opposition to that plan developed , Mr. Roosevelt reverted to his radical " inner circle , " put Messrs . Morgenthau and Hopkins in the doghouse , and tossed parts of the " appeasement " program out the window . Business support thereafter was diluted and anemic . Politics , Not Business This may be good politics , leaning first one way and then the other , keeping everybody picking petals off the daisies to find out where they stand . But it is not good business . It has helped prolong the depression for another six years . The country , the whole world , needs revival and business needs something more than lukewarm , equivocal enthusiasm from the head of this government . It can be argued that business is far from spotless ; that Mr. Roosevelt , who , against bitter opposition , has driven through reforms now accepted in principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , something besides blame ; that some one must have discretionary power to expand relief spending as business lags , to shrink it as we gain ; that this of recent months has been well handled ; that he should be trusted until a new set-up is provided ; that administration has been economical  --  due in part perhaps to the sharp criticism of earlier relief methods in Senator Borah 's radio address of Nov. 19 , 1934  --  and that credit for improvement should be given . Time to Go Ahead But it can also be argued that no one at this time , regardless of provocation , has the right to trifle with recovery ; that business should not be forced to await another election year for permission to stagger to its feet ; that , after ten years . of distress , an even faintly ambiguous attitude toward the means of re-employing ten million men is not a realistic attitude . Mr. Roosevelt has recently made an eloquent appeal for another billion and three-quarter dollars relief money . In a parallel column he preaches the gospel of discontent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are " victims " of discrimination , of " an unfounded prejudice based on age alone . " Can he find no eloquence for encouraging business enough to re-employ these men and thus dispense with the need of this billion and three-quarter dollars ? A few strong words from him such as those of Mr. Hopkins in Des Moines or of . the A. F. of L. council in Miami might literally put hundreds of thousands back to work , contribute hundreds of millions to a balanced budget . By what popular mandate , then , do his radical advisers persuade him to guard his tongue so carefully on this one issue ? FRANK CISTo Brewster , Mass. , May 2 , 1939 . Correcting Catholic History First Cathedral Here Was Built in the Suburbs at Prince Street TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In the article on churches in your World 's Fair Supplement of April 30 you state that St. Peter 's Church became the " Cathedral of the Diocese before St. Patrick 's was opened on Fifth Avenue . " In the interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that St. Peter 's was never at any time the Cathedral of Catholic New York . In fact , St. Peter 's , established in 1785 , antedates the creation of the See of New York . Pope Pius VII signed the Bull for the division of the See of Baltimore and the establishment of the Diocese of New York on April 8 , 1808 . At that time , since the accommodations of St. Peter 's were inadequate for its ever-increasing congregation , many Catholics desired the erection of a new church which might serve as the cathedral of their newly appointed Bishop , Richard Luke Concanen , an Irish Dominican . Under the leadership of Father Kohlmann , pastor of St. Peter 's , it was decided to erect the Cathedral of St. Patrick " in the suburban section of the cfty . " The site chosen was the northwest corner of Prince and Mott Streets , " amid woodland% hills and meadows . " Mulberry Street at that time was surrounded by woods , and so far from the city limits that a fox was caught in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patrick 's Cathedral , presently occupying this site , the cornerstone of which was laid on June 8 , 1809 , became the first cathedral of New York and continued to be such until 1879 , when St. Patrick 's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue was dedicated . Since the basic historical theme of the World 's Fair is in celebration of the sesquicentennial of Washington 's inauguration , it may be apropos to recall the active part taken by the members of old St. Peter 's Church and the Catholic delegates to the inauguration ceremony . St. Peter 's , together with all the other churches of the city , held special religious services the morning of the inaugural day . Present on the balcony of Federal Hall when Washington took his oath of office were Senator Charles Carroll of Carrollton , Representative Daniel Carroll of Maryland , Thomas FitzSimons , a merchant of Philadelphia whom Alexander Hamilton praised for his help in establishing the financial policy of the new government ; Aedamus Burke , the noted jurist of South Carolina ; Don Diego de Gardoqui , the Spanish Minister , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grover Whalen of the day who had much to do with the setting of the stage of the inauguration ceremonies was Major Pierre Charles L'Enfant , a French soldier and Catholic , who is most famous for his work in planning the city of Washington . LEo R. RYAN . Corresponding Secretary , United States Catholic Historical Society . New York , May 1 , 1939 . Better Referees Wanted System , if Kept , Should Bar Unwise Judicial Appointments , It Is Argued TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : There is much that is sound in the argument of Hyacinthe Ringrose in his letter to THE TIMES in opposition to the pending proposal to abolish the office of official referee in our civil courts of record . Discussion of this subject , however , is incomplete without mention of a grave weakness in the manner in which the system has operated , which may , in part , account for the proposal to abolish it . A custom seems to have developed to appoint as official referees not only the judges retiring at the age of 70 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect and admiration of all litigants , witnesses and lawyers who have had occasion to appear before them . Unfortunately , appointments have been made of individuals rejected by the electorate after a term of service , by no means deserving of such respect and admiration . I know of at least one instance in which such an individual during his service on the bench demonstrated utmost stupidity , arrogance , ignorance of the law and an utter lack of judicial temperament , as well as of those qualities which we associate with the term gentleman ; who , by reason of that record , forcibly impressed not only upon the minds of those who had appeared before him but also of his colleagues on the bench , was rejected when his first term was up , and therefore was refused a renomination in consequence of the active opposition of numerous and influential members of the bar and of the bench . Nevertheless , that man is now serving as an official referee . If the system is to be retained , obviously it should be so retained under safeguards against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . New York , May 2 , 1939 . Wagner Refugee Bill Opposed To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW Yonx TIMES : It is a matter of regret to the trustees of the American Defense Society that we were not represented , because of inadequate notice , at the hearings , of which Senator King was chairman , on Senate Bill 64 , known as the Wagner Refugee Bill . The following short statement , approved by the trustees , has been sent to Senator King with the request that it be placed in the records of the com-mittee : " The society is opposed to this bill as it stands for the reason primarily that it singles out one country , namely , Germany , for giving relief to refugee children . Any bill of this kind in all fairness should make the same provision for every European country which now has an acute refugee problem . " Our second ground of opposition is that the children refugees should be given preference within the immigration quotas rather than admitting them outside of the quotas . " ROBERT APPLETON , Chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1939 . ' Marse Henry ' Up to Date TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In one of Henry Watterson 's editorials written after the Civil War there appears the phrase " purgatorial camping ground " to describe a nation which is between a state of war and a state of peace . Two quotations from that editorial appear to be applicable at the present time . They have recently been republished in Arthur Krock 's compilation of " The Editorials of Henry Watterson . " " When we say we have no peace , we do not mean to say we may have war . Not at all . On the contrary , we think there is less likelihood of a war on this continent now than there has been . But there is a state which is not a state of war that is not a state of peace . It is a sort of purgatorial camping ground which lies between the two conditions , partaking of the suspense of one and the lassitude of the other . " Concluding the editorial , Mr. Watterson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first step to justice is toleration . " CARL W. ACKERMAN . New York , April 25 , 1939 . Garnishment Exemption Opposed TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I read with a great deal of interest that a bill had been introduced in the State Legislature prohibiting the garnisheeing of salaries of city employes . I note with alarm that this is but another attempt of the already privileged class , to wit , the government employes , to set themselves apart from the rest of society which pays the bills for their salaries . If we are to exempt this class from garnishment , why not give similar relief to the thousands of other employes who unquestionably are in greater need of it ? ALEXANDER BAUMSTEIN . New York , April 29 , 1939.                     