@@700493

txt While a barrage of complaints from leaders in business and finance has caused the Senate banking and curt encv committee to undertake redrafting of important sections of the Fletcher-Rayburn Stock Regulation Bill , indications Friday were that the revision as outlined will be insufficient to bring the bill into the category of a simplified measure , which Senator Robinson , Democratic leader , is requesting . Leaders in the Senate were inclined to the view indicated by Senator Robinson Thursday that it may be necessary to depend on the House to write the sort of legislation which they believe can be passed at this session of Congress . Ferdinand Pecora , counsel for the Senate committee , said that in the redrafting undertaken Friday there would be more liberal provisions touching margins . The provisions on independent audits , on security registrations , on specialists and those regarding the segregation of brokers and dealers are to be changedFTC Supervision Rertuans in Bill However , there-waa no indication of-any plan of taking the regulatory function out of the hands of the Federal Trade Commission and giving it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be liberalized , they would still be frozen into statute instead of being flexible ; and in enforcing margin requirements brokers apparently would be under dielation of the Federal Trade Commission . The plan is to exempt stock already listed from being subjected to registration with the FTC . Stocks listed in the future would have to be registered . In a measure . this appears to duplicate the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 . The Senate redrafting is in the hands of some of the same men who originally insisted that no changes were necessary . It was learned that the Senate committee experts had not attempted to contact the Dickinson committee which made an exhaustive study of market regulation . The House interstate commerce committee hopes to conclude hearings on the bill early next week . Chairman Rayburn then will appoint a subcommittee to undertake the work of redrafting the measure . Senate Stock Hearing Recessed Failure of witnesses to appear on Friday caused the Senate banking and currency committee to recess its hearings on the Stock Exchange Control Bill until 10.30 a. in . Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changed to provide that though at the time of purchase the 60,1 , margin originally written in the bill would be required , thereafter the broker could , in the case of a market decline , allow the customer considerable leeway before selling him out Under the proposed arrangement it is understood , a stock exchange would mere12. certify that a corporation whose issues are listed has complied with all the listing requirements of the exchange . Registration statements would be required only in the case of new listings Only one independent audit a year would be required under the new draft . Company reports quarterly would be required by the Federal Trade Commission . It is understood that the bill is being revised also with respect to provisions dealing with the segregation of brokers , dealers and specialists A member of the committee 's advisory staff said that quite a concession is being made as to specialists dealing for their own account . A flexible provision regarding the operations of brokers as%ealers is also being worked out . Stock exchange officials have argued before the committee that the liquidity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would eliminate . Witnesses also said that in small communities it would be a hardship to prevent a broker from also functioning as a dealer . More Flexible , Says Pecora Mr. Pecora asserted that although the original stock exchange control measure has been revised in several particulars , the principle of the original bill remains unchanged . He contended that , to a degree , the measure is made more flexible . The committee plans to hear W. C. Potter of the Guaranty Trust Co N. Y .. and Percy H. Johnson of the Chemical Bank Sr Trust Co. who is chairman of the Clearing House Corp . of New York City . Governor Black of the Federal Reserve Board , who has been requested to submit a report on the original bill , will be notified that a new draft has been completed and asked to give his views on the new bill . Want to Walt for Aviation Shorts Data There was some ciisposition on the part of members of the committee to continue hearings until the report from the New York Stock Exchange on short sales in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9,1934 , has been submitted . Roland Redmond . counsel for the New York Exchange . said all the answers to questionnaires sent to members on short sales had been received and that 150 men were working drafting from the replies an analysis for presentation to the committee . The data asked of the Exchange . which inchided finance statements from the treasurer of the Exchange and the minute books of the governing committee and others , will also be submitted on Monday . Chairman Fletcher said he wanted to call anybody whom committee rnem oers desired to hear . This would include a number of the outstanding bankers . He felt that committee hearings , including the presentation of information from brokerage members of the various stock exchanges gathered by Counsel Pecora , could be concluded within 10 days . The principal disclosures in the information to be presented to the committee by Counsel Pecora will be the profits of brokerage firms over recent periods , and particularly in 1929.                     