@@698807

txt Virtual agreement on a national relief program intended both to provide for the unemployed and needy and stimulate industrial and business activity was understood to have been reached by the special Democratic Committee on Relief today . The program will , it was reliably intimated , present a compromise between the relief program offered by President Hoover and those advanced by leading Democrats in both Senate and House . According to Senator Joseph T. Robinson ( D. ) , of Arkansas , Democratid leader in the Senate and chairman of the Relief Committee . the program will provide a practical working basis for a broad national program . Its compromise features are expected to give it a nonpartisan character which will make it acceptable to Republicans and Progressives as well as Demerats . It is understood it will be substantially along the following lines : A bond issue of $1,000,000,000 for the construction of public works already authorized by Congress . An increase in the capitalization of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation of somewhere within the vicinity Of $1,000,000,000 to be used for loans to industry and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $300,000,000 for direct relief of distress . Provisions fol ? agricultural relief by making available between $50 , - 000,000 and $80,000,00 for loans to farmers through the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . The public works construction feature comes from the relief program offered by Senator Robert F. Wagner ( D. ) of New York , and Speaker John N. Garner ( D. ) of Texas . whereas other features of the compromise are substantially what were proposed by President Hoover and Senator Robinson . Indications that an agreement had been reached followed closely on the heels of a new relief program offered by Speaker Garner , his first public expression on emergency measures . Inclusion in the House leader 's program of the Wagner proposal for . $1,000,00,000 in public works construction was understood to have helped pave the way for the compromise am cement .                     