@@696985

txt Two high points in today 's events in the proceedings preliminary to the naval conference were the declaration at Sheffield by A. V. Alexander , First Lord of the Admiralty . concerning this country 's willingness to cut her cruiser strength to fifty vessels and another conference between Premier and the Japanese dela ? gates . Mr. Alexander 's statement provides what might be called the first " yardstick " for a tangible estimate of the value of the Kellogg pact to renounce war in terms of the instruments of war that may safely be discarded because the pact exists . In behalf of the Labor Government , Mr Alexander undertook to answer the British critics who have been asking why England now is willing to reduce the cruiser estimate to fifty from seventy ships , which in 1927 the Admiralty Board had said was an irreducible minimum consistent with national safety . Kellogg Pact Is His Reply . " What has happened , " Admiral Beatty and other critics have been asking , " since the estimate of seventy was reached to make it safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alexander 's answer is that the Kellogg pact has happened . So , at least in the opinion of one country , the pact is worth at least twenty cr uisers . After referring to the previous conditions under which England decided that seventy cruisers were the minimum strength consistent with safety , Mr. Alexander continued : " But today we have to take account of the new situation which has arisen through the signature of the Pact of Paris the Kellogg pact outlawing war by most of the nations of the world , including all the major naval powers , and not only those who are members of the League of Nations but also the United States , which by their authorship of this pact , took their second great step in the practical solution of the world 's need for assured peace . " With such powerful support for peace , we feel justified in looking forward to a period in which armed conflicts need not be expected . " Report Progress After Parley . At the end of their second conversation , lasting two hours , today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Admiral Takarabe and . Ambassador Matsudaira issued a communiqu ? saying : ' Progress has been made in the discussion of the various questions of special interest to Japan and Great Britain which will come up at the naval conference . " From what was learned after the talk it was evident the word " progress " applied to that part of the discussion which concerned tentative proposals to reduce the size of capital shins and not to Japan 's demand that she should have 70 per cent of large-type cruiser strength of the power which holds the largest number of such 10,000-ton cruisers . This is a demand which the Japanese advanced in Washington without receiving encouragement from the American Government that it would be granted . The British Government apparently has no intention of taking an attitude in this matter different from that of America in the preliminary negotiations . The number of large cruisers which Japan asks as a minimum consistent with her security is twelve or thirteen , which would be 70 per cent of eighteen , the least number which America is supposed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be 80 per cent of the fifteen which would satisfy England in the 10,000-ton group , and 80 per cent , in the opinion of the British , might be too much : if a jump from the 60 per cent which was allotted to Japan as her battleship proportion at the Washington conference of 1921 . It is significant that at today 's conference with the Japanese delegates Premier was accompanied by Robert L. Craigie , head of the American division of the Foreign Office . Mr. Craigie also will be a guest tomorrow at Chequers , where Mr. is going to entertain the Japanese at a luncheon . London Times Scores Stand . The London Times does not think Mr. Alexander 's view that England can reduce her cruisers from seventy to fifty because of the Kellogg pact is satisfactory , because while the cruiser may be an instrument of war with other nations it is useful to England for many purposes . " There is no explanation , " The London Times will say editorially tomorrow . " merely in the signature of the Pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , assuming that the new confidence is justified and the possibility of war may now be safely left out of calculations , it might have been expected that the effect would be felt not so much in the number of cruisers which we need for peace as well as war purposes as in those shins which were built solely for war , the huge battleships which are the core of the fighting fleet . It is beginning at the wrong end to cut down cruisers instead of dealing with ships that exist for war and war only . " Text of the Address . SHEFFIELD , England , Jan. 10 ( 211 . ? The text of Mr .. Alexander 's address here today follows : I want to acknowledge that up to the present the press in this country has maintained an attitude of great friendliness and helpfulness with regard to the forthcoming five-power conference . But with the emergence of some of the main problems to be considered , and particularly the problem of cruiser strength , I have observed a tendency for the press to ask " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to fixing the minimum requirements of cruiser strength for the British Empire at fifty ships instead of the seventy ships asked for in 1927 ? " Let me say at the outset that in decisions of policy on . matters of this kind it is the ' government which is responsible and which must answer to the natioln . But in view of the nature of certain questions which have been put in the press , I think it would be opportune for me , as First Lord of the Admiralty , to explain the Admiralty 's views . Our estimate of the defense requirements of the British Empire has been summed up in the policy of successive governments to his Majesty here and in the Dominions , namely , a one-power naval standard . In the matter of capital ships , this has been very simply expressed in the form of parity with the greatest other naval power . This was the main achievement of the Washington conference . In the matter of cruisers it is not so simple , and this was the crux of the Geneva confe ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement . Cruisers Important Issue . One of the most important aims of the London conference will be to reconcile our defense needs in the matter of cruisers with the requirements of an international agreement . ' After the Washington conference , at which the question of cruiser strength was only to a limited extent touched upon ; the Board of Admiralty advised the government of the day of their views of the needs of the British Empire in cruiser strength . The number , which is based on the needs of defense for our worldwide vital sea communication , was fixed at seventy . That was the number which , had conditions remained the same , would be our requirement today . But today we have to take account of the new situation which has arisen through the signature of the pact of Paris outlawing war by most of the nations of the world , including all the major naval powers , and not only by those who are members of the League of Nations but also by the United States , who , by their authorship of this pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world 's need for assured peace . With such powerful support for peace we feel justified in looking forward to a period in which armed conflicts need not be expected . The Board of Admiralty , therefore , having regard to all the circumstances of today and especially to the pact of Paris and to improved world political relationships , are prepared to agree to fifty cruisers as the minimum needs of the empire up to the next date for a conference and a revision , which we expect to be near 1936 . I must emphasize that this figure is the lowest we feel can be fixed to meet even peace conditions in present world circumstances . British Responsibility Enormous . The responsibility of the British Commonwealth . both imperially and internationally , including large commitments to the League of Nations , is enormous , and the navy is required again and again  --  as illustrated in the recent Palestine disturbances  --  to take both precautionary and effective action in carrying out our obligations to keep the peace in some parts of the world even when the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that international peace will be permanent , and that a further agreement in 1936 will confirm and extend the present agreement . But if , unhappily , the international horizon , should become in the future less unclouded than it is today , it will be upon the ' Board of Admiralty to review their position and to make further proposals to his Majesty 's Government . The proposed reduction in the number of cruisers to fifty is , of . course , dependent on agreement at the forthcoming conference on adequate limitation of projected building programs being made by other powers . Our aim is to reduce existing commitments and to stabilize our position by mutual agreement with others , avoiding competitive building and the expenditure of excessive sums of money . The naval conference upon which we are entering will probably be the greatest of its kind ever held in the history of the world and no delegates of the British nation can afford not to be impressed with the importance and the responsibility of the occasion . In 1921 and 1922 at Washington we achieved an agreement with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we adopted a onepower standard we then conceded to America parity with regard to capital ships . That agreement still runs and ultimately our strength of capital ships will be reduced to fifteen , but so far as we are concerned we should very much like to see , if replacements are to take place as they must take place , a capital ship which would be less expensive to build and to maintain than the ship involved in the maximum tonnage laid down in the Washington treaty . Ready for Parity In All Classes . There has never been an agreement with regard to the ratios of cruisers and destroyers . We said to America we were prepared to concede full and friendly parity between this country and theirs in naval strength in all the categories in addition to those agreed upon in 1921 and 1922 . At whatever point we think requirements will allow us to come down to , we should be quite willing for the other great English-speaking nation to take parity with us , ship for ship and ton for ton , but the difficulty has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of parity there has not been any agreement as to how the total tonnage covered by the parity should be allocated and as to what size a ship should be built inside that tonnage . The difficulty up to the present has been to get agreement as to what should be the proper equation to get effective parity between us and the United States . That was the position when the Prime Minister made his visit to the United States . We hope now we shall arrive at a lasting basis of agreement not only on the question of parity between ourselves and America but also in regard to ratios between ourselves and other countries . There are two other main categories , destroyers and submarines , which must come under review . The extent to which you can get very substantial reductions in destroyer provision depends upon the measure of success you can get in regard to reduction in submarines . I have never hesitated to say that nothing would please us more from the humanitarian point of view than complete abolition of the submarine , but there are difficulties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposals in this respect . At the same time , it ought to be possible to have some measure of reduction . It has been quite obvious that the feeling between ourselves and America has not always been of the best and since the war something has wanted doing . I am quite sure now that we are in for a more free and frank relationship than at one time was likely . Britain Has Sixty Cruisers Now . LONDON , Jan. 10 ( Canadian Press ) . ? The announcement by the First Lord of the Admiralty tonight that Britain will reduce her cruiser requirements for the British Empire from seventy to fifty does little more than bring official policy in line with fact . All cruisers of the British Empire . including Australia and New zealand old and new , built and building , do not total more than sixty vessels . This includes six cruisers laid down or to be built later for replacement Of the sixty , more then two-third : are light vessels under the 10.000-ton meesureenen 's of the Washington treaty , the balk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and F - rm .. of them being pre-war veEse:z.                     