@@703515

txt President Roosevelt carried his goodneighbor policy to Canadian soil today to extend the Monroe Doctrine to the Dominion of Canada and to become the first Chief Executive of his country to proclaim publicly that the United - States would not tolerate an attempt by any nonBritish foreign power to penetrate the borders of the Dominion . Addressing a suddenly electrified throng which filled the stadium of historic Queen 's University at Kingston , the President said : " The Dominion of Canada is part of the sisterhood of the British Empire . I give you my assurance that ? the people of the United States will not stand idly by if domination of Canadian soil is threatened by any other empire . " The response to- the statement was spontaneous . Hardly had . the last word passed the President 's lips when a thunder of applause that was sustained several minutes arose from all over the stadium . Premier Mackenzie King applauded gently against the back of his wrist . The Lieutenant Governor of Ontario , Albert Matthews , clapped more vigorously with gloved hands , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unexpected was the Presidential pledge to the Canadian people that university officials gathered beneath the canopy in the center of the stadium to witness the conferring of the honorary LL . D. , on Mr. Roosevelt completely eschewed academic decorum and joined in the cheering and applause . Speaks for Waterway Treaty Later as he stood in the middle of a natural amphitheatre at Wells Landing near Thousand Islands Bridge , which he came to Canada primarily to dedicate , Mr. Roosevelt told the people of the Dominion that the vast power potentialities of the St. Lawrence Basin might become the private monopoly of United States utility interests if the waterway treaty between the two governments wits delayed over long . " To put it bluntly , " he said , " a group of American interests is here gradually putting itself into a position where , unless caution is exercised , they may in time be able to determine the economic fate of a large area , both in . Canada and the United States . " The President thus created the impression that what he was informally proposing was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in times of war . Taken together , his two addresses gave assurance of perpetual vigilance over the Dominion against foreign aggression and proposed that the sentiment be reciprocated through an early signing of the - waterway treaty . That the President had for all practical purposes extended the Monroe Doctrine to include the Dominion of Canada there was no doubt in the minds of his associates , whatever diplomats and historians might have to say on the matter . As popularly interpreted , that doctrine set forth that attempted colonization by foreign powers of the then unsettled areas of the Western Hemisphere would be regarded as an unfriendly act to the United States . Canada then was definitely a sparsely settled country , but has generally been regarded as being beyond the limits of the doctrine . Although it was in the role of good . neighbor that the President undertook his warning and his pledge , it was the latter that most impressed his Canadian listeners . His guarantee of protection was readily understandable . His view on the power question was a thing to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate effect of recent European war rumors on the political , cal and financial capitals on both I sides of the border to bring out that I " we in the Americas are no longer a far-away continent , to which the eddies of controversies beyond the seas could bring no interest and no harm . " " Instead , we in the Americas have become a consideration to every propaganda office and to every general staff beyond the seas , " Mr. Roosevelt said . " The vast amount of our resources , the vigor of our commerce and the strength of our-men have made us vital factors in world peace , whether we choose or not . " The President turned to the essential solidarity of English-speaking peoples in their quest for progressive development in an ordered society . Then in a thinly veiled attack on dictators and dictatorships he observed that " we can not prevent our people from /having an opinion in regard to wanton brutality , in. regard to undemocratic regimentation , in regard to misery inflicted on helpless peoples , or in regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " No country where thought is free , " he added , " can prevent every fireside and home within its borders from considerii4g the evidence for itself and rendering its own verdict ; and the sum total of these conclusions of educated men and women will , in the long run , become the national verdict . " That is what we mean when we say that public opinion ultimately governs policy . It is right and just , that this should be the case . " A critical reference to authoritarian governments was seen by observers in President Roosevelt 's remark earlier in his address that civilization was international and not national . That observation , he said , . " although trite to most of us , is today challenged in some . parts of the world . " Aiming his shaft at the same direction , the President continued : " Ideas are not limited by territorial borders ; they are the , common inheritance of- all free people . Thought is not anchored in any land , and the profit of education redounds to the equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of free trade to which the leaders of I every opposing political party can subscribe . " It was the desire to break away from systems which forbade them Ito think freely that brought many of our ancestors to Canada and the United States , and " their descendants have insisted on the right to know the truth  --  to argue their Iproblems to a majority decision , and , if they remained unconvinced , to disagree in peace . " The President 's parting words to his stadium audience were those suggested by Lord Tweedsmuir to Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. King on the occasion of the Governor General 's receipt of an honorary degree from Harvard University . It was the hope that " humility , humanity and humor " be studiously cultivated . Through these qualities , the President said , new spans might be built to bring forth an ord4r in which free nations can live in peace . No Mention of Treaty Obstacles In his dedicatory address at the bridge , the President made no mention of the obstacles that have He was content to observe that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to objectives " history compels me to.say that we were not able to arrange matters so that both peoples have had the same idea at the same time . " Mr. Roosevelt expressed the view , however , that the people of both countries were rapidly reaching the point where the same idea would occur to them simultaneously . As tcenthe navigation possibilities offered by the long pending treaty , the President pictured inland cities on the Great Lakes transformed overnight to ocean ports . By deepening the St. Lawrence channel thirty feet " the St. Lawrence valley would become one of the great seaways of the world and would benefit accordingly . " Now , he added , he would make " an unusual statement . " " A conception has been emerging in the . United States which is not without a certain magnificence , " the President went on . " This is no less than the conviction that ; if a private group could control the outlet of the ' Great Lakes basin , that group would have a monopoly in the development of a territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " - . Power Companies a Target A search of records with which the United States Government was familiar , he said , would reveal " that literally every development of electric power , save- only the Ontario-Hydro , is allied to , if not controlled by , a single American group , with , of course , the usual surrounding penumbra of allies , affiliates , subsidiaries and satellites . " Such a development of vast natural resources by - private enterprise President Roosevelt described as normal and usual in earlier days . It was a different proposition today , however , because , he said , of the implications to the public , big and little business and even government itself resulting from the right of any group " to dispose of wealth which was granted to us collectively by nature itself . " Today , Mr. Roosevelt observed , the development of natural resources and the proper handling of their fruits was a major problem of government . He added that , naturally , no solution of the problem which did not leave each government " entirely master in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The President 's address on the St. Lawrence project was throughout a popular one among supporters of Mr. King , whose " North American " policy calling for closer relations with the United States has been the subject of criticism in the Conservative party throughout the Dominion . Preceding President Roosevelt 's address at the bridge dedication , Mr. King reminded his audience of Northern New Yorkers and citizens of Ontario that " it is not the Thames ; it is the St. Lawrence that is in our thoughts today . " " The waters of the St. Lawrence are international waters , " he continued . " They serve to divide as well as to unite . " Premier King added a reference to old Fort Henry , by which the Presidential party had just passed en route to the bridge dedication . The old ramparts had been " reconstructed to attract , not to repel , possible invasion from the United States . " Colorful Greeting for President From the time the ? President left his train early this morning at Kingston , Ont. until he boarded it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his route was one of pageantry and pomp . With the Lieutenant Governor and Mr. King on hand to meet his train were high officials of the Dominion and Provincial Government , fianked by A company of infantry snapped to attention as the President came down the ramp to get into his automobile . The car started off slowly , but halted at his command as a band struck up the " Star-Spangled Banner , " followed by " God Save the King . " The only circumstance lacking was the twenty-one gun salute which usually greets the Chief Executive , although a battery of artillery stood ready in a near-by park . The salute came later as the President was driving through the Thousand Islands link between the two largest spans that connect Clayton with Ivy Lee on the Canadian side . From the rear seat of his car the President cut a ribbon stretched across the shortest of the bridges , a stone span of about fifty feet on the international border . Proceeding to the amphitheatre at Wells Landings , Mr. Roosevelt sat for nearly an hour on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Canadian and American representatives . Luncheon Guests at University After his address at the university stadium , the President and his party were luncheon guests of the trustees of the university . Crowds gathered outside the windows of the refectory hoping to catch a glimpse of the distinguished visitor , and were rewarded for their patience when Mr. Roosevelt later emerged flashing a smile and waving his silk hat . Crowds turned out to see him pass along the streets on the way to the bridge ceremony some forty miles away . Beneath huge British flags which hung from nearly every residence or place of business , the spectators could be heard to say : " He looks just like he does in his pictures , " or , " He 's got the nicest smile I ever saw . " Arriving al Clayton later in the afternoon after a leisurely drive from the bridge , the President waited in his automobile at the railroad siding for his train to pull in . Obviously fatigued by the ceremonies , he nevertheless went through the inevitable shaking of hands with - well- wishers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started to Hyde Park for two weeks of relaxation . Lehman Hails " Good-Will " Bridge By The Associated Press . ALEXANDRIA BAY , N. Y. , Aug. 18 . ? Governor Lehman said today that the new Thousand Islands Bridge was a symbol of " goodwill between nations " and an example " for the rest of the world . " In an address read by Lieutenant Governor M. William Bray , the State 's chief executive called for ' continued cooperation between the United States and Canada , the countries connected by the bridge . His address was read as a part of the dedication of the new span by President Roosevelt and Canadian officials . The Governor was unable to attend because of a recent leg injury . " The exercises here today , " Mr. Lehman said , " constitute a reaffirmation that nations and peoples can live together without hatred , without resort to force . " It is another illustration of the many ties that bind Canada and New York State in friendly and fruitful intercourse of many kinds . This bridge is more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Governor pointed to the total lack of fortifications along the entire 3,000-mile border between the two nations , and added : " There can be no doubt that this friendly understanding has not only helped to adjust many potential differences , but it is today a powerful factor in preserving sympathetic and understanding relations between Canada and the United States . "                     