@@698597

txt After attempting to rally on its third fortified line , about ten miles west of Shanghai , the Chinese Nineteenth Route Army was in full retreat this morning toward Quinsan , thirty miles from this city on the Shanghai-Nanking railroad . The Japanese were following up the army closely and also were endeavoring to envelop it with a swift advance from the north by the division which landed at Liuho , on the . Yangtze , Monday . This force , which had been fighting toward Shanghai before the Chinese retreat , has changed its direction and is now striking toward Quinsan . Japanese spokesmen last night predicted that it would capture Taitsan , ten miles northeast of Quinsan , by midnight . The situation of the Nineteenth Army was made more difficult by the destruction yesterday of the bridge on the Shanghai-Nanking railroad crossing the Tsingyang River , a mile east of Quinsan . It was explained that the area of this bombing contained no civilian population . Gunboats Bar Relief . To prevent relief from coming to the Nineteenth Army , two Japanese gunboats are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinkiang and Nan- king , to halt any reinforcements which might try to cross the river . Japanese transports , which were believed to hold an additional 20,000 soldiers , began heavy troop landings in the Woosung-Paoshan area this morning . The Woosung forts were captured this morning at 8:15 after a heavy naval bombardment and airplane bombing with army artillery assistance beginning at dawn . The number of Chinese prisoners taken was not announced and the Japanese casualties yesterday and today are still a secret . The extreme northern sector of the army force landed on the Yangtse embankment has pushed southward and is now only two kilometres north of Kaiting and continuing its advance . Japan has now presented new terms for a cessation of hostilities , but ' it is declared they are of such a nature that China can not accept them and will continue her resistance despite the retirement of her army . At a meeting held after midnight aboard the British cruiser Kent , Yosuke Matsuska. representing Premier Inukai of Japan , handed Admiral Sir Howard Kelly Tokyo 's revision of the truce terms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister of China . The terms , officially announced by the Chinese Government , provide for no retirement of Japanese forces until after a round-table conference has been terminated to Japan 's satisfac-tion , Chinese Oppose Plan . The terms merely provide for the mutual cessation of hostilities for a limited period , with the two armies continuing their respective positions . It is stipulated that the round-table must devise measures for the withdrawal both of the Japanese and Chinese forces , which China interprets as meaning she must yield permanently the military control of the Shanghai area , a provision which is unacceptable . Now that the Shanghai campaign of the Japanese has succeeded there is apprehension here of the extension of Japanese operations to the Tientsin-Peiping area . Fears were in-tensified yesterday when news came that a Japanese steamer from Dairen had unloaded eleven field guns , twenty machine guns and 300 cases of ammunition at Tangku and then had proceeded up-river to Tientsin without notifying the customs authorities and had unloaded eleven pieces of heavy artillery , 100 machine guns , 1,500 rifles and large quantities of bombs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intention of General Tsai Ting-chat yesterday afternoon to defend the line in front of Naziang , west of this city . He announced that his army would not surrender and would not agree to a truce but would defend the base at Naziang , refusing to go beyond the 12.4-mile line set by General Uyeda in his original ultimatum . General Tsai 's plans were upset by a swift Japanese advance . Late in the afternoon General Uyeda 's forces had pushed beyond Tachang , had gone through Chapel and were quickly converging upon Chengju west of this city and where the Chinese had hastily constructed trenches . Uyeda Enters Tachang . General Uyeda 's headquarters formally occupied Tachang at 5 in the afternoon . At the same time bodies of one to two thousand Japanese passed the United States marine outposts at the Settlement border and . were moving westward . The rapidity of the Japanese advance in the morning and early afternoon of yesterday was greatly aided by smoke screens laid by airplanes , which are believed to have reduced the Japanese losses . Generals of the Chinese Nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate assistance . Eugene Chen . representing the Canton party , joined in the chorus . They jointly declared that had an additional 10,000 reinforcements arrived General Tsai Ting-chai would have had ample men to guard his rear against the attacks of the Japanese division landed at Liuho , but that the Eightyseventh and Eighty-eighth Divisions were Chiang Kai-shek 's only contributions to the defense of Shanghai and each totaled only about 3,000 men and were composed of unseasoned fighters . For this reason , they charged , the retreat became inevitable . The Japanese asserted that the Eighty-eighth Division showed such indiscipline in the retirement that the Nineteenth army was compelled to disarm it . Retreat Started Secretly . It is learned that secret orders for the retreat were issued at 4 o'clock Tuesday afternoon and an expeditious withdrawal began at dark that night . Even the foreign military observers did not obtain a hint of the wide scope of the general movement until nearly noon today . General Tsai Ting-chaff proved as efficient and resourceful in retreat as in defense . The major part of the Nineteenth Army effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements . Scenes of terrific confusion arose , however , when the rear guard lines were broken by the swift advance of the 3nerny , the Japanese literally mowing down the fleeing Chinese with airplane bombs , artillery , machineruns , rifles and hand grenades . Appalling scenes were witnessed . as aerial bombs scored direct hits on masses of fugitives and congestions *WW2 ? ' MA VBilskas. ? . gilki many cases horses and men - were blown sixty feet into the air and the din of the destruction was overwhelming . A high officer of the Chinese Army yesterday afternoon in explaining the retreat , characterized the Chinese positions at Chapel and Woosung as untenable for proper defense and impossible for offensives  --  at Chapei because the Chinese constantly feared doing damage to the International Settlement and at Woosung because they continually were at the mercy of the Japanese destroyers and cruisers occupying the Whangpoo and Yangtse Delta waters . " Now that we are to occupy the main second line of defense , the previous advantages of the Japanese will be completely reversed , " he went on . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from their warships , over country possessing no roads on which their tanks and heavy guns can be moved . " Far from ending , the fight is just beginning . If the Japanese attack Mir second line , we will fight . If again compelled to retire by superior numbers and equipment , we will retire only in order to fight them again . Holds Japanese ' Myth ' Exploded . " For more than a month the Chinese army , possessing little more than rifles and machine guns , have held back a Japanese force equipped with every modern implement of warfare , supported by naval guns . The Japanese have also had the unchallenged mastery of the air . The Shanghai battles reveal that the supposed terrible fighting ability of the Japanese army and navy is a mere myth . They also revealed the gallantry and endurance of the Chinese soldiery . " Japanese sailors at daybreak discovered a large force of Chinese in Western and Northern Chapel and on the banks of Soochow Creek opposite the United States marines guarding the International Settlement border . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fires , which , with rear-guard snipers , were calculated to delay the Japanese advance . American and British outposts clearly saw torchbearing Chinese running from building to building starting fires in the area from the North Station , which had escaped previous conflagrations . Early last night the whole sky was glowing an angry red as the flames spread unchecked from block to block . The burning district was more than five times larger than the scene of any previous conflagration and there was no means of curbing the fire . Shanghai today sees the world through a veil of bluish smoke , which the sun is able to penetrate only dimly . Official military observations after midnight counted forty-five separate fires in Chapel , Kiangwan , Taziang and Chenju . One fire in Chapei alone was a mile long and 1,800 feet wide . A Japanese Army announcement says that Chinese civilians in Chapei had engaged in extensive looting along the edges of the fires . The Japanese were cautious in occupying the district , because , while the Nineteenth army left many land mines which the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charged that the Chinese troops in their retreat looted and fired towns and villages . Almost a score of villages beyond Chapei were in flames last night .                     