@@702875

txt It is a pity that the repot t on co-operation by the press , radio and the bar at the recent American Bar Association convention at Kansas City , should not have received greater attention . The matter has seemed vital to a great many people interested in better processes of justice since the " trial by ballyhoo , " in the Hauptmann case at Flemington , N. J In the new report . Newton D Baker for the Bar Association group of six , Paul Bellamy of Use seven leptesentatives of the American Newspaper Pubs Association and Stuatt Perry for the five members of the American Society of Newspaper Editors submit the joint conclusions . It would be interesting to know how working newspaper men legal d the subject , but the Newspaper Guild was not represented . The 18-man joint committee accepts most of the ecommendations made in the earlier , but unpublished lepoi t of the Bar Association Committee under Judge Oscar Hallam. which dwelt pramailly with the Hauptmann case . That sensationalism in the model n criminal trial is a grievous fault they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counsel for the accused should give newspaper interviews nor make radio broadcasts forecasting or commenting upon evidence . They declare the courtroom should not be overclouded ; that surreptitious procurement of pictures should be banned ; that decorum should be preserved But the leaders of bar and press ate unable to agree on a number of vital matters dealing with the personal plivacy of the principals in a trial and in WC presentation of evidence to the public Furthermore , the committee , as might be expected , is widely divided on the application to America of that iron-clad British court rule that conduct outside of the courthouse likely to prejudice or obstruct the administration of justice shall be punished as contempt . Lawyers Arc Outnumbered In the make-up of the 18-man joint committee it will be noticed that the six representatives of the bar are outnumbered two to one by the publishers and editors , who contained such varied representatives as A. H. Sulzberger of the New York Times , Col. R. R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune , and Roy C. Holliss , of the New York News . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and divergent . viewpoint between the journalists and the lawyers on these vital matters . The report points out that " as a commercial business , the newspaper is interested in selling papers " And it adds , - " No publicity written in simple style and attempting merely to recite facts would satisfy a people w ho have come to depend on overdoses of rhetode " Memory goes back at once to that sleepy little tow n of Flemington . In normal times , It was served by one telegraph operator and one messenger boy ; during the Lindbergh kidnaping trial it had 45 direct outside Mies and for the first time in history a direct teletype service was set up between America and London . Normal ' seating capacity of the ancient courthouse %t as 260 , but it was jammed daily to the limits of a Mont ; express . Hauptmann was arrested Sept 19 , 1934 and the fist view-halloo of the N. Y. American , Sept 21 , described the arrest of an alien " identified as the man who received the $50.000 lansom money . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentence , of the very fact that the state attempted to establish in all the weeks that followed . Worse Was Yet to Conte There was more and worse to come : the counsel of the two sides conducted the case like Thal publicity agents ; the judge forebade photographs but sound pictures made inside the court during trial w ere actually exhibited in New York : at one point Colonel Lindbergh was applauded , ( shored sightseers were given subpoenas to enable them to get seats ; the jury finally rejected an offer to go into vaudeville after its verdict , but did accept 650 each for a joint syndicated interview . These facts ate not recalled in the joint report just submitted , they are culled from the memory of a disgusted newsman who studied the case . But the present , report , does generalize on the Hauptmann case ? it calls it " the most spectacular and depressing example of improper publicity and professional misconduct ever presented to the people of the United States in a criminal trial . " Well then  --  what to do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The authors can not agree . They do feel that British judges go too far in application of their rigid rule of contempt . What would the British judge have done If put down in Judge Trenchard 's place ? Here again we must depart from the new report . But everybody knows what , would have happened . The first sentence in that very first Hearst comment on the Hauptmann arrest would have brought a judicial whiplash in England with a stinging cash penalty . The dignity of the British trial court would have been upheld at all hazards and with inexorable rigor . Counsel who gave out press interviews would have been disbarred overnight . Trial by ballyhoo would have been avoided : trial by jury substituted . This may seem too rigorous for some publishers and lawyers , but if we are any judge of the temper of the public it is the sort of thing that lies ahead in America .                     