@@700858

txt Delegates from six nations on the gold standard will open a two-day conference here tomorrow , upon the success or failure of which may well depend the fate of the gold standard in the countries involved . This meeting , almost swept aside by the deep pessimism of the last few weeks , has suddenly assumed capital importance through the victory in France of those forces within the government which are convinced that every effort must be made to attain success . The French , therefore , are sending a strong delegation headed by Lucien Lamoureux , the Minister of Commerce . It is bringing a definite proposal to stimulate trade within the gold bloc by special bilateral quota agreements , by encouraging tourist travel , by reducing transport charges and by continuing the present successful monetary defense of the gold bloc through the central banks . It is true that no one expects all this to be accomplished in two days , but what is aimed at is an accord whereby these five countries will accept some such plan in principle. ? Then it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hope , for the special exchange clearing commission to develop the proposals from theories into practices . Challenge to Anglo-Saxons . This is intended to be the gold bloc 's ultimate challenge to the dollar and the sterling bloc . While it is not in any sense an open defiance to the Anglo-Saxon countries , whose monetary policies are proving so disastrous to the gold union , and while an effort will be made not to violate the mostfavored-nation agreements , it will , in effect , be a defensive alliance of these five nations , whose struggle to save their economic structures from collapse is bound to have more or less serious consequences for the rest'of the world . However  --  it is certain that all the pros and cons have been thoroughly weighed and it is evidently considered that the situation within the gold bloc has become so threatening that it is worth while to take the necessary chances . A study of the French reasons for pushing the conference gives the best explanation for this attitude . The conditions within the other four countries are , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use France as an example . When the gold union was formed at the London Economic Conference in 1933 the French suggested that the monetary agreement then undertaken , and carried out with great success ever since , should be accompanied by trade agreements within the , gold bloc . The suggestion fell through chiefly , it is understood , because Italy wanted Germany to be included . Now , the lItalian situation is so serious that Premier Mussolini evidently is only too willing to lend every possible cooperation . Prices Have Stayed High . Since the Summer of 1933 the economic situation in the gold countries has been getting progressively worse . World prices fell , but prices within the gold bloc remained high . Export trade dwindled at a terrific pace . For instance , French foreign trade dropped in five years from 100,000 , - 000,000 francs to 30,000,000,000 , and Belgian , from 34,000,000,000 to 14 , - 000,000,000 Belgian francs . Therefore , the internal purchasing power dropped and business stagnated . The nations then had no choice but to deflate , that is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living . However , while prices dropped , the cost of living did not follow suit in anything like the same proportion , and , worst of all , there was no corresponding increase in business to compensate for the lower prices . That is the present situation , and in order not to see their economies crash under what is providing to be almost an unbearable weight , these nations must find some means to stimulate business while keeping prices down . The French , for one , are now convinced that this can not be done by internal measures alone . But as all countries have erected impossible trade barriers , it is proposed that these five contiguous nations , which can , to a large extent , support themselves against an economically hostile world , should facilitate the flow of trade among themselves , thus compensating for the sacrifices entailed by price deflation . Political Aspects to Come Up . These are the general principles that tomorrow 's meeting will seek to formulate and agree upon . There are certain highly important political aspects which , while extraneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is in a serious political as well as financial and economic situation , and from every viewpoint it is realized that something must be done for her quickly . Even more important is the question of Italy , for by aiding Italy economically and financially France has a powerful means of pressure upon Italy 's foreign policies . It is certain that Franco-Italian friendship will be strengthened by these discussions . Likewise , there is the possible effect upon American and British trade . It is too soon to gauge its importance , but potentially it is a serious problem . Poland tonight made a last-minute request to be permitted to take part in the discussions , after having previously refused to do so . Renewed interest in this meeting is demonstrated by an editorial in today 's semi-official Temps of Paris . It says : " This conference we sincerely hope will be an event of even more importance than the London Economic Conference . That failed , but the Brussels meeting has better chances to succeed . Its aims are more limited and easier to attain . " These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but common interests that are getting together . We are witnessing the first serious attempt that has been made to break the walls surrounding the nations , behind which their economy is being strangled . "                     