@@703199

txt The Supreme court of Canada , in the calm language of a jUdicial decision , to day administered a blow that may be the death of Premier Wil1 1 a m Aberhart 's social credit scheme in Alberta province . The court also declared stoutly for national solidarity and centralized administration , ruling that federal authority has the unrestricted right to veto provincial legislation . The court was unanimous on every point and the ruling was a decisive defeat for Premier Aberhart and his plan for monthly paymenfs of $25 in " credit dividends " for every adult citizen of Alberta . It is expected the case will be carried to the privy council in London , England , on appeal , but that is not certain . Well informed quarters were convinced , however , that the judgment will not be reversed . Three Laws Unconstitutional . The high court 's decision declared unconstitutional three laws passed last fall by the legislature of Alberta , where Aberhart and his partisans were swept into office in 1935 on a $25-per-month-per-person program . Of the three laws , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions dealing in credit . This was an essential part of the social credit plan . The court decided this masure would encroach upon the authority a the dominion of Canada because banks would be involved , and these fall within the dominion 's commerce and trade . The second would have imposed an additional $2,000,000 of taxation on the banks operating in Alberta . The court ruled that such a tax was prohibitive . Attack Censorship Law . There were especially sharp words for the third law , a censorship measure to compel Alberta newspapers to print statements on government policy at the direction of the chairman of the social credit board . The court held it an accepted fact that parliamentary institutions " derive their efficacy from the free public discussion of affairs , from criticism and answer and counter-criticism , from attack on policy and administration , and defense and counterattack ; from the freest and fullest analysis and examination from every point of view of political proposals . " The justices held also that the lieutenant-governor of Alberta was within his rights in refusing to sign the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provincial laws . Chief Justice Sir Lyman Duff went further . He said that the three laws under discussion purported to find their authority in Aberhart 's general social credit act , and this act transgressed the legal powers of Alberta province as defined by the Canadian constitution and the act under which the province was set up .                     