@@704205

txt On the eve of President Roosevelt 's bi-partisan conference on proposed changes in the Neutrality Act , " high government officials were extremely wary of predictions as to the outcome of this issue in the special session of Congress While it was assumed the Chief Executive would insist , as he has previously Insisted , on repeal of the arms embargo as the absolute minimum of Congressional concessions , there was surprisingly little certainty in Washington last night that this could be achieved . Meantime , Senate isolationists were putting forward a variety of individual suggestions and reports were beard that this group would hold meetings later in the week and organize their opposition to the Administration 's program . Concerned Over Russia Official circles appeared somewhat concerned over the uncertainty with respect to Congressional reaction to RUSSIA 'S recent active role in the European situation . While the arms embargo has not been extended to Russia as a legal " belligerent . " it was realized that this might have to be done at some future date and that lifting the embargo by new legislation would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was recalled here that at times in recent years Russia had been the largest monthly purchaser of munitions In the United States  --  including fairly large quantities of airplanes . The Administration 's case for arms embargo repeal has rested largely on the assumption that Germany could not obtain such supplies through the British blockade anyway and that the effect of the embargo is to deprive Great Britain and France of a legitimate wartime advantage through their control of the high seas . While lifting the embargo would aid the Anglo-French alliance , it was officially assumed that such a move would still preserve United States neutrality . en If Congress considers Russia to be an active ally of Germany . however , this argument tends to break down because Russia appears to be in a position to import munitions from this country if she desires to do so and is permitted by law to do so . Congress might then decide that repeal of the embargo would result in furnishing arms and ammunition and implements of war to both sides , give no particular aid to Great Britain and France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutrality program . Isolationists Consider Counter Proposals The Russian question , together with domestic political complications which the Administration is striving to eliminate as far as possible . seemed to be responsible for the unwillingness of high officials to predict favorable action on the embargo repeal , even though some of them had seemed quite confident it would go through Congress easily only a few days ago . The isolationists. meanwhile , seemed to feel the need of better organization of their bloc ? which has been excluded from today 's White House conference  --  and talked vaguely about advancing an affirmative program of their own after Congress meets Some suggestions that Congress might put President Roosevelt 's " keeping out " policy down in black and white were offered This could be done , presumably by resolution . Within the ranks of the isolationist bloc discussions have already begun looking to the adoption of an objective program which would be offered during the course of debate as ? means of putting the Administration on the defensive and removing the argument that the isolationists stand only on opposition argument New Program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division of opinion appeared to prevail on whether a cash and carry amendment to the existing law should not be offered as a part of the anti-Administration forces program in Congress . Meanwhile a new and novel proposal was made by Senator Tom Connally of Texas . a member of the Senate foreign relations committee , for inclusion in any neutrality legislation to be taken up . Mr. Connally advocated a " purchase and carry " system , which would allow private interests in this country to make loans to the European warring nations to buy American supplies and material for shipment in foreign bottoms . It is understood that the isolationist bloc plan meetings at the end of the week when all members will be in Washington . Senator Johnson of California , Senator LsFollette , and Senator McCarran are expected to arrive by tomorrow . It is planned by those in Washington now to call this fighting minority into a session to work out the procedure to be followed in opposing the Administration when legislation reaches the Senate floor . None of the group at this time will venture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate on neutrality , but all insist that delay will be in their favor The coalition bloc opponents also are anxious to ascertain from the House and Senate Republican leaders whether the Republican party is going to permit President Roosevelt to " dissolve " that political group in the name of an emergency , or whether It intends to fight for a program along anti-Administration lines . No Commitment from Martin Senator Nye declai ed that if the Republicans are going to permit Mr. Roosevelt to do anything and everything in the name of a " selfmade emergency " it might just as well fold up its tent , in so far as 1940 is concerned . It was reported that President Roosevelt had failed to receive a commitment from Representative Martin , Republican floor leader of the House , on the neutrality question during a telephone conversation recently . The isolationists are said to be depending on Martin 's opposition . The same situation prevails according to the Republican members of the isolationist bloc with respect to Senate Republican Floor Leader whose position was favorable to the anti-Administration forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in advocating a " purchase and carry " system . said that under international law the United States has a perfect right to sell any and all of its products to foreign nations , Including belligerents , subject to the laws of co9traband and blockade . " However , in preventing the United States from becoming involved in the European war I am willing to forego our rights under international law to the extent of providing that foreign nations including belligerents may purchase our supplies and carry them in foreign ships , " he said . " The taiptirtant thing is the carriage in foreign ships . The method of payment , whether it is cash or credit extended by private firms is not vital . "                     