@@697139

txt PATENTS IN RUSSIA . Method of Registration of Documents Has Been Altered . To the Editor of The New York Times : Last year we set forth in detail the procedure to be followed , by citizens of countries which do not maintain diplomatic relations with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in connection with registration of patents and other matters requiring the legalization of documents . Since then the consular regulations bearing on this procedure have been altered . Our attention has been drawn to the fact that many American business men , unaware of the requirements of the Soviet ? law in this respect , are submitting documents to the Soviet authorities in a form which does not answer these requirements . These documents are therefore being returned to the senders , which naturally involves a loss of ? time and money . We are therefore giving below excerpts from the new law outlining the correct procedure for the legalization of documents . to be submitted to : various government institutions in the Soviet Union . " Documents emanating from countries which do not maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be legalized only by the People 's Commissariat for Foreign Affairs on the basis of special decisions adopted by the latter . Legalization by the People 's Commissariat for Foreign Affairs serves instead of consular legalization . " In cases where the Peoples Commissariat for Foreign Affairs declines to legalize foreign documents or acts submitted to them for the purpose , the Commissariat has the right to affix to the documents a special notation to the effect that the absence of legalization shall not prevent the proper institutions . of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , as well as of the various constituent republics , from accepting for consideration the- given document when submitted to them . In this event the right to recognize the validity of documents and acts of this kind , on the merits of the case , Tests entirely with the institutions accepting them . " In this connection we consider it necessary to , emphasize the fact that documents to be legalized for presentation to various Soviet institutions should be mailed direct to the People 's Commissariat for Foreign Affairs ( Narkomindel ) , Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Director Soviet Union Information Bureau . Washington , D. C. , March 26 , 1930 . Relieving Subway Congestion . To the Editor of The New York Times : In order to facilitate traffic during the afternoon subway rush at Broadway and Ninety-sixth Street , where the east side and Broadway lines converge , would it not relieve the congestion of the trains if the Ninety-sixth Street station was lengthened , thereby making separate stopping places for the Broadway and east side trains , making it necessary for the passengers who ride to Ninety-sixth Street on the wrong train , walk down and up a flight of stairs to transfer ? This short walk , I believe , would cause passengers from downtown stations to get on their proper trains at the point of departure and not change at Ninety-sixth Street . It would eliminate delays as most of the exchange at this point is entirely unnecessary . MYRA R. aEIXAS . New York , March 30 , 1930 ..                     