@@700826

txt Britain is relatively prosperous . Moreover , she is retaining her prosperity . Based on a balanced budget , strict economy in public expenditure and rigid restraint of interference with private enterprise , while every possible encouragement is extended to it , her prosperity has been attained by infinite patience , endurance and attention to details . And this condition shows a tendency to increase , although slowly . This is the substance of an important financial statement , the first in many months , made tonight by Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , be- 1 fore a great , . gathering of London merchants and bankers assembled ; in the historic Mansion House as the guests of the Acting Lord Mayor , Sir Kynaston Studd . It is actually the Lord Mayor 's annual dinner to the merchants and bankers of the City of London and known for short as the bankers ' dinner . The speech by the Chancellor In response to the toast , " The Chancellor of the Exchequer and prosperity to the public purse , " is traditional . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guests , who represent the most powerful influences in British trade , was most reassuring . Reaffirms Sterling Policy . Mr. Chamberlain , among other things , reaffirmed that the government 's present policy was to keep sterling independent of other currencies . Among those around the table who listened with evident satisfaction to his account were Montagu Norman , Sir Robert Horne , Lord Plender , famous accountant , and Lords Glendyne and Bethell , leading bankers . Mr. Chamberlain rose after Sir Kynaston Studd , proposing the toast , had solemnly expressed the hope of conservative British business that the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not listen to any suggestion for unbalancing the budget , that public expenditure would not be used to cause overspending so that money would have to be borrowed to cover the deficit and that revenue would be raised in a way that would cause " the least possible interference with trade , national and international . " There was also a warning against subsidies . Notes Critics Are Silent . Mr. Chamberlain , replying , expressed pleasure that the improvement manifest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , indeed , the signs of that improvement were so striking that for many months the voices of critics had been hushed almost to silence . " Perhaps the explanation may be found , " he said , " in the fact that the critics ' favorite instrument of chastisement , namely , a comparison between the wretched conditions prevailing here and the glowing prosperity elsewhere , has not been very easy to discover . " However , I rather deprecate these comparisons between one country and another whether they are for us or against us . Conditions are never the same and it may well be that what is right and proper for an old , highly developed country like ours is quite unsuitable for a newer community whose people are less experienced and perhaps less patient than ours . " He said the government was entitled to contend that the principles it had followed in financial affairs , even if lacking in drama and even though styled sometimes ultra-cautious , had at any rate " delivered the goods . " They had served to " enhance our reputation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps toward relief of our burdens . " Tells of Troubles . Mr. Chamberlain told feelingly of the Chancellor of the Exchequer 's troubles . He said concessions and reliefs seldom produced their fullest revenue in the year in which they were granted , but the liabilities they involved must be met in succeeding years . Automatic increases in expenditure arising from growth of population were only slowly diminished by the annual shrinkage in " that legacy of war pensions which was left us In 1918 . " The proceeds of war taxes abolished years ago , but still in arrears , brought in substantial sums in the past , he said , but can not be regarded as a permanent contribution to resources . Measures designed to insure the safety of the country may be postponed but can not be permanently abandoned , he added . " However , what hopes can I draw from the barometer of fair weather in the future ? " Mr. Chamberlain asked . " There are available some figures relating to trade to which I draw your attention . " Take the indices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly all cases they show a marked advance as compared with last year . Take the second quarter of the year . I find that in the case of textiles  --  not generally considered one of our most prosperous industries  --  the index for the year is 91 against 861 last year . For chemicals it is 109 against 101 . For engineering and shipbuilding it is 119 against 97 ; iron and steel 104 against 78 ; nonferrous metals 142 against 104 . Railway receipts have advanced , not spectacularly , but appreciably . Shipbuilding under construction has doubled and at the same time the volume of shipping laid up has been halved . Stresses Building Gain . " Building plans approved during the year 's first seven months were of the value of ? 58,500,000 against 149,000,000 last year and only 137 , - 000,000 the year before . This figure is of particular importance because there are so many ancillary industries and so much employment dependent upon the building trade . " Lastly I take the index of retail trade , which is less sensitive than the production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in August it showed an advance of 5 per cent over the same month of last year , indicating that the general improvement in industry is now beginning to affect the purchasing power of the people . " Taken ai a whole I think one may say the picture presented by these figures is definitely encouraging . " To my mind they point to this ? that the improvement in trade has been carried further than one might expect if one confined one 's attention to those figures which bulk largest in the public mind , namely , the figures for unemployment , which , after all , are affected by other factors like the increase in population and the progress of mechanics alone . Finds Trade Barriers Rising . " I say that is an encouraging picture , but there is one qualification . This improvement really is mainly the measure of our advance in selfsufficiency , for it is chiefly the result of an improvement in home trade , It is true that during the first eight months of this year British exports exceeded those of last year by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international trade seem to be rather increasing than diminishing . Unfortunately , it is impossible for one government to reopen the channels of international trade by its own volition or influence the policies of other countries which are subject to their own internal exigencies . " You may say why not call another conference ? Well , I have an idea we are getting a little weary of conferences , which seem to require a specially favorable atmosphere if they are to flourish . For the present I think we would do better to confine ourselves to private discussions and conversations . " Notes Currency Is Stable . Mr. Chamberlain reminded his hearers that last year he had suggested as a stimulant to international trade the establishment of an international monetary standard in which the whole world would have confidence . " I am afraid , " he continued , " we are not much nearer that object than we were last year , but on the other hand one may note that during these twelve months sterling on the whole has maintained a remarkable level of stability . Recently it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has probably been somewhat accentuated by financial and political events in other countries . I do not anticipate it is more than a passing phase and I think it is desirable not to attach too much importance to the maintenance of sterling at a particular level . " I have in this matter declared the policy of his Majesty 's Government-many times without , I am afraid , succeeding always in convincing people across the seas . However , I 'll try once more and say for the umpteenth time that the policy of this government is for the present to maintain the independence of sterling ; that the exchange equalization account was founded for the purpose of ironing out excessive fluctuations in the value of the currency and we have never attempted and are not attempting now by means of that fund to fix exchange at a given point or maintain it even within a fixed limit of values in the face of and in opposition to seasonal and other powerful influences . " Sees Sterling Bloc Maintained . The Chancellor of the Exchequer concluded by pointing out that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some without the empire , had been maintained unimpaired and that it was becoming a recognized feature of the international monetary system . He also noted with appreciation " the beginning of a further step for the establishment of central banks within the empire , " and further praised the work of the exports credit guarantee department . " I may tell you , " he said , " that by this agency in eight years British exporters have been assured payment for ? 50,000,000 worth of good without loss to the British taxpayer . " Sir Robert Horne , following Mr. Chamberlain , praised the British banks as " the very bone of British business , " adding that " the pride of British banking is that , despite the vidissitudes which have overtaken many parts of the world , there has never been even a tremor in any of our banks and there has never been a moment when confidence in them has been lost . " Mr. Norman said the kernel of the world 's difficulties today was the need for more exports , and he praised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he called " a concern to bring about the cooperation of central banks ? a cause than which no other could be more altruistic or more in the interests of all of you . "                     