@@700069

txt The light of freedom flashed for a moment in the faces of several desperate criminals a few weeks ago but the story of how it was blotted out by the loyalty of other prison inmates to a penal code of honor leaked out only yesterday . At the Norfolk ( Mass . ) State Prison Colony . it is customary to give the inmates so many privileges and tests of their loyalty to prison rules that it is not infrequently referred to as the criminals ' " country club " Vindication of these efforts to rehabilitate criminals by treating them as human beings is seen in the wholesale uprising of prisoners against a plot to escape which was promptly and effectively " nipped in the bud . " Complete vindication of Massachusetts ' new parson policy giving the criminal every chance to get another grip on his self-respect will come as the years pile up records of accomplishment in this direction , Mr. Francis B. Sayre , Commissioner of Correction , declared today . No defined set of rules pledged the inmates to inform authorities of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toughened criminals serving long terms . It is a code stronger than any that the NRA has effected , a " code of honor ' reflected act oss a sea of hai d laces . The prisoners knew they i ere being treated with a decency not accorded to them In other penal institutions of the State where the more " hard-boiled " largely are sent . Angered at the move of their fellows to abuse the privileges of greater freedom , members of the inmates governing council notified the authorities before the Would-be fugitives had bored a tunnel three feet in the direction of the pay outer walls . Loyalty to their unwritten code of honor meant pave inks for the informers who ignored threats of vengeance at the hands of the uprisers . Halted in their plans . 23 prisoneis were placed in solitary confinement until four of the ring leaders confessed to the plot and are now getting maximum punishment . The attempted dash for freedom focuses the public eye again on widespiead revisions of the penal system proposed by the new commissioner of correction . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . ate engaged in a tug-of-war . On one side are the sprouts of criminality ; on the other , the man 's better self . It is the commissioner 's purpose to throw the needed ounce of weight on the side of rehabilitation He proposes a segregation station in some central location to study the possibilities of rehabilitating criminals before assigning them to the right insttution . Those who give no promise of reform would be sent to a single prison . The others would go to a penal institution equippzd with facilities for helping the criminal regain Ills self-respect . The Norfolk litts , a1 exticriment is an example of what Mr. Sayre terms " a sound . healthy atmosphere of rehabilitation where the prisoner associates chiefly with men who ale no worse than himself and therefore encourage rather than cause a drag on his efforts to reform . "                     