@@699941

txt A heart-toiheart talk between Chancellor Hitler of Germany and Premier Daladier of France " to remove French fears " was proposed today by Arthur Henderson , president of the World Disarmament Conference , who is making a tour of European capitals in an effort to save the conference . Mr. Henderson made his proposal public in a typewritten statement issued to the press following the conclusion , of his disarmament discussions with the German Government . He explained he made the proposal on his own Initiative without consulting the German Government . It was learned from a high German authority that there would be no " misgivings " about such a meeting if preliminary discussions revealed it promised results . Henderson to Visit Hitler . Chancellor Hitler is resting in Bavaria . Mr. Henderson announced that after visiting Foreign Minister Benes of Czechoslovakia in Prague he would go to Munich to place his proposal before Herr Hitler . He said he hoped " Herr Hitler would not be put out about it " but he did not appear to fear Herr Hitler would be " put out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to Paris where it Is expected he will sound the French on his proposal . Coming after his discussions in Paris and Berlin , Mr. Henderson 's unusual procedure is regarded here as a measure of the seriousness of the situation faced by the disarmament conference . " There is one essential factor which must be constantly kept . in mind if finally success is to be achieved , and that is the importance of a friendly understanding between France and Germany , " Mr. Henderson 's statement read . " This is the key to future international relationships . " He Mr. Henderson ? has already expressed his opinion of the salutary effect which the signing of the Four-Power pact would have , but the signing should in his mind be followed by heart-to-heart talks between the French Prime Minister and the German Chancellor . Only in this way would some of the doubts , fears and suspicions be removed , and until they are removed , the full value of the new pact can not be realized . Sees Fewer Divergencies . As to the general result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The realities of the position have been seriously examined in all conversations and , without in any way seeking to minimize the difficulties yet to be overcome , he felt that in some degree the divergencies on several important matters had baen narrowed and he was hopeful that practical results would be achieved by the disarmament conference . " Well-informed circles said fifteen points of international divergence at the adjournment of the conference had been narrowed to the single issue of establishing Military control to ensure Germany 's continued disarmament . France , it is understood , demands si1ch control because she has " doubts , fears and suspicions " that the National Socialist Germany may be rearming , eApecially in the field of aviation . The German Aviation Ministry was one of the government agencies represented in the discussions with Mr. Henderson . The German answer to the French demand for military control was said to have been : " We can imagine control with disarmament . We can imagine no control and no disarmament . But we can not imagine control without disarmament . " Disarmament here means , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German leaders insist that unless a beginning is made soon to carry out  --  the pledge to give Germany armament equality Germany will withdraw from the disarmament conference and rearm on the ground that the Treaty of Versailles has been nullified by those who framed it . Mr. Henderson 's statement said optimistically that " his visit to Berlin had proved most helpful , " but Mr. Henderson personally added with a smile : " If the president of the disarmament conference loses his optimism , all is lost . " The German Government issued a statement as follows : " The conversations were carried on in a friendly spirit with the endeavor to prepare stIccess for the disarmament conference . " Simultaneously , however , a semiofficial statement took cognizance of rumors that the German " armaments industry " was overloaded with orders and that even foreign firms were providing cellulose . The statement stressed that there was no German armaments industry except that permitted under the peace treaty and that no armament orders had been placed . The rumors were attributed to " communistic efforts to poison world opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               