@@700807

txt Faced with a move by railroad executives to seek favorable rewriting of the Emergency Transportation Act of 1933 , which expires June 16 , 1935 , rail labor chiefs at a meeting here Wednesday named a special committee to " preserve and protect " the rights of workers before , Congress The carriers are merging the Association of Railway Executives and the American Railway Association for more effective legislative action . At the same time , in a speech at Atlantic City , Coordinator Eastman said that if widespread railroad economies are to be accomplished through collective action with the possible aid of government , railroad labor is entitled to protection against sudden displacements . The act of 1933 , which s-creatt-t the Coordinator 's office . contains such protective provisions , Which the roads want to remove and which the brotherhoods want to keep . Mr. Eastman expressed the hope that a way could be found to continue protective rules without precluding economies in operations which in the long would be of benefit to labor as well as owners . He also denied that the recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The retirement of superannuated employes through this act , " he stated . " win give opportunities for younger and more efficient men , and it will also make it possible to obtain economies in operation . " To Seek Own Program The carrier unions plan to seek enactment of their own legislative program . This involves a. six-hour day in place of eight hours : the " train length " law : and the " full crew " law which would fix minimums under which the railroads could not go in manning trains . Carrier executives are vigorously opposed to all three measures . The union chiefs have conferred with Mr. Eastman and congressional leaders who are in the Capital and propose next to arrange an interview with President Roosevelt . The new legislative committee , reflecting a realignment along more temperate lines , includes David B. Robertson . president of the Firemen and Enginemen 's Union ; B. M. Jewell , head of the railway employes department of the A. F. of L. , and George M. Harrison , president of the Railway Clerks ' Union . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Railroad Telegraphers. and C. M. Sheplar. president of the Marine Engineers ' Beneficial Association . These men possess wide congressional contacts and halte played important off-stage roles in railroad legislative battles here .                     