@@697521

txt Effective today , interest rates paid by banks of the New York Clearing House Association to their depositors have been cut to the lowest levels in the history of the Clearing House . The new rates , representing a redu.3-tion of one-half of 1 per cent from those previously in force , are : 1 per cent on deposits of individuals.1 banks and trust companies ; 11/2 per cent on deposits of mutual savings banks . The rate on time deposits was left unchanged at 2 per cent . The reduction in interest rates had been expected for several weeks and would probably have been ordered some time ago , it was said , had not the members of the Clearing House Committee been too much occupied with their efforts to save the Bank of United States from suspension , and subsequently with the problem of arranging loans to depositors of that institution , to give time to the subject of interest rates . The reduction of the rediscount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from 21/2 to 2 per cent , effective last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Clearing House Committee take action on the matter . The yield on prime short-term investments , such as bankers ' acceptances and Treasury " totes and bills , had already fallen to levels little above the interest rates being paid by the banks to their depositors , and the prospect now is , in the opinion of bankers , for a still further decline in shortterm money rates . Most Banks in City Included . The reduction in interest rates ordered yesterday by the Clearing House will affect nearly all business men carrying accounts with New York banks , since the twenty-three banks comprising the membership of I the clearing house include virtually every important commercial bank in the city . The ruling does not affect savings banks , which are not mem ' hers of the Clearing House , except that these institutions will receive a smaller return on the portion of their funds carried on deposit with commercial banks . The new rates supersede the schedule put into effect on June 26 , last , following the reduction in ? the rediscount rate of the Federal Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was mad on June 20 . At that time the rate , on time deposits payable after thirty days , but not more than six months from the date ' of issue or demand , was reduced from 3 per cent to 2 per cent . According to the announcement of the Clearing House the changes voted yesterday apply to certificates of deposit payable within thirty days from the date of issue , certificates of deposit payable within thirty days from demand , credit balances payable on demand and credit balances payable within thirty days from demand . The movement of money rates in the open market yesterday was in apparent contradiction to the easier trend indicated by the reduction of the rediscount rate on Tuesday . Banks withdrew upward of $40,000 , - 000 from the call money market . forcing the rate up to 21/2 per cent , compared with a renewal figure of 2 per cent . In the outside market money was firm early in the day , advancing to 21/2 per cent prior to the change in the rate on the Stock Exchange . Bill dealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one-quarter of 1 per cent higher than the bill-buying rate of the Federal Reserve Bank .. As a result large bill offerings were said to have been made to the Reserve Bank by local member institutions . The firm tone in the money market at this time is attributed principally to two factors . The most important of these is the increased currency requirements which normally take place at this time of year . The second is the " window-dressing " activities ? of the banks in preparation for a strong cash showing in their yearend statements . An indication of the expansion of currency demand in the past few days was revealed in the statement made public last night by- the Federal Reserve Board which showed an increase in money in circulation of $177,000,000 in the week ended on Dec. 24 . Member banks , the Reserve statement showed , ' increasesi their borowings materially in order to meet this extra currency demand .                     