@@699505

txt Sounder credit conditions , more confidence than prevailed a year ago , and prospects for increased purchases for replacements at reduced prices , are present factors forecasting an improvement in the New England agricultural situation in the first half of the year , according to a statement issued today by the New England Rescind/ Council on Mai ketmg and Food Supply The statement , pi epin ed by committees composed of representatives of the New England agricultural colleges , departments of agriculture , and fru mers ' organizations , declai es that the New England situation " with respect to prices and business activity will continue to be influenced most largely by developments in the national situation . " The report further indicates that , " much will also depend upon political and economic developments affecting foreign trade and foreign exchange restrictions which now hamper domestic industiial production for export markets " Readjustments of various kinds are now in progress Debts aie being scaled down more nearly in line with prices . Salaries , wages and rents arc still being reduced . Such adjustments seem inevitable unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and retard recovery . During the last half of the year conditions may depend to a larger extent upon results of legislative efforts to check price declines , increase buying power and restore business activity . " There is a further possibility that future developments may include effective efforts to remove international trade barriers : also that inci eased purchases may be made for replacements at reduced prices , which might have some stiengthenmg effect during the latter part of the year . " In forecasting dairy products conditions in metropolitan Boston , the council declares that " conditions in New England and throughout the country indicate that lowered consumption of milk and cream will continue throughout 1933 Fannie to maintain a central marketing agency on a permanent basis has renewed a competitive situation among pi oducers and distributors . This situation has already lowered the fluid milk price and , if continued . may result in further price decline . " The council is more optimistic about the poultry and egg business " both in the United States and New England . " The outlook for the 1931 potato clop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1932 . " The statement also says that since there is little likelihood of much improvement in the purchasing power of consumers during the coming year , higher apple prices in 1933 are not to be expected unless there is a decided crop shortage .                     