@@700846

txt A suggestion that Federal incorporation , long a subject of controversy , might be found necessary to end harmful practices under the present system , was made by the Senate Banking and Currency Committee today in the sixth section of its report dealing with the inquiry which a subcommittee conducted into banking and other financial activities . After a detailed discussion of investment trusts and holding companies and the concentration of control of wealth , the committee concluded its observations with the following paragraph : " The cure for our corporate ailments , circumvention of the law , investment trust and holding company abuses and interlocking directorates , may lie in a national incorporation act . " The wisdom of such a step was explored when President Theodore Roosevelt was seeking means to give the Federal Government more effective control of corporate abuses of the law . The agitation , however , never reached the stage where a serious effort was made to obtain Congressional action . On one point the Banking and Currency Committee in today 's report took a definite stand , namely , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exposure of the abuses and evils of investment trusts must be expeditiously translated into legislative action to prevent recurrence of these practices . " In the opinion of the subcommittee , the report said , Federal regulation of these trusts " is indispensable . " New Act Part Protection . " Some measure of protection is afforded the investing public in connection with investment trusts by the Securities Act of 1933 , which requires fuller disclosure by organizers of investment trusts of the pertinent facts relating to the organization of these trusts , " the report continued . " The effectiveness of this regulation is confined to the primary distribution of the capital stock of these investment trusts and in no wise covers the abuses and malpractices of the subsequent conduct and management of these investment trusts . The necessity for regulation was admitted by Clarence Dillon and Otto H. Kahn . " The committee contended that an added impetus had been given to accumulation of the control of wealth by the employment of the corporate entity as investment trusts and holding companies . " The marked increase in the popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has definitely placed under the control of financiers the wealth of the nation . The diffused distribution of nonequity stocks among the disorganized stockholders , who can- not effectively assert concerted action , has resulted in the domination of corporations by small groups of individuals controlling a comparatively insignificant part of the voting stock . These groups dictate the selection of directors and consequently the management and control of these corporate institutions . " A schematic graph of the corporate directorships of financiers and of their interlocking directorates of industrial , public utility , and banking and holding corporations , depicts the usurpation of the wealth stream of the nation to its , very capillaries . " The partners of J. P. Morgan &; Co. and Drexel &; Co. held 126 di-4 rectorships and trusteeships in eighty-nine companies , excluding subsidiaries , with $19,929,396,475.39 total resources for seventy-five of these companies . " These directorships included twenty directorships on fifteen banks and trust companies , with total resources of $3,811,411,000 ; fourteen directorships on seven miscellaneous holding companies , with total resources for three of these seven companies of $83,786,475.39 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total resources of $3,404,555,900 ; ten directorships on eight utility operating companies with total resources of $2,818,147,000 ; twelve directorships on ten railroad companies , with total resources for nine of these ten companies of $3,436,666,000 ; fifty-five directorships on thirtyeight industrial companies , with total resources for twenty-nine of these thirty-eight companies of $6,037,644,000 , and six directorships on six insurance companies , with ' total resources for five of these six companies of $337,187,000 . " The committee 's report held that the American investment trust " merely superficially resembled the British trust , for the very factors which accounted for the success of the British trusts ( diversification of investments , disinterested management . conservative investments and standardized management charges ) were disregarded by the organizers of the American investment trusts . " Another charge was that organizers of some of the American investment trusts , availing themselves of the successful record of the English and Scottish investment trusts as a " potent sales argument to inveigle the participation of the public , " employed the investment trust " to indulge in venturesome transactions in securities with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Realized " Incredible " Profits . " The investment trusts of this country , from their inception , degenerated into a convenient medium of the dominant persons to consummate transactions permeated with ulterior motives ; served to facilitate the concentration of control of the public 's money ; enabled the organizers to realize incredible profits ; camouflaged their real purpose to acquire control of equities in other companies , and became the , receptacles into which the executive heads unloaded securities which they , or corporations in which they were interested , owned , " the report said . While the popular conception of the formation of an investment trust was diversification of securities investment with emphasis on investment return , the committee said some were organized with the concealed purpose of purchasing securities not primarily for the investment benefit of the trust or its stockholders " but to enhance the interests of some other company affiliated , directly or indirectly , with the management of the trust , or to obtain control of companies in a single field of industry . " Discussing the formation of investment companies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Corporation , organized by J. P. Morgan &; Co. , ceased to act as an investment company to aid investors in pooling their funds to obtain a diversification of investment and became a large holder of equities in many companies in a single field  --  public utilities . "                     