@@698610

txt Figure . Sousa cian , he was was a great a famous musi , said that Joux PHILIP While It can hardly be A National conductor and came to be an outstanding national character . His death seems like removing an I ancient landmark . Passing on from leadership of the Marine Band at Washington to the organization of one under his own name , he traveled all over the country repeatedly , and at least once took Sousa 's Band entirely round the world . He long identified himself with popular music in this country . Some of his compositions  --  mostly marches  --  will probably be kept familiar in the repertory of others for years to come . His long life brought him finally into contact with radio facilities for the transmission of music . At first he was strongly averse to making use of this new medium . He seems to have felt that without the presence and interest of an actual audience he could not give the proper glow and warmth to his performances . But finally he consented to make the experiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Band appeared frequently in broadcasts , which gave him a new kind of vogue and even a wider popular acceptance . His energetic conducting and vivid personality will be greatly missed . If his fame in music is not of the highest , it has been , and will remain , among the most assured . Where is the ? ' Hub The Hub of the Metropolis , " of the centre of popuNew York . lation of Greater New York ? The " society centre " has been plotted . but never , with any accuracy , the actual population centre . Engineers of the Regional Plan have now undertaken the task . It should prove a fascinating inquiry . Professionally described , the centre of population is " that point from which the average distance to the home of every person in the city is the minimum . " No doubt homes were taken rather than places of business , because that is the preference of the Census Bureau , on whose reports the engineers must rely . In the old days one might have assumed that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but with the migration to Brooklyn and Queens it must have moved further east . Now is the time for all good guessers to come forward . The Reeonal Plan announces that in subsciament publications " full credit will be given to any one who is able to antici , pate the conclusion of the engineers . " The French do not share Inns for the British and German French reputation for being great Hikers. walkers . They have even borrowed from the English the word " footing " to indicate pedestrianism . But in the ardor of modern Prance for sports of all kinds , walking has come into greater favor . The French League for Auberges de la Jeunesse , now more than a year old , proposes to make walking tours pleasanter , more convenient and cheaper by providing shelters at convenient places throughout the country . Lodgings cost 2 or 3 francs a night , and the young guests may cook their own meals in community style . The organization is similar to the hostelries for youth in England and in Germany . The enterprise is designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region , knapsack at back , stick in hand , yields a knowledge which no train or motor excursion can supply . If youngsters largely patronize the new havens , they will at least partially refute the charge that they have a mania for speed in everything .                     