@@699937

txt Gem . halo : Balbo satisfied a grand desire early this morning  --  one that he had flown 7,000 miles to realize . Be visited the World 's Fair in the role of an ordinary , carefree visitor . To do so the distinguished aviator slipped away from the brilliance and flattery of a social gathering and reception at the Casino club in East Delaware place where he and his men were being feted by Prince Potenziani arid other notables . This function was one of many that the general had attended since his arrival Saturday , some of them at the Fair . But even there he had not really " seen " i he Fair . About 1 o'clock this morning while the Casino club dance was at its height , Gen , Balbo confided to Maj. Reed Landis , chairman of the armada reception arrangements , that he would like to visit the exposition in private , free from the crowds and attention that have followed his every move . He said he would even like to get away from his men , Maj. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minutes Maj. Landis gathered a small party , including himself , the general , Mrs. Harold Strotz , Mrs. Morton Schwartz , William C. Boyden , a Mrs. Alexander , a Mrs. Maxwell and another woman . Gen. Balbo stole away and changed into a dark business suit . He pulled a slouch hat over his eyes , and then with his friends slipped away . The party arrived at the 14th street entrance of the Fair . where it was met by Maj. Lenox Lohr , and driven to the Midway , Thereupon Gen. Balbo became a playboy , indistinguishable from Hiram Junes from Poducic Center . He was just another visitor . He grinned and his eyes sparkled in anticipated thrill . This was his big moment . The party 's first adventure was in the auto scooter concession where patrons drive about In electrically operated . cars which can be steered so as to collide with other cars . Here mprnhors or the irrouu made a surprise attack on Gen. Balbu , but he turned the tables , laughing , and . jolted them around the ring . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his companions stopped at the African Dodger concession where Negroes are dropped Into a tub of water by hitting a spring bull 's eye with a baseball . Gen. Balbu was puzzled for a moment , but got the idea and picked up several balls . He revealed himself as a " southpaw . " On his third throw he toppled a Negro into the water . The general laughed gleefully . His hosts steered him to the shooting gallery . There he knocked down seven of the nine moving squirrels , but lilt only one of ten claypipes . This nettled him . He picked up an automatic Pistol , fired six shots in succession and  --  hit five bull 's eyes . Fur the next half hour , Gen. Balbo and Ms party rested at the Manhattan beer garden , listening to the music of Ernie Young 's orchestra , and some of them refreshing themselves with beer . The general enjoyed this , and was all smiles . Scared Away from Guinan . ' Then the group started for the Pirate Ship Where Texas Guinan and her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a look-in on night club life . As he and his cont . Panions were about to enter the place there was a burst ? of applause . It was for an act ; just finished . Gen. Balbo believed , however , his incognito had been penetrated , and he backed away . Be wanted privacy . The general contented himself after that with watching the lighting effects on the grounds , which , he said , he admired thoroughly . Then he returned to the 14th street Court or Honor and with his party boarded waiting aute mobiles . Motorcycle police attended .. Soon after Gen. Balbo was back in his hotel , all smiles , as happy as a boy who had , played hookey from school .                     