@@698243

txt It is with a feeling approaching despair that this writer contemplates the letter of ... Mr. Ftadley printed in another column . Of what avail are words if they do not discharge their freight successfully at their destination ? Of what use is it to write " yes " if the reader understands it to mean " no " or to say that something is " white " and have a reader say " I see that you say it is black " ? This has so often been the experience of this writer during the last twelve months . notwithstanding most earnest efforts s , n his part to say plainly what he means , and say it in an ordinary conversational tone , that he begins to wonder whether it is not necessary for him to say what he has to say at least three times and say it at the top of his voice ! Mr. Medley says that the writer " believes our political organization does not recognize the ' polymorphism ' of the human race . He would , therefore , establish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The competency of this class is to be measured solely by economic power . " What this writer was discussing was the economic order and the proposals of Mr. Swope for " stabilizing " that order , and it was the " polymorphism " of mankind with respect to that order that was the main question . He took pains to point out that it was the sweeping changes that had taken place in that order which had created the problems attacked by Mr. Swope . Founder% Did Not Ens Nage " Polymorphism " The founders of our government had no more suspicion that problems of this sort would =rise than had Julius Caesar , for the world around them differed but little in its economic essentials from the world that Caesar knew . In building their system of government it was not the " polymorphism " of the race that they envisaged but rather the things in which men were and should of right and nature be equal . as the Declaration of Independence expressed them . Granted that the political order established by them was well calculated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and is there , to suppose that it would function as successfully if required to take an intimate control of the economic order ? That was the crucial question suggested by this writer , and it is hoped that he has made it plain . As for his wanting a dictatorship , how on earth could Mr. Radle ? get that out of what he said when all he said on the point was summed up in the question " Shall it be dictatorship or ' democracy ' ? Who wants the former ? " Again Mr. Radley says : " We are now told that for the sake of economy this machine " industrial " must operate as a monopoly and that a. monopoly requires absolute control by governmentThe ' few ' selected because of their financial power to control and operate the monopoly are to be given despotic governmental power to control themselves without interference from the ' many who are to be ' considered as part of the machinery ' and whose desire for material comforts allotted them should inspire servile obedience . What a conception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis whereon a once virile , liberty loving people should rebuild their industrial machines ! We may Well inquire wherein lies the danger of Russian communism . " What the Writer Said " What a conception " indeed ! . Now here ( with apology for its repetition ) is what the writer said which presumably incited Mr. Radley to that " conception . " " The facts give us certain data . Prominent among these are two . One is a common human nature with its ' universal instincts and desires . The other is a hierarchical stratification of the human race with individual inequality as its principle . For a human corrimiviitl. - to accomplish its common tasks to the best advantage there are required of the more competent individuals who will direct the performance of those tasks a certain altruism with respect to material results , a certain unselfishness let us say as to money and ' profit , and a willingness to seek compensation in the satisfaction of achievement and in the ' honor ' that : t brings . And there are required of the less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hierarchy that nature has established , an acceptance of its consequences and its obligations , and a willingness to find their compensation in the greater material comforts and satisfactions that follow the efficient functioning of the machine . " But this means an ' aristocracy ' the reader will say ! Certainly it does . Nature has stratified ' Humanity ' upon an aristocratic principle . There is no possible escape from that . And one might , perhaps , come as near to stating in one generalization the real problem , the great problem of the world today , by saying that it consisted in making what we call ' democracy ' work in the face of that fact One might go one step further and say that only one thing can make it ' work ' and that is the kind of intelligence that includes intelligent humility , " Mr Radley will please observe that " intelligent humility " is one thing and " servile obedience " is quite another . Does he perhaps suppose that there can be real " intell.g-ence " which does not contain humnity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' : Must we conclude that the slavish flattery that our demagogues have slobbered upon Demos has effectually persuaded him that as the Germans say , he has eaten all wisdom with a spoon ? Our forefathers certainly never believed any such thing and that was why they founded a " republic " and not a " democracy . " The very essence of a republic is " intelligent humility " on the part of the community  --  how else can " representative government " function with success ' .                     