@@699539

txt Is Japan preparing to turn back the clock of her own progress ? This is a question which her best friends and admirers in the outside world are now asking with anxiety . Her recent course in Manchuria and at Geneva has troubled not only the repose of other nations but also their minds and consciences . They have watched the rise of the modern Japanese Empire as one of the wonders of modern civilization . The " hermit nation " of the far Pacific came out to take her place beside the strongest and worthiest . Japan 's rapid adoption of Western culture , with eagerness to be associated with every wholesome in1ternational movement , safeguarding in every way both her financial and moral credit abroad , has been the mark of a proud and progressive and sensitive race coming into the consciousness of its own . But is it now about to deny its own ? No fair-minded person can deny that Japan has rights in Manchuria and a good case to argue . In the statement of it made on Tuesday by the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . One strong consideration in favor of the Japanese contention has all along been admitted . This is that there has been no well-organized and stable and continuing Chinese Government with which a foreign nation can make agreements . When the Covenant of the League of Nations speaks of a country made the victim of aggressive action , it manifestly intends a cohesive and recognized government , able to maintain law and order within its own boundaries and to speak for the wishes of its subjects and citizens . This has not been the case with China since the overthrow of the monarchy at Peking . Other nations , including the United States , have been embarrassed and baffled by this lack of a central Chinese authority , but it is doubtless true that Japan , in her more intimate relations , has felt the awkwardness of the Chinese situation more keenly . In fairness , let it be admitted that Japan has had real complaints and grievances in Manchuria . It is one thing , however , to have a good case , and quite another to uphold it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole world . This is the great fault and charge which must be laid at the door of the present Japanese Government . A good argument has been perverted into a justification of uncalled-for military operations , and for diplomatic proceedings in and out of Manchuria which have every appearance of being wholly artificial . The excuse now made , that Japan must proceed to a forcible occupation of the Province of Jehol because she is bound by treaty to defend the new State of Manchukuo , is too much like a false pretense . In fact , every effort by Japanese spokesmen to find legal warrant for what has been done is seized upon by the Japanese military authorities as full justification for any further aggression which may suit their plan . Precisely at that point rise the doubts and fears of the friends of Japan . They see her in danger of adopting the arrogant spirit and falling into the mad ambitions of Germany before the World War . To what depths of despair and misery German militarists brought the German people everybody now knows . Are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Japanese ? Quite apart from that possibility , Japan seems to be in danger of entering into a kind of moral isolation . She is being made painfully aware that the judgment of the whole civilized world is now against her . This she may resent as unjust , but there the fact is . For Japan to spurn and defy the League of Nations , which in this instance has made itself the organ and expression of the belief of its constituent nations , is to deepen in the act the very condemnation which the Japanese seek to avoid . Can they afford to withdraw themselves not merely from the League but from the unorganized sentiment of the world , which has until now been so sympathetic with the aspirations and achievements of modern Japan ? It is not yet too late for her to do something to set herself right with world opinion . The League has been considerate . In this whole matter of the dispute between China and Japan it has been most cautious and considerate  --  many have thought too much so . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is willing to give Japan still more time to find a way to accept some plan of conciliation and peaceful adjustment . What the Japanese people should understand , what the Japanese Government should perceive , is that those who through the years have been most friendly to Japan are today the ones who most strongly desire that she make , if need be , some minor sacrifices of prestige in order to win back the cordial reception of her as one full worthy of being included in the sisterhood of modern and peace-loving nations .                     