@@703996

txt Friends of District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey have come to the conclusion that Kenneth F. Simpson should be retired as New York County Republican chairman and , if opportunity comes later , as member of the Republican National Committee , according to information that has come recently to members of the local party organization . Mr. Dewey has taken the definite position that , as a prospective candidate for the Republican nomination for President , he should not take sides in any factional contest and undoubtedly will adhere to that policy . Some of his supporters , however , believe that it would be highly desirabtle to oust Mr. Simpson as county chairman at the primary election in September as a preliminary step to bringing about the election of Dewey delegates to the Republican National Convention at the primary election next Spring . With conservative elements of the party opposed to Mr. Simpson 's leadership , friends of Mr. Dewey believe that with their support for another candidate the present county chairman can be beaten . The program favored by this particular group of Mr. Dewey 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman by Edwin F. Jaeckle , now chairman of the executive committee of the Republican State Committee , and the election of J. Russel Sprague , Nassau County leader , as National Committeeman in place of Mr. Simpson . The election of Mr. Jaeckle , leader of the Dewey forces in the State , as State Chairman presumably would be by the new State committee chosen at next Spring 's primary election . Opportunity for the election of a new National Committeeman will come only after the election of the State delegation to the National Convention , for it will be the delegates who will elect the next members of the National Committee from this State . So far the opposition to Mr. Simpson has not agreed on a candidate for County Chairman . Among those who have been mentioned are William C. Hecht Jr. , leader of the Sixteenth Assembly District , who is reported to have declined the honor , and former Municipal Court Justice John R. Davies , a frequent critic of Mr , Simpson 's leadership , who recently was re-elected president of the National Republican Club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supporters of former President Herbert Hoover , members of the Republican Builders , of which Mrs. Preston Davie is the founder and John Burke the local head , members of the Committee for Republican In- tegrity , of which Charles S. Leeds is chairman , and a sprinkling of disaffected organization Republicans . Mr. Simpson incurred the enmity of the Hoover supporters when he declared publicly that the party could not hope for success if it returned to the policies of the former President . His break with Mr. Dewey came after the latter indicated that he was not being guided by the County Chairman and made gestures of friendliness to Mr. Hoover and the Hooverites . The principal point of attack on Mr. Simpson by the other groups opposing him has been the fusion with the American Labor party in 1937 , which resulted in the reelection of Mayor La Guardia and the election of Mr. Dewey as District Attorney . Primary Fight Held Certain Although no anti-Simpson candidate for County Chairman has yet been picked , leaders in the antiSimpson combination declare that a primary fight against him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the last party vote for Governor , and a drive for anti-Simpson members will be made in the Fifteenth Assembly District , which has the largest number . It is the present plan of the anti-Simpson forces , led in this district by Bronson Trevor , to make no fight against State Senator Frederic R. Coudert , who succeeds Mr. Simpson as district leader , but to try to elect County Committee members pledged to vote against Mr. Simpson for County Chairman , hoping thereby to avoid a direct fight against Senator Coudert , who is pouular in the district . Although no definite forecast is possible until an anti-Simpson candidate for County Chairman is named , Mr. Simpson has been assured of the support of the greater number of the district leaders , and the anti-Simpson groups are finding it difficult to agree upon a candidate . Several Mentioned for Job To illustrate this difficulty , three district leaders , David B. Costuma of the Twenty-first district , William Duggan of the Twentieth district and Thomas J. Curran of the Tenth district , have been mentioned at one time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ county chairman . While it is possible that any one of the three might like the chairmanship , each would prefer Mr. Simpson as county chairman to either of the other two , it was said . Each recently has assured Mr. Simpson of his support , as have many of the other district leaders . Mr. Jaeckle , regarded as in charge of the Dewey Presidential boom upState , although at first successful in his contact with the Legislature , has met reverses during the closing days of the session . With adjournment IL sight , he apparently has failed to get an investigation of the O'Connell machine in Albany , which Mr. Dewey made an issue in his campaign for Governor , and other legislation desired by Mr. Dewey , including bills to give the Board of Estimate power to fix salaries in the courts and county offices , sponsored by Mayor La Guardia.                     