@@702979

txt The Roosevelt Administration yesterday took two steps to " loosen up ' the level of industrial prices . steps which may be in anticipation of concentrated Government purchasing of materials and moves to stimulate private buying . President Roosevelt . continuing the attack on industrial prices which he began last spring , yesterday made public a letter which he had written to the Federal Trade Commission directing it to investigate the 1937 increase in the cost of living and pointing out reports that the increase is " attributable in part to monopolistic practices and other unwholesome methods of competition " The second federal move against industrial prices yesterday came when the Treasury . which does much of the Government 's purchasing , created the new post of assistant general counsel in its procurement division and appointed to that position E H. Foley . Jr , general counsel of the Public Works Administration . To Stimulate Privayte Buying Both the FTC investigation ordered by the President and the increased Treasury scrutiny of bads are believed to be efforts to pave the way for unusual government buying and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a direct attack on industrial prices , rejecting all " idenkical , " " tied " or " trade association " bids which are submitted on government purchase orders , investigating such bids for collusion , and turning its . nformation over to the justice department for possible anti-trust prosecution of the bidding companies . Mr. Foley , who conducted similar fights on steel , cement and other prices in the PWA , is expected to head up this work . President Roosevelt last spring . announced that be was directing the government to slow up its buying of heavy materials , because the production of the heavy industries was catching up with the production of consumer industries ? a sign which he said then meant . trouble within about six months Since this trouble has now developed , the Fiesident may decide to reverse his policy of last spring and three .. government orders into the market in an attempt to stimulate activity . Study of U. S. Purchases Made The business advisory council of the Department of Commerce has made an exhaustive study of the possibility of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business , especially so that they will not accentuate peaks or lulls in output . Representative Edith bourse Rogers has requested both the Navy and Army to speed up their buying of textiles . in order to help that industry , and intends to ask other departments to do the same . The Navy has promised her that it will study the possibilities of faster purchasing . sending a man to New York to canvass the situation , and also announced that within the next six weeks it will pleee orders originelly not scheduled until next spring . Idea Gains Recruits This idea of speeding up and concentrating government buying in the hope that it will break the downward trend in production or absorb depressing inventories is gaining recruits in Washington and may be adopted as an Ad-n ' stration policy . The Administration , now-ever , does not want to lend support to what it considers " monopolistic " prices in many industries and , therefore , is preceding the program with attacks on the industrial price level Lower prices would also aid the utility . railroad and housing programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the trade commission , addressed to Chairman W. A. Ayres , follows : " My attention has been directed to reports of a marked increase in the cost of living during the present year as compared with recent years past , attributable in part to monopolistic practices and other unwholesome mehods of competition Wants to finny ' Filets " I belieie it to he inlpoi Cant to know the facts touching this situation , and , therefore , request the Federal Trade Commission to make an immediate investigation Into such alleged practices and methods and report to me as early as practicable . " I understand such inquiry can be made without any increase in your current appropriation. "                     