@@704385

txt Stalin 's sixtieth birthday did not prove very successful for Russia 's military forces at the points where they encountered other military forces . On that day , indeed , the Russian troops in Far Northern Finland began a retreat that appears to have developed into a rout . But three hundred and fifty Russian planes celebrated the great occasion by spreading death and terror among civilians . Helsinki 's entire hospital area was ' - destroyed by sixty bombs . Two passenger trains carrying war refugees  --  one of them containing mostly women  --  were machine-gunned . Workers ' quarters were set on fire . Thirty civilians were killed and sixty wounded . It was a gala day for the Russian air force . Meanwhile , in Moscow , the celebration of the great event of Stalin 's birthday went forward in earnest . The performance , our correspondent reports , outdid " anything hitherto achieved in countries where development of the leadership principle is axiomatic . " In the leading Soviet newspaper , Pravda , one column on the back page sufficed for news of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being devoted to Stalinist personal propaganda of all kinds . Other newspapers followed Pravda 's lead in giving almost their entire space to praise of Mr. Stalin . New decorations were heaped upon him . He was ? called , among other things , the " Lenin of today , " the " greatest representative of creative Marxism , " a " great mechanist of locomotive history , " even a great military strategist . This fawning adulation of a single person , which has grown with the years , has reached a pathological state that now exceeds anything previously known in any great country in modern times . It is grimly ironic that it should be happening in the nation which proclaims its adherence to a doctrine that teaches that the individual as such counts for little , and that the only thing of importance is the mass movement . We know that this amazing worship of a single man is the product almost entirely of fear . A dictatorship that begins by suppressing all fundamental criticism soon advances , if it has sufficient power , to suppressing all minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquiescence and silence , but insists upon constantly reiterated and more and more extravagant praise . Any one who withholds this flattery , or attempts to keep it within reasonable bounds , becomes suspected of antagonism to the regime . The constant and abject licking of Stalin 's boots is a depressing example of the lengths to which human abasement can go . It is surely not without its warning for the western world . Many of us have held to the uncritical assumption that governmental power in the European countries which have known democracy will never be allowed to encroach too far , because if it attempts to do so the people will repulse it . What this assumption overlooks is that as governmental intervention and power grow , the power of individuals and minority groups to combat them is correspondingly reduced . This leads to the paradox that governmental intrusions are most easily prevented when government is least intrusive , and that centralized power tends to grow most rapidly when it is already excessive . The task of keeping a proper balance is always a delicate one , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous . It is no accident , either , but almost a political law , that as more power is concentrated in the governmental bureaucracy , a constantly greater part of that enlarged power is concentrated in the hands of one man . We have only to compare the almost anonymous Government of Switzerland , or the limited part that a Chamberlain can control of the limited peacetime power of the British Government , with the way in which the huge power of the totalitarian Governments centers in a single man 's will . One might say , in fact , that it is not the Hitlers and the Stalins who create governmental despotism , but rather a willingness to tolerate governmental despotism that finally creates the Hitlers and the Stalins . For the dictators are not self-made men . They are Frankenstein monsters unwittingly brought to life by their own people .                     