@@699132

txt Cigarette sales by American Tobacco Co. so far In September have been substantially above the August level . Although they are behind last year up to the present time , they have shown a smaller decline than that of the Industry as a. whole . " Bull Durham " is now selling in the greatest volume of the present revival , and " Creme " cigar sales are the greatest ever attained by this cigar . Profits are continuing ahead of last year , When *9.07 a share was earned on the common and common B shares . Under stimulus of the company 's latest advertising campaign , sales of Lucky Strike cigarettes by the American Tobacco Co. so far this month have increased substantially from the August level . This improvement for this short period , has , of course . improved the position of American Tobacco Co. in the industry . but has naturally been of too short duration to bring about an increase in sales for the year to date as compared with last year . Nevertheless . American Tobacco nas snown a smatter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the drop in all cigarette consumption in the United States in the first seven months of 1932 as compared with the like 1931 period . With a higher price prevailing for cigarettes in the first half of 1932 than in the first six months of 1931 , it was natural that the leading cigarette companies were able to show increased earnings in the face of a drop in consumption . In the current half year prices for cigarettes are the same as in the last half of 1931 . Yet earnings have continued ahead of last year thus far in the second half owing to maintenance of sales volume fairly close to last year 's level , compared with the lower prices for tobacco and the lower cost of advertising . In 1931 , American Tobacco earned $9.07 a share on 4,740.905 common and common B shares . Other principal products of American Tobacco Co. also are showing increases in sales volume . Bull Durham , brought forth again to meet the demand for " roll your own " tobacco , now is selling in the greatest volume attained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24 hours a day . Reduction in the price of Creme . cigars to permit retailing for 5 cents straight , or 3 for 10 cents laak , slaarply increased its sales volume , which now is the greatest ever reached by any cigar . Despite the sharp price cut in Cremo , the cigar division of American Tobacco Co. is earning money in excess of the lease payments made to American Cigar - Co. by American Tobacco Co . Consolidation of activities of the cigar company with American Tobacco Co. has , as anticipated . eliminated virtually all overhead except that involved in the actual production of the cigars . Other office detail has been absorbed by the American Tobacco Co. staff , so that production costs have been greatly reduced .                     