@@697528

txt LATE-COMERS AT OPERAS To the Editor of The New York Times : Mr. Bodanzky , in a recent issue of your paper , correctly condemned operagoers for a number of their offenses , interfering greatly with the work of the leaders and musicians . He is 100 per cent right in his statements , but the management of the opera . house is partly responsible for the public 's interference by their permitting ticket-holders to enter the house after an act has started ; insufficient and poorly located cloak rooms , thus forcing the public to carry their wraps , &c.,; with them . On the other hand , it would not be amiss to call attention to a fact existing which also interferes with the public 's enjoying the singers ' voices much better than they can now , especially during Mr. Bodanzky 's conducting  --  namely , the continuous drawing out of the singers ' voices by the orchestra ; and one often is asked whether the Metropolitan Opera singers are merely accompanists to the orchestra . Perhaps this is a wellconcocted scheme between Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past tense ) of his many pensioners and save the public the regret of attending performances ; but a good deal of tuning down of the blatant noise Of the orchestra on the part of all the leaders would not come amiss . GUS ROSENTHAL . New York , Dec. 30 , 1930 . SIBELIUS ONCE MORE . To the Editor of The sew York Times : The article on Sibelius by your music critic , Olin Downes , in your issue of Dec. 28 , and the letter by Benjamin Herrick in your correspon ' dence columns of the same date on the subject of Sibelius , . should do much to call attention to the fact that the music of this great composer is neglected in this country . more than that of any important contemporary , creative musician . Mr. Herrick speaks of the Sibelius violin concerto as though it were a new work . The Sibelius violin concerto is certainly not new to the repertoire - of the New York Philharmonic , for it received its first performance in America at a concert of this orchestra . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the date Nov. 30 , 1906 . I attended the concert and remember it vividly . I also recall the reviews of the leading New . York critics . Practically all of them found the work impressive , but considered it ineffective for the violin and thought that it was more a symphonic poem for orchestra with violin obbligato than a violin concerto . Time has changed opinions . It is , indeed , difficult at this date to understand how intelligent music critics did not recognize the distinct virtuoso character of the last movement ! The concerto has been played perhaps less on the whole than any important violin work in the large forms by a contemporary composer . Still , this neglect is not as conspicuous as the neglect accorded Sibelius 's symphonies . Violin concertos by modern composers are virtually never performed . Do not violinists , on the whole , choose their programs front the old repertoire ? How few of them have more adventure in their souls than have colorature sopranos ! . The last- performance of the concerto in New York , to my knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Boston Symphony , with that orchestra at one of its Saturday matinee concerts last season . Discussions of Sibelius can not fail to be helpful . I feel that Mr. Downes has taken a step in the right direction in explaining to your readers that the first two symphonies are now available in phonograph recordings . His enthusiasm - for Sibelius is well known . I congratulate him in coming out , as he has on every occasion , whole-heartedly for the music of the man who is in my opinion the greatest living composer . A. WALTER KRAMER . New York , Dec. 30 , 1930 . THE BRAHMS HORN MOTIF . TO rite Editor of The New York Times : The recent essay appearing in your columns regarding the similarity of the horn motif in Brahms 's symphony in C minor with the Westminster chimes recalls other interesting allusions of - Brahms . Thst Brahms was influenced by Beethoven can not be doubted . In the D major symphony No. 2 , we find an interesting comparison of the scherzo of Beethoven 's symphony No. 2 , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ page.13 of the pocket score of the Brahms and on page 61 of the Beethoven . Again , in the last movement of the Brahms Second symphony we find figures closely analogous with those of the overture to Anacreon by Cherubini . The similarity is unmistakable . Again , in thinking of the allegretto e grazioso of the First symphony of Brahms it is very easy to slip-into the presto of Beethoven 's Seventh symphony , so similar are ' the mootives . It is said that Brahms laughingly suggested an episode of the lugubrious death of Ase in the " Peer Gynt " suite of Grieg in his Rhapsody in D minor , Op. 79 . The notes are identical . and comprise both a subject and counter-subject . It is also interesting to pursue further analogies between Beethoven and Richard Wagner . LOUIS CHAPMAN . Providence , R. I. , Jan. 1 , 1931 . SOLOISTS ' MANNERS . To the Editor of The New York Times : Upon reading in this morning 's TIMES that Mr. Iturbi ( who figures in our country as the most recently imported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Mozart sonata at his recital in Washington , D. C. , until an unfortunate lady  --  afflicted with a sudden siege of coughing  --  had left the hall , I could not help wondering whether the same questions as arose in my mind also came to other readers . Would a really great artist not be too absorbed  --  yes , too deeply engrossed  --  with the music he is interpreting , to even notice any unavoidable coughings and sneezings in a large , attentive audience ? MARIE DAMROSCH . New York , Dec. 11 , 1930.                     