@@702439

txt Government economists are virtually unanimous in reading a bullish implication into recent wage advance nioVes the steel and other industries . That the stock market should " celebrate " such developments with rising prices in the divisions affected is not , in their opinion , surprising nor paradoxical . Their enthusiam seems to be tempered , however , by the realization that all working population groups may not share equitably in a rising national income and that , if higher commodity prices are associated with higher wages , part of the apparent rise in tabor 's purchasing power is certain to be neutralized . The key question , according to experts whose fields of study range all the way from agriculture to credit control , is whether volume of production will continue to rise and the structure of production and distribution will stay in balance . Farmer Wo n't Be Harmed If the volume of industrial production holds up , one agricultural economist explained , higher wages and somewhat higher prices are not likely to injure the American farmer . Although he may have to pay more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of urban workers means larger expenditures for agricultural commodities . The view is not in strict accord with the farm " price parity " basis on which much of the New Deal 's farm program was predicated but it can be supported by data from periods in the past when city wages and farm income have gone up together . In the years between 1922 and 1926. for example , charts prepared by the Department of Agriculture show an advance of roughly 25% in union wage rates while the index of prices paid by far mere remained fairly stable and farm income registered subatanti.1 gains . It is recognized , of course , that a too-rapid advance in labor costs , necessitating drastic application of the method of " passing it on to the consumer , " would react unfavorably upon farmers and many other groups and eventually dislocate the whole economic system . Wage Advance Is Pleasing ' Passing it on to the consumer " is not , as a general rule , looked upon with favor by government economists . In the particular instance of steel , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce higher quotations for some time . The question was , in their opinion , one as to how much labor 's share in the steel upswing would be and they seem pleased with the wage advances that have been announced . While one federal reserve official admitted yesterday that there could be such a thing as a wage inflation on a " cold-blooded economic basis , " just as there could be an inflation in the price of anything that is bought and sold , he was inclined to feel that booms in certain indugtries are less likely to get out of control if labor shares fully in the resulting prosperity . An almost identical view was expressed at the Department of Agriculture . Price Movements Watched Officials responsible for operating the new credit regulation mechanisms , which have been set up in the last three or four years , are naturally watching price movements and production indexes in various industries . They are not certain that inflationary trends " in spots " can be controlled by the necessarily broad application of banking brakes , or such devices as margin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " spots " of inflation can be controlled at all . While they probably would prefer to see ' moderate wage increases without price advances at all , they feel that to some extent , at least , higher pay for labor will take the curse off industrial boomlets . They do not , in any event , regard wage increases as bad news for any of the industries that have thus far been affected by them .                     