@@703729

txt High officials here are preparing to meet objections to the Administration 's new foreign credit expansion program which have arisen from holders of defaulted obligations , particularly those of Latin American countries . These officials believe that such objections . while not entirely groundless , can be ' minirni , ed through a - realistic-  explanation of the new plan and can probably be eliminated through some quasi-governments efforts to deal with the defaulting countries on a firm but friendly basis . It is recognized here that the American holders of unpaid Latin American bonds , if their feelings in the matter were completely disregarded , could easily stir up a great deal of trouble for the new program in Congress and in various government departments . Without Congressional approval only a very limited amount of fresh foreign credits could be authorizedThe Export-Import Bank of Washington . which has now been selected as the best agency through which to coordinate governmental efforts in this direction , will expire next June unless legislation renewing its activities can be pushed through . Inquiries More Numerous In general . officials in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the country at large to their recent efforts to reopen the subject of lending U. S. credit abroad . They foresee a considerable legitimate demand for such accommodations and this demand is making itself felt not so much through requests from foreign governments as it is through more numerous inquiries from American manufacturers and exporters who are interested in securing financial assistance on ? foreign transactions . Some protests have been registered , however . and they have mostly been along the line of : Why are we lending public money to some of these countries that have n't paid their private bills ? Assuming - that these protests ? increase in volume and become a major political obstacle to the new ' lending program , officials here will hi ready with a three-phase reply . In the - first place , they are ready to contend , it does n't do the holders of defaulted Latin American obligations any particular good to withhold medium-term commercial credits for otherivise sound and legitimate transactions . The only thing that will happen , if such credits are withheld , is that the business will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go to some other country which , in all provability. will be paid off before American bondholders collect anything anyway . There are numerous cases , so the story told here privately runs , where the debtor country 's bargaining position is actually so much stronger than that of the creditor nation that little or nothing is to be gained by insisting that past bills be paid up before any new charge accounts are opened . In the second place , it is felt in official circles that something can be said in favor of building up the internal economies of Latin American countries so  --  that future trade and this country 's share of it will both increase and thus provide - the wherewithal to meet not only the new obligations incurred in the process but also old debts which , at present , are practically uncollectible . Promoters of the latest credit expansion plans do not feel that they are simply " throwing good money after bad " . Examples are cited of Latin AmeriCan countries which are " certain " to grow " into major commercial areas within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing of ' the political  --  reasons for sharing in that development are heavily stressed . In the third place , high officials in Washington are willing to admit that there are instances of Latin American defaults in which sheer unwillingness to pay promptly seems to be a aignitlicant factor . They are ready to propose suggestions in these cases which , in their opinion . will aid the holders of defaulted obligations without endangering the new credit program or the Administration 's aims of good neighborliness of continental solidarity . Since the obligations are private debts , they are not , of course , directly related to the use of government credit in the future but it is thought here that the practical and political relationship is close enough to warrant sonic consideration . Some officials here are willing to propose negotiations on outstanding debts even though they might have to act only in a quasi-081:4a ' capacity . Developments along these lines are not unlikely in 1939.                     