@@703005

txt The Union League Club , for nearly 65 years the Gibraltar of ultra-conservative Republicanism. reiterates its Summons to " patriotic " Democrats for a common citizen limit " against the New Deal legislation and New Deal administrative methods . " Further survey of the situation , according to is statement issued from its mid-town Park Avenue clubhouse last night , confirms the wisdom of the move formally made by the club last January , when it rescinded resolutions adopted dining the Civil War to deny membership to those who could not categorically state themselves to be Republicans . The national state of affairs , it finds , is still " comparable in gravity to that which led to the formation of the Union League in 1863 , " and it therefole restates its accord . and wish to affiliate , with those Democrats whom it has observed to be " in thorough sympathy with the patriotic purposes " set forth in the Union League certificate of incorporation . This , in the current mists , has particular reference to Democratic Senators , " who , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Constitution , " and recently conferred with certain of their opposition colleagues " as to the best methods of opposing unsound and dangerous legislation . " " Nearly three years ago , " the latest pronouncement , reads , " the membets of this club caught the vision that , as events were ' then shaping , the . unsound proposals of the National Administration would , sooner or later , unless abandoned or checked , create a crisis to meet which good citizens must Join in combined egta t. , legal-diem of party affiliation , and to some extent , thinly held economic views of individuals must , be subordinated to the imperative necessity of sustaining the Constitution , our form of government , and the integrity of the nation . Again we say : " Primarily wo aio all Americans . whose first duty is the support of our country and whose greatest material good is bound tip in her success . " Pennsylvanians 11014 Ratification Exercises PHILADELPHIA , Dee . 10 ( /P ) ? Pennsylvania began a celebration today of the 150th anniversary of Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a commission appointed by Gov . George H. Earle , schools , patriotic groups and churches Joined in a three-day series of commemorative events throughout the State . Programs In schools recalled that 60 delegates from William Penn 's domain gave approval in Philadelphia Dec. 12 , 1787 , to the Constitution written 1n the same city by representatives of the original States the preceding Sept. 17 . Historians credit Pennsylvania 's action In ratifying the constitution as strongly influencing other states . Pennsylvania was second to ratify . Neighboring Delaware , which celebi Ricci its annivermiry on Tuesday , was list , New Jersey was Mild .                     