@@698465

txt Segregation of thrift accounts , Including Chu ist mos and recut ion club deposits , from regular blinking accounts , in order that club depositors may make withdrawals unhampered by the regular banking restrictions on other deposits , was part of n uncial banking readjustment program advised by Mr. Joseph E. Warner . Attorney-General , to the Legislature today . His plan also incorporated several recommendations relative to banks engaging in the IN okerage business . Probably the ' most impottant was his advice that " banks be prohibited from engaging in general brokerage business in securities and from selling to trusts or estates within their control . securities in which they have an interest as principal , broker or underwriter " Furthermore , an officer of any bank would be prohibited from becoming an officer of any corporation engaged in the business of buying or selling securities . The present crisis , according to the attorney general , has shown the strength of savings banks while , at the same time , Writing out weaknesses in the practices of trust companies . One of these weaknesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' suits altogether foreign to their original purposes . Since the business of selling securities has changed perceptibly in the last 10 years without any comparative change in the laws relating to this business , Mr. Warner urged , recodification and revision of the entire law covering such sales . Extension of the rights of the director of the Division of Securities to suspend or revoke tine license of a registered broker to cover illegal sales of securities without having to await a court conviction is further advised by the Attorney-General . Another of the present-day evils In the brokerage business , Mr. Warner said , is the dissemination of fraudulent , misleading information in connection with securities . To remedy this he would prohibit publications from printing advertisements or advice on securities by any other than a registered bi oker . To provide a more equitable basis upon which to proceed In changing regulations affecting investment trusts , Mr. Warner would have a commission appointed , representative of all interested groups , to study the existing regulations and report its fludipgs to the Legislature . Thfs commission would also be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short selling . Mr. Warner also urged a study of the advisability of abolishing capital punishment and of permitting women to serve on juries In civil sessions.                     