@@697384

txt Refusal to join with other passengers of the steamship Roma in singing " Giovinezza , " the Fascist hymn , and cheering for Mussolini , resulted in a. severe drubbing and his detention as a prisoner overnight until the vessel docked in New York , according to the affidavit of Antonio Ascolese , 27 years old , of 5 Fourteenth Avenue , Newark . made public yesterday by his attorney , Philip Bongiorno , who announced that he was preparing papers in a civil suit for damages against the Navigazione Generale Italiana of 1 State Street . A copy of Ascolese 's affidavit was furnished to Representative Hamilton Fish Jr. , and it was said that Mr. Fish promised to take the matter up with the State Department , as Ascolese is a native-born American . According to Ascolese 's statement , which was at variance with the account given by a representative of the steamship company , during a gala dinner on the Roma on Aug. 31 , the evening before the vessel docked , passengers sang Fascist songs and cheered Mussolini . When Ascolese , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his reasons he asserted that he told the passengers frankly that he was not in sympathy with the Fascist regime , but believed only in the American flag and its principles , and if he were to sing at all he would sing the American national anthem and cheer for the President of the United States . Charges Purser Struck Him . The argument waxed hot , and an irate waiter , according to Ascolese , called the purser , who struck him several times , after which the waiters punched him and jumped on him when he had been knocked down . " The purser said to me that he was going to have me beaten up and taught a lesson until I gave three cheers for fascism and Mussolini , and told the waiters to keep on beating me until I gave those cheers , " asserted Ascolese . ' When he refused to do so on the ground that he was an American , he added , the waiters said , " America be damned . " The waiters then carried him to what he believed was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be an officer , observing the black and blue marks and the blood on his face , 1 " said I had all the colors of the lAmerican flag on me . " Upon the order of the officer , the affidavit set forth , he was again beaten and locked up , while the officer shouted , " When these American fools come on board of an Italian ship they have got to be Fascists . " Kept under guard until the next day , Ascolese said he was detained two hours after the other passengers docked and then released . The following day he told his story to Assistant United States Attorney Harold A. Felix and was informed that as the alleged assault had occurred beyond the three-mile limit it was not within Federal criminal jurisdiction . Mr , Felix said yesterday that Ascolese had called upon him , but he had advised him that the Federal authorities lacked jurisdiction . R. Santini , assistant general manager of the Navigazione Generale Italiana , smiled when he was informed yesterday of Ascolese 's affidavit and contemplated suit . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the line , when the Roma docked , " said Mr. Santini . " The story as told to us by Captain Angelo Saglietto of the Roma and Royal Commissioner Professor Vocino , was entirely different from the one given by Ascolese . The incident occurred on the night before the vessel docked . There was a gala dinner , and Ascolese , we were told , partook freely of the wine served on board . " When the dinner was at its height he shouted : ' Down with fascism ! ' and ' To hell with Mussolini ! ' He precipitated what was almost a riot and was told by some one to keep his opinions to himself , as there were people on board who felt differently . Ascolese insisted on shouting his views and then , as much for his own sake as for the sake of the other passengers , he was isolated until the next day . " It is not true that he was detained for several hours after the boat docked , but he may have been close to the last if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for we did not wish to risk any scene while the other passengers were going through the immigration formalities . " Dr. M. De Fronzo of 180 Fairmount Avenue , Newark , who attended Ascolese , said last night that when the young man came to him he was suffering from abrasions and contusions and was " black and blue all over . " " He was badly marked up , " he said . " Ascolese told me he does not drink . " The Roma was not in port yesterday . Has Not Received Appeal . Special to The New York Times . WASHINGTON , Sept. 18 . ? The State Department said today it had not yet received the appeal of Representative Hamilton Fish of New York in behalf of Antonio Ascolese of Newark , N. J. , who says he was assaulted on the steamer Roma for not standing when the Fascist hymn was played . Officials declined to comment on the incident ,                     