@@699221

txt There is endless talk every year in the United States about the reform of criminal justice ; but , like MARK TWAIN 'S weather , nobody does anything about it . In The Panel that long-honored and still active veteran jurist of Ontario , the Hon. WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL , Justice of Appeal , describes the administration of criminal law in Canada . Forty years ago Canada wiped out the useless - distinction between felonies and misdemeanors . Indictments follow the forms prescribed in the criminal code . These are so simple that objections founded upon defects are never heard . Nonindictable offenses are tried by justices of the peace or police magistrates . In : dictable offenses , save the gravest , such as murder or treason , may be tried without a jury if the defendant chooses . Each Province establishes its own courts , and there are no Dominion courts of original jurisdiction corresponding to our Federal courts . Judges are appointed for life . They are expected to , and do , keep out of politics . The county prosecuting officer , the Crown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All magistrates are appointed for life or during good behavior . When a person charged with an indictable offense is brought before a magistrate , he may , but is- not forced to , make a statement . In forty years there have been only two cases of third-degree methods . A. jury panel of forty-eight , sixty or more members is chosen thus : In the local municipalities of the county certain officials select a certain number of qualified persons ; the lists from these local municipalities go to the county town and the Sheriff and other officials select the proper number . Their names , occupations , addresses , &c.,; are entered on a jury list , which every lawyer has the right to examine , and for a trifling fee obtain a copy of , a reasonable time before the court is to sit . No one has ever suggested any improper action , motive or object in the selection of a jury panel . The Grand Jury of thirteen has no initiative . It merely hears the evidence laid before it by Crown counsel . Technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is reiaided as a solemn investigation by the State , not a game in which counsel for prosecution and defense try to outsmart each other . A certain number of peremptory challenges is allowed . Counsel ' for the defense goes over the jury list . If he can show good reason for the rejection of any juror , he tells the Crown counsel and the man is excused . In fifty years Justice Rio &LL; has known of no challenge for cause . He would n't know how to deal with one . He remembers only one case where the selection of a jury took more than half an hour . The Crown counsel 's duty is " to bring out " all the facts , whether they may assist " the prosecution or the defense . " A conviction brings him no glory , an acquittal no loss of respect . If he were guilty of concealment or misrepresentation , he would forfeit the confidence of the court and the regard of his associates . The judge may question witnesses ( he does not , as a rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his right and often his duty to comment upon the evidence , to express his own opinion of witnesses and evidence ( so long as he makes it perfectly clear that the jury must makeup their own minds as to , the facts , it is their opinion , not his , that should govern ) ; he must in summing up bring before the jury the defense as clearly as the prosecution , as well as state the law clearly , fully and accurately . Let us not envy Canada too much . While a defendant may testify on his own behalf , neither prosecutor nor judge may comment on his neglect to do so . Needless to say , this prohibition is disapproved by Mr. Justice RIDDELL .                     