@@701420

txt The Italo-Ethioplan situation and European complications arising from it have developed so unexpectedly lately that Italians now look with far more apprehension to the north than they do to the south . Their preparations for war against Ethiopia are so formidable that they are confident they can crush anything Emperor Haile Selassie can put in the field . The campaign may be long and difficult but they have no doubt of the result . They are not equally cheerful when they consider their position with relation to Great Britain . Developments in that sector have been assuming an increasingly ugly look and the Italians are beginning to be quite frankly worried . The Italian fleet is preparing for extensive movements in the Mediterranean , according to The Associated Press . Premier Mussolini has summoned his Cabinet to meet him near the war games field in Northern Italy . War Heroes Volunteer . How threatening Italy believes the danger of intervention by the British fleet is illustrated by a letter addressed to Premier Benito Mussolini by Admiral Costanzo Ciano , whose son married Mussolini 's daughter ; by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy 's greatest naval heroes of the last war and in numerous exploits won the principal Italian military decorations . They ask to be recalled into service " if the threat against Italian seas becomes real " , and offer to serve if necessary even in subordinate posts . The Duke of Bergamo , who commands an infantry brigade of the Legnano Division , has at his own request been entrusted with a high command in East Africa . He is the first royal Prince to volunteer for service in Africa . The newspapers are full of reports of the movement of the British Mediterranean Fleet , the principal units of which are being sent east toward Egypt and the Suez Canal . The press states with confidence that these movements mean only that the British Fleet is setting out on its customary yearly cruise , but nevertheless they have an ominous I look in Italian eyes . Other Moves Worry Italy . Italian apprehensions are increased by the fact that British military airplanes have been passing through Greece on their way to Sudan , that troops are on the move @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the British are taking soundings in Piraeus Bay , evidently as the first move toward establishing a naval base there . These are said to be mere precautionary measures , but as the speeding of Italian troops and war materials to East Africa also is labeled a precautionary measure this phrase has an unpleasant sounds here . Italians feel that Britain is working against them and they have an uneasy foreboding she may surprise them in the midst of their campaign . They hope Britain 's interests in Ethiopia are not great enough to justify her going to extremes to defend them . They are confident nothing new will happen before the League of Nations Council meeting next month . Italian public opinion has been worked up to a high pitch of excitement and patriotic fervor and the situation would be dangerous if Britain were to attempt to curb Italy . The Italians ' mood at present is such that even the prospect of a European war would not prevent them from going ahead with their plans against Ethiopia . Italy evidently is preparing to exert utmost efforts to transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can in the next few weeks . She hopes to have a sufficient force there to fight her war whatever may happen in Europe and even in the event of communications through the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal being cut . Another 2,000 Black Shirt soldiers left Naples today aboard the Principessa Giovanna and the Nazario Sauro . They will be followed shortly by other ships carrying further contingents . Formerly the number of men leaving Italy was small compared with the quantities of material but the situation is now reversed and troop ships outnumber freighters . Pleasure Cruises Banned . Intensification of the dispatch of men to East Africa was foreshadowed by a government order prohibiting pleasure cruises . The order was applied with such speed that passengers were forced to leave one ship that was due to sail only four hours after it had been issued . This indicates the government wishes to use every available passenger steamer for transporting troops . The Federation of Seamen has appealed for ship engineers , stokers and other crew members because lof the scarcity . According to the most accurate information available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mobilized for service in East Africa are still in Italy . It will take a long time to transport all to Africa , where they will have to undergo a period of acclimatization to the higher alti. tudes of Ethiopia . Though war is expected soon , it is not believed large-scale fighting will begin for two months . It was reported tonight that Italy was preparing a voluminous report on Ethiopia to be submitted to the League Council at Geneva next month . It is said it will give detailed reasons why Italy believes Ethiopia is not worthy to be a League member , illustrating these reasons with documents and photographs , and asking for the expulsion of Ethiopia .                     