@@702302

txt As Senators and Representatives gathered in Washington today for the opening of Congress next week , the question of a Constitutional Amendment granting the Federal or State Governments power to regulate hours , wages and working conditions was raised to a place of importance among the issues to be considered at the coming session . This resulted when Senator Robinson of Arkansas , majority leader , expressed his belief that something must be done by Congress to extend public authority to these fields . And , according to his view , " a wellconsidered Constitutional Amendment may prove the best method . " Citing the Supreme Court 's limitation of Federal authority to deal with wages and hours , as laid down in the decision invalidating the Guffey Coal Act , and a like limited interpretation of State powers in the decision outlawing the New York State Minimum Wage Law , the Senator thought it " unfortunate " that neither Federal nor State Government had the right to legislate on the subject . Furthermore , he regarded it as " incomprehensible " that there was no present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry . Says Decisions Bar Legislation " It is my thought that the power should be established either in the States or in the Congress and that the decisions of the Supreme Court preclude effective legislation without amendment to the Constitution , " said Senator Robinson . " Admittedly such an amendment would provoke much debate and require time . I do not preclude myself from supporting any legislation which I am convinced would make possible reasonable control by public authority over the subject of maximum hours and minimum wages . " Occupying the position that he does  --  Democratic leader and spokesman for President Roosevelt in the Senate  --  Senator Robinson 's support of the amendment idea served to make the question one of the main issues awaiting the new Congress : The Senator 's prediction that an amending proposal would provoke much debate was not long in materializing . Within a few minutes after the statement of his views to reporters , Senator O'Mahoney expressed to the same representativeq his opposition to such an amendment . Senator O'Mahoney held that his own bill providing for a Federal incorporation act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficient to give Congress control over wages and hours . Simultaneously Senator Van Nuys of Indiana circulated to the press a statement in which , after an analysis of twenty-one amendments introduced at the recent session ' of Congress , he made known his opposition to " tinkering " with the Constitution . " I mean by ' tinkering , ' " Senator Van Nuys said , " those attempts to force throtigh amendments to meet only passing temporary conditions . In order to meet many passing conditions , I fully believe that - it is within the wisdom of the Congress to frame legislation that will successfully meet such situations , without changes in our basic law . " Senators and Representatives arriving in Washington over the holiday week-end appeared reconciled to the idea that they would be here for a long session . Senator Robinson hazarded a , prediction that the " first meeting of the new Congress would last until June . He said he saw nooccasion for haste and felt that little would be done , except of an emergency I nature , until after inauguration 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I said , that members of Congress would be idle ; they will have routine matters of organization to I attend to , both as relates to the forums and to their own office I staffs . 1 Among the emergency matters which may be attended to before inauguration is an amendment to the Neutrality Act , plugging ' up the loophole through which purchases of war materials have been made for the civil combatants in Spain . Senator Pittman of Nevada , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , and ? Representative of Tennessee , head of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs , are expected to introduce the amending legislation as soon as the new Congress is organized .                     