@@701273

txt LONDON  --  Britain and Germany signed an agreement giving the latter a permanent naval ratio of 35 per cent of the former 's fleet but 45 per cent on submarines . Britain expressed the hope that this arrangement would lead to a general naval limitation agreement . PARIS  --  The French regard the Anglo-German pact as an affront to them and a grave error on Britain 's part . They hold an arms race inevitable . BERLIN  --  Germany is overjoyed because she has approval for the strongest fleet she can afford , because she sees the dawn of a new day in Europe and because the Versailles " Diktat " has been officially pronounced dead by one of its signatories . Accord Signed in London . By CHARLES A. SEED EN . Special Cable to THE NEW Yens TIDES . LONDON , June ** AngloGerman naval treaty signed today gives Germany the right to have a fleet of 35 per cent of Great Britain 's tonnage . Moreover , by special provision , Germany may have automatically 45 per cent of the British submarine tonnage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain in that category . This last is the most startling item of this bilateral agreement whereby Germany 's violation of the naval clauses of the Versailles Treaty is accepted and regularized , as far as Britain is concerned . In other words , the British now give freely to a former enemy and a naval rival potential equality in the very type of craft which was most deadly to British interests in the last war and which British statesmen have been trying to persuade the world to abolish altogether ever since the opening of the Washington naval conference thirteen years ago . French Submarines Cited . The official explanation of the added concession to Germany on submarines is that the British tonnage in that category was so much smaller than the French that Germany considered 35 per cent would not give her a reasonable proportion of underseas craft as compared with France . If ever there was an astounding fait accompli , this is it . The matter is now beyond discussion and stands , regardless of adverse criticism in the British Parliament and of violent protests from France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a free hand from now on to rehabilitate her naval forces . The pact was signed by Foreign Secretary Sir Samuel Hoare in behalf of the British Government and by Special Ambassador Joachim von Ribbentrop for Germany before the text was made available to Members of Parliament in a document from the office of the House of Commons . Immediately on its publication there was a commotion in the parliamentary lobbies . While most members thought the government had gone too far without advance parliamentary approval , those who advocated German equality were jubilant while the pro-French followers of Sir Austen Chamberlain were grieved and dumfounded . It was difficult , in the face of these new concessions to Germany , to understand the reiterated declarations from members of the British Government that the bedrock of their policy was never to do anything to create a breach between Britain and France . Neither did today 's agreement seem to harmoze with Stresa or with the Anglo French understanding of Feb. a . The British Government , how ever , still holds its collaboration with France is unbroken . Anthony Eden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to begin talks of conciliation , the necessity for which was made fully apparent by the tenor of the French note delivered to the British Foreign Office today . The text of the French note has not yet been revealed , but is known to be severely critical of the British action and intimates that , under existing circumstances , France can not be bound by treaty limitations in her future naval construction programs but will have to build to offset the menace implied in the new German freedom . This attitude on the part of France apparently was foreseen by the framers of the Anglo-German agreement ; for , after declaring Germany will adhere to the ratio 35 to 100 under all circumstances , the agreement adds : " If the general equilibrium of naval armaments as normally maintained in the past should be violently upset by abnormal or exceptional construction by other powers , the German Government reserves the right to invite His Majesty 's government to examine the new situation thus created . " France also objects to taking the naval question as a separate problem , contending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is indivisible . Furthermore , the French note suggests today 's bilateral arrangement between London and Berlin is not in accord with the spirit of previous Anglo-French understandings . Attention is called to the fact that Germany will have a fleet that will make her a menace in both the Baltic and the North Seas . Another thing plainly foreseen by the British in framing their treaty with Germany is that there is a possibility that no general agreement on limitation of armaments can be reached by the naval powers of the world at their 1935 conference or at any other time in the near future . This doubt is implied in the fact that the Anglo-German pact provides that the 35 per cent arrangement is to be a permanent ratio , whether or not British ton nage is limited by subsequent international agreement . No Reference to Age of Ships . There is no reference in the treaty with the Berlin government to the age of the British ships to be taken as a basis on which to figure the 35 per cent . Germany is entitled to that proportion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exists today or at any time in the future . Neither is there any provision in the agreement for time lag whereby Germany commits herself not to attain full authorized strength until after a fixed period of years . That is a point , however , which may be discussed under the head of the details that the British and German delegates are going to consider during the next few days . The 35 per cent limit is both global and by categories , but leeway is provided whereby Germany may increase her proportion in one category if a corresponding reduction is made in another . It is with that understanding that Britain has made her astounding concession on submarines . Concerning that category , the agreement says : " In the matter of submarines , however , Germany , while not exceeding the ratio of 35 to 100 in respect to total tonnage , shall have a right to possess submarine tonnage equal to the total submarine tonnage possessed by members of the British Commonwealth of Nations . " Germany agrees , however , not to exercise her right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter with the British Government . ? Pact Puzzles London Observers . Although it had been known for weeks that Germany had demanded a navy 35 per cent as large as Britain 's and that the British Government was acquiescent , the actual culmination of the agreement with the surprise submarine factor caused perplexity both in diplomatic and in parliamentary groups In London . No one yet seems to have a clear explanation of this apparent shift In British policy from Paris to Berlin . It can not be accounted for by the recent change in the British Government with the replacement by Stanley Baldwin and Sir Samuel Hoare of Ramsay and Sir John Simon in the Premiership and the Foreign Office . A German naval agreement of some sort was decided upon long before this Cabinet reconstruction took place . Britain was informed of Germany 's request for a 35 per cent ratio as long ago as last March , when Sir John Simon visited Berlin . The Cabinet itself perhaps gives the real and only explanation required in the first part of today 's agreement , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government regard this proposal as a contribution of the greatest importance to the cause of future naval limitation . They further believe that the agreement , which they regard as permanent and definite as from today , will facilitate the conclusion of a general agreement on the subject of naval limitation between all the naval powers of the world . " That is the argument Mr. Eden will make in his effort to convince the French when he goes to Paris and which Sir Samuel Hoare will use in the House of Commons to meet adverse parliamentary criticism . France Held a Beneficiary . This a-gument was developed today in official circles , where the ground was taken that the AngloGerman agreement was a good thing for France as well as for all the other great naval powers desirousof limitation . It was pointed out that the new arrangement imposed no obligations whatever on any country except Germany . Furthermore , it was argued , the British accepted the fact that Germany had already violated the naval clauses of the Versailles Treaty by submarine construction , as well as by ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This could not be prevented , according to the British Government , and the next best thing was to provide something to fill the vacuum created by Germany 's unilateral action . Hence , it was stated in conclusion , today 's agreement whereby Germany has limited herself permanently to a 35-to-100 ratio in the opinion of British officials is much safer than leaving Germany free to carry out her naval program without any restrictions other than those imposed by her own finances . After the negotiations with the French which Mr. Eden is to begin in Paris Friday the British Government will have naval talks with Italy and Russia on the basis of the Anglo-German agreement . No comment has been received yet from Moscow , but it is taken for granted in London that the Soviet resentment over the new deal for Berlin will be greater than that of France . The British press comment on the whole is favorable . The Times of London will say editorially tomorrow that the new agreement makes for a better situation than existed prior to 1914 , when Germany set the pace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Change in Relations Denied . " It need hardly be said there is not the slightest intention here that the naval agreement with Germany should diminish the cordiality of relations with France and Italy or the obligations whereby Great Britain is already bound . " Locarno stands . It applies to sea as well as land . If the German fleet were to become an aggressor , it would find itself opposed by the British fleet . " Britain does not seek new understandings at the expense of old friendships . On the contrary , every effort will now be made to bring other countries into a general arrangement to limit naval strengths . " The new British Government have auspiciously begun their work of stabilization of peace . " The Liberal News-Chronicle editorially describes the agreement as " a landmark in history and maybe a portent . " " It is the first agreement for limitation of armaments since the World War to which Germany has been willing to be a party , " says The News-Chronicle , " and it is made in a field in which , before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most dangerous . It is at least possible to hope it may be the first practical move in building up at last a peace of understanding . " The Tory Morning Post approves the fact that Britain retains complete freedom concerning the size of her own fleet , but regrets that Germany can begin construction immediately , while the British are debarred from replacement until January , 1937 . This would give Germany a start of eighteen months , says The Post , which would enable her to exceed the British in underage tonnage for the next decade . The Daily Telegraph says : " So far as this country is concerned , it would be false to pretend we can welcome the prospect of a considerable German navy with bases in the North Sea ; but since Germany , while declaring its intention to break the naval clauses of the Versailles Treaty , had offered to limit its future navy , we should have missed an opportunity that would probably not recur had not we taken her at her word . " Lord Beaverbrook 's Daily Express says : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobody seriously believes the treaty can be maintained any longer in any way . " The French do not like the new agreement . They must take their own line over it . For Britain it means no naval race with Germany . So we welcome it . " The Laborite Daily Herald says : " Anybody who recalls the pre-war years must realize that the naval agreement is quite a real contribution to armament limitation and general pacification . "                     