@@702452

txt Aopea ring as the first witness before Idle Senate Judiciary Committee and immediately following President Rooselelt a fireside appeal for the change in Supreme Court personnel . Homer S Cummings , Attorney General , argued today that our ernmentid inachineiy lias ROI - ten out of balance and that balance must be restored before it can etfectisely function ' He made his statement , largely a legalistic interpretation of the same arguments presented last night by Mr. Roosevelt , before a crowded , ornate senate chamber , at which 19 Senators , 80 newspapermen and some 500 spectators crowded to hear the start of the historic testimony , The President 's plan is " the most effective remedy that has been suggested " declared Mr. Cummings after summarizing the Administration a position , and he decried the idea that it contains the " seeds of dictatorship . " " The ways of actual dictators and the manner in which they come into power make it clearly evident , " he declared , " that the courts alone can not resist their advance . Dictatotships grow out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feat , out of injustices  --  and when these forces are set in motion and dictatorships come into power , all laws , all precedents , all courts , all restraining influences are swept a way . " How Court Might Work It was Mr. Cummings ' statistical figures of court conditions and specific discussion of how the enlarged Supreme Court might organize itself for " greater efficiency , " that chiefly differentiated the statement from the Roosevelt address . I The enlarged court , he said " might I properly divide into groups tot the consideration of applications for the review of cases . " Painting a gloomy picture of the present " over-work ' of Supreme Court Judges , he argued that by the proposed panel system " five judges , considering half as many applications , could do more work than nine judges responsible for the whole number . " The Cummings idea for a group division of court labor was coupled with a proposal that only a " quorum of two thirds of the court " under enlarged membership should sit to hear cases not involving constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to examine applications for review " Only - by limiting the number of cases heard , " he argued , has the court " been able to keep abreast of its self-determined docket " The Cummings statement covered the " reckless use of injunctions ' ; the presence on the federal bench of " aged or infirm judges " ; the allegedly crowded condition of federal dockets , and - the need of an effective system for the infusion of new blood into the judiciary " Denies Packing Court Mr. Cummings denied the court proposal involved " packing " the tribunal . Such a charge , he said , involved " three unwarranted assumptions ? that the Chief Executhe not to be trusted ; that the Senate can be misled : and that the appointee will be a ' spineless puppet . ' " He added : " None of these assumptions is tenable . No one can ' pack ' the Supreme Court . That would require the concurrence of the President , 49 senators , and the appointee himself ? 51 eminent men in all  --  a preposterous suggestion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked the first question : " Suppose the enlarged court should divide 7 to 8 ? " he said . " Would n't you still have a split de . ciston ? That 's where the plan would fail , in my opinion ; we 'd be right back where we are now . We would n't have settled anything . " Mr. Cummings said he did not think this would happen if new progressive judges were appointed " That means appointing judges on your side ! " Interjected Senator King . " Not on my side  --  not/sympathetia to my views , " answered Mr. Cummings quickly , " but sympathetic to the view that an act of Congress is constitutional unless proved not to be so beyond a reasonable doubt If by that you mean sympathetic , yes , yes ! " Senator Borah : " But you would still have what you complain of  --  a Lve-to-four divided opinion . " The Goring of Whose Ox ? Mr. Cummings : " I did not complain of split decisions . I did complain of split decision which declared an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sull would have such split decisions ? " Mr. Cummings : " We 'd have to aess ept the decisions of the Supreme court " Senator Borah : " What is in my iind is do n't see how you can reach his question without an amendment 115 justices should void the New ! ork Minimum Wage Law we would e right back where we are now . " Mr. Cummings " If that should lappen the situation would be as ou describe it . But we would have he benefit of newly-appointed justces with new outlooks " Senator Borah : " How are you gong to get a court with views such is you describe ? " Mr. Cummings : " I 'll say what Mr fustice Holmes said : The constitnion has to take some chances ' We lave to take some chances . If the Ix justices appointed by the Prestlent turned out to be conservative nstead of liberal in their views , hen the situation would be ju , t that it is now " Senator Borah : " Does this bill 31 ? vide in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replied in the negative . Senator George W. Norris ( RI of Nebraska said he " most emphati:ally dissented " from the idea that it more-than-majority rule could be applied to the Supreme Court by legislative means , without a constitutional amendment . Split Decisions Always Possible " Split decisions in an enlarged court might occur if the judges apxiinted as liberals turned out to be conservatives , but I do n't think that will happen , " Mr. Cummings said a moment later to Senator ( ) ' Mahoney . " I would be willing to guess that I this law should pass we should have progressive judges , " he continued , " If you will permit a personal word , I should pi der to live under the laws we should get from Brandeis , Cardozo and Stone . " " Does that cover the NRA decision ? " retorted Senator Borah sharply , amid laughter . Mr. Cummings gave no immediate answer . A minute later he laughingly declined to state his opinion of the ( ) Mahoney amendment , requiring a two-thirds majority of the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( D ) ) f Illinois objected to consideration ' of a constitutional amendment , arguing that the hearing should be confined to the President 's proposal . Senator Henry Ashurst ( D ) of Arizona , chairman of the committee , in effect ruled for Senator Dieterich , pointing out that " 22 proposed constitutional amendments " are now before the committee and a subcommittee is studying them . Senator Warren R. Austin ( R ) of Vermont sharply attacked Mr. Cummings . He asked if a constitutional amendment could not always be put into effect if the public wished . " Not if it involves property rights , " answered Mr , Cummings . He said the Child Labor Amendment had been pending 13 years . A minute later the Vermonter charged Mt Cummings with an " innuendo " against the Supreme Court , and demanded if he were " backing down . ' He asked whether Mr. cummings believed in destroying the independence of each justice to act according to his own conscience . Mr , Cummings said It was an " unfair " question , but " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the justices damaged . " " I am a member of a minority , " cried Senator Austin ? " apparently a small minority ? " " Yes , I believe the last election showed that ! " interrupted Cummings . Senator Austin ? " At least I have always stated my views frankly ; there was no innuendo . " A minute later Senator Austin shouted : " Do you mean that the interpretations of the court as now constituted are not enlightened opinions ? " Senator Cummings : " I really think it would be futile'for me to discuss my opinions , and also that I would be out of order . " Keeping Decisions Judicial Senator Austin : " One more question . If a decision should hold an act unconstitutional , must we have that decision unanimous to keep it from being ' legislative ' action by the court ? " Mr. Cummings : " No , I do n't say that . " The Attorney General argued that the " very fact that four members of the court uphold an act should show there must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R. Burke ( D ) of Nebraska , member of the Democratic opposition took up the questioning . He asked how Mr. Cummings reconciled his statement that one judge in a five-to-four decision had overridden the will of Congress and the people in the child labor case , when eight years had elapsed and the amendment was still unratified " I believe there never was a time when the pubic did not tavor abolition of child labor , and would not ratify an amendment if presented to them , " said Mr. Cummings . " Your whole aigument is that it this act is passed then action on previous lags will be reversed , " observed Senator Toni Connally Of Texas . another opponent . " Do you think a new court would hold an NRA act constitutional ? " Burke Illumines a Point " I have only in mind a judiciary that will be open-minded on subjects such as wages , hours , child labor and other social problems , " Mr. Cummings answered . " I am aiming at a liberal type of justice . I 'm quite prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Stone , Cordozo . " " Why not reduce the court to three ? " said Senator Connally , laughing . Senator Burke entered the field again . " Do you think it would be legitimate and proper to add six judges who are definitely committed to the progressive view ? " Mr. Cummings : " Not only legitimate and proper , but desirable . " Senator Burke : " Then would you approve some future administration enlarging the court by six more members , to change the views of the court ? " In an involved reply , Mr Cummings said he was chiefly interested in the " present situation . " The session adjourned at 1 till tomorrow .                     