@@699433

txt President-elect Roosevelt has promised influential Democratic critics of the methods and personnel of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation that he will vigorously enforce " the I new deal " in that executive agency of the government . The impression which he gave to these visitors is that by way of " humanizing " the R. F. C. , he will almost completely change the directorate , reduce it in numbers and turn its policy into more liberal channels of public relief as contrasted with corporate aid . The corporation 's critics , who complained to Mr. Roosevelt about men and methods , say that they have no reason to believe that it is the disposition of the Presidentelect to spare all , if any , of those directors appointed oy President Hoover from the ranks of the Democratic party . Mr. Roosevelt , he gave his visitors to understand , would like to put the affairs of the corporation under the supervision of a man who has a public as well as a corporate viewpoint , who would be more receptive to requests for aid from such self-liquidating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who themselves would be as disentangled as possible from interests which might require aid from the corporation . Roosevelt to Act Advisedly . These specifications instantly brought the name of Alfred E. Smith to the fore for chairman of the corporation . Some of those who have talked over the matter with the Presidentelect are not inclined to believe that Mr. Smith would accept such a tender or that Mr. Roosevelt , unless he were certain that an offer would appeal to Mr. Smith , would make it . Several other Democrats have been discussed , but it is futile to recite their names because they are names which have come into every discussion of important fiscal places under the new administration . Because of Mr. Roosevelt 's expressed wish to " clean house " at the headquarters of the corporation and the difficulty of obtaining agreement in this session of Congress on any important government reforms , it is considered more probable now than it was several weeks ago that changes sought in the R. F. C. charter will be deferred until the meeting of the new Congress . Early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be strongly pressed , and those most active in the effort to obtain them believe that the promise of aid they have from the President-elect will materialize into effective support for their ideas and a sweeping change of the personnel of the directors . Value of R. F. C. Still Upheld . They are careful not to criticize the idea behind the creation of the corporation , contending that the policy of its managers has been such as to preclude a real test of its worth . The reconstruction finance act as amended provides that the board of directors shall number not more than seven members , including the Secretary of the Treasury as member ex-officio , or in his absence the Under-Secretary of the Treasury , and six other members . The act further reads that not more than four members of the board of directors shall be affiliated with any one political party and not more than one shall be appointed from any one Federal Reserve district . The directors are appointed by the President , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate , and each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are more than nine hundred attorneys , examiners , auditors , statisticians , assistants to directors and clerks employed by the corporation , their selection and compensation being determined by the board of directors . Democratic members of the board at present out-number their Republican associates . The Democrats include Atlee Pomerene , chairman ; Harvey C. Couch , Jesse H. Jones and Wilson McCarthy . The Republicans are Secretary of the Treasury Mills , ex-officio ; Gardner Cowles and Charles A ?                     