@@699429

txt Tammany 's avowed intention Cif keeping on peaceful and friendly relations with the Roosevelt-Lehman wing of the Democratic party in the State is being tried severely by the clash over the distribution of minor clerkships and small jobs which belong to the party through control of the State Senate . The total patronage involved amounts to $45,000 a year , and Tammany is trying to insure itself against the loss of many times that amount of Federal patronage . Tammany has become immediately involved in the squabble through the stand of the Roosevelt faction that Tammany make good on its implied promise to see that the Democratic State Committee got its share of the Albany jobs . According to reliable information , 22 of the 170 Senate clerkships and other minor jobs were allotted to State Chairman James A. Farley by Mr. Curry . Nearly all of these posts had been allotted by the State committee when Patrick H. O'Connell , clerk of the Senate , and brother of the two leaders of the Albany County Democrats , refused to make the appointments on the ground that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build up the Roosevelt-Farley organization up-State , and the up-State bloc aligned with Tammany was being ignored . Roosevelt Faction Waiting . Mr. O'Connell had been selected as clerk of the Senate at a conference in New York City , attended by the five Democratic county leaders in the city , and several from up-State . The conference was called by Mr. Curry . The Roosevelt group is reported to take the attitude that it intends to do nothing at the present time to enforce the agreement on the twenty-two posts allotted to the State committee and that the enforcement of the agreement is entirely up to Mr. Curry . The implication drawn from this is that if the agreement is not lived up to , the local as well as the upState counties which belong to the Tammany bloc will suffer in the distribution of the Federal patronage of which Mr. Farley will be th sole dispenser . The Tammany bloc first manifested itself as a working organization at the meeting of the Democratic State Committee in Albany Prior to the Democratic National Convention last Summer . It controlled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Farley as chairman . The chief components of the bloc are New York , Kings , Queens and Richmond counties in the city ; Nassau , Albany , Rensselaer and Onondaga Counties up-State . They stood together at the Democratic National Convention ? in Chicago . where they reached their greatest strength , and again , for a time , at the Democratic State Convention in Albany . Edward J. Flynn of the Bronx , Secretary of State , failed , it has been disclosed , to put in a formal bid for any of the Senate patronage posts at the conferences here , letting Majority Leader John . J. Dunnigan , who ' comes from the Bronx , and other committee chairmen from the Bronx obtain whatever patronage was due that county . Curry Working for Peace . The matter has caused Mr. Curry concern in the past few days , and definite disposal of the Senatorial clerkships has been held up , presumably at his instance , in an effort to reach a compromise . Mr. Curry has been hi conference with Senator Dunnigan . Edward and Daniel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ closed doors at the Democratic State Convention in Albany to prevent the nomination of Herbert H. Lehman for Governor and to obtain it for John Boyd Thacher . Mayor of Albany . Mr. Curry stayed with them until the combination was shattered beyond repair by the desertion of John H. McCooey 's delegates from Brooklyn . Immediately after the nomination Mr. Curry pledged his loyalty to the Lehman candidacy and helped roll up the record plurality for him in the city . Since the election the attitude of Mr. Curry and Tammany toward Governor Lehman has been extremely conciliatory and there is no desire in Tammany to have a break with the RooseveltLehman camp over the unimportant Senate patronage posts ..                     