@@700904

txt Lifting of the exchange restrictions a week ago has been followed by definite signs of a repatriation of American capital formerly domiciled abroad . Should the movement continue over any length of time . it would probably swell the pool of bunk credit available here for investment in American business and securities . At the same time , Europe is displaying more interest in American securities than for the past several months , coincident with improved sentiment regarding stability of the dollar . The gold movement from Europe appeared to be checked for the time being as the gold currencies gained on improved sentiment regarding the European political situation . A shipment of $1,000,000 gold from Paris to New York was cancelled and the Total movement is just over $100.000,000 . A prolonged capital movement to this country would place the American Treasury in a position to acquire foreign exchange for silver purchases without upsetting rates . Repatriation Has Begun Repatriation of American capital formerly domiciled abroad for a year or more has now begun . Amounts involved so far have been varying in size , from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggregate the development is such as to lend foreign exchange quarters to discuss seriously the possibility of major effect upon the exchange rates , particularly sterling . and ultimate effects upon bank credit and investment markets in this country . With the exchange market operating without the hindrance of restrictions for barely a week , the movement of repatriated capital already has fallen into well defined clasifications , private and commercial , which in the beginning represented direct and indirect flight from this country . A considerable amount of American capital fled this country before restrictions were placed on its outflow . ' Most of this has been held in London either in the form of sterling bank balances , investments in British securities or in gold or silver . ' These balances are beginning to be converted into dollars . Exchange authorities believe that once confidence in the dollar has been fully restored . capital return will have profound effects upon American security markets . Considerable capital flight took place indirectly from the " commercials . " Exporters , for example . who sold goods in England or other countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary minimum for business requirements , preferring to hold the balances principally in the form of sterling . Some of the commercial offerings of sterling which are now seen in the loreign exchange market are believed to represent the conversion of part of these accumulated balances . Exchange Restrictions Off For the most part , exchange circles here attribute the beginning of the movement to the lifting of the exchange restrictions by the American Treasury a week ago While officials chalacterized the move simply as the elimination of red tape without practical significance , the step was generally regarded as indicative of official faith in the soundness of the dollar . Foreign interest in American securities has been more steady , it is said . in the past two weeks than at any tune in recent months Vol- , ume of business done each day is not large . it is said , but tiachng is being carried out - on a noire confident basis In addition , it is reported that there is much more active inquiry from abroad regarding investment yields , prospects , earnings , etc. , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American markets as favorable investment mediums Uncertainty over the dollar , was one prime deterrent for such interest in the past . Gold Currencies Impro.e Seemingly a paradox , the beginning of the capital repatriation has been accompanied by an improvement in the Etnopean gold bloc cal : - rem:les to a point where gold shipments fiom Paris to New York were brought to a definite check . Total movement is believed to have amounted to just over $100,000,000 . This improvement was brought about by a distinct betterment of sentiment regarding the near future for the gold standard in Europe , although the minor units were weak against the franc . With no new engagements of gold for shipment to New York reported , one consignment from Pacts was cancelled , amounting to roughly $1,000,000 . Unless some unforeseen bad news comes from Europe , particularly Belgium . in the next few days , exchange tradeis believe that the peak of the current crisis ha , been passed . This is the reason that sterling is dropping against the franc and the price of gold in London advanced Monday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saturday Declining sterling would bring still higher prices for gold in London and the possible effect upon gold shares in London was being considered . Long Drawn Process Repatriation of capital as a rule is a much more long drawn out process than capital flight , it was pointed out , because international capital moves quickly clue to fear , but dissipation of the fear takes longer . If the movement ultimately develops into major proportions , the American Stabilization Fund will be faced with the problem of maintaining stability in the dollar-sterling market In the face of a definite trend . At the same time , the volume of temporary funds in London has been one of the major stumbling blocks to sterling stabilization , because of the unknown quantity it presented for the British balance of payments . A major capital movement to this country from abroad would place the American Treasury in position to acquire foreign exchange for its silver purchase program without upsetting the foreign exchange markets . As sterling was offered for dollars the Treasury could match the offers with bids and maintain a steady market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drifting steadily downward with slight interest except from China where selling orders daily are sent to London . The London quotation has dropped steadily since November 12 , from 2534d per ounce to 24 5/16d for spot , In New York , the steady decline since November 13 has carried the price down 1% cents to 54 cents per ounce .                     