@@699347

txt President " ' " Hoover is displaying an interest in the reorganization of the Republican party lively enough to convince several important Republican Senators that he desires and expects . to be renominated in 1936 . The December dinner of the Gridiron Club tonight brought together for the first time since the election a large and representative group of the State leaders of Mr. Hoover 's party . In their informal conferences in hotel rooms today the uppermost topics were how and when is the national committee to be reorganized and will the President attempt to keep his control of the committee for 1936 purposes ? After conferring with at least two Senators who have discussed reorganization with Mr. Hoover , the State Republican leaders concluded that he wants to be a candidate four years from now . Among the political events of the day was a luncheon given by Senator Hatfield of West Virginia for Charles Dewey Hilles , New York 's National Committeeman . Reorganization was the leading subject of the protracted conference which followed , and it was reported that Mr. Hilles would like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . The understanding here is that a Hilles set-up would be opposed to the renomination of the President , not out of personal hostility , but based on a widespread belief that Mr. Hoover can not be re-elected and is the favorite Republican of no State in the union . Inferences Supporting the Theory . Two facts and many inferences support the understanding that Mr. Hoover wants to run again . The facts are : The steady dispatch from the White House of Presidential nominations to office , although the Senate Democrats have served notice that they will not confirm these . The report of a Senator to some of his Republican colleagues that the President suggested that Lawrence Richey would be a good man to take ' charge of party reorganization . This is taken the more seriously because Mr. Richey is expected to remain here after March 4 as the personal representative of Mr. Hoover . Of course , the more Republicans who hold office through this administration 's appointment , or whose names have been sent to the Senate and . failed of confirmation through no fault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various States . As for Mr. Richey , he is the President 's most confidential friend and most devoted supporter . He is the other self of Herbert Hoover , and all his political efforts have been and will always be bent to obtain for the President whatever the President wants . Because of this single-mindedness alone , Mr. Richey is the last man whom most Republican politicians would want to have charge of the national party machinery , and this is without regard to the fact that his qualifications as a party manager do not impress them . They did not impress the Senator who brought back Mr. Richey 's name to his colleagues , and the effect in the cloak room was the same . But it helped to strengthen the belief that Mr. Hoover is by no means through with his quest for public office . Compares Hoover to Cleveland . " In reading the history cf his predecessors , " a Senator who is not friendly to the President said today , " Hoover has decided that he is a second Cleveland and will have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believes that in the four years to follow the country will repent its support of Governor Roosevelt , that the Democratic party will prove itself unfit to deal with the succession of economic crises which he envisages , and that the ' people will turn penitently and overwhelmingly back to him in 1936 . " Have you noticed how the President 's semi-official journalistic spokesmen have been discrediting rumors of a Coolidge comeback ? The whole scheme should be plain to any one who knows politics and who knows how few men can relinquish their thirst for power and their desire for ' vindication . ' " This Senator is one of those who got the story of the Richey proposal . He added that , plans or no plans , Mr. Hoover is " through " and that the sentiment among Republicans in Congress is distinctly opposed to a return from Palo Alto . In this connection there is a report on Capitol Hill that Representativeelect James W. Wadsworth Jr . of New York is a leader in the movement to wrest the national committee from the President 's control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " more in key , " as some Senators express it , " with what the American people want . " Wants to Keep Party Control . Persons who have talked with the President say that he is not at all unmindful of the more than 15,000 , - 000 who voted for him , or of the small majorities by which he lost certain pivotal States last November . They believe , after their conversation , that Mr. Hoover considers these 15,000,000 to represent the great percentage of the influential , and " thinking " people of the country , and that he rates most of the 6,000,000 or 7,000 , - 000 who shifted to Mr. Roosevelt this year as emotional and impressionable drifters who will drift back again . Certainly there are surface evidences to sustain the Senatorial impression that Mr. Hoover has 1936 in mind and intends to keep control of the party machinery if he can . Nothing aroused so much interest among the State leaders who gathered in Washington today and to whom the impression was conveyed in tones ranging from indignation and alarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              