@@702031

txt Gov . Alf M. Landon , Republican nominee for the presidency , will open his speaking campaign late in August in the east , it was announced today after a conference between the governor and John D. M. Hamilton , national chairman . The governor will make at least two major speeches on this trip , one at West Middlesex , Pa. , his birthplace , and another at Buffalo . He also will speak at Chautauqua , N. Y. , where his family had a summer home when he was a child . " This eastern trip is definite , " said Hamilton . " The exact dates will be announced next Monday or Tuesday in Chicago . He will leave the west somewhere between Aug. 20 and 25 . These three points will be the extent of his first trip , although he may make some rear platform appearances . To Include N. Y. Later . " It is a good guess that he will make another eastern trip later which will include New York City . We discussed his general campaign itinerary but have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long distance conversation with former Gov . Joseph B. Ely of Massachusetts today and said that he expected soon to be able to announce the names of an outstanding Democrat or two who had come over to the Landon camp . He said that Landon clubs , which take in Democrats as well as Republicans , are being formed in many parts of the country . There are 50 in Cleveland . The chairman said that he had been in conversation with party leaders in seven or eight sections , who told him the Landon speech had been " splendidly received . " He mentioned two in upper New York , one in Pennsylvania , one in Indiana , and one in southern Illinois . More than a thousand telegrams on this subject had been received at the governor 's office this afternoon . He Leaves for Chicago . Hamilton left for Chicago tonight . He is to speak in Indiana on July 28 and start a trip of all the states west of the Mississippi on Aug. 3 . Asked about reports recently received from various states he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . Ohio , as Farley says , is in the bag . Missouri is a question of the machine in Kansas City . We are going to tear down the Democratic majority in Chicago and carry Illinois . A lot of fellows say I am writing the picture too high . but I am only telling you the reports I now have . " With the acceptance speech out of the way and the issues on which the campaign will be fought now solidified , Landon himself today began the task of preparing campaign addresses in amplification of last night 's outline . He has important conferences next week in Topeka and soon after that will go to join his family in their summer ranch home at Estes Park , Colo . The governor was in cheerful mood this morning . He came down to his desk at the capitol at 8 o'clock and looked out over the " battlefield " of last night . Fearful for the Flowers . " My talk did n't bring rain anyway , " said the governor , looking out upon the burned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lawn last night , " he said . He has decided not to comment daily on political subjects , but to reserve his fire for his later campaign talks . One of the notification visitors who remained over today to talk with the governor was former Congressman Oscar De Priest of Chicago . He invited the governor to a Labor day picnic in the forest preserve at 87th and Western , promising him a crowd of 200,000                     