@@702549

txt Three paroled convicts will be put to death in the electric chair in the county jail shortly after midnight tonight for the murder of two policemen . One is Frank Whyte , 47 years old , known as Doc , a man with cold , calculating eyes and a steady trigger finger . The second is Stanley Mur ? awski , 37 , swarthy and scheming . The third is Joseph Schuster , who is only 30 , but whose criminal career dates back ten years . There still remains a frail hope that he alone of the three may be saved today . Slayers Calm In Cells . Whyte and Murawskt calmly read books last night to show they could take It . Schuster , in a sudden fit of sobbing in the afternoon , tried to shift the blame to girls he had known . They wanted pretty clothes , he said , and made him steal to buy them . Last night Schuster recovered his poise and wrote letters in his cell . Policeman Michael Toth was slain by Whyte and Murawskt last Nov. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was shot to death by Schuster last Jan. 14 on the steps of an elevated station after the police . man had seized him for a drug store holdup . Efforts to save the slayers failed yesterday . Gov . Horner , following the recommendation of the state board of pardons and paroles , turned down Whyte 's plea for executive clemency filed by Attorney James M. Burke . The board will hear a similar plea in Joliet today by William Scott Stewart , Schuster 's lawyer . Final de . cision in this case also will rest withl the governor . No Hope for Murawskt . Public Defender Benjamin Bach . rach said nothing more could be done for Murawskt . A stay of execu ? Lion has been refused him by the state Supreme court . Stewart made two futile efforts yesterday to aid Schuster . He first sought a writ of error and super . sedeas in the state Supreme court . In refusing to assume jurisdiction in the case the court else denied Stewart 's alternate motion that the execution be postponed to give him time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked a stay from Judge John J. Lupe of the Criminal court , who sentenced Schuster . Judge Lupe ruled that the Supreme court had in effect denied the same motion , and he would not put himself in the position of reviewing the court 's decision . The attorney took a bill of exceptions and said he would make a new appeal to the Supreme court this morning . Schuster 's sister , Mrs. Ruth Besserer , who was in the courtroom , shrugged helplessly when asked what more she planned to do to save his life . With her was Miss Josephine Joseph , sweetheart of the slayer . Warden Frank Sala and George Stoltz , assistant night superintendent of the county jail , have completed preparations for the triple execution . Sain has added three dummy switches to the switch connected with the elec. tric chair , so that none of the four jail guards who operate them will know if he performs the executions .                     