@@699292

txt Before discussing the trouble with New York City finances Controller BERRY is at pains to point out what is not the trouble with them . While the gross funded debt of the city has reached the impressive total of $2,333,706,091 , at least a quarter of that sum , $635,291,328 , is self-supporting ; the revenue from docks , subways and water supply is sufficient to meet all the annual interest and amortization charges . Although the conditions under which much of this indebtedness was incurred have been mischievous , it is not excessive borrowing which has brought the city to its present crisis : the margin of legal debt-incurring power under the 10 per cent limit imposed by the Constitution is still nearly $600,000 , - 000 . The Controller is also able to show that conservative estimates of general fund revenues have enabled the city to balance its budgets , year after year , in fact as well as in form , Nor is New York seriously embarrassed , even today , as other communities have been recently , by failure to collect back taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in its day-by-day expenditures out of the tax budget , has been plainly living beyond its means . A beginning has at last been made at retrenchment by various economies , mostly of a bookkeeping order , aggregating some $74,000,000 in the budget for 1933 . The Controller agrees with those who hold that the city must go further . His latest report is a sort of cranium gatherum of fiscal reforms advocated from time to time by various experts , including himself , with some notable additions . Thus the city 's chief fiscal officer recommends , among other changes , a further reconsideration of real estate valuations , a survey of the departments to lay bare waste and duplication , a " capital outlay budget , " capital outlay reserve funds to relieve the city of the necessity of borrowing so much money currently on contract account , and an advance of one month ? from May 1 to April 1 and from Nov. 1 to Oct. 1 ? in the dates when taxes become due and payable . All these reforms should help , but they hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only toward the close of his report that the Controller comes to grips , in some respects for the first time , with the present emergency . He more than hints at a further modification of transit policies . When he states , categorically , that the " City " of New York should have the final " word as to the amount of all sal " aries paid to city employes of " every kind , " he is enunciating a doctrine which will command wide public support . Even Tammany Hall may find it difficult to oppose a grant of power so clearly consonant with home rule . It is rather late now to hold the special session of the Legislature which the Controller suggests , but legislation along this line should be the first order of business on the calendar of the regular session in January . Meanwhile , the Board of Estimate , if it approves the Controller 's recommendation , can be preparing to take advantage of it , relying on further legislative sanction for the reopening of the 49S$ budget . As to the policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt . He is a convert , at the eleventh hour , to the vvy salary reductions which not Tong ago he helped the Tammany members of the board to defeat . No one could present the case more convincingly : Every one who works for wages is interested to the solvency ' , of his employer . Those who work for the City of New York have a big stake in the soundness of its finances . We have reached a stage where it is absolutely essential that the credit of the municipal corporation must be improved by reduced spending in all our activities . I have hoped that economies could be introduced that would relieve us of the necessity of reducing wages , but the situation that confronts us calls for immediate action , action that must take form in the budget of 1933 if the taxpayers are to have the relief that their condition demands .                     