@@698616

txt Every credit must be given to the French for what they considered to be constructive propo , - sals . But the idea of a militarized League of Nations which has been advocated from the beginning  --  and which I personally discussed in 1919 with Leon Bourgeois  --  seems to denote a certain incomprehension of the true functions of the League . In the view of most of its founders . though compromises were made in the Covenant , the League must possess a moral authority , or it wit ! break asunder , and the last state will be worse than the first . A right conception of the League seems to be that of a universql organization whose members are pledged to peace . If perchance one of its members violated its pledge , the fact would be unfortunate and would demonstrate that the ideal has not het been attained . But surely confusion would be worse confounded were the other ** s of the League , and the League itself , then to violate their pledge and resort to arms . Authority Without Arius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reign of moral authority has not yet arrived . That may be true , but if it be true we must , while striving for the reign of moral authority , refrain from organizing might against might . That is to say , the league as such must endeavor to strengthen its moral authority . That the various nations , in their individual capacity , might be teleased from their pledges in certain circumstances , and be permitted to fight for their interests which are attacked , is arguable ; but the functions of the League as such are different . They are not only different  --  they are opposed . The use of force in the world will never be overcome by the use of a counter force of the same character . There are here two separate planes of thought . Force against force perpetuates force . It may be Inevitable at present for nations to employ force ; but that is not . t reason for the employment of force by a League whose purpose is to bring into world affans a higher method of thought and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the French proposals , but there ale many incidental objections . It surely follows , if the League is to be built on military might , that it must possess the greatest military might , for its defeat would be calamitous . It also follows that it must have a headquarters staff and that this headquarters staff must be occupied in drawing up hypothetical plans of campaign against all the members of the League . Nor is there any likelihood that the League would find itself in agreement as to the employment of the League forces . There has been much loose thinkIing among pacifists , but it may be taken as certain that in military matters nationalism and internationalism will not blend , for stern practical reasons ; and that , for clear moral reasons , war can not be subH utgated by war , but must be eradicated from the human consciousness .                     