@@702578

txt Day 's Strike Developments Eleven film crafts called 6,000 members to strike in Hollywood and other unions were taking votes affecting 4,000 members . The Screen Actors Guild deferred action a week pending a conference with producers . Page 1 . Hotel strikers maintained orderly picket lines in San Francisco . Many of th , 6,000 guests in the city 's fifteen chief hostelries , deprived of virtually all service , spent the time in the lobbies watching the pickets parade . Page 10 . Third Avenue Railway Company here yielded to union 's demands for a referendum . Page 10 . . The board of Garment Workers Union scored the A. F. of L. " Rule or Ruin " policy in a report on the C. I. 0 . issue at Atlantic City . Page 11 . Movie Strike Widened By The Associated Press . HOLLYWOOD , May ** motion picture industry strike received I a temporary setback tonight when I the strong Screen Actors Guild ! voted to defer action on a walkout until its board could confer with the film producers on Wednesday night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federated Motion Picture Crafts led to orders being issued to their 6,000 members not to report for work tomorrow . The Guild , with 5,600 members , including most of the stars and practically all the lesser actors and extras , is not a member of the federation , but met tonight to decide whether to support it . It was decided that the players would continue to go through federation picket lines until final action was taken by the Guild when its board reports back to a general meeting next Sunday . Speakers urged a peaceful pressing of their demands , with efforts to prevent a walkout , if possible . Gillmore Flies From New York Frank Gillmore , head of Actors Equity , parent organization of the guild , flew here from New York and attended the meeting , which assembled about 4,000 in a closed session in the American Legion Stadium . Frequent cheers could be heard . Robert Montgomery , president of the guild presided , and among notable players present were Lee Tracy , Alan Mowbray , Franchot Tone , Joan Crawford , Joan Blondell , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gale Sundergaard , Fred Stone and wife , . Frank and Frank Morgan . Chester Morris , a vice president of the guild , was there , and . so were Lew Ayers , Rcbert Young , Paul Muni , Frederic March , Walter Connelly , Pat O'Brien , John Boles , Florence Rice , Leo Carillo , Ralph Bellamy and Leslie Howard . The cardinal demand of the guild , as with the federated crafts , is that the producers accept the guild as the sole bargaining agency for the film players . The crafts had demanded recognition only , so far : The guild , it was announced , presented several demands last week regarding working conditions , working time and overtime for the extra and free lance players . For the Actors Guild to call a strike an affirmative vote of 75 per cent of the senior members ( those who receive $250 or more a week ) would be necessary . Question Before Other Unions Individual unions of the Federated Motion Picture Crafts which voted today to abide by the federation 's strike call are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooks , studio utility workers , machinists and the boilermakers and welders union . Still other unions allied with the federation were to vote tonight and tomorrow on a strike call that would directly affect 10,000 of the 40,000 persons employed in making pictures . Painters , scenic artists and makeup artists were ordered to strike last week . Draftsmen , who were reported to have been ordered to strike , acted on their own volition in walking out of the two studios last week , their officials said today , and a , vote his not yet been taken on whether they are to join . the walkout . If the walkout materializes when picture shooting resumes tomorrow , practically all productions at nine studios would be seriously impaired , . if not halted altogether . Strike headquarters announced that all theaters in Los Angeles showing pictures produced by the major studios would he picketed tomorrow in an effort to dissuade union screen projectionists from entering . Charge of " Company Union " Charles C. Leasing , representing the Federated Crafts , said that the federation had been authorized by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , were under orders to strike . Eight unions , he added , had voted this authorization . Mr. Lessing , emerging from a union meeting before joining a strike strategy conference attended by forty union representatives , accused the producers of " the unholy subsidizing of the Internatiohal Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employes as a company union . " " This unsavory organization supplied strike-breakers to the motion picture studios yesterday and today , " he said . Mr. Leasing , temporary head of the unions , which are affiliated with the American Federation of Labor , said that the producers " have erred in their estimate of the seriousness of the situation . " He has refused an offer of aid from the Committee on Industrial Organization .                     