@@700710

txt Faced with the most serious crisis since the earthquake and fire of 1906 and with a serious food shortage impending as a result of the strike , city and State authorities tonight made plans to protect the general public and feed the hungry . Mayor Rossi issued a proclamation late tonight declaring a state of emergency . In his proclamation he called upon the citizens to avoid " hysterical action " and declared that acts of violence would not be tolerated and that " our people must be fed and clothed " and " must be afforded the opportunity of obtaining these things which are necessary for their health and comfort . " " It is my sworn duty , " proclaimed the Mayor , " and a duty which I will perform to the utmost , to exert every power at my command to see that no injury comes to our people or to their property . " National . Guardsmen , 2,000 strong , who have been on guard at the State-owned waterfront , were prepared to take up vantage points in various parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 4,000 more guardsmen were being held in readiness to move into the city at the order of Governor Frank F. Merriam . The city 's police force of 1,300 men was augmented by 500 extra men on a radio proclamation by Mayor Rossi . At the same time the Governor ordered the California Highway Patrol to cooperate with Sheriffs in keeping highways clear for any food trucks that might brave the gauntlet of strike pickets . The pickets already have dammed the flow of necessities into the city . All Meat Markets Closed . Citizens already have begun to feel the paralyzing effect of the strike . Thousands of workers remained away from their jobs today because they were afraid they would be unable to return home if they went to work . By 6 P. M. , all meat markets were closed , as the butchers went on strike . Food and gasoline supplies were nearly exhausted . Grocery stores had sold staples and their remaining supplies of fresh foodstuffs as long as these lasted , but as early as noontime scores of shops throughout the entire bay area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Sold Out . " The problem of maintaining the supply of fresh food to hospitals ' was one of the first to arise . The strikers made arrangements to see that food was supplied to the forty hospitals and other charitable institutions , but it was recalled that such arrangements would be difficult of fulfillment . Maintenance of milk deliveries by truck presented still another difficulty to be overcome : As far as the city and county hospitals were concerned the Community Chest took care to provide for them and also for various emergency hospitals , under arrangements with the strikers . Private institutions , however , will not benefit from these plans . Committee Acts to Aid . Poor . A Community ... : best committee also took steps to serve the sick poor in institutions . The only official estimate as to the amount of fresh food on hand placed the supply as being large enough only to last over the . weekend . In the face of the dwindling food supply the picket blockade on all highways leading into the city continued in full force and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the classification listed as exempt . In this connection it was pointed out that one of the first acts of the newly created general strike committee was to issue a statement that regular deliveries of all commodities would be made to the homes of strikers : Other citizens must take their chances , and were sure only of water , gas , electricity and telephone communication , it was said . Governor Merriam 's order for the protection of highways leading into the city provided that the highway patrol in each county act with the force of Sheriffs in providing safe conduct for trucks bearing foodstuffs , and safe convoy for the trucks between county boundaries . Central Gasoline Station . In the city proper , a central service station has been set up to provide Police , Fire and Health Departments , hospitals and doctors with gasoline and oil for their motors . Supplies of gasoline and oil were transported to the station on huge trucks bearing emergency service signs . In the face of the imminent food shortage the Mayors of six East Bay cities issued an extraordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Citizens were told that the government " can not permit any citizens to be deprived of food " and that a plan of distribution would he worked out promptly . This plan provides for the setting up of regional food committees . with units in each block Citizens were asked to stand in readiness to serve on the committees , to save their gasoline for use in distributing food by automobile and to act at once if called upon to do relief Meantime , large numbers of automobiles were stalled because of lack of gasoline . On numerous gasoline stations appeared the announcements . " Out of gas due to strike conditions . "                     