@@699145

txt Eamon de Valera , as president of the Council , opened the thirteenth annual Assembly of the League of Nations in the Electoral Hall here today- with a call for strong measures . He urged strongly the conservative action of executing without fear or favor for great or small the League covenant 's pledges of peace and disarmaments as the only means of saving the world from the grave dangers in wars already started in the Far East and Latin America and threatening in Europe . He urged radical action to prevent an " impending economic col ? la pse. " and " to organize economic life deliberately and purposely to provide as its first object for the fundamental needs of all of our citizens so every one may at least be reasonably clothed and fed . " Rarely has Geneva heard such a speech . least of all on such an occasion . It was Mr. de Valera ' . : personal work and together with the way he presided over the Council Saturday it unquestionably made him the outstanding personality of this session . Hailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hailed as the " League 's new strong man " as he made the world 's salvation thus depend on the covenant . " The avoidance of wars , " he said , " and of the burden of preparatory armaments is of such concern to humanity that no State should be permitted to jeopardize the common interest by selfish action contrary to the covenant and no State is powerful enough to stand for long against the League if the League 's anxious peoples are determined the covenant shall be upheld . " Some more realism came a little later when Nicholas Politis of Greece , whom the Assembly elected its president , spoke . Geneva then heard a League official for the first time declare flatly that war was going on ? not disputes . conflicts , hostilities and undeclared war , but war . He said : " In widespread regions the horrible evil of war , alas , has reappeared . International organization has been powerless to prevent it . It was set to work immediately seeking to limit its duration and effects , but only mediocre results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without relaxation until these fires are extinguished , while keeping constantly its eyes open , because there are signs of weakening in the spirit and will for peace . " Having heard all this and more from Mr. de Valera and Mr. Politis in the morning , the delegates in the afternoon elected six vice presidents of the Assembly . Though five of these always go to the great powers , the voting gave the Assembly its first chance to act politically . Of forty-eight votes , Baron Pompeo Aloisi of Italy got forty-four ; Edouard Herriot , Baron von Neurath and Sir John Simon each forty-two ; Tomas Francisco Medina of Nicaragua thirty-eight , and Dr. Harukazu Nagaoka of Japan thirty-four . Appeals for Confidence . Nicaragua was chosen because this is the only Latin-American State that has never had this honor , but the fact that Nicaragua got more than Japan sharpened the political effect of the vote . In opening the Assembly Mr. de Valera said : " If the League is to prosper or even survive it must retain the support and confidence of public opinion as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final analysis the League has no sanctions but the force of world opinion . At the moment that is profoundly true , and it seems to me therefore that it is time for us to ask ourselves what is the attitude of the outsider , the average man or woman , to the League and all this activity at Geneva . Friends and enemies of the League alike feel that the testing time has come and they are watching to see if the test will reveal the weakness presaging ultimate dissolution or the strength that will be the assurance of a renewal of vigorous growth . The eyes of all peoples are focused on Geneva today as perhaps they never have been before . " Let us be frank with ourselves . There are on all sides complaint , criticism and suspicion . People are complaining that the League is devoting its activity to matters of secondary or very minor importance . while vital international problems of the day , problems which touch the very existence of peoples , are being shelved or postponed or ignored . " People are saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that matter , that smaller States . while being given a voice , have little real influence in the final determination of League action , that they have not what they were intended or are entitled to have under the covenant . People are becoming impatient and starting even to inquire whether the apparently meagre face-saving results of the successive League conferences and meetings justify the burden which the contributions to the League budget and the expense of sending delegation after . delegation to Geneva impose upon the already overburdened national taxpayer . " Finally , . there is a suspicion abroad that little more than lip service is paid to the fundamental principles on which the League was founded ; there is a suspicion that the action of the League in the economic sphere can be paralyzed by the pressure of powerful national interests and that if the hand that is raised against the covenant is sufficiently strong it can smite with impunity . " Assails Critics . Mr. de Valera continued : " Do not misunderstand me . A great deal of the criticism which I described is without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A. great deal of it is the criticism of the man who in national as in international affairs demands immediate solutions for problems of the difficulties of which he knows nothing . A great deal of it perhaps also is not wholly disinterested . But if this criticism is unjustified what have we done to give it a really effective answer . " The one effective way of silencing criticism of the League and bringing to its support millions who at present stand aside in apathy or look at its activities with undisguised cynicism is to show unmistakably that the covenant of the League is a solemn pact , the obligations of which no State , great or small , will find it possible to ignore . The only alternative to competitive armaments is security for national rights , which uncompromising adhesion to the principles of the covenant will afford . The avoidance of wars and of the burden of preparatory armaments is of such concern to humanity that no State should be permitted to jeopardise the common interest by selfish action contrary to the covenant and no State is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the League and its peoples are determined that its covenant shall be upheld . Calls for Disarmament . " There is not a doubt that the critics of the League will measure the confidence that can be placed in it by the confidence which the more powerful members of the League themselves place in the security the League is capable of affording , and that will of a certainty be judged by the success or failure of the disarmament conference . Without progressive disarmament it is almost impossible that the League should survive . The success of the disarmament conferences then is of prime importance to the League , and I hope enlightened public opinion in favor of disarmament will make itself increasingly felt in every State . " Of no less , but of even greater importance , perhaps , is the economic conference . " On every side there is real evidence of an - impending economic collapse . Twenty-five millions of unemployed are crying out for the recognition of the right of themselves and their families to work and live . A hundred million people are faced with starvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where human energy and scientific and mechanical development have reached a stage of potential production capable of meeting many times the peoples ' needs . " It is our duty here to face this anomalous and desperate situation frankly and honestly , not as representatives of States or parties or special interests , but as men who realize the primary duty of statesmen , national and international , is to plan for the well-being and happiness of their fellows  --  the plain , ordinary human beings in every country who feel , think and suffer . Demands Radical Changes . " Here as in other fields the time has come for action . The whole basis of production , distribution , nance and credit requires a complete overhauling . " If we fail to make the radical changes obviously necessary , if we fail to organize our economic life deliberately and purposely to provide , as its first object , for the fundamental needs of all our citizens so that every one may at least be reasonably clothed and fed we shall be failing in our duty and failing ignobly and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am confident that if we are left free to pursue our own policy we shall succeed not only in securing the proper adjustment of our own social and economic life but we will be able in addition to contribute more than our share to human progress throughout the world . " I want you to believe that we in Ireland desire peace , peace at home and throughout the world . In spite of opinions you may have formed from misleading reports , I want you to know our history is the history Of a people who consistently sought merely to be allowed to lead their own lives in their own way , in peace with their neighbors and the world " If we are left free our way will be the way of peace , of thinking in terms - not of selfish interest nor of acquisition of territory nor of petty power , but of human beings living as they have a right to live in the best that our State can give them , while contributing t , the world the best that is in us . " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follows : " The conflict in the Far East must . I feel , be referred to . When the special Assembly began to discuss this question serious fighting involving - heavy loss of life was actually in progress in the region of Shanghai . That happily is no longer the case . Larger Problems Unsolved . " But it is none the less true that the larger problems at issue in that conflict remain unsolved . The commission which was dispatched by the Council to the scene of the conflict on the initiative of Japan has just reported . I am sure I voice the feeling of the whole Assembly when I express the hope that the report of the commission will be conducive toward a just and final settlement of the dispute and the methods and principles of the covenant will find justification in their triumph over all the difficulties with which this problem has been surrounded . " After saying in Gaelic , " May God assist us in the exalted task before us ; may He not permit that we should fail , " Mr. de Valera , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribute to the Secretary General . Only three of the League 's fiftysix members were absent  --  Argentina , Honduras and San Domingo . Four Premiers , twenty-three Foreign Ministers and ten women delegates are attending . Three orators want to speak , so the general discussion will begin and perhaps not end tomorrow .                     