@@704064

txt Sharp criticism of the National Government 's spending policy on public works by Governor Raymond E. Baldwin of Connecticut developed into a controversy along party lines at the opening session of the thirty-first annual Governors ' Conference here today . The Connecticut Governor , a Republican , asserted that the Federal Government under President Roosevelt was using the distress caused by unemployment to encroach upon the sovereignty ' of the States and the WPA payroll to extend political and economic theories in which many of the American people had no confidence . Declaring that what was needed for recovery was more jobs in private industry , Governor Baldwin attacked the WPA as wasteful and its workers as potentially politically subservient . He said public works projects should be helpful to instead of competitive with private industry and contended that the present policies of the Roosevelt Administration were tending toward centralization of power in the Federal Government , which would lead , if continued , to some form of collectivism , fascism , communism or socialism . The American people , he asserted , were in danger of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Debate the Point In the discussion which followed , the division was along party lines . Agreement with at least some of Governor Baldwin 's assertions was expressed by Governors John W. Bricker of Ohio , Nels H. Smith of Wyoming , Payne Ratner of Kansas and Luren D. Dickinson of Michigan , all Republicans . Defense of the WPA and other Federal work projects as necessary was made by Democratic Governors , including Herbert H. Lehman of New York , Lloyd C. Stark of Missouri , John Clifford Townsend of Indiana , Fred P. Cone of Florida and R. L. Cochran of Nebraska , president of the conference . The Democratic viewpoint was that while WPA work was expensive , it gave employment which private industry had failed to give , and on the whole had been satisfactory . In his speech of welcome to the visiting Governors , Governor Lehman urged an end of trade restrictions between States . He said that if the evil of such barriers , which recently became matters of controversy , particularly in the South and Middle West , remained unchecked , the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Prentice Cooper of Tennessee discuss the relations between the State and national governments on health . Governor William H. Vanderbilt told what had been done in the organization and administration of State government in Rhode Island , and Governor Harold E. Stassen of Minnesota described the working of the new labor relations law in that State . " Federal public works have been one of the means , just as welfare and relief . education and health have become means . " Governor Baldwin said , " through which the Federal Government has extended and put into effect theories not favorable to our national well-being . The theory , for example , of government competition with private business . And the theory , too , of gradual usurpation of States ' rights and of the re-districting of our nation into economic areas without regard to State lines . " Governor Baldwin indicated the political danger of the large number of persons on Federal payrolls , which he said was more than double the population of his State and equal to the , population of Indiana , Missouri , North Carolina @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Connecticut and the 252,000 in Pennsylvania were far removed from State authority . " And even farther removed are the projects upon which they are engaged , " he continued . " Instead of permitting us to decide upon projects that , in our own opinion , would be best for our individual States and our citizens , the Federal Government forces or attempts to force projects on us , not in furtherance of our own wishes or desires but to impose upon us an extension of the Federal power or the extension of political or economic theories in which we have no confidence . " It is either that or nothing  --  and we dare not say ' nothing . ' " Governor Baldwin declared that the essential for recovery was encouragement of business . He said the government " must cease functioning as a competitor and become a purchaser . " We do n't want any ' baby TVA ' in Connecticut , " he declared . " That would be no encouragement to private enterprise . the secret of our strength . And that , I think , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon our Federal-State relations . " The principle of representative self-government is threatened . The trend toward government by rules rather than government by laws , is unmistakable . " Public works should be the expression of a people 's greatness and not the expression of an economic theory of desperation . " In the discussion that followed , Governor Bricker said that in Ohio a restriction had been written into the law that no money received from State bonds should go into any construction project that would be in competition with private industry . He added that in the construction of public works with Federal aid business had been protected as far as possible . Lehman Defends Made Work Governor Lehman said he knew of no competition by Federal public works with any business in New York State , except the construction industry . " Of course , the public works projects are more expensive , " he said . " However , generally speaking , we would not have had many desirable improvements , school houses , bridges and the Saratoga Springs development without Federal aid . In many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been of real economic value , even though the cost has been greater . " Of course , a job in private industry is more valuable than a WPA job . Restoration of jobs in private industry is something we all want to see . But it seems to me that we are faced with an actuality . Industry has n't been able to give jobs for one reason or another . We all would like to do away with made work , but until private industry is able to provide jobs , the government may have to . " Governor Stark said that in his State public works had not competed with private business , and indicated that many jobless Missourians would have gone hungry if it had not been for Federal activities . Governor Townsend said that while WPA work did cost more than similar work done privately , he doubted that PWA work in Indiana cost more , as it was done under contract . " There have been no projects started in Indiana without our consent , " he said , " and we are well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wyoming it cost as much to build five miles of road by the WPA as to build fifteen miles privately . " One trouble with the WPA men is that they are told that if they take private employment in the Summer they ca n't get back on the WPA rolls . We ca n't get help in harvest time . Ranch men ca n't get needed labor . " Temptation of Jobs Told " And yet , when our representatives in Congress say No , we do n't want that sort of public works , ' it 's jobs , relief jobs to be sure , but jobs they are turning down . It is one of the roost irresistible methods of forcing unwelcome economic theories upon an unwilling people ever invented . " Public works to my mind is an enduring function of government ? not an emergency or ' pump-priming ' undertaking . Properly employed , I believ a wisely conceived public works program can be and is a valuable back-log for business and industry , and as such cushions , perhaps , unemployment . " But public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise . No man is safe when government can step in and take his business away from him . " And that 's all government competition means . The word ' competition ' is a misnomer . There is no competition when government enters the field . " Governor Baldwin said that if government entered one line of business there was no reason why it should not enter all lines of business , if the people wanted socialized government . Clothing , for instance , might well be classed as a public necessity , " he observed . It was in referring to President Roosevelt and the national administration that Governor Baldwin warned that the American people had made the mistake or were near to the mistake of letting the servant become the master . " We are still sovereign , independent States gathered together in a national union , " he said . " That is                     