@@698780

txt The monetary policy of " . reflation " now being quietly but none the less deliberately pursued by the British Government has been clarified by the House of Commons debate Yesterday . Main announcements made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Mr. Neville Chamberlain , were that the British Government does not desire to see sterling rise higher and that it:is - working , for cheap money and an advance in wholesale prices , Sir Robert Home , independent Conservative and one of the chief financial figures in the City of London , was cheered when he pressed for an even more pronounced expansion of credit by further lowering of the Bank of England rate and a large volume of purchasing of government securities , and although . Mr. Chamberlain refused to corn : mit himself so definitely he in no way ruled out such expedients . His policy of keeping sterling from rising is being supported already by heavy reducing , on what is understood to be the British Government account , at first , of dollars and , later on , francs . The object @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange with a minimum of interference with forces operating to bring about the outflow of gold from New York and Paris . Mr. Chamberlain 's further announcement of a temporary readjustment of silk duties to meet the difficulties which have been caused in this industry by tariff changes made last month is to give time to the tariff advisory committee to effect a permanent settlement of this question . Sterling , dollar and franc may be brought into relation with one another if movements now in operation in Britain gain support in America and France . These movements are evidenced alike in House of Commons discussions and in a report by the London Chamber of Commerce published April 26 . The debates indicate agreement of all political parties that currency is only the servant ofIndustry , and that it can be controlled . Establishment of a fund of ? 150,000,000 was agreed to , to be managed by the Treasury , to bring this about .                     