@@702266

txt Saturday Mr. WINSTON CHURCHILL made a statement which implied , almost directly asserted , that support for King EDWARD against the Cabinet will be insignificant in Parliament . There is no likelihood of the formation in the Commons of a party of the " King 's Friends , " reminiscent of GEORGE DI Mr. CHURCHILL pleaded for time and patience , declaring that King EDWARD had not yet done anything in violation of the Constitution , that he could not , in any case , marry Mrs. SIMPSON until five months from now when her decree of divorce may become final , and that some way out of the crisis should be found short of either a break-up of the Government or the abdication of the King . These views of Mr. CHURCHILL do not at all comport with the rumor that he and the newspaper magnates , BEAVERBROOK and ROTHERMERE , were to lead a militant fight in and out of Parliament for King EDWARD . The issue has been sharpened by the apparent desire or proposal of the King to contract a morganatic marriage with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . As Prime Minister BALDWIN informed the House , it would be necessary for Parliament to pass a special act , and for the Dominions to consent to it . Neither would be possible , Mr. BALDWIN asserted . On the point of public opinion concerning that matter , a remarkable utterance has come from Miss ELLEN WILKINSON . She is a member of the House of Commons and has long been known as a leader of the feminist movement . She would have no particular objection , she stated , to the King 's marrying a commoner . Not even the ' fact of Mrs. SIMPSON 'S two divorces would she allow to stand in the way , though the second of them was clearly " arranged . " But Miss WILKINSoN is unyielding in her stand that the King 's wife , if he has one , must also be Queen . For years she has fought for the principle that a wife should be entitled to share all the distinctions and privileges of her husband . She will not abandon that now , even when it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is evident that the proposed solution of the dilemma by a morganatic marriage is wholly out of consideration . One reason why the controversy between the King and his Ministers has had so stunning an effect in Great Britain is the fact that the British press so long made the subject taboo . A. defense of this reticence is offered by The Manchester Guardian . It explains that British newspapers were well aware of the gathering crisis , but felt it to be of such intense " gravity " that it could not be discussed or referred to . This is a queer reason , all the queerer on account of the source from which it comes . One can recall several grave British crises , such as the Boer War and the outbreak of the Great War , in which The Manchester Guardian did not feel compelled to remain silent . On the contrary , it thought itself under obligation to inform the people of the fact and to endeavor to lead them to sound decisions regarding national policy . This time it held its tongue for months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which King EDWARD finds himself . Every one sees it to be filled with the most extraordinary romantic and dramatic possibilities . If it were the case of a private citizen , we might admire a man willing to give all for love and to count the world well lost . But a man loaded with immense responsibilities , which he did not seek but which were thrust upon him by the very nature of his birth and inheritance , can not lightly toss them aside . The case for an ordinary mortal is beautifully and solemnly described by TENNYSON in his poem " Love and Duty . " If even in private life love must give way to duty , one would think there could be no doubt at all which should be predominant when it is a conflict between personal wishes and the well-being and content of a great people and a vast empire .                     