@@703059

txt Restorations of wages , industrial prices and costs of materials to the level which prevailed in 1936 would go far in giving stimulus to economic recovery , Marriner S. Eccles , chairman of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System , told the Senate Unemployment and Relief Committee yesterday . The witness did not specify how this could be accomplished but suggested that cooperation between capital and labor to this end might eliminate the necessity of stimulating purhasing power through further governmental spending . The Reserve Board official outlined the extent of the present recession , giving statistics showing that industrial production between the spring of 1937 and December of last year registered the sharpest decline on record with farm prices , carloadings , payrolls and department store sales also declining substantially during the period . The present is not the time to balance the budget , leir . Eccles said , admitting that last spring he suggested that an approach to this should be started . Discussing wages , Mr. Eccles said the fact that employment of organized labor is decreasing indicates that wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't blame industry for holding prices if cuts are not going to increase volume . They feel that they are only part of the general picture and that labor also must go along to make any adjustment in costs and purchasing power effective . " the witness said . A definite gap exists between industrial prices and wages of organized labor on the one hand and the purchasing power of unorganized labor and the farmers on the other , which must be closed before the recession is checked , Mr. Eccles said . Highlights of Statement Other highlights of the Reserve official 's testimony included : 1 . The contention that expenditure of 41 , - 000,000,000 from the inactive gold fund would check the depression . 2 . Belief that , despite reserve requirement increases , there are still sufficient funds to meet any credit demand . 3 . Support for modification of the undistributed ' profits tax to exempt expenditures of industry for plant expansion , but opposition to repeal as the moat deflationary thing that could be done . 4 . Statement favoring modification of capital gains and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains in future years . Mr. Eccles estimated that the Federal Reserve index of December production would be around 85 as compared with 90 in November and a high point of 122 in the spring of 1937 . He added that production now is beginning to level off , but that to date the decline has been the sharpest on record . The year 1936 , Mr. Eccles said , was marked by a tremendous increase in the volume of bank credit and velocity of existing bank funds . He said he thought it was unfortunate that the bonus was paid in 1936 at a time when expenditures by the Government in other fields were heavy and private expenditures were also strong . He said be though that if the bonus had been paid in 1934 it would have compensated for the lack of activity in Government and private expenditure at that time . All Going in Same Direction " It seems we were all going in the same direction , " he said , " and that accentuated the price distortion from the fall of 1936 to the spring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought about an advance in stock prices and an advance in the cost of building materials , he said . - " This inflation psychology , " he continued . " developed along with the desire to convert money into things . " Business sought to convert money into goods and was buying for both presentand future needs , Mr. Eccles asserted . This also increased the strength of prices , he added . Citing several factors in the price increase , Mr. Eccles said the construction costs increased so much that it discouraged the building of homes as the costs rose more quickly than rents . Prices to farmers did not go up correspondingly with prices of some labor and prices in the heavy goods industry . " So we find recovery getting out of bounds , " he said . The Reserve Board chairman said the increases in prices caused labor to demand incresed wages . He said he thought this was " justified , " but then strikes developed and there was a feeling by business men that they could not get supplies . " A great backlog @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' market . " While this was going on in private business . Government began to reduce its expenditures . The failure of production to continue to expand , and the failure of construction to grow , brought about shortly a reduction in the volume of credit . As inventories were reduced . the cash was used to pay off loans . " Mr. Eccles said that as the value of collateral diminishes to a , point where a bank- feels the loan is unsafe , there is pressure for payment of the loan . However , this development has been mild , " be said , " because of the small amount of speculative credit . " Lubin Estimates 2.300,000 Jobs Loot Isadore Lubin , commissioner of labor etatistics , told the Senate committee that by midNovember of last year 800,000 people had lost their jobs and by mid-December approximately 750,000 more jobs had been lost . He also estimated that the seasonal decline in nonagricultural employment from December January is approximately 750,000 . On the basis of these figures it is estimated that some 2,300,000 people will have lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The witness told the committee that in October of last year employment in the United States outside of agriculture was only slightly below its peak for the recent recovery period and it is estimated that over 3.5,000,000 people had jobs . Layoffs Came Since October Up to that time Mr. Lubin told the committee there had been no widespread layoffs and that the estimated reduction in employment came between October and the present timeHe stated that it is likely that some further reduction in available jobs has taken place in the past two weeks since early January is normally the seasonal low point for employment . In November , 1937 , Mr. Lubin stated there were 2,160,000 fewer employes than in the autumn of 1929 . At the opening of the Senate unemployment committee 's hearing yesterday Chairman Byrnes announced that it was not the purpose of the committee to endeavor to show that either capital or labor deliberately brought about the present recession in business . He stated that the investigation is conducted pursuant to special Senate resolution and that it is " our purpose to secure the cooperation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to determine what legislation is and can be enacted by Congress to encourage individuals to provide more jobs and the method by which the greatest possible assistance can be rendered to those who do not succeed in securing employment in industry . "                     