@@700052

txt On one aspect of the bank position it is important that discussions at the bankers ' convention should throw light . Tuesday 's speech at Chicago by Chairman JONES of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation stated the case for those who believe that banks have not granted the credit required for continuous business recovery . He admitted that " no one wants banks to make loans of doubtful soundness , " agreed that " there is not a plentiful supply of liquid loans , ' " and urged that the convention consider " what constitutes sound banking for the average bank . " But he expressed his own belief that the banks are not providing credit to applicants who had a right to expect it , predicted that " there can be no re " turn to normal conditions without ac " tual bank credit for all legitimate " purposes , " and declared that " hoard " ers of available credit are little better " than hoarders of currency . " Fear of " recurrence of conditions through which we have just passed " was assigned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so , the bankers at Chicago must be aware of it ; if it is not so , they should provide the evidence . One fact stressed by Mr. JONES  --  the abnormally great " liquidity " of the stronger banks  --  in other words , the exceptionally large percentage of their deposit funds which are represented by cash or by readily convertible holdings of government securities  --  might of itself be used to prove the case either for or against existing loan policies . Exceptional liquidity means low earnings ; no banking institution can be content with a situation which takes it out of the field of commercial loans . Prevalence of the panicky psychology which pervaded the entire business organism , six or seven months ago , may have induced lending institutions to accept such a situation rather than take any risks . But if the depression has reduced to negligible proportions application for loans , or if prospective commercial borrowers can not show a going business as a basis for accommodation , then the bank may have been forced into a policy which , however distaste-. ful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for commercial paper in Wall Street may have some bearing on this contention . It is difficult to judge between the two possibilities without knowledge of the actual facts in ordinary banking business . It is not easy , without knowing the methods in many separate communities , even to draw inference regarding one community from the known situation in another . The public is undoubtedly perplexed by the fact that loans not secured by Stock Exchange collateral , which would include all commercial discounts , are shown by this week 's report of member banks in the Federal Reserve to have decreased ( for the same institutions ) $587,000,000 within a year , or 12 1-3 per cent . The percentage at the New York City member banks is even greater . Whatever may have happened , during this twelve months ' interval to our banking system as a whole , trade returns prove that the business organism is in a much stronger position . These are aspects of the banking situation which ought to be frankly discussed at Chicago . Governor BLAcK of the Federal Reserve spoke to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation . but the reports of his speech throw no light on this disputed question of lending policy . The bankers ' convention owes it not only to the public but to itself to make clear how far this actual decrease in outstanding credit is or is not a result of unavoid- able circumstances , and what prospect , from the bankers ' own viewpoint , there is of a change for the better ;                     