@@700941

txt Thirteen of the fifteen cuts made in the 1935 budget by the Board of Aldermen were vetoed yesterday by Mayor La Guardia , who returned the budget to the Aldermen with his message of disapproval . The Mayor permitted the elimination of three law assistants in the Municipal Court . He also allowed a reduction in the salary of Mrs. Helen C. Springer , secretary to Bernard S. Deutsch , President of the Board of Aldermen , from $4,500 to $3,500 a year . Cuts and eliminations aggregating $139,867.50 were made by the Aldermen . When they finished with the budget its total was $548,301 , - 232.40 . The present total of the budget is $548,432,599 . Mr. Deutsch was a strong advocate of the law assistants for the Municipal Courts . He contended that the work would save the time of justices , who would otherwise be forced to do a great deal of detailed legal work in connection with their cases . Refuse to Listen to Message . The Aldermen received the Mayor 's veto message yesterday afternoon . The reading clerk began reciting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the board decided that it did not wish to hear the rest of it . Alderman Edward J. Sullivan moved that the messages be accepted and printed and his colleagues were glad to concur . In all likelihood the Mayor 's action on the budget will not be overridden by the Aldermen . Fusion members of the board are expected to stand firmly behind the Mayor , and the Democratic majority can not muster sufficient votes for the three-fourths majority required . The Aldermen appeared content to let the budget reach final adoption in its present state . Mayor La Guardia restored all the positions taken out of the Health and Hospitals Departments by the Aldermen . He replaced the city 's free employment agency , which the Aldermen had stricken out . He restored positions in the Law Department , as well as those taken out of the Park Department . He also put back the position of director of the juvenile aid bureau in the Police Department , pointing out that it was not wise to eliminate the head of the bureau , and continue the bureau at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hospitals Department aroused the medical profession , which asked the Mayor to restore them . They pointed out that the pathologists , roentgenologists and other technicians were highly necessary in diagnostic work . In the Park Department , he pointed out , all the positions eliminated were to be filled from civil service lists . Emphasizing the necessity for keeping the Law Department up to full efficiency , the Mayor said : " This department has been rendering excellent service and effective work . Its savings for the city actually run into millions of dollars . The mere discovery of fraud by prominent and powerful citizens and the collection for the city of thousands of dollars has repaid many times over the economies which the board 's action would effect . The results in litigation in comparison with other years are indeed gratifying , and . I repeat , millions of dollars are being saved for the city by reason of the splendid organization and the able men now in the Law Department of the city . " There were over 1,500 cases , in which the city is plaintiff and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for trial . This administration found some of them dating back for years . Collection of money from these cases would go into general revenue and reduce the tax levy . " Discussing the restoration of the city 's free employment agency , the Mayor pointed out that all the positions there had been vacant since early in 1934 . He said he wished to preserve the set-up of the bureau in the budget , so that the positions might be readily filled if changing labor conditions made it advisable . Scores Sanitation Cut . The Mayor struck hard at the elimination by the Aldermen of a director of safety for the Sanitation Department . In this connection he said : " This elimination can only be the result of a myopic and inhuman attitude toward this depart : ment . With more than 10,000 laboring men in the department , many of them involved in hazardous employment , it would be unparalleled callousness on our part to strike from the budget a service which has already more than demonstrated its necessity . This position will shortly be filled as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such a director of safety involves no additional appropriation over last year 's budget since this title is substituted for Superintendent of Equipment and Inspection . The man temporarily holding the position at present has already made innovations which have saved at least one human life in the Brooklyn incinerator and innumerable injuries . Aside from the human side of this position , it is one of very real value in dollars and cents . " Throughout his message the Mayor stressed the effective work of the departments involved in the cuts and said he was restoring the positions so that their effectiveness would not be curtailed .                     