@@701282

txt Wireless to Tun NEW YORK Tines . LONDON , June ** considerations apart , it is certain that Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin would stand to lose in the coming general election if he refused the offer of a naval pact by Germany . The curious chain of circumstances that favored Reichsfuehrer Adolf Hitler and led to the signing of the new agreement starts with a fact generally unknown , that the board of the British Admiralty possesses the statutory right , denied to other government servants , to resign if it disapproves official policy . This unique privilege , as happened , once under Gladstone , gives the sailors great power over the politicians , who dare not face the wholesale resignation menace . At the same time the right to resign imposes a moral responsibility that it be not used lightly . Admirals Turn . Since the World War the admirals have always tried to placate the politicians by accepting cuts to the bone in building programs against their better judgment . As a result , public opinion became indifferent to the fate of the navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Germany upset the complacent attitude of the admirals . The threat of a necessity to confess long years of Passive acceptance of deterioration of the British naval position loomed on the horizon . But when Herr Hitler demanded only 35 per cent of the British tonnage the Admiralty felt relieved , although the demand four times exceeded the allowance of the peace treaty . A possibility was seen of avoiding a race in armaments and thus of escaping a revelation of its own weak attitude , provided German building was distributed over a series of years . The political situation in this country is being dominated by concern over the outcome of the impending Parliamentary election and the national government fears it would injure its chances if it was obliged to include a plank calling for increased navy estimates , for which the nation is unprepared . Sufficient for the day is the decision , which is enjoying nationwide support , to increase threefold Britain 's air armament . A British Maxim . Add ' to this the general principle governing British foreign policy to , day , which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion to the real force available to insure their application . Add also the consideration that when Sir John Simon , former Foreign Secretary , extended an invitation to German experts to come Ito London he committed a tactical error which the diplomacy of the opposite side , well acquainted with the situation in Britain , seized immediately to force through the pact proposal , hoping to drive a wedge between Britain and France . Thus a situation of tension was created between London and Paris which Anthony Eden , Minister for League Affairs , has now sent instructions to dissipate , furnishing proof of the government 's firm desire to maintain the Anglo-French entente . Now to consider the bearing of the pact just concluded on the development of British naval policy . Naturally , until the election is safe-ly over and the national government is firmly in the saddle for an- I other four years at least , nothing I sensational may be announced . It I is also certain that British diplomacy will strain its utmost nerve to obtain a general naval settlement , using Germany 's 35 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative values of other navies to the British yardstick . The aim is pursued on one hand to avoid immense expenditure and unlimited competition in building , but , on the other hand , the purpose is equally to gain time to ripen new theories of fleet organization . Progressive thon ; ht suggests that the delay obtained should be ex. ploited to revise the preconceived ideas about the classes of vessels needed and also concerning the principles of imperial strategy . A hint of possible developments is conveyed in the comparative ease with which the British conceded to the Germans an increased ratio in submarines , This possibly means that the Admiralty still believes in the possibility of abolishing underwater vessels altogether , this move being facilitated by the development of technical means to combat the menace that in the last war came near forcing Britain to her knees . The possibility Is not excluded that Brit-ish experts are near a conclusion of the inevitability of merging into one whole the sea and air defenses . This sensational move , favored by progressive thinkers , would revolutionize the methods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude I finally adopted by France , as co-operation with that country , in I spite of rumors and tactical errors , ' remains a. fixed principle of the European policy of any responsible government In Britain . However that may be , the resurrection of the German Navy as a powerful factor in the North Sea profoundly alters the situation , though for several years the menace can develop but slowly . But British naval plans will be decided only after the election and when the results of the negotiations for a general settlement have been seen .                     