@@697642

txt President Hoover today took under adviseinent the soldier bonus act passed by Congress over his protest . The bill provides for an increase in the loan value of the certificates from 22 ' 2 to 50 per cent . The Senate yesterday gave final approval to the measure by a 72-to-12 vote . This overwhelming ballot was In line with a similar majority in the House when it passed the bill by a vote of 363 to 39 Republican leaders have been assured that the President will not delay in formulating his derision on the issue . They have been authoritatively advised that he will Leto the bill . On the basis  --  of the great majorities piled up for the measure in ban chambers Republican leaders anticipate that it the President disapproves it his rejection will he cnerruled . The President is understood , ho - ever , to be determined to face the issue squarely . As he advised the Senate Finance Committee on- Feb. 13 , when it had the bill under consideration , he is not opposed to aiding the needy war veteran by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is again ; .. throwing such facilities open to all former service men without restriction . The debate in the Sedate was long drawn out and introduced no new facts on either side . In the course of the lengthy session 7.3 Senators spoke , It had been expected that the chamber would dispose of the bill in a few hours but the session dragged into the night before the flow of oratory was stemmed and the final count taken . Crowded galleries with many service men present unquestionably prolonged the floor debate . With the exception of addresses by David A. Reed ( R. ) , Senator from Pennsylvania , Hiram Bingham ( R. ) , Senator from Connecticut , Frederick ff . Gillette ( Mt , Senator from Massachusetts all the speeches were in favor of the measure and most of them critical of the Administration 's position . Bonus supporters confined the bill strictly to the form in which it passed the House , in order that there should be no delay in its reaching the White Rouse . William H. King ( D. ) , Senator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , offered an amendment to limit its provisions to " necessitous cases " but the restriction was rejected by a viva voce vote , All other amendments were with-1 drawn . Some of the Democrats asserted that they favored more liberal bonus legislation , but in order not to delay the bill under consideration they would not press their demands at this time . With no indication when the Senate would get through talking on the issue , the House toward evening ad- ' journed for the day . This promptly brought is charge from opposition quarters that this action opened the way for a technical pocket veto , on the ground that the 10-day veto Period expired at midnight last night , Republican parliamentarians denied this . They declared that today was the last day . riarwrinore , they asserted , the President had no intention of dodging the issue and would act promptly and decisively .                     