@@701325

txt The investigation of the troubles of the inhabitants of the Virgin Islands developed today into a political duel between Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes and Senator Millard E. Tydings of Maryland , chairman of the Senate Committee on Territories and Insular Affairs . An exchange of letters was made public that brought into the open the indignation that has been generating on both sides ever since the hearings opened a week ago . Mr. Ickes protested on the opening day of the hearings that his officials had no opportunity to cross-examine witnesses appearing before the subcommittee investigating charges of maladministration and inefficiency against the administration . tf Governor Paul M. Pearson . Senator Tydings held that this was toot the usual procedure in Congressional hearings . " Whitewashing " Charged . The Secretary , in the correspondence made public today , charged that the subcommittee was " whitewashing " Judge T. Webber Wilson . whose removal he demanded . He had made known yesterday that he had written a letter of protest to Senator Tydings , but declined to make it public . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Maryland Senator decided not to . Today , however , the Interior Department publicity office permitted copies of Mr. Ickes 's letter to be printed for publication , and Senator Tydings released copies of his reply , which he said he was authorized by the Territories and Insular Affairs Committee to make . " Your gratuitous advice as to how the Senate investigating committee shall conduct itself  --  whose members were elected by the people and not appointed to office as was the fact , in your case ? is not needed , " Senator Tydings wrote to Secretary Ickes . " We can get along and make our investigation without helpful suggestions from your department , particularly since a branch of your department is now under investigation by the Senate . " The charges against the Pearson administration were brought by Eli Baer and Paul C. Yates , both officials of the Virgin Islands govern- went who were dismissed by Secretary Ickes , although Mr. Yates resigned before the dismissal order was promulgated . Judge Wilson ; who is an appointee of the Department of Justice , has already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Ickes 's anger . . " You told me you would not permit hearsay evidence , " his letter to Senator Tydings said . " You promised me that the hearing would be impartial . None of these promises has so far been fulfilled . " Protesting against the refusal to permit cross-examination , Mr. Ickes wrote : " Since the witnesses were immune from cross-examination , it is not to be wondered at that perjured testimony has crept into the record . " At another point in the letter he declared that " you have condemned them without a hearing on hearsay , opinion and perjured evidence . " The reference bore on a comment Senator Tydings made yesterday 1 during the hearing to the effect that Judge Wilson had nothing to answer for , but that " other per , sons " in the Virgin Islands had , Accuses Ickes of Falsehood . " My statement only sought to put Judge Wilson at rights with the country after your false statement , for which you have not a scintilla of fact , had presented him to the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge , " Senator Tydings wrote . " It would be far better , Mr. Secretary , if you retract your own libel of Judge Wilson and put your own house in order before intruding your unwelcome person into purely legislative matters . " Senator Tydings recalled Mr. Yates 's resignation last Autumn , five days before his dismissal by Mr. Ickes , a point that he went to some length to bring out plainly at today 's hearing , and charged that the Secretary had never mentioned the resignation in his press release for public consumption . " This was a gross deceit on the American people , deliberately perpetrated by you , " Mr. Pydings 's letter said . " And yet you have the effrontery to tell me in the legislative branch how to conduct a fair hearing wben you do n't even know the definition of the word ' fairness ' by your own action . " " I am reluctant to take judicial notice , as it were , of extraneous matters , " the letter concluded , " but your constant press statements compel me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show up that on two occasions you have misrepresented the facts to them ; that you instructed the government attorney not to prosecute cases of graft in your department and are apparently trying to obscure the real facts being adduced by the legislative branch , with whih branch you have nothing whatsoever under the Constitution to do . . Suggests He " Get Elected . " " If this is still a constitutional government , may I request in the future that if you want to tell the United States Senate how to conduct its business you first get elected to that body , and for the present confine yourself to the duties for which you were appointed . If this is done , there will be no friction in the smooth operation of the various functions of constitutional government . " Mr. Yates occupied the stand again at today 's session . He offered an affidavit from the Rev. E. G. Anson , Angelican minister in the Virgin Islands , which said that " Governor Pearson has turned out to be a liar , thief and hypocrite . " Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chronology of his resignation and his dismissal by Secretary Ickes . He testified that he had written Mr. Ickes in August , 1934 ? his resignation and dismissal came in October  --  that he would resign as Governor Pearson 's executive assistant unless another Governor were appointed to succeed Mr. Pearson . He described the Blue Ticket group , which composes the Colonial Council in St. Thomas , as made up of men of " the type who steal within the law . " He said that they were Governor Pearson 's friends and that 90 per cent of the people had lost all confidence in and respect for the Governor . Taxation System Discussed . There ensued a detailed discussion of the taxation system of the islands , under which land owners can hold unimproved property by paying only nbminal taxes , while the revenues of the islands come from taxes which , Mr. Yates said , weighed heavily on the poor . ? Senator Tydings said that Governor Pearson and Dr. Ernest Gruening , director of the Division of Territories and Island Possessions , had recommended changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee . Mr. Yates told the committee that Leslie Hunt and Lee Barton , Department of Interior investigators assigned to look into charges of graft in connection with PWA projects in the islands , had enjoyed a great deal of hospitality front Governor Pearson and other officials . After they had ended their investigation they told him , he testified , that they feared they would lose their jobs if they reported everything they had turned up . They asked his advice as to how to word their report , he added . " Were they trying to frame their report to suit the Secretary of the Interior ? " Senator Tydings asked . " Certainly , " Mr. Yates replied .                     