@@699038

txt With all defensive measures completed for meeting further onslaughts of the deflation , President Hoover has now determined to take the field in a bold offensive movement for business recovery which will be launched here Aug. 26 . The program calls for the first large-scale counter-attack on the industrial slump , which will proceed , according to Mr , Hoover 's announcement , " along the whole economic front . " Observers who have watched Mr. Hoover round out his nine-point program are thinking in terms of regular warfare here today . Mr. Hoover 's own statement gave the impression he now visualizes the situation militantly . The vast army of credit has been mobilized  --  the reserves massed . The time has come in the 1932 campaign for an offensive against the enemy 's lines on a wide front . From the White House today it was learned that Mr. Hoover contemplates just such a movement . Business , commercial and financial leaders from each of the 12 Federal Reserve Districts will be summoned to the capital . Every phase of the business life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give best expression to the reserve resources of credit which have already been accumulated by the Federal Government for business , banking , home building and similar elements of national life . Lines to Be Followed The formal list of subjects which Mr. Hoover said would be " considered and definitely formulated . " follow : A canvass of the means , methods , agencies and powers available in the country for general advancement ; wider expansion of credit facilities to business and industry where consumption of goods is assured ; coordination and expansion of live stock and agricultural facilities ; coordination and expansion of financial facilities for the movement of commodities into consumption ; expansion of programs for repairs and maintenance of the railways ; anti creation of organization for further spread of existing employment and expansion of employment . Mr. Hoover made his statement public just before leaving for a fishing trip down the Potomac anti Chesapeake Bay , his first vacation for approximately a year and a half . Mr. Hoover 's sympathizers here believe that the new conference will aid his campaign . It comes immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was prohibition . The business conference is expected to bring the thought of the country back to tie topic which the President believes of vital importance in the campaign , namely business recovery . The machinery for the conference will be the 12 committees formed some time back in the Reserve Districts . The committees number more than 150 prominent business leah ers . With them will meet Mr. Hoover 's chief financial advisers in the Administration . The conference will be preceded by a meeting of chairmen of the 12 reserve committees and the heads of appropriate government agencies . Mr. Hoover 's complete statement follows : Outlines Scope of Meeting . I have called a national conference for Aug. 26 of the business and industrial committees of the 12 Federal Reserve Districts for the purpose of organizing a concerted program of action along the whole economic front . The conference will deal with specific projects where definite accomplishments in business . agriculture and employment can be attained and will coordinate the mobilization of private and governmental instrumentalities to that end . On July 29 I announced that preliminary conversations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and private groups in business and industry as to such a program , and that at a later time would announce the date of a conference for a more definite development of these Ideas . The areas of positive and definite action have been further explored by informal discussions between representatives of various groups and industries with government officials during the past two weeks . Twelve committees representing the Federal Reserve Districts were established some weeks ago . I have asked the chairmen of these committees , together with the government officials set out below , to meet in Washington the day before the conference for the purpose of preliminary preparation of the program and organization of the conference : The Committee Members of the organization committee are : Carl P. Dennett , chairman . Boston district ; Owen D. Young , chairman . New York district ; George H. Houston , chair man . Philadelphia district : L. B. Williams . chairman , Cleveland district ; Edwin C. Graham , chairman . Richmond district ; George S. Harris . chairman . Atlanta district ; Sewell L. Avery . chairman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Louis district ; George D. Dayton. chairman , Mmneapolis district ; Joseph F. Porter , chairman . Kansas City district ; Frank Kell , chairman . Dallas district . K. R. Kingsbury , chairman . San Francisco district ; Ogden L. ilftllc , Secretary of the Treasury ; Arthur M. Hyde , Secretary of Agriculture ; Roy D. Chapin , Secretary of Commerce ; W. N. Doak , Secretary of Labor ; Eugene Meyer , governor of the Federal Reserve Board ; Atlee Pomerene , chairman , Reconstruction Corporation ; Paul Bestor , chairman , Farm Loan Board ; Franklin Fort , chairman , Federal Home Loan Board ; James C. Stone . chairman , Federal Farm Board . In addition I shall appoint some special committees to advise on particular questions which directly concern agriculture , labor , railways and other industries and groups which are directly affected . Among the subjects which will be considered and definitely formulated are : Subjects for Study A canvass of the means , methods , agencies and powers available in the country for general advancement ; wider expansion of credit facilities to business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expansion of livestock and agricultural credit facilities ; coordination and expansion of financial facilities for the movement of commodities Into consumption ; expansion of programs for repairs and mantenance of the railways ; and creation of organization for further spread of existing employment and expansion of employment . A number of other possible questions such as the forthcoming world economic conference ; protection of bond-holders and mortgage renewals. coordination with trade groups and other subjects will be explored . It is expected to outline a basis for public , commercial and trade group cooperation in the execution of the purposes of the conference . Members of the conference additional to preliminary committee , and members of the Reserve district business and industrial committees included : Boston district  --  Thomas Nelson Perkins , Boston ; Louis E. Kirstein . Boston ; Dr. Arthur W. Gil- bed , Boston ; P. A. O'Connell , Boston ; Nathaniel P. Ayer , Boston ; Frank D , Comerford , Boston ; Harry K. Noyes , Boston ; Philip Stockton , Boston ; Walter S. Bucklin , Bosto ? Wilmot R Evans . Boston : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm k District  --  Mort inter N. Buckner , Nei% York ; Floyd Carlisle . New York : Wallet S Gifford , New York , Charles E Mitchell , Non York , William C. Potter , New York ; Jackson E Reynolds , New York ; Alfred P Sloan Jr .. New York ; Walter C Teagle , New York ; A. A. Tilnery , New York : Albert FI , Wigirtn , New York ; C. M Woolley , New York Gas eminent officials : J. W Pole , Adolph Miller . Charles S. Hamlin , George R. James , Wayland W. Magee . du ectors , Federal Reser% e Board . Harley C. Couch . Ai karma s ; Jesse H. Jones . Toots ; Wilson McCarthy , Utah ; Oar direr Cowles Sr. , Iowa ; Alice Pomerene , Ohio ; Charles A. Miller , New I 'm k , directors . Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Nathan Adams , Texas ; John N. GI ie.% Ohio ; William E. Best , Pennsylvania : H. Morton Bodfish. directors , Home Loan Bank Board . C. B. Denman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sam H. Thompson , Fr link Evans , Ernest B. Thomas . directors . Federal Farm Board . John H. Guril , Lewis J. Petri-John . Albert C. Williams . James B. Madison , Vulosko Vniden. directors , Feder al Farm Loan Board .                     