@@702136

txt Government officers , failing in today 's attempts to rout surviving Fascists from the dungeons of the old Alcazar fortress , which was dynamited yesterday , late tonight planned a new onslaught for early tomorrow . Gen. Jose Asensio , commander of all government forces in central Spain , who is supervising the efforts to " mop up " the Fascists remaining in the ruins of the citadel , instructed his men to prepare to spray the ruins with gasoline at 5 a. m . Then , when an attack is made with hand grenades , he said , " the whole place will blaze up . " Fascists Battle On . His orders for the dawn attack came after shot , shell and smoke bombs had failed to dislodge the Fascists from the ancient stone buildings of the military school where they have been besieged for weeks . Fighting their way inch by inch eahind a rolling smoke barrage , the government militiamen rushed one after another of the ' Fascist " pillboxes " hastily fashioned fronn of jagged debris : How many were still alive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the outside : kneW .. ; It , find been es- , . timated there were 1,500 - to 4,700 persons in the place when it was dynamited . The survivors kept up a bitter re-sistance , their hail of bullets cutting through the stifling pall of smoke laid down by tins of ignited gasoline hurled at them by the government attackers . Artillery Shells Ruins . From a distance government artillery pounded away at the crumbling walls and turrets still jutting from the wreckage of the famous old cadet school . The choking smoke was whipped by the wind into the mouths of tunnels leading to the subterranean dungeons where the women and children survivors are thought to have taken a last refuge . Two remaining dynamite mines were set tonight , but government officials delayed touching them off , fearing that the two tons of explosivewould surely crush like paper boxes the caverns sheltering the women and children . Machine Gun Fire Sweeps City . As the Fascist defenders were forced back foot by foot they , began in their ' desperation mounting machine guns in more exposed places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city of Toledo over sections which had been considered . areas of safety . In the Plaza de Vocodover two men were shot down . One was hit in the foot and the other was felled by a machine gun bullet as he fired over a stone wall in the center of the square . In sight of his comrades , he lay writhing and crying for help . An armored car drove up beside him while a hail of Fascist bullets rattled off the turret . An assault guard and the driver came out of the door on the sheltered side and crawled along the ground to their wounded comrade . They dragged him into the car and sped away to a hospital . Streets Closed Off . The narrow , tortuous streets leading from the Alcazar into the square were closed by a second armored car , which kept up a fierce barrage over the heads of more than 100 assault guards . The guards scurried across the exposed area to the ruins , where they took up positions and opened fire on the Fascist machine gun nests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke , carrying all sorts of fighting equipment , including tools to dig away the debris and set , up parapets . ? The streets of ancient Toledo tonight were as the trenches of a war , tilled with an army of civilians . Fascist , and government shots spattered overhead , chipping bits of stone Old plaster from the upper walls of dwellings . All Males to Be Killed . Every one of the male defenders in the Alcazar is doomed to die no matter what decision they may make regarding escape for their families , government leaders said . Government attackers managed to " rescue " twenty women and children from the ruins . Tales of the ghastly spectacle that attacking militiamen witnessed in the shattered Alcazar yesterday were told by government soldiers today . Said one : - " As soon as I got over the ruined walls I saw four priests with beards down to their waists pointing a machine gun at me . I threw my hand grenades and  --  well , they wo n't say mass any more . " Another militiaman , Jose Cabera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we went over the top . Stumps of masonry in the wrecked cellarheads were spattered with blood . We had to trample over torn limbs and hideously broken human remains . " ' Emilio Vargas , another militiaman , told o2 falling through a manhole into a rich food cache when he dodged and stumbled to escape a thrown grenade . " They had piles of rich food there , and liquors , too , " he said , " so I broke open a packet of biscuits , opened a bottle of champagne and celebrated my find . Then we carried the entire stock out through a door where the rebel fire could n't touch us . " Magtaz Mubru Beramar , the only Moor known to have been fighting with the government troops , said he had come across a line of laundry hung up to dry in one of the cellars , later almost wrecked by an explosion . Perez Chicano , city councilor , estimated damage alrea4y done in Toledo at about 86,500,000 irrespective of the Alcazar . Ready for ' Final Attacks . ' BURGOS , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascist armies tonight were ready for a " final attack " on Madrid . The northern and southern armies , a rebel announcement said , were ringed around the Spanish capital . The northern wing of the Fascist army , the Fascist Junta asserted , had driven into the Lozoya valley south of the Guadarrama mountains . The government troops protecting the city 's water reservoir resisted stubbornly , it was reported . The southern wing of the Fascist army was asserted to be proceeding along two lines . One column was reported advancing along the main highway to Toledo after capturing Talavera de la Reina . The other column was driving toward Madrid , the Junta said , through San Martin de Valdeiglesias , 36 miles west of Madrid . Report ' Great Slaughter ' Fascist agents in Saint Jean de Luz , France , tonight proclaimed that the tide of the civil war has now definitly turned in their favor . Government forces , they asserted , were on the , defensive " all along the line " except for a few isolated sectors . The insurgent leaders declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irun , San Sebastian and Orio , in the north , were pushing ahead in methodical advances des. ined to culminate in the fall of Bilbao , Santander , and finally Toledo and Madrid . Other dispatches said Gen. Nola had given the loyalists until 1 a. m. , Sept. 25 , to evacuate Bilboa and Santander . At that time , the ultimatum said , the rebels would attack without regard to life or property . A Fascist radio broadcast reported " great slaughter " had attended insurgent victories near Toledo . Retreating government troops , the broadcast said , left more than 4,000 dead in fields . During the Fascist occupation of Ronda , it was declared , the government forces executed 800 hostages before they fled . Capture of Ronda , the Fascist leaders said , was preparatory to an attack on Malaga , where the government men are believed to be still strongly entrenched .                     