@@700689

txt A boyish prank inadvertently halted a speeding B. M. T. express train in the Ninth Street station of the Fourth Avenue line in Brooklyn last night and threw its 600 men , women and children passengers into an almost uncontrollable panic . Choking from the smoke caused by a short circuit , the passengers fought and kicked and screamed wildly for fifteen minutes before till train guards would open the doors to let them out of the train . They were necessarily held prisoners in the six cars of the train during that interval to give the subway officials time to shut off the power on the third rails . The excitement was heightened by the fact tnat fully 3,000 persons , hearing the tumult from the street level , poured into the station to discover the trouble . Despite the commotion , only ten persons were reported injured , nene seriously . One of the ten , a man , was sent to the hospital with a foot injury . that was believed to be a broken bone . The trouble began shortly after 7:30 P. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the seemingly innocent pastime of " fishing " for pennies , marbles and trinkets through a ventilator grating in an island in the centre of Fourth Avenue . Their " fishing " apparatus consisted of a strand of copper wire on the end of which was a chunk of chewing gum with which the boys sought to pick up lost coins and other things they considered worth their efforts . The copper wire cropped out of their hands just as a crowded West End express , bound from Times Square to Bay Parkway , Brooklyn , came through the Ninth Avenue station , directly beneath them , at a fast clip . The forward truck of the first car caught the copper wire , now no longer a fishing line but a dagigerous electricity conductor . The strand became entangled with the contact shoe of the car and the third rail . A short circuit resulted instantaneously and the hurtling train stopped so quickly that most of its passengers were thrown to the floor . A menacing series of blue flashes followed and the underground air became clouded with choking yellow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its cars in the station , but it was on the southbound express track and separated from the platforms by the north and south bound local tracks . The panic among the passengers broke out at the first sight of blue flashes and the smoke from the insulation of the electric wiring on the forward truck of the first car . Their fear was heightened by the fact that ail the ordinary lights went out , leaving them in the faint glow of the emergency lights . The screams of women and children were heard . Men struggled and kicked in a desperate effort to force open the doors of the train . Twenty-four windows were broken by the passengers in an attempt to force their way out . Meanwhile the two train guards , mindful of the danger from the third rails , refused to open the doors until they were notified that the power had been shut off . Rush from the Street . Automobilists and pedestrians on Fourth Avenue , hearing the noise , rushed down to the north and south bound local platforms , apparently willing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going on . At the first flash of blue sparks Miss Florence Crocker of 1,268 Fulton Street , Brooklyn , a ticket agent on the southbound platform , telephoned Brooklyn police headquarters , asking them to " send all the help you can , because there 's a fire and quite some excitement here . " Fire crews , sixty policemen and five ambulances rushed to the station . Firemen and policemen had to struggle for several minutes with the packed crowd of spectators before they could get the platforms cleared . Meanwhile , the power on all third rails on the two sets of express and local tracks , between Pacific Street and Thirtysixth Street , was shut off . Then the train guards opened the doors . ' Released at last , the excited passengers tumbled pell-mell out of the train , men , women and children falling over one another in their rush to get to the street . The Injured Passengers . One passenger , Miss Dorothy Bryson , 22 years old , of 156 East Twenty-first Street , Brooklyn , although suffering from shock , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insisted on helping Mrs. Marie Fritz , 31 , of 228 East Eighteenth Street , Brooklyn , who had an infant in her arms , to get to the street . Miss Bryson and Mrs. Fritz , who also suffered from shock , went home after being treated by the ambulance surgeon . Samuel Stober , 29 , r of 1,747 Seventy-first Street , Brooklyn , was taken to the Methodist Episcopal Hospital for a foot injury . Others treated at the scene and sent home included : COLLURI , GAETANO , 47 , of 1,537 Seventy-eighth Street , Brooklyn ; shock . LIBBERS , ABRAHAM , 38. of 875 Fortythird Street . Brooklyn ; right hand cut . GOAD . ALEX , : 34 , of 1,902 Eighty-first Street , Brooklyn ; suffering from smoke fumes and a dislocated right arm . RUBIN , ABRAHAM , 29 , of 8,023 Seventh Avenue ; contusions of the left shoulder . DEL COLLE , Miss CONSTANCE , 22 , of 131 Ainslie Street , Brooklyn ; abrasion of the left knee and shock . MERMELSTEIN , HARRY . 29 , of 751 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right hand and palm . VINNICK , HARRY . 32. of 8,440 Bay Parkway , Brooklyn ; lacerations of the right wrist and abrasions of the right hand . The power on the third rails was kept off from 7:45 P. M. to 8:20 P. M. , tying up traffic on the express and local lines through the station during that period . The train was operated by Motorman Harry Leaser of 87 Bartlett Street , Brooklyn . The identity of the " fishing " schoolboys was not learned .                     