@@702554

txt American universities and colleges will send the largest delegation to the 200th anniversary ceremonies . of Goettingen University June 25 to 30 , as they did last June to Heidelberg 's 550th anniversary , which was turned into a propagandist demonstration for National Socialist science . Like Heidelberg University , Goettingen , according to its rector , Professor Friedrich H. J. Neumann , will " show its National Socialist colors " on the issue of science 's function in the modern world , but there is evidence that the stormy reaction to Heidelberg has borne fruit and Goettingen is going to be much less set on lecturing its foreign guests . Seven American institutions accepted the invitation immediately . The Massachusetts Institute of Technology will be represented by its honorary secretary , Werner Schaute ; the University of Pennsylvania by Professor Daniel Shumway , Haverford College by John Alexander Kelley , Ohio State University by Professor Frederick Kramer , the University of Alabama by Professor Stuart Lloyd , Wittenberg College of Springfield , Ohio , by Professor Elmer Flack and Idaho University by Professor Henry Gauss . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invitation and have sent best wishes . Princeton , which was founded by the same monarch as Goettingen and about the same time , has as yet sent no reply . For obvious sentimental reasons Goettingen particularly desires to have " its American brother Institution " represented . Eleven other institutions have expressed a desire to send representatives if possible . This group includes Syracuse , Missouri and Kansas Universities . Replies are coming In daily , so the list of acceptances is incomplete . The final formal invitations will be sent out early this week . Eleven American institutions sent regrets , which in a few cases took the form of rather brusque notifications that no representatives would attend . This group includes the College of the City of New York , Dartmouth , Virginia , Carnegie Institute of Technology , New Hampshire , Vermont and the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences . University in Montreal likewise sent a refusal . The British universities are divided . The University of London is expected to be represented , Durham University has accepted and Cambridge , Bristol , Wales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent regrets . Oxford has not been heard . from , Freedom Issue Raised As reported in England , Cambridge 's refusal was almost a rebuke to Goettingen for having sent the invitation . This Cambridge response has raised again the whole question of whether foreign universities countenance suppression of academic freedom by attending such ceremonies . The Goettingen rectorate asserts categorically that no member of the university 's faculty has been dismissed or forced to resign because of his political opinions . The official record shows that forty-five of the ninety full professors teaching in the university in 1932 no longer teach there . Of this number , the rectorate asserts , thirty retired because of age or went to other universities for reasons that had nothing to do with their political opinions . Thirteen Jewish professors were dismissed or handed in their resignations when the racial ruling regarding civil servants went into effect . Among them were men of international reputations such as Professors Edmund G. H. Landau , Richard Courant , James Franck , Max Born and V. Moritz Goldschmidt . The Goettingen rectorate contends that all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-1933 civil service laws ; that is , they receive as a rule their full salaries , unless exchange laws interfere or unless they take other positions . To the charge ' that Goettingen has shattered its faculty 's prestige , university spokesmen reply that all the vacant chairs have been filled and point to Professors Nevanlinna and Helmut Hasse in the Rockefeller-endowed Institute of Mathematics and Professors Othenio Abel and Friedrich Drescher-Kaden in mineralogy and palaeontology . Was Distinguished Teachers Goettingen does , in fact , still possess a considerable number of distinguished members of the old faculty , including Professors Ludwig Prandtl , Adolf 0 . R. Windaus , Arnold Eucken and Jakob C. G. Joos in physics and chemistry ; Professors Georg B. 0 . Gruber and Hermann Straub in medicine . There is no evidence that their research is being disturbed . Goettingen University , with only 1.800 students , is , in fact , less a university than a collection of research institutes . In all , it possesses ninety institutes or seminars , almost all devoted to the most advanced types of research . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the present political regime . The Institute of Physiology will move this Summer into a new 800,000-mark laboratory building and the Institute of Aerodynamics has been doubled in size for obvious military reasons . But even the theological faculty and the Anglo-American Seminar have received more spacious buildings . A department of American history and civilization was established in 1933 . The predominant position of the natural sciences in Goettingen has to date made it much less a center of National Socialist agitation than Heidelberg . Whether its anniversary ceremonies , nevertheless , will he turned into a Brown Shirt demonstration of the Heidelberg type remains to be seen . At present there are undoubtedly conflicting opinions , with a good part of the faculty deprecating the party enthusiasts ' desire to introduce a great degree of National Socialism into the bicentennial observances.                     