@@702184

txt A court contest over the estate of State E.epresentative David E. Shanahan ' appeared likely yesterday , twenty four hours after his death and two days before his funeral which is to - be held tomorrow . Mr. Shanahan , a Republican leader in Illinois for many . years , dean of the state legislature where he served as speaker of the house for five terms , died on Sunday afternoon ' in the Mercy hospital . He had been a patient there since May 25 when he suffered a heart attack in his home at . 2722 Throop street . He was 74 years old . His estate was unofficially estimated yesterday at $200,000 to $300 , - 000 . Before the market crash of 1929 his fortune was believed to have been more than $2,000,000 . The estate now consists , it was said , of securities , several parcels of real estate , and $100,000 in bank deposits . Court Fight in Prospect . The court battle , if it develops , will be between Mrs. Helen Troesch Shanahan , who was married to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group of Mr. Shanahan 's relatives . Mrs. Shanahan ' is 40 years old . Her home is in Springfield . . For several years she was secretary to Mr. Shang han when he was speaker of the house . She is now employed in the office . of Edward ' J. Hughes , secretary of state . Her marriage to Mr. Shana han in the hospital on Oct. 5 was not known except by a few close friend : until after Mr. Shanahan 's death Until Oct. 5 he had been a bachelor Opposed to ? Mrs. Shanahan , if thi estate contest goes to court , will 1:1 a group of relatives led by the Misse : Mary and Margaret Flynn , sisters , o 5135 Kenwood avenue . The MiSSe Flynn operate a:IA:bile ' stenograPhi service ix tha  --  Pairner , house . According to Attorney Francis L. Brinkman , who represents them , they and a third sister , Mrs. Katherine Campbell of Portland , Ore. , are first cousins of Mr. Shanahan . There are no other blood relatives , Brinkman said ; the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will Leaves Estate to Widow . The first , step toward the settle . ment of Representative Shanahan 's estate wa:si ' taken yesterday by Mrs. Shanahan'it attorney , James G. Sheridan . He appeared before Oscar S. Caplan , assistant to the probate judge , and filed a will . which Mr. Shanahan , executed on Oct. 5 , the day of his marriage . This will directs that his entire estate go to Mrs. Shanahan . Attorney ' Sheridan also gained the immediate appointment of Mrs. Shanahan : as administratrix to collect assets of the estate . , The widow did not appear in court , but an affidavit signed by her stated that $25,000 of the estate 's personal property is held by other persons . The affidavit said there ' was a possibility that ' this ' property might be disposed of before Mrs. Shanahan could be ap . pointed executrix of the estate in the regular course of probate procedure . A few ' hours later Attorney Brinkman ? indicated that the Misses Flynn would contest the will . He declared , however , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the funeral services are held . Brinkman said that the Flynn sisters were the chief beneficiaries of a will executed by Mr. Shanahan last May 27 , two days after he entered the hospital . This will , the attorney said , provided that about 10 per cent of the estate was to be distributed among some 25 or 30 charities which Mr. Shanahan had aided during his lifetime . Twenty per cent more , Attorney Brinkman said , was to go to relatives by marriage whom the representative had helped to support . Of the remainder of the estate , he said , 80 per cent was to be divided equally between the Misses Flynn and the other 20 per cent was to go to Mrs. Shanahan , then Miss Troesch . Part In Handling Affairs . Attorney Brinkman declared that the Misses Flynn had taken a part in handling a considerable portion of Representative Shanahan 's business affairs both before and during his illness . Referring to the appointment of Mrs. Shanahan as administratrix , Brinkman said that his clients might have some insurance policies of . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Brinkman said he had drawn and redrawn several wills for Mr. Shanahan in the last few years . Neither Mrs. Shanahan nor the Flynn sisters would comment on the affairs of the estate . They referred all questions to their attorneys . Friends of Mr. Shanahan said they had understood for years that it was his intention to leave a substantial share of his estate to Mrs. Shanahan . They said they believed that one of the reasons the marriage was performed during his last illness was to prevent a court battle over the property . License Issued Secretly . The license for the marriage was taken out on Sept. 4 , a month before it was used . Its issuance at the county clerk 's office was kept as much a secret as the marriage . The Oct. 5 will , filed yesterday , was witnessed by Thomas F. Mines , undertaker at 2963 Archer avenue ; Robert E. Rodgers , 3842 Archer avenue , real estate dealer and Republican senatorial committeeman in the Ninth district Shanahan 's district , and Miss Mildred Spiering , 200 East 72d street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court before Mr. Caplan yesterday a sa witness in proving the will . Vac .. ncy on the Ballot . The problem of filling the vacancy or the legislative ballot caused by Mr. Shanahan 's death occupied political leaders during the day . While three state representatives are to be elected in the 9th district , Mr. Shanahan was the only candidate on the Republican ticket . Rodgers appeared before the elec. ' tion board and announced that he had been selected by the Republican senatorial committee of the district for Shanahan 's place . Alexander , chairman of the board , informed him that the ballots petition . The funeral services for Mr. Shanahan tomorrow will be held at 9:30 a. m. at St. Bridget 's Catholic church , Arch street and Archer avenue . Burial will be in Calvary cemetery . Mr. Shanahan 's body was taken to his home in Throop street last night . It will remain there until the funeral services .                     