@@699165

txt A $3,000,000 center for international understanding in the middle West is being dedicated here today . A club , theater and home all in one , Internatioal House of Chicago has opened its doors to men and women from many lands where they may live and share experiences with American students . The Chicago building is the fourth given in the-interest of world good will by Mr. Johli D. Rockefeller Jr. , who has endowed homes for foreign students also in Paris , New York and Berkeley , Calif . The Chicago " house " has benefited by the experience of all the others and is regarded by its directors as just about ideal . It is located near the University of Chicago , but is open to students of all Chicago institutions of higher learning and is connected by good transportation with most of them . Everything in the massive 12-story structure has been planned with a view to making the foreign student feel at home in a strange land . At the same time , an effort has been made to establish a center in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to become acquainted with the cultures of other nations as interpreted by the foreign students living among them . An unusual room is a large one , charmingly decorated in the American tradition and called the " home room . " It is an outcome of an idea . For 10 years or more Mr. Bruce Wesley Dickson , director of foreign students at the University of Chicago , has made it a point to offer the hospitality of his home to young People from other lands . Mrs. Dickson has cooperated whole-heartedly , in recent years giving her full time to the activity . Now in the " home room " Mr. and Mrs. Dickson hope to carry on their hospitality on a larger ' Scale , giving many parties here for International House residents and members . Many other recreational features are provided . A large lounge offers an abundance of welcoming chairs ' , and davenports with soft lights conducive to conversation . A book-lined library invites readers . A dining room , in cheerful colors , serves food prepared by a Yugoslavic chef . Dormitory rooms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " by an excellent interior decorator . Living expenses are not high at the house and facilities are provided to help students keep down expenses . A sewing room and laundry is available to women students , for example . At present about 40 . per cent of the residents in the house are American students who welcome this opportunity to form acquaintances with students of other nations .                     