@@702807

txt Resumption of active interest in American securities abroad was indicated by cabled advices received in New York yesterday , especially from The Netherlands and England . This was followed by definite indication in the local foreign exchange market that new foreign money was coming to New York to finance security purchases . The inflow of foreign funds was believed to have been a contributing factor in the weakness of sterling exchange and a major factor in an eight-point break in Dutch guilders in the local exchange market yesterday . Institutional Buying A certain amount of institutional buying was reported as well as large private orders . Rapidly rising securities quotations in all three centers yesterday , together with the more cheerful attitude both here and abroad . naturally resulted in increased arbitrage dealings with London and Amsterdam , it was indicated . Because of this and because foreign activity in this market never is a one-way proposition . there was selling from abroad as well as buying . But , on the whole , foreign exchange people estimated that the buying definitely was larger than the selling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market developments of the past few are convinced that during the break of the stock market on Tuesday whatever foreign selling developed did not result in a repatriation of the dollar balances thus created . Funds Remain on Deposit Instead , it is indicated , the funds remained on deposit in New York available for fresh purchases when it appeared that the decline had run its course . Foreign buying is believed to be ananced from these balances while , in addition , fresh money is being sent here . The strength which developed in the New York market yesterday was foreshadowed in early stock market cables from London which told of considerable activity there in the American list . London was attracted by the market leaders and cables told of buying in American steel shares , such as United States Steel , Bethlehem and Youngstown , while International Nickel and Chrysler also were favorites . In Amsterdam , demand developed for American steel , copper and railway shares .                     