@@698638

txt Frustrated in efforts to consolidate the War and Navy Departments through action by the House Expenditures Committee , and confronted with objections of Cabinet members to other plans to reduce governmental expenditures , the Democrats today put through the House a resolution extending the life of the Economy Committee and giving it " super " legislative powers . The vote on the resolution , which was sponsored by Chairman Byrnsof the Appropriations Committee and head of the Economy Committee , was 258 to 115 . The resolutioa authorized the committee to function throughout the session and report , by bill or otherwise , its recommendations upon any measures for economy . It provides that all such reports or bills be placed upon the calendar with a privileged status . This was declared by its opponents to mean that P ny legislation , whether for consolidation of the War and Navy Departments or , the abolishment of governmental offices , can be called before the House and virtually put through before Republican opposition could be mustered . Garner 's Approval Is Seen . The resolution was reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Chairman Cochran of the Expenditures Committee , after plans to consolidate the Army and Navy Departments failed twice to pass through the committee . Secretaries Hurley and Adams and various high officers opposed the plans , and charges have been made by Mr. Byrns and Mr. Cochran that " lobbyists " were working against the bill . The Garner-Byrns-Cochran triumvirate appeared to be in even a stronger position after the resolution was adopted , since it practically removes from further consideration in the Expenditures Committee all budget " cuts " and departmental consolidations. - The Economy Committee is composed of four Democrats and three Republicans . The original plan of the committee , under the authority of the resolution creating it , was to cut about $100,000,000 from the 1933 budget . Executive hearings have been held with that idea , and a report was to have been submitted by April 15 . Representatives Michener of Michigan and Schafer of Wisconsin , the latter a member of the Economy Committee , today opposed the measure lengthening the life of the committee . Mr. Schaefer said that it was " damn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been unable to get the Army-Navy consolidation . bill through the committee and it was planned to give that authority to the " super " economy committee . " They can bring in anything they wish and pass it before we know what is happening , " he declared . Criticizes Cabinet Members . Mr. Cochran declared that too much opposition had been shown by Cabinet members to all proposed economies and expressed the conviction the economy committee would be able to overcome such obstacles . He would never consent to general salary reductions , however , and would lead the opposition to any such proposal . Members of the Cabinet who have criticized Democratic proposals , in addition to Secretaries Hurley and Adams , are Secretary of Agriculture Hyde , Secretary of the Treasury Mills and Secretary of the Interior Wilbur . Every Cabinet officer is to be called before the committee as soon as definite , plans are conceived . The methods , and not the aim of reductions , has been the basis of Cabinet opposition . Postmaster General Brown . in a letter to Mr. Byrne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that department . " The bulk of the budget goes for salaries and wages , " he wrote . " The question of reducing the cost of postoffice operations is , therefore , very largely a question of reducing the payroll . " The compensation of postal employes , their promotions , their hours of labor , their vacations , their sick leave and other benefits and allowances are fixed by law . Substantial payroll savings could undoubtedly be made without impairing the service , but these must come from fundamental changes in the employment policy , which only Congress can authorize . " Mr. Brown pointed out that his recommendations for increased postage rates would bring in an additional $122,750,000 , For the current year , Mr. Brown said in his letter , the postal expenditure will be In the neighborhood of $800,000,000 ; receipts will scarcely exceed $600,000,000 , leaving a gross deficit of $200,000,000 to be made up out of " borrowed money . "                     