@@699797

txt The policy of the Department of Justice in prosecutions of violations of the prohibition law remains unchanged . Statements circulated with the intent to convey the opposite idea are incorrect , according to Mr. Frederick H. Tarr , United States Attorney . He said it is not true that Boston federal authorities are " completely powerless to raid speakeasies and that they will be free from interference as long as they break no Ian except the prohibition law . " In all cases where any evidence is sufficient to warrant a prosecution , violators of the law will be indicted and punished , he said . " It is true , " lie said , " that the Department of Justice , in common with all other departments of the Government , Is required to effect the greatest possible economies . For that reason it Is probable that beginning with the next fiscal year , July 1 , the usual number of assistants in this office will be greatly reduced . Force to Be Cut " This reduction in the force of the office Is not due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prohibition law . Only two of the assistants in this office : rove devoted themselves mainly to that work . The enforcement of the prohibition law does not constitute more than 15 per cent of the business of this office , " Eighty-five per cent of the work is in connection with other departments , matters connected with the post offices , the banks , customs , admiralty , narcotics , naturalization , immigration , federal building sites , taxation , veterans ' cases , pure food laws , interstate commerce , the Mann Act , the Motor Vehicle Theft Act and other incidental matters . Evidence Blocked " It is true that the recent action by Congress , which prevents the buying of liquor by Government agents to establish evidence upon which to base prosecution and conviction . has caused and is bound to cause a large decrease in the number of cases brought before the court . ' Under federal practice no warrant for search and complaint may be Instituted unless it is based upon substantial evidence . " If agents can make no purchases of liquor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary conditions be immune from prosecution , not because that is the policy of the enforcement officers but because they can secure no substantial evidence . For that reason prohibition prosecutions are bound to fall off tremendously .                     