@@702227

txt The crew of the Grace liner Santa Maria , consisting of 141 men , quit their vessel on her arrival from Valparaiso yesterday and joined the strike of the rank and file group of the International Seamen 's Union in Atlantic and Gulf ports . While on their way to port the ' crew made up a fund of $100 which was presented yesterday to Joseph Curran , chairman of the strikers ' committee . It was announced that twelve young women employed on the Santa Maria as stewardesses had volunteered to join the eight women now serving as pickets . The strikers ' committee , in an effort to prevent the sailing of the Export liner Exochorda for Mediterranean ports , filed a protest yesterday with James Smith of the Bureau of Marine Inspection , against conditions in the crew 's quarters of the ship . The ship got away , however , from her Jersey City pier , with thirtytwo pasengers and her largest cargo in several years , despite the fact that at that time she lacked the requisite number of the men in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only ten minutes late , and anchored near Bedloes Island until crew replacements were taken aboard by tug . Seek to Tie Up I. M. M. Ship The strikers again concentrated their efforts upon the International Mercantile Marine Company last night as the American Merchant liner American Farmer arrived from London and docked at her North River pier . No advance word as to the attitude of the crew had been received , but officials of the strike committee announced that they would make every legitimate effort to induce it to join the strike . The Clyde liner Iroquois sailed at noon for Charleston J. nd Jacksonville , tying up in the bay while officials of the union searched the port for men to replace striking members of the crew . She resumed her voyage at 5:15 P. M. after replacements had arrived by tug . A general confusion as to the success of the strikers ' efforts to hold ships prevailed last night as the union issued a list of ships that had sailed during the day , some of which were found still in the harbor and others to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real violence reported in the strike here occurred yesterday when Robert Maxwell , 1 28 , of 8 West 132d Sreet , and Ed-1 ward Rutledge , 28 , of 538 Throop Avenue , Brooklyn , both Negroes ' , and employed as waiters on the Eastern Steamship liner Acadia , were arrested in connection with an attack on Robert Darlington , 28 , a striker . Darlington , who gave the offices of the Strikers Committee , 164 Eleventh Avenue , as his address , was slashed across the cheek . He accused Maxwell of the attack and said Rutledge had aided him . Both men were held in bail of $500 by Magistrate Leonard . The police said Maxwell had wielded a nail file . The assault caused Mr. Curran again to call the attention of police officials to activities of strikebreakers . Darlington was picketing the Acadia peaceably when attacked , Curran said . " The strikers , " said Curran , " are acting under orders to remain within the law . Now we have the spectacle of David E. Grange , a high official of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man with a revolver and two more men held for a malicious attack , while the record of the strikers , who have been accused by owners of threatening men and with employing thugs , is perfectly clear , as the police will testify . " Curran announced yesterday that he had conferred with officials of a union of ship officers , with a view to lining up its members in a sympathy strike . He was hopeful , he said , of receiving a favorable decision today . The strikers already have the support of the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association . At Curran 's office it was said that seventy-three ships were now tied up in the harbor , affecting the activities of 7,800 men . Glenn Moore-Skagman , former master at arms on the United States liner Manhattan and a member of the strikers ' committee , replied last night in a radio address to the charges of union officials that the strike was the work of an insurgent group . He said the strikers were union seamen who had been betrayed by their leaders when an unauthorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strike action the only way to protect their interests . The strike committee announced that a mass meeting would be held Friday at 7:30 P. M. at the Washington Irving High School , 40 Irving Place . The American Steamship Owners Association in a statement last night said that ten slaps in New York Harbor were tied up by the strike , eight of which have scheduled sailing dates but lack full crews . Two have been removed from their usual services principally for lack of crews , it was said . The association also announced that twenty-eight ships were in dry dock , one was undergoing repair at its pier and another , which has been at its pier since before the strike , is out of service for lack of cargo . Since the inception of the strike 142 ships have sailed from this port manned by 9.402 men and yesterday fourteen ships manned by 825 men sailed , it was said .                     