@@697782

txt A plan for rescuing bankrupt European farmers was officially voted by a sub-committee of the European Federation Commission today . Organization of an international agricultural mortgage credit company under the auspices of the League of Nations Is the basis of the new relief . The plan was recently drafted by financial experts and its indorsement today by representatives of the chief European countries brings the project pear to practical realization . 1 Final approval by pul Council of the ague of Nations will wsOightto Vey , but pendft1 raUftettlon an organising committee will complete all practical arrangements so that the new company will be able to begin Work as soon as the convention is in force . It is expected the first issue of shares will take place next autumn . The purpose of the new international bank is to alleviate the burdend which weigh on agricultural production in southeastern and eastern European countries , and to improve methods of cultivation and cut the expenses , which at present ruin European farming . The new bank will be a limited liability company placed on a strictly tatlonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital invested will be supplemented by other guarantees provided by the governments concerned which will entitle them to supervise the new company 's activities as an organ of public utility . The activities of the new bank will consist in granting long or medium term loans to national credit mortgage companies which will lend these funds upon first mortgages on agricultural exploitations in the contracting countries , in issuing and negotiating bonds the redemption value of which may not exceed the total value of the loans granted to nation mortgage companies . The authorized capital of the International company Is fixed at $50,000,000 . The shares of the initial issue of $5,000,000 will be nominal and their holders will command a majority at general meetings , This first block will be divided equally among the contracting parties In order to guarantee the international character of the bank . A special reserve fund for the purpose of further developmentof the company equal to the first block of subscribed capital will be advanced by the governments and refunded In course . of time . The total value of the bonds to be issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of the paid-up capital and special reserve , Terms of the loom to be granted by the company will depend upon the terms on which the company itself has been able to borrow . It is hoped that , owing to the thoughtfully planned guarantee provisions of the whole scheme , these rates will follow a decreasing curve and that the business handled by the International company will contribute to lower interest rates prevailing upon the national mortgage markets of the countries requiring assistance . Any party which signs the convention can bl ems a borrower or lender . But berm ? ' ng countries must provide definite It mantees regarding their mortgage legislation . Where such legislation is inadequate the governments wi ' be required to guarantee the loans granted to their national mortgage companies and may be requested to Improve their laws . Certain members of the board of directors will be appointed by the League Council and the International Institute of Agriculture , others by a general meeting of shareholders . But all directors must be of different nationalities and heads of land credit , mortgage or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no suggestion regarding the seat of the international company . But as its activities will be closely linked with those of the World Bank and the International Mortgage Bank recently established in Basel , It is believed here that that city might advantageously be chosen as the home of the new international credit institution . Its charter requires from the country to be selected as its seat facilities similar to those granted by the Swiss Government to the World Bank .                     