@@701054

txt In the face of strong opposition among members of his own party , Governor Lehman today renewed ' his demand for ratification of the Child Labor Amendment to the Federal Constitution . In a special message he told the Senate and Assembly that ratification was a " matter of great magnitude and importance to the State and to the nation . " " I do not approve the conjuring up of extreme possible effects of the provisions of the Child Labor Amendment , " he said . The measure for ratification was killed in the Judiciary Committee of the Senate , despite pleas by President Roosevelt , Governor Lehman and other leaders ? of the Democratic party in the State and nation . In the Assembly the measure reposes in the Judiciary Committee and Assemblyman Breen , Troy Democrat , is guiding the fight for a record vote . Steingut Favors a Vote . Assemblyman announced earlier in the day that he might move to have the committee discharged in order to put the members on record . Tonight , however , he changed his plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor 's agent in the lower house . Speaker Steingut is known to look with kindly eyes on the plan to bring the measure out for a vote so that the Democrats will not be compelled to assume all responsibility for killing ratification . Both Democrats and Republicans are found in the ranks of those opposing the measure . It may develop that no effort will be made to bring the measure to the floor of the Assembly until after the powerful Rules Committee takes over all legislation ten days before the end of the session . Speaker Steingut is chairman of Rules and he would be in a position to force the measure out for a vote . It is acknowledged that despite the Lehman plea there is practically no chance of ratification at the current session , and that efforts to push the measure are designed mainly to keep the issue alive . TEXT OF THE MESSAGE . The Governor 's message was as follows : In my annual message of this year to your honorable bodies I urged the ratification of the Federal child labor amendment . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A public hearing has already been held . The subject is not a new one . Both in 1933 and 1934 , in regular and in extraordinary sessions , in messages to the Legislature I strongly advocated ratification . Ratification of the child labor amendment Is a matter of great magnitude and importance to.the State and to the nation . I appreciate that with respect to it men may sincerely and honestly differ in point of view . Each side has ardent supporters in all groups of our citizens . Above all , the matter is wholly non-partisan and non-political . There is no justification for attempting to make a political issue of it . It has never been a matter of party policy or platform pledge . There are undoubtedly advocates and opponents of the amendment in both the Democratic and Republican groups of the Legislature . Those who claim to be friends of ratification are rendering it no helpful service by their efforts to bring the question into the field of partisan politics . Some Issues Up to Court . I believe very strongly that ratification by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still open to the State to ratify this amendment either because it has now been pending eleven years or because thirteen of the States at one time or another rejected the amendment appears to me to be a question exclusively for the determination of the highest tribunal , the Supreme Court of the United States . I do not agree that the child labor amendment should be condemned because of our experience with the Eighteenth Amendment . I do not approve the conjuring up of extreme possible effects of the provisions of the child labor amendment . I venture to say that such practice , if applied , would render many of our most useful constitutional enactments , perforce couched in general language , both dangerous and absurd . The child labor amendment , sponsored by unselfish and far-sighted individuals and organizations , is clearly not conceived to impair the sanctity either of the family or of the home . An Inevitable Development . Just as in the case of grants of other powers to the Federal Government , so here the Congress is vested with the exercise of certain power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress attempted to regulate child labor . Twice were the enactments held invalid because of constitutional lack of jurisdiction . Proposal of the child labor amendment was the long and inevitable development of the desire to have uniform standards throughout the country . Valid and effective uniform Federal legislation can not be had without ratification of the amendment . It is my earnest hope that your honorable bodies will ratify the child labor amendment at this session and thereby give final impetus to the adoption of this great social measure which will help adequately to protect our children and our children 's children in industrial work throughout the nation . I am convinced that the uniform regulation - of the employment of children in factories will greatly benefit the people of our country .                     