@@698292

txt Many messages congratulating President Hoover on his proposal to create a government system of ihome loan discount banks came to Mr. Hoover today . Meanwhile some influential members of Congress expressed their approval of the plan . Thirty-two telegrams warmly endorsing the program were made public at the White House , without comment . They carne from many sections and were from important financial and building interests . Senator Fess , chairman of the Republican National Committee , and Senator Smoot , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , expressed unqualified approval , while Representative Steagall of Alabama , ranking Democrat of the House Banking and Currency Committee and its probable chairman in the next session , sanctioned the basic idea . Senator Glass , chairman of the special subcommittee of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee , said he did not wish to seem " antagonistic " toward " any progressive measure " that would relieve the present economic situation . While no further statement came from President Hoover regarding the plan to set up the twelve home loan banks , with an initial capital of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a view to embodying it in his message to Congress next month . H. M. Robinson Credited With Aid . It was said that Henry M. Robinson , Los Angeles banker and a personal friend of Mr. Hoover , had played an important part in framing the recommendations . Mr. Robinson is reported to have consulted frequently recently with Eugene Meyer Jr. , Governor of the Federal Reserve Board ; Paul Bastor , Federal Farm Loan Bureau Commissioner , and Ogden L. Mills , Under-Secretary of the Treasury . In the absence of more details than were given by the President yesterday , some members of Congress hesitated to commit themselves unqualifiedly , although endorsing the principle involved . Jealous friends of the Federal Reserve Board insisted that it must not be " entangled " with the ne* scheme , and supporters of the Farm Loan Bureau held that its functions must not be " usurped . " Indications were that creation of the system would be sought through introduction of separate bills in Congress rather than by amendments to the laws establishing the Federal Reserve and Farm Loan Systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two systems to attack from many quarters , and , on the whole , those studying the situation hesitated to sanction anything that would afford opportunities for " tinkering " with existing , government agencies . ' 11 heartily favor the President 's plan , since it is concrete in proposing a program to care for the long-term credit situation , as the Federal Reserve does for the short-term credits , " Senator Fess said . " Such legislation should not be long deferred . It should have a most wholesome influence on public confidence , which has been long lacking under our present systems " Senator Smoot , who is due here tomorrow , telegraphed this statement ; " I heartily approve the recommen- dation of President Hoover for the establishment of banks as an aid , to home builders and for the extension of agricultural mortgages . There is no question but what the beneficial results from this important move will be felt throughout the United States and particularlyjn the West , where agriculture will WM revived and employment increase . " Representative Steagall , who will head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House , said : " Any sound plan which enlarges credit facilities at this time and will absorb non-liquid assets is desired . The President 's suggestion has possibilities of constructive service . " Mr. Steagall opposes amendments which would use the Federal Reserve facilities for non-liquid discounts ; he holds that the system should primarily aid commercial banking . Ile said alsb that he will sponsor the recent proposal of President Hoover to add $60.000,000 to the capital stock of the twelve Federal Land Banks . " Our committee held hearings on this question last year and probably would have given the Federal Land Banks the needed aid had not the Secretary of the Treasury and the head of the Federal Farm Loan system opposed it as unsound , " he added . Representative , the Republican committee chairman . now absent from Washington , is said to favor the principle . From his home in Lynchburg , Senator Glass said by telephone that the President 's plan " speaks for itself . " " If there is any dearth of home building which would seem to warrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that charac ter I can see no special objection to any one going , " into it . " he declared . " I can not see that the government should be particularly eager to take the money of American taxpayers with which to embark in the real estate business . But I do not care to seem to be antagonistic to any progressive measure which the President may see fit to suggest to relieve the existing financial situation . TEXT OF MESSAGES The text of telegrams made public by the President follows : Harvey J. Campbell . Vice President and Secretary . Detroit Board of Commerce  --  Please accept hearty endorsement and encouragement of Detroit Board of Commerce for your constructive effort to relieve the strain on a billion and a half small loan mortgages now frozen . Your constructive proposal for the creation of some sort of general mortgage bank with regional facilities for assisting in liquidation of these credits is most commendable and should meet with hearty approval of your fellow-citizens . A. Leucekl , President , Mutual Building and Loan Association , Trenton , N. J. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ J. , has expressed itself in full accord with your proposed mortgage rediscount legislation and expresses the hope that you may be successful in putting it into operation because of the great benefit to the present financial situation . Lavin L. Payne 8 : Co .. Indianapolis  - -  The great vital first step to put t he country back on even keel is to restore flow of mortgage money . Believe the National Real Estate Board mortgage bank plan admirable . H. S. Kissall , Springfield , Ohio ? Deeply appreciate your splendid announcement of the mortgage bank plan as an administration measure . It will bring hope and courage to millions . I have tonight wired my executive committee to meet in Chicago next Wednesday to organize support for your great plan and help you put it through Congress as soon as possible . Herbert Nelson , Secretary . National Association of Real Estate Boards , Chicago  --  Your announcement of plans to aid home ownership by establishing mortgage banks is the most constructive undertaking of recent times and will command nationwide support . Our group will do everything possible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Detroit  --  May I addreas my endorsement of your proposal to make more elastic under certain conditions the security and credit originating out of small home building . I have often thought that some such proposal as we discussed in 1925 would be very helpful . Your constructive efforts for relief and pa-evention of future recurrences of the present condition meets with the hearty endorsement of this bank and should appeal equally to all banks and agencies making this type of real estate loan . W. D. Freeman . President , United Savings Association , Toledo  --  We recommend your action relative to the establishment of a Federal real estate mortgage bank . We urge quick action . E. C. Stokes , Ex-Governor , Trenton , N. J. ? Your idea of a mortgage rediscount bank is a most constructive plan and commends itself as most remedial in the present situation . I hope it can be worked out . Frank D. Stalnaker , President , Indiana National Bank , Indianapolis ? From information I have I agree with suggestion to form a bank called the Mortgage Discount Bank to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good thing for the country . Roy R. Blair , Toledo , Ohio  --  Have been operating the Northwestern Ohio Savings Association for seventeen years and want to urge upon you to do everything in your power for establishment of the new rediscount bank as advocated by the National Association of Real Estate Boards . Henry G. Rolston , President , Boonton National Bank , Boonton , N. J. ? Your proposal of a system of Federal mortgage rediscount banks for relieving frozen real estate assets has our hearty approval . Claude A. Campbell , Vice President , Ohio Savings Bank and Trust Company , Toledo , Ohio  --  Respectfully urge establishment of mortgage rediscount bank as advocated by National Association of Real Estate Boards . Based upon seventeen years ' wide experience in real estate finance , It is my best judgment that such central mortgage bank would bring substantial relief to banking institutions throughout the country . Oliver J. Sands , President , American Bank and Trust Company of Richmond , Va. ? Immediate action upon your part looking to the prompt organization of an institution to rediscount real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneficial effect upon public confidence as did the National Credit Corporation . The enforced and the threatened hauldation which is now in process is causing unnecessary loss and tremendously depressing influence throughout the entire country . L. M. Hanks , Chairman of the Board , First National Bank of Madison , Wis. ? Believe mortgage bank plan for discounting of mortgages on homes should have immediate and serious consideration . With proper safeguards its bonds should have ready market and thus give outlet for many non-liquid but perfectly good assets . Trenton Trust Company , Trenton , N. J. ? This bank approves the general idea expressed in your plan to give relief to real estate security situation and will support any feasible method of operation that has your approval . Leo T. Crowley , President , State Bank of Wisconsin , Madison ? Think it very essential to the revival of the home building industry and to a general economic recovery to make residential real estate mortgages more liquid . A Federal mortgage bank built along Federal Reserve lines would seem to be sound . I trust that your efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , president , Stamford Real Estate Board , Stamford , Conn. ? Without question the home loan plan represents the greatest forward step ever made in the interest of the home-owner . The plan . will also be of incalculable benefit in the revival of general business . We pledge you our active support of this most important measure when presented before ' Congress to the end that it be placed in operation without delay . Corliss E. Sullivan , chairman , Central United National Bank , Cleveland. ? Please accept my congratulations on your very excellent plan which came out in this morning 's paper covering regional loan discount banks to handle small mortgages . This will he of great benefit to the entire banking situation over this part of the country . L. T. Stevenson , president-elect , National Association of Real Estate Boards , Pittsburgh. ? Hcarty coygratulations In your home loan bank plan . I believe such a plan will immediately stimulate building of homes and aid in a great measure to solve the unemployment problem and will be a strong weapon to stamp out communism and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trust Company. ? Your plan for regional bank to loan on mortgages meets the approval of the entire banking group in this sec-1 tion . The establishment of a bank of this kind will inspire confidence and give much needed relief to home-owners . Edward G. Hacken , director , National Association of Real Estate Boards , Lansing , Mich. ? Your action on central mortgage bank received with intense interest and enthusiasm here . It unquestionably is of vital importance at this time and the realtors of Michigan and the nation stand solidly behind you in this important step . W. M. Baldwin , president , Union Trust Company . Cleveland. ? Your plan for organization of Federal Home Loan Bank is very constructive and should receive unanimous public approval . John Sprunt Hill , Durham , N. C. ? The plan advocated by you is , in my opinion , a great constructive measure that , if properly worked out , will bring much relief to the homeowners of this country . H. V. Sh , ulters , President Cleveland Clearing House Association  --  Read with great interest this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new regional loan discount banks and heartily approve . Robert Jamison Jr. , Former President , National Association of Real Estate Boards , Birmingham , Ala. ? Congratulations and appreciation on constructive plan for mortgage financing . W. A. Starrett , Madison , N. J. ? May I congratulate you on your splendid accomplishment in effecting plan for residential mortgage relief as reported in morning papers . Your plan takes a place of equal Importance with your National Credit Association plan and can not but furnish a like stimulation to speedy return of confidence and industrial revival . Leonard P. Reaume , Detroit  --  Congratulations and good wishes upon your proposed mortgage discount bank . It is a courageous and farseeing movement which will undillebtedly be very beneficial . Representative U. S. Guyer , Republican , Kansas City , Kan. ? Horne credit plan announced this morning heartily approved . Believe will provide mighty stimulus to home construction . There are throughout our land , however , thousands of home-owners who are losing their homes because mortgages negotiated in more prosperous times now coming due and unemployment or reduced earnings making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardworking citizens stand to lose life savings by foreclosures . Suggest in development of home credit plan means be provided for refinancing these mortgages , particularly on new urban and small suburban homes , on basis which will enable these small home-owners to preserve their equities and thus mainteal. % their courage and morale , continue their confidence in their government and hold them as the backbone of our citizenry . Harry Williams , President , First Central Trust Company , Akron , Ohio  --  Please accept hearty congratulations from the First Central Trust Company , Akron , Ohio . on your plan for new regional loan discount banks . We believe this is a very constructive move . Charles J. Daly , St. Louis  --  Allow me to express my appreciation for your action in recommending new loan ) discount system for homeowners . It is my belief that this is a move to relieve one of the most distressing problems now confronting us . David V. Sutton of Sutton , plagden &; Lynch , Inc. , New York  --  Your endorsement as administration project of plan for mortgage bank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will do more to end depression and bring back normal conditions than anything else , and we in the real estate business certainly appreciate your efforts in this direction . Paul Shoup , President , Southern Pacific Railroad Company , New York ? Hearty congratulations upon the clear and convincing presentation of your home-loan plan , which directly and indirectly will greatly aid all financial institutions . Mere presence of adequate relief in background will greatly relieve present stress to far greater degree than its actual use will indicate . This and the bank relief plan working through normal channels of activity are in refreshing contrast to the panaceas taking on form of large public loans with no thought of plan to provide added employment and relieve financial distress which can only be grven by resumption normal activities through channels well established but now frozen or flowing slowly . FAVORABLE COMMENT HERE . Realty Men See Plan Stimulating Building and Other Lines . Real estate men in the New York area commented favorably yesterday on the proposal of President Hoover . It would immediately stimulate home building and home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every industry throughout the country , George S. Horton , president of the Brooklyn Real Estate Board , said . " The stagnation of the mortgage market today is due in large part to the lack of liquidity in real property securities , " Mr. Horton declared . " Many loaning institutions are filled with mortgage paper , hut under our present system it is difficult for them to turn these frozen assets into cash . The President 's propsal provides a sound solution to this problem , and if the plan is approved by Congress , as it should be , one of the most constructive pieces of legislation ever proposed for real estate will result . " William L. Enequist , president of the Long Island Real Estate Board , said : " The establishment of the proposed bank should stimulate home building in those areas where there is a need for it to an extent that would materially aid in ending the present low-business condition . The plan will not only aid at the present time , but if carefully set up , should continue to be helpful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Jersey Association of Real Estate Boards and secretary of the Home Builders ' Division of the National Association of Real Estate Boards , predicted that the plar would quickly stimulate economic recovery and relieve the mental strain on hundreds of home-owners in this State . A statement by George L. Bliss , president of New York State League of Savings and Loan Associations , declared the proposal " very " interesting . " He said : " I believe that the savings and loan associations will endorse the President 's desire to provide for mobility of credit in the home mortgage field . "                     