@@698162

txt A violent clash between Chinese and Japanese soldiers in the vicinity of Mukden was followed by all-night fighting which culminated in the capture of the Mukden inner walled city by Japanese troops at 4:30 A. M. today . The fighting is still proceeding in the streets and suburbs . Japanese reinforcements are being speeded to Mukden by special trains from Port Arthur and other points . The affair began , according to reports available , at 10:30 o'clock last night , when three companies of Chinese troops began destroying the South Mancuhuria Railway line at Hokutaiei , a village three miles from Mukden , on the main line . A smaller number of Javanese troops posted there as guards drove the Chinese away and occupied the village . Chinese Said to Have Reattacke , d . The Chinese re-attacked with machine-guns and even field guns , it is said , and surrounded the Japanese . At midnight Japanese troops at Mukden , numbering three battalions , began an attack on the inner walled city , which they captured after four and a half hours o ; fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Chinese police of Mukden . By 6:30 A. M. the Japanese had completely occupied the walled city . Military police were detailed to preserve order , while the troops began an attack on the military airdrome and arsenal . Telegrams from Seoul say that part of the Korean garrison has been ordered to Manchuria . Officials do not try to conceal the extreme gravity of the affair , but there are still hopes it may prove a local incident capable of settlement as such . The atmosphere of Manchuria for weeks past has been of the kind in which guns go off of themselves . Frontier incidents were to be expected and both governments must have expected some such affair . The agitation the army here has been conducting over the Nakamura murder has creatad widespread anxiety and the question all Japanese are asking is whether the affair was premeditated or is an isolated incident such as is likely to occur in a bellicose atmosphere . Officials Express Surprise . Hurried inquiries here tend to show It was not foreseen and , as far as the Japanese Government is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mukden commander imagined an attack on the bridge at Hokutaiei , otherwise Peitayeng , was the commencement of a concerted attack on Japanese troops . Anticipating that the cutting of the bridge was the prelude to a general assault , he determined to get his blowNin first , and immediately attacked Chinese Army headquarters . The Chinese did not offer serious resistance and the casualties , it is hoped , were few . A Mukden dispatch to the Tokyo Asahi reports that on the night of Sept. 15 , when General Honjo , the new commander of the Japanese garrison in Manchuria , arrived , orders were issued to all Japanese troops in Manchuria . The test was carried out satisfactorily and the next morning troops began their march . General Honjo , who has been tour11. g Manchuria , addressed the troops In several places on the great increase ir banditry and ordered them to take drastic measures against bandits found in the South Manchuria Railroad zone . The Japanese forces in Manchuria at present consist of one division , at peace strength about 12,000 men , and six battalions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cable to THE NEW YORK TiMEe . PEIPING , Saturday. , Sept. 19 . Japanese soldiers occupied the city of Mukden , Manchuria , at 3 A. M. today . A squad of Japanese soldiers approached the north camp at Mukden at about 10 o'clock Thursday night and opened fire . This was followed by shellfire on the camp arsenal and the city from the Japanese concession . A message received here by Vice Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang , Governor of Manchuria , stated that at 1 o'clock Friday afternoon the firing continued , one shell falling every ten minutes . Between seventy and eighty Chinese soldiers were killed . Japanese consular authorities were reported to be unable to induce the military to cease firing . The Chinese did not retaliate . On receiving the message Marshal Chang immediately ordered all Chinese soldiers in Mukden to put their arms in the barracks and not to fire a shot or retaliate in any way . No " incident " or immediate cause for the attack was reported . Four Japanese Wounded . TOKYO , Saturday , Sept. 19 UP ) . ? A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to destroy the South Manchuria Railway , bridge at Peitaying , suburb of Mukden , precipitated a clash last night between Chinese and Japanese soldiers at Mukden , in which a Japanese Lieutenant and three soldiers were wounded . A second communiqu ? said the Chinese , " three or four companies strong , withdrew into their barracks after the encounter with the JapaneSe . " A part of the Chinese position was taken over by the Japanese troops . The Chinese were being reinforced with machine guns . Dispatches to the Rengo News Agency and special dispatches said the Chinese used bombs to destroy part of the railway line near the Peitaying bridge . Japanese troops reinforced the handful of railway guards and some infantry fighting followed . The authorities cautioned the 20,000 Japanese inhabitants not to leave the Japanese concession in Mukden . Japanese who had been living within the walled part of Mukden and other parts of the native city began moving to the Japanese district in all haste . Japanese troops , according to a message to the newspaper Asahi , occupied three Chinese banks in Mukden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bank of Communications and a private institution . Navy Ordered on the Alert . The Rengo Agency said that as a result of a conference of naval officials , it was decided to dispatch vessels from the Sasebo Base at Kyushu Island to assist the military should occasion arise . It was reported that all ship commanders were ordered to prepare for emergency calls in event it was deemed necessary to protect Japanese subjects at Isingtau , Port Arthur , Dairen and other ports . After conferring at the War Office , high officials were called to Cabinet was called here this morning to discuss the situation . The session was called shortly after a spokesman for the Foreign Office , discussing the clash at Paitaying , said , " It is taken for granted the situation is extremely serious . " " We have not yet received detailed reports as to the object of Chinese troops.in attempting to destroy a section of the South Manchuria Railway , " he said . " Whatever the reason may be , we can hardly overlook such conduct , and it is natural that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Japanese authorities ordered the whole Japanese colony in areas outside the South Manchuria Railway zone to enter the zone for protection . Chinese Police Disarmed . Upon entering the walled city of Mukden , Rejigo dispatches said , Japanese troops disarmed all Chinese police . The news agency dispatches said both sides used some artillery , and it was calculated at Mukden that the Japanese fired twelve shells . Japanese reinforcements from various near-by points were arriving at the Mukden main station , which is within the Japanese concession zone . A dispatch to the Rengo agency from Seoul , Korea , said a Japanese air squadron was moving from Pingyang to Shingishu , on the Korean border , 125 miles from Mukden . In other places , the dispatch said , planes were ready to get under way but were awaiting orders . News agency dispatches said a second Japanese battalion occupied the howitzer plant , outside the east gate of Mukden . The howitzer plant is some distance from the enormous arsenal which was started by the late Chang Tso-lin when the war lord had visions of conquering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arsenal is unoccupied . Chinese Act in Executions . A dispatch from Mukden to the Rengo News Agency yesterday said a Chinese General and eleven soldiers probably would be executed for having caused the shooting of a Japanese Captain and three companions . General Jung Chun , Chief of Staff of the Manchurian Army , said the dispatch , informed Japanese Consul Morioka that proof had been obtained that Captain Shintaro Nakamura , another Japanese , a Mongolian and a Russian were shot as spies by regular troops under General Kwan Yu-heng . It was not stated whether General Kwan carried out the shooting himself or instructed troops to shoot . The Nakamura group held certificates from Chinese authoritiiell ? permitting the party to travel i Manchuria and Mongolia to make maps . The men were arrested July 26 and shot the next day . General Jung Chin has sent fifty cavalrymen to arrest General Kwan Yu-heng and eleven others and bring them to Mukden , Where it is expected they will be executed . The Nakamura incident caused much resentment in Japan , with correspondence between the Japanese and Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Chinese and Japanese were the attacks by Chinese upon Korean irrigation workers.in Manchuria and the resultant riots in Korea , in which Korean mobs killed about 100 Chinese . The Chinese in Korea fled to Japanese police stations , where they received protection , the Japanese firing upon Korean attacking parties . The incident , however , caused considerable friction between China and Japan , the Nanking Government demanding that Japan make formal apology for the attacks upon Chinese in Korea , render compensation for loss of life and property and give guarantees against a recurrence of the outrages . Another recent disturbance of Japanese and Chinese relations was the execution of Captain Shintaro Nakamura and three companions . The South Manchuria Railway is a Japanese semi-governmental concern . It extends from Dairen , in the Kwantung district of Southern Manchuria , a Japanese Government leased . territory , to Changchun , Manchuria , 438 miles away , where it connects with the Chinese Eastern Railway . Another section leads from Mukden to Antung , connecting with the Korean main system . The South Manchuria Railway crosses the Hun River @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has about 200,000 inhabitants .                     