@@701826

txt General Plutarco Elias Calles , former President of Mexico and one of the greatest personalities in Mexico since the time of Dictator Porfirio Diaz , was arrested and deported to the United States this morning by order of President Lazaro Cardenas . He was taken from his native country in an airplane of the Corapania Mexicana de Aviacion , a subsidiary of Pan American Airways , before 8 A. M. and reached BrownsTexas , about 1 o'clock in the afternoon with others who were arrested by the military authorities . With General Calles went Luis L. Leon , former Minister of Industry and Commerce and Minister of Agriculture ; Luis N. Morones , leader of - the Regional Confederation of Labor and former Minister of Industry and Commerce ; General Rafael Melchor Ortega , former Governor of the State of Guanajuato , and General Jose Maria Tapia , former chief of the Presidential headquarters staff under Provisional President Pascual Ortiz Rubio . President Charges Plot An official statement on the government 's action by Luis Rodriguez , private secretary to President Cardenas , was issued this morning as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luis Morones , General Melchor Ortega , Luis Leon and others for Brownsville 1s the consequence of threats to the public welfare which forced the federal Executive to take this action . " Today 's drastic action followed charges by the Permanent Commission of Congress last night that General Calles and his exiled supporters were plotting against the government and were responsible for the dynamiting of a train Monday on the way to the capital from Vera Cruz , in which nine persons were killed and at least fourteen were injured . The Calles home at Santa Barbara and the homes of the others who were exiled with him were surrounded by government agents at midnight . The men were taken to the central airport shortly before 8 o'clock . Their removal was entrusted to General Rafael Navaro , chief of operations in the Valley of Mexico . At 11:30 last night General Navaro , accompanied by twenty soldiers of the Nineteenth Infantry Regiment and eight policemen arrived at the Calles hacienda in Santa Barbara on the outskirts of the capital in automobiles . The soldiers and policemen surrounded the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bedroom of the former Mexican dictator . He was in bed , suffering from influenza . Calles Shows No Surprise Without showing the slightest sign of silrprise General Calles said , " I am at your orders . " General Navaro said solemnly : " By order of the President of the republic you are under arrest . I have instructions to inform you that under Presidential orders you must leave the republic before 7 A. M. A special airplane will be at your disposal to take you to the United States border . " " May I ask the reason for this order ? " said General Calles . " The welfare of the country demands it , " replied General Navaro . When General Navaro entered the bedroom the former President was in pajamas . Getting out of bed he said : " I consider myself your prisoner . I have no forces at my disposal and I do not need them . You may take me in an airplane or before a firing squad . I do not consider myself responsible for the conditions through which Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navaro replied , " I request you to prepare to accompany me at 6:30 to the Central Airfield , " and then left , saying , " By your leave . " The soldiers were ordered by General Navaro to treat General Canes with respect . The former President dressed , assisted by his two sons . He packed clothing in two bags . A few minutes later , while walking back and forth in his room , he denounced the charges of the Permanent Commission of Congress that he had caused the dynamiting of the Vera Cruz train and was engaged in a seditious movement . " Since my return to Mexico last December I have not had any interest , much less any intervention , in politics in my country , " he said . have always considered President Cardenas an upright , honest man and one of judgment . I believe , and so does all the world , that it is necessary to make a more equitable distribution of wealth to avoid exploitation of the poor by the rich , to improve the condition of the masses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points of difference with the present administration have been that I am in accord with what the people need but not with the methods employed by the government , for I consider them prejudicial to Mexico . " I believe that the order for my expulsion is the result of the charge by the Left wing of the Chamber of Deputies that I am responsible for the dynamiting of the Vera Cruz train . That outrage against civilization was conceived and executed by criminal , morbid and demented minds . I am immune from that calumny . " Such accusations do not injure me , but what I can not understand is the real motive for the blowing up of the train . The dynamiting of a military train might be understood but to blow to atoms defenseless passengers can not come within human consideration . " When General Navaro returned to take General Calles to the airfield the former dictator received him with the words , " At your orders , my general . " " If it is not inconvenient , " General Canes continued , " I shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " General Navaro replied . " And my family will go with me , if you do n't mind , " said the prisoner . " You may go in your car with your family , " General Navaro promised . At the Central Airport General Mayer() pointed out an airplane , saying : " what will take you to Brownsville with Luis Leon , Luis Morones and Melchor Ortega , together with necessary guards . " When General Calles asked permission to take members of his family with him , General Navaro said he could do so up to the capacity of the airplane . General Calles took only his son , Alfredo , and one aide . At 7:45 when the airplane 's engines had been warmed up General Navaro said , " All is ready . " General Calles replied , " Well , let 's go , " and without any formal farewells to his remaining relatives Mexico 's former " strong man " walked alone and entered the plane which , in a few minutes , disappeared in the direction of Tampico . President Cardenas issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my charge has been observing carefully the incessant manoeuvres which some political elements have been developing in the country during the past two months to provoke a permanent state of alarm and social uneasiness . " While the manoeuvres were limited to a defamatory campaign in the republic and abroad , directed against the members of the present administration and the systems it has introduced , I maintained the firm intention , which I announced from the beginning , to proceed in this case without haste and with absolute calm . I deferred intervention until it could be seen without equivocation that the authors of this agitation persisted in their nefarious task . " But when the situation reached such an extreme stage as to impede the march of our institutions and to frustrate the most noble ends of the State in our social struggle , it appeared indispensable to the Federal Executive , in view of their criminal work , to abandon its attitude of watchful waiting and to adept measures to prevent disturbances of a greater magnitude which , if not averted , wound threaten to break doWn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in exchange for so many sacrifices . " Conscious of the responsibilities of the government over which I preside , I desire to depart from the lamentable precedents which exist in the history of our bitter politicalstruggles and in which frequently little value has been placed on the principle of respect for human life . Therefore , I considered the circumstances demanded , as imperative for the public welfare , the immediate departure from national territory of General Plutarco Elias Calles , Luis Morones , Luis Leon and Melchor Ortega . "                     