@@697152

txt Apparently , the word " Republican " is to be added to it e list which means whatever you please , and is especially intended to be all things to all men . Senator MOSES , Chairman of the Republican Senatorial Committee , fled to Europe before the announcement was made that any Senator , any Representative , is entitled to be regarded as a Republican if he calls himself so and can get elected . This is the obvious inference to be drawn from the statement made by Senator STEIWER , Acting Chairman in the absence of Senator MOSES . It is to the effect teat the Republican Senatorial Committee will " accept without " question the action of the Repub " lican party in the several States . " That is to say , if the two Senators from Wisconsin wear the label of Repuli:canism , they will be accounted regular and welcome members of the party , even if they go to Washington to fight the Republican President at every point , and to defeat or disfigure every Republican measure of legislation which comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be true of Senator BROOK HART in Iowa , Senator NORRIS in Nebraska , and all the others who are out to make trouble for Mr. HOOVER and the Republican party . This is plainly a frank abandonment of the policy which Senator MOSES , with the supposed approval of the President , favored last year There was to be a firm assertion of party discipline . Senators who did not vote Republican would not be recognized as Republicans , and every effort would be made to defeat them when they came up for re-election . All deserters and rebels would be treated as outcasts . But now , according to the announcement of Senator STEIWER , a change has come over the spirit of that dream . The Republican managers seemingly have made up their minds that they are in danger of losing a number of Senators and Representatives this year , and that they must hold on to every nominal adherent of the party , no matter how often he may kick over the traces and get the whole team tangled up . This is a clear case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to them that they are at liberty to pursue their disrupting tactics , if only they will get some primary or convention to nominate them as Republicans . Such tactics may succeed here and there for the time , but must be in the end fatal to the integrity of the Republican party . What is now proposed is really the introduction of a permanent " bloc " system in Congress . The little group of Republicans in revolt will feel that they are not only recognized but regularized . They will be free to go their own way , their hand always against the Republican majority in Senate or House , with no one in the party counsels , or in the White House , to molest them or make them afraid . As for defining the Eepublican party or Republican principles , it will hereafter be , if Senator STEIWER truly indicates the course that is to be followed , largely a matter of geography . A New York Republican would feel utterly lost among the Republicans of Wisconsin . The name would mean one thing in one State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Congress the result could not fail to be an increase of the guerrilla Warfare which has already so many times made the Republica Administration seem paralyzed . It is no marvel that Senator MOSES could not bear to witness th astonishing transformation of h party , and took refuge in Europ There he may not find his favoril and accustomed point of observatic from the window of a Pullman ca but even a Continental wagon-1 will permit him to see some those terrible European " entangle meats " from which he is resolved t save this country . But to save hi party from entanglement with th enemies in its own household seem now to be beyond his power , or tha of the President .                     