@@699869

txt A decision to levy the maximum processing taxes of around 4 cents a pound for cotton and 28 to 30 cents a bushel for wheat to bring about smaller acreages for those crops has been reached by the Roosevelt administration . The disclosure was made authoritatively today as Secretary Wallace completed his program for applying the farm adjustment act to the nation 's two largest crops . He was reported to have won the approval of President Roosevelt , and will announce his policy on Friday . Mr. Wallace and his administrators of the farm act made every effort to keep secret the details of their program . It was said that some features will be left undecided until the last minute . As the program rested upon the Secretary 's desk today , however , it II called for the highest possible processing taxes to refinance the retirement of acreage of both crops , which long have suffered from surplus production . Even as the plans were drawn , agricultural commissioners of Southern States forwarded to the President a proposal that at least 10 , - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 acres , be taken out of production in the cotton belt this year . They .. opposed , however , the levying of the processing tax . Secretary Wallace 's announcement on Friday will specify the time the taxes are intended to go into effect . The act authorizes him to employ them at the start of a marketing year for a commodity . Aug. 1 is by tradition considered the start of the cotton marketing year , and July 1 for wheat . It was understood , however , that he will propose that the taxes on both commodities go into effect at the same time , Aug. 1 being contemplated . If maximum taxes are levied , the act provides that no public hearing is necessary before ordering them into effect . If less than the maximum is levied , a hearing is necessary . Mr. Wallace , it was reported , is of the opinion that hearings requiring ten days ' notice and a peI riod of time for the study of conclusions are unnecessary and would produce delays which he is anxious I to avoid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the plans until Congress adjourns . This resulted in objection from many members , particularly a group from the South . The latter expressed opposition to a processing tax , which they believe was made unnecessary by the Bankhead amendment to the Industrial Control-Public Works Act , which set aside $100,000,000 for paying rentals to farmers to retire lands from the production of basic crops . Another $100.000,000 was provided in the act itself , making $200,000,000 available for getting the plans under way . Against Drain on Treasury . Secretary Wallace 's determination to use a processing tax is based , it was reported , on statements , made by President Roosevelt afid himself throughout the past year in which they said any plan of adjustment must be selfsupporting , and not financed from the public treasury . He has expressed the opinion that to finance cotton acreage reduction from the Treasury without provision for repayment would bring demands from the producers of other basic commodities ? wheat , corn , hogs , tobacco , rice and dairy products for similar treatment , The plan by agricultural commissioners of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by Senator Smith , Democrat , of South Carolina , and a group of Southern cotton millers . In suggesting that 12,500,000 acres , or at least 10,000,000 acres , of cotton be taken out of production this year , they proposed two plans . Under one the planter would be reimbursed at the flat rate of $10 for each acre of growing cotton he put to the plow . Under the other , the planters would be paid $6 for each acre taken out of production , and would have , in addition , the right to obtain options on 2,500,000 bales of government cotton at 5 cents a pound , each planter to be limited to an amount equal to one bale for each three acres of land , taken out of production . Bonuses to Wheat Farmers . In the case of wheat , more details will be left for later determination than in the case of cotton because there will be more time before administration will get under way . The wheat program contemplates the payment in advance of bonuses to farmers who agree to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the basis of the wheat program . It also will call for organization on a county basis , with other administrative activities to be decentralized as far as possible . Maximum processing taxes will represent the difference between the average current farm price of a given commodity and the " parity ' price based on pre-war averages . Thus , the average farm price a cotton in May was 8.2 cents a pound , and the parity price , or the average from 1909 to 1914 , was 12.4 cents . Cotton has since increased , the margin today being estimated at slightly less than 4 cents . For wheat , the May average farm price was 59 cents a bushel , compared with the pre-war average of 88.4 cents . Wheat also has increased somewhat in value since .                     