@@702843

txt To the . consternation of both Britain and France the Assembly today refused to grant to the Spanish Republican Government a certificate of eligibility for re-election to the Council in accordance with the Assembly resolution of 1926 . Up to the moment that the result of voting was declared it had been believed that Spain would just pull through . Premier Juan Negrin in his speech to the Assembly Saturday had offered to " trade " the right of asylum for refugees in Madild Embassies for the vote of Spanish-American states and it was tacitly understood that a sufficient number of the latter had accepted . The secret ballot , however , only gave Spain 23 votes out of 47 valid votes  --  but a two-thirds majority was needed . Turkey , which aspired to fill Spain 's shoes as a semi-permanent member of the Council , also failed to obtain the necessary number of votes , receiving only 25 of 50 instead of the 34 which were necessary . Peru was elected to succeed Chile and Iran to succeed Turkey . A successor to Spain is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vote is that it goes against the wishes of all of the three European great powers attending the Assembly Poland was also in favor of Spain 's re-election . With execption of the U. S. S R , which is frankly pro-Valencia , the majority of states which supported Spain 's candidature explain that the question of what Government ruled the country dui not enter into their consideration . Spain , they say , is a geographical political entity whose importance justified her retaining the semipermanent seat originally allotted her and the fact that she is torn by civil strife should not he allowed to affect the situation . Against Spain 's re-election were not only the South American group , which in the worth of a Spanish observer here , " gained their freedom by dividing old clerical and reactionary Spain againstwhich Republican Spain is now fighting , " but also the Near East group , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq and Turkey , which was supporting the candidature of Turkey for re-election to the Council after her normal term had ex-pired It is believed . too , that Austria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Spain . Commentators here expect Berlin and Rome to make a great play with the blow delivered by the League to Republican Spain and to urge that the time has come for , general recognition of Gen. Francisco Franco , It is recalled here , however , In this connection that the Council refused even to consider , much less answer , the note received from General Franco earlier in the current session in which he demanded the right to representation at Geneva . It is also noted that the Swiss Government has refused to allow some emissaries of General Franco who were suspected of harboring designs against the Spanish delegation here to remain in the country .                     