@@700204

txt Proton , electron , neutron , alpha particle or helium core , deuton or heavy hydrogen nucleus , positron  --  six supposedly fundamental " bricks " of which some have been violently blasted out of stable atoms and others ejected from unstable , radioactive ones by spontaneous explosions  --  can matter be so complex ? The physicists must be wondering . It would be much more " elegant , " as the mathematicians say , if we could build up sticks and stones , stars and men from just two particles , the one positive and the other negative . Until recently the trend was all in that direction . The fundamentals then were the negative electron and the positive proton . The proton was nearly two thousand times heavier than the electron . Perfect duality demands equal masses as well as equal and opposite energies . With the discovery of the positron there was a promise of a return to a dualistic conception . The charge of the positron was equal and opposite to that of the L ectron . But the mass ? Here there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 50 per cent . Only last June Professor MILLIKAN announced at Chicago with pride that his measurements were correct within 30 per cent . Now that we are assured by Professor MILLIKAN that the positron is indeed the counterpart in mass of the electron there may well be a return to a dualistic conception of matter . But important as the new measurement is , a herculean task must be performed before we obtain even a glimmering of an atom 's constitution . Nearly all the mass of an atom is concentrated in the nucleus . Since there are hundreds of nuclei the task of weighing them all can be imagined . Equally important is the measurement of the masses and charges of the six supposedly fundamental particles . It by no means follows that the physicist has but to add up all these masses and present us with a total which is to be accepted as the mass of the nucleus . These are the days of EINSTEIN . When any of the six particles is propelled with great speed it acquires energy . As a result its mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move at different speeds . The physicist must therefore allow for these changes of mass in computing the amount of matter in the nucleus . Even then his work is only begun . The packing of the particles is important , not to mention the way electrons revolve , whirl and leap , a way which can now be inadequately explained only by invoking seven dimensions for a simple system of two . And by what right do physicists suppose that the six known particles invariably originate in the nucleus ? Possibly some may come out of the bombarding projectiles . Drs . BLACKETT and OCCHIALINI of Lord RUTHERFORD 'S staff have already suggested that when a cosmic ray or lightbullet hits an atom it is completely transformed into a positron and an electron and that positrons are born outside of the nucleus . In this bewildering state of atomic physics- it seems as if the more we discover about matter the less we seem to understand it .                     