@@702190

txt The report that the British Air Ministry , in the effort to speed up air defense , is planning to order a large number of planes from manufacturers in the United States , while not confirmed , is not denied by Government spokesmen in London . The proposal is significant for more than one reason . It underlines the alarm spreading in England at the rapid multiplication of the German air force , and the sense of urgency felt in official circles lest , without outside assistance , the aviation program can not be realized in time to insure in an emergency that the British air fleet will be " second to none , " as Mr. NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN promised in a recent declaration of armament policy . For some time British military observers in Berlin have been saying that England is not geared to turn out light bombers fast enough to compete with the mass-production methods employed in the Reich , where a Fordized industry is capable not only of producing but ? more important in wartime  --  of replacing machines at a rate England can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other and more profitable goods . Yet to fill the gap by turning to the United States is a clear reminder , perhaps intended as such , that Great Britain possesses advantages that Germany in her turn can not hope to match . England can buy ; she has reserves of cash and credit . More than that , she can sell ; the British are not under the necessity of using all their industrial plant for war equipment . Here a pertinent question arises : If Britain , as is stated , is experiencing difficulties in regard to raw materials , how long can Germany keep ahead in the armament race with a constantly diminishing power to buy these materials ? Is there not a well-fostered tendency to exaggerate a military strength dependent on an economic fabric admittedly weak and full of holes ? Taken in connection with the report of a probable dissolution or drastic transformation of the League of Nations Union , long a powerful political force in England , the plan to hurry the pace of rearmament has a further significance . It re-emphasizes what has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . No longer counting on the League as the first line of defense , the British Government has abandoned hope of any system of collective security based on the old conceptions , and in this radical reversal it is evidently supported by the majority of the organized pacifists . To those familiar with its former alignment , the trend of the League of Nations Union toward the International Peace Movement , which frankly favors an armed international force to fight fascism , is like a headline summarizing the swiftly moving story of Europe 's reversion to Power politics on new lines undreamed of in the past . To Americans news of large orders for military aircraft will bring up once more . the vexing question of an American neutrality policy . The point does not come up now , since a nation not at war is free to place orders where it wills . Even should war occur , there is little doubt that any legislation enacted would not apply to unfulfilled contracts . But it is already clear , and now becomes clearer , that American industry would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belligerents in a large-scale conflict . Clearer still is the ponderous fact that the economic entanglements of the modern world are so hard to unravel that whatever may be said of peace , war is certainly indivisible . So far Europe has kept out of two wars this year , but not without dangerous economic dislocation and moral and political strain that progressively weakens its resistance to further shocks .                     