@@700518

txt Premier Benito Mussolini , in an address before the Quinquennial Assembly of the Fascist party in Rome today , asserted that Germany must be allowed to rearm if the other nations did not disarm and pledged support to Hungary in her efforts to obtain revision of her boundaries . He promised that Austria could count on Italy 's support on all occasions , asserted that failure of the disarmament conference would mean the death of the League of Nations and welcomed the rapprochement between Italy and France but stressed that nothing had been done to settle the many disputes between them . Seen as Start of Campaign . The speech was considered as the opening of the week 's campaign before the national election next Sunday , although it is certain the voting will result in an overwhelming Fascist majority . It was delivered to about 4,000 Fascist officials who crowded the Royal Opera House . The enthusiasm usually associated with Premier Mussolini 's public appearances was intensified in this case by the fact that his audience Was composed exclusively of Fascisti . Representatives of the foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black shirts or military uniforms . No women were admitted . Premier Mussolini began by saying that the political principles of the last century were dead . " They have served their time , " he continued . " They have given all they could . In their day they produced prosperity , well-being and sometimes greatness , but democracy , liberalism and Freemasonry have no appeal for the new generation . The whole world is moving toward the new forms and new institutions . both political and economic . Pledges Remedy for Troubles . " The Fascist corporate State will find a remedy for the ills of the world , It will even deal with the conflict between man and machines . " Man made the machines , but the machines have become the masters . They will in turn be tamed by the corporate State , which will again render them useful instruments of prosperity and progress instead of instruments of human poverty and suffering . " Speaking of Italy 's international relations , Premier Mussolini said that Italy had consistently followed a policy of friendship for Austria aimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed to continue . " Austria may be assured she can count on Italy at all times , " he ' went on . " No effort will be spared by Italy to assist her . Italy 's rela-1 tions with Yugoslavia are normal and diplomatically correct , hilt they can he improved , especially because the national economies of the two countries are complementary . " Italy 's relations with France have improved very much from the general point of view , but it can not be denied that not one of the problems which have stood between the two countries for the last fifteen years has been started on the road to solution . The Italo-French rapprochement , however , is a hopeful sign . Aids Hungary 's Aspirations . " The relations with Hungary have been emphasized by the agreement signed yesterday . Hungary has asked for justice and for the fulfillment of promises that had been made to her . She has been terribly mutilated and millions of her people live in foreign lands . . Italy has supported and will continue to support Hungarian aspirations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been reserved for her hitherto . " Italy 's suggestions for a fourpower pact have been almost universally accepted but first it is necessary to solve the disarmament question . If disarmament fails there will be no need to reform the League of Nations for that will be sufficient to sign its death certificate . " The recent Italian memorandum on disarmament tore aside the veil which had made a clear vision of the problem impossible . If the armed nations do not disarm they commit a breach of the Versailles Treaty and can not therefore impose disarmament on others . This is a perfectly clear-cut alternative from which there is no escape . " To think it is possible to keep Germany disarmed is pure illusion . It is necessary to grant Germany the right to rearm and to possess effectives and weapons for her defense . It is necessary to create an atmosphere of mutual comprehension , without which Europe will be moving toward disaster . " This led Premier Mussolini to speak about the Italian military sit ' nation . " Italian military expenses , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is now impossible to go further in this direction . The paralysis of the disarmament negotiations gives no alternative . It is necessary to be strong , not to attack but to face any situation that may arise . Peace will he guaranteed not only by Italy 's desire for international collaboration but also by her strongly guarded frontiers and by the pacific spirit of her people . " Italy must increase in number if she does not wish to die . The theory that numbers make for poverty is so silly that it does not deserve to be considered . If that theory is correct then it is also true that prosperity is created not by multiplying life but by multiplying death . " He said the work of reclaiming the Pontine marshes and of renovating Rome would be continued " with the greatest energy . " As great objectives toward which the nation should strive he pointed to political and economic expansion in Africa and Asia . He said he did not contemplate territorial conquest but natural , peaceful penetration . He urged the rich , powerful nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Africa . and Asia ..                     