@@704103

txt President Roosevelt 's invitation to the officers of the Intergovernmental Committee on Political Refugees to come to Washington to confer with him at the White House , combined with the completely new turn given to the Committee 's I work by Britain 's proposals for governmental participation I financing the migration of refugees , opens an important phase ! of a solution of the problem , con-I taining uncharted possibilities . Another development arising from the two-day meeting of the full Committee which concluded here today was an announcement that private organizations have I completed formation of a new 1 agency to be known as the In , ternational Co-ordinating Foundation , which will undertake the planning and research aspects of refugee migration from Germany . The White House conference is to be held early in September , the exact date to be announced later . The invitation to attend was ex/ tended to the Chairman and the i five Vice-Chairmen of the Committee representing the British , American , French , Netherlands . Argentine , and Brazilian Govern , ments , and to the Director , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government 's proposal for governmental participation in financing refugee migration opened up an entirely new prospect . To date the Intergovernmental Committee operated on the basis that private financing was to be supported by the Governments only in the diplomatic field . At previous meetings of the Committee this basis of private financing has been repeatedly stressed . Whether the 31 other Governments associated in the work of the Committee will accept the British proposal remains extremely uncertain . When the British proposal was laid before the Committee , American , French , Brazilian , and Dominican delegates recalled that the suggestion constituted a departure from the policy evolved at the Evian Conference July 7 , 1038 , but undertook to refer the matter to their Governments . Other delegates refrained from comment London 's proposal came after the delegates had been informed that since 1933 private charity has contributed ' not less than 855,000-000 in cash to relieve German refugees , and that the total is probably nearer $75,000,000 . The assumption on which the British proposal is based is that this large contribution has depleted the resources available from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be maintained at anything like Its present rate , Government participation will become necessary . The delegates were also informed that private financing of this character was behind the fact that during 1938 nearly 140,000 refugees migrated from Germany and during the first four months of 1939 three leading refugee relief organizations alone financed the migration of another 29,000 individuals . It is estimated that perhaps as many as 20,000 more migrated during this same four-month period with the aid of other organizations , or solely on their own resources . This means that the number of involuntary emigrants who have left Germany since Jan. 1 . 1938 , has perhaps reached nearly 200,000 . Since most of them are of the Jewish race this means a reduction in the total Jewish population of Germany and Austria by a very substantial amount . The number of Jews in Germany and Austria at the beginning of 1938 was estimated at about 500,000 . However , the fact that this number has left Germany does not mean a proportionate solution of the refugee problem . Many thousands of refugees are now in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has established a camp at Richborough , Kent , where nearly 5,000 such transients are waiting a chance to find a perma nent home in some country . Sim-1 ilar larger camps exist in France , Belgium , and the Netherlands . Only part of those who have left Germany have been settled permanently in new homes . The remainder await either the tedious process of infiltration to countries such as the United States which have rigid quotas already full for years in advance , or the fruition of some of several plans for a mass settlement in new areas ' of the world . Settlement Surveys Made Delegates to the Committee learned that surveys of mass settlement possibilities in British Guiana , the Dominican Republic , Northern Rhodesia , and in the Phillippines have been completed , and that studies are now being made of possibilities in Dutch Guiana and French New Caledonia . But none of these projects are as yet matured to a point where actual settlement can be expected to begin for many months . Nor can these projects begin without substantial arrangements for financing , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go far outside the range of private abilities . The British initiative certainly brought the Governments involved in refugee work up to the vital question of whether they are prepared as Governments to undertake the financial assistance which may be indispensable if the problem is to be handled effectively in the near future .                     