@@699524

txt As the term of office of Gov. - Gen . Theodore Roosevelt in the Philippine Islands draws to a close , it is apparent that one of his outstanding contributions to the Philippines has been the founding of community assemblies , a comprehensive plan of adult education . witnin six montns alter the ari 1 ival of the Governor-General in Manila , he had made rapid but ex tensive tours throughout the islands . He stated at the outset that he was interested in the individual , in the small farmer , in the well-being of the unenlightened provincials . He wanted to get their points of view and to see how they lived . Following up this study of pin-1 vincial life , he proposed , immediately , the institution of community assemblies I During these ti ips thiough the provinces , Governor-General Roosevelt observed the effects of political unrest and agitation . Another important problem was a generally unsatisfactory condition in tenant farming and small independent farming due to a lack of diversification of crops , usury and virtual tenant peonage . Sanitation was a 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to call together adults in the more remote towns and barrios for general community meetings . Usually a local program is provided consisting of music , short speeches and the chief address , which has been prepared by the committee and is presented by their designated speaker . An important feature of these assemblies is a direct and simple explanation of the taxation system , why taxes must be levied and what is done with the tax money . The , , title of one of the papers prepared I on this theme is " Your Peso in I Taxes and What You Get for It " Niftily , in fact the large majority of ' the masses in the provinces , have , through long yea's. looked on taxes ' as it Mute . ' Other functions of the go  --  etn ! mut are explained The plan is to give the adult population an undeistanding of true government as a means of obviating i. ' itical distuibances and commus , stic uprisings caused by ignorance and superstition . A discussion of better farming methods , diversification of crops and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work . Addresses Translated The addresses were written by departments and edited by the committee . Then they had to be translated Into the vernacular of the various provinces . The first few papers were translated into but two or three dialects . Since then the committee has translated the lectures into 29 dialects . This shows that the importance of these assemblies is being realized even more widely than was expected . A series of conferences was held to determine the places in which to initiate the experiment of the assemblies . It was decided to start them near Manila and gradually work out into more distant provinces as word spread and there was a demand for these meetings . The assemblies are usuall. held on Saturdays and the local school building Is most often utilized as a meeting place . When the assemblage is too large for the building , the meeting is held in the open air . A strict taboo is placed on any controversial discussion of sectarian or political party issues . It is a little early to tell results as translated into civic consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic needs of the country . While the Governor-General and the committee are reaching the adult community through the assemblies , the children ale getting something of the same instruction through the public school system .                     