@@697991

txt Repercussions from the German crisis were felt generally throughout the rest of Central Europe today . After a two-hour sitting the Hungarian Cabinet Council decided at 3 o'clock this morning to issue a decree closing all Hungarian banks and financial institutions which have anything to do with granting credit today , tomorrow and Thursday . This action was announced as having been taken " to prevent or paralyze any reaction in Hungary from Germany 's difficulties , " although in Opposition circles the Hungarian Government 's own financial troubles were said to be the reason . In Vienna the Mercurbank , which is owned in great part by the Darmstaedter and National Bank of Germany , although Hallgarten &; Co. of New York are also interested , closed its doors today after facing something like a run yesterday . It asked the Austrian Government for a six months ' moratorium and a government credit of between $2,000,000 and $3,000,000 . To Grant ** Delay . The government tentatively decided to grant the bank a threemonths ' moratorium . The Austrian National Bank also declared itself ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the interim credit which it sought . There were exciting scenes before the doors of the bank today when depositors found they were unable to withdraw their money . Finance Minister Joseph Redlich , late of Harvard University , issued a calming statement , however , to the effect that the bank 's closing down was inevitable not as a result of its own difficulties but from its connection with the Darmstaedter ( Danat ) . He emphasized that there was not the slightest reason for alarm regarding Austria 's own financial position . His statement was corroborated by the decision at a meeting of Austrian bankers and financiers at the National Bank this morning not to follow the example of Germany and Hungary by declaring a financial holiday . Austria , it was declared , had survived her own financial crisis and need worry now only about the condition of her own money market . Credit Not Yet Received . In Budapest banking circles it was maintained today that the three-day financial holiday was due less to any apprehended repercussions from the German situation in Hungary than to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week had been promised to the Hun garian Government from abroad had not been received . The delay in its arrival was ascribed in great part such increased circulation must under no condition impair the gold value of the mark or produce even the slightest semblance of inflationary practices . Final action affecting thc. proposed currency increase was deferred until tomorrow . Question of Foreign Payments . One of the thorniest problems engaging the Cabinet 's deliberations today concerned the wisdom of proclaiming the suspension of payments on foreign obligations of Germany for the period e ) a fortnight or until such time as Dr. Luther is able to arrange adequate credit accommodations abroad . Projection of this problem into the government 's farflung search for relief measures , it was explained in banking quarters , in no small degree is dictated by the necessity of conserving such foreign credits as still remain in Germany . While the proclamation of a brief moratorium on the foreign debts is viewed as a legitimate precautionary measure in the present crisis , its declaration is being weighed with all due caution by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be taken only with the view of confining it to a brief transitional period or until such time as the internal situation had been restored to partial normalcy through the conclusion of credit negotiations abroad . Aid for the Savings Banks . Such a debt suspension would be linked up with an internal moratorium for the special benefit of the savings banks and numerous semiofficial financial institutions which are not in position to face a sudden run on their resources . The German savings banks alone are indebted to depositors to the extent of about $4,000,000,000 . It would be impossible for them to make heavy immediate payments in view of the currency shortage . While the big banks view the plans for an internal ssupension with less sympathy it is realized that the savings institutions should have the benefit of such prompt protective action as will enable them to avoid runs . While the government 's deliberations again continued behind closed doors , the news that it was contemplating a declaration of foreign and internal moratoriums became the subject of widespread speculation , especially in banking and industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The suggestion of a respite on foreign claims on Germany , it was argued , represented a possible step which might be gravely inimical to future credit negotiations . Tonight 's official communique indicates that the government is deferring action on the matter until tomorrow , when the announcement of measures against the exodus of German capital and for control of foreign exchange will be promulgated by decree . Truce Made With Dr. Schacht . Dr. Schacht , it was reported , will be actively identified with the execution of some of the gavernment 's more drastic measures , and the fact he has been in constant touch with the Cabinet for the past twenty-four hours indicates that a truce has been effected between him and the government . Dr. Luther , who returned by airplane from Basle shortly after noon , immediately got into touch with the Cabinet . There was no announcement in official quarters regarding the status of his negotiations with the heads of the other central banks and no reference was made to any new developments in the credit situation so far as it involved the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luther had been requested to go to Paris for a fresh conference them during the visit of Secretary of State Stimson . President von Hindenburg will return to Berlin tomorrow from his vacation in East Prussia . His presence , it is announced , is desired in connection with the promulgation of various new emergency decrees which are under contemplation and which must have his approval and signature . Public Seems Apathetic . Tourists visiting Berlin have had to make diligent search for the financial crisis so far as It has asserted itself in visible demonstrations . Both here and elsewhere in Germany the first of the two enforced bank holidays has developed no disturbances . Everywhere the populace appears to be apathetic , an attitude which can only be explained on the theory that the man in the street has become thoroughly hardened through rigorous post-war training in all sorts of crises . Leading bankers , while - not inclined to minimize the gravity of the situation , anticipated coming developments with sober hopefulness . " The German credit and money machine , " observed one leading banker , " has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ball-bearings . We have got to take it apart and then start it up again  --  not at full speed , but so that it will steadily get into normal motion again . " The resources of German private banks , he asserted , were intact and no serious difficulties were looked for when they resumed operations . " Germany , Save Yourself " is Slogan . BERLIN , July 14 ( A ' ) . ? Germany tonight is acting on a widespread slogan : " Do n't wait for outside help . Germany , save yourself . " The government has let it be known that yesterday 's emergency decree closing all banks was only one of a series to be expected in the fight to consolidate the nation 's credit strength and preserve internal peace . A new decree issued by the Cabinet specified that the holiday of the banks was to have the same legal status as other bank holidays , and provided that any period of grace shall not be considered to have ended " till one week after the last bank holiday . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German banks are closed  --  and the government has authority to extend the holiday indefinitely ? can not legally be collected until a week after the banks reopen . As a result of the sudden shortage of currency , due to the closing of the banks , the Reichsbank , which a few days ago was the scene of a phenomenal run on foreign currencies , today became the urgent goal of persons in need of marks ? which many bought with the foreign currency they had accumulated during the run . Bergmann Trustee of Danat . Dr. Carl Bergmann , formerly Germany 's representative in dealings with the Reparations Commission , has been appointed Federal trustee or commissioner to take charge of the affairs of the suspended Darinstaedter und National Bank . Dr. Bergmann , 55 years old , was on the Reparations Commission until 1921 , spending most of his time in Paris . He then became a member of the directorate of the Deutsche Bank 's Hague branch and one of the partners in the banking firm of Lazard Speyer-Ellison at Frankforton-Main . The government again appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's liaison officer with Parker Gilbert in the workings of the Dawes Plan and to coordinate the responsibilities and obligations of various government departments toward that plan . Financial experts have been working out a program of supplying ready cash when the banks reopen , without embarking upon inflation . One project is to bring back into circulation the retenmark which was Germany 's first currency after the mark was stabilized in 1923 . It was backed not by gold but by five per cent bonds of 500 gold marks or multiples thereof charged on German agriculture and industry . More than 3,000,000,000 in rentenmarks were printed and about 2,000,000,000 circulated , but in 1924 the Reichsbank absorbed them and issued reichsmarks backed by gold and foreign exchange , so that today only about 400,000,000 rentenmarks are in circulation . Normally these would have been absorbed by 1942 . By substituting the rentenmark for the reichsmark it is hoped to halt in some degree the flight of capital , for the rentenmark is domestic tender only . Besides taking the reichsmark out of circulation and substituting the rentenmark , the experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as collateral instead of gilt-edged securities , so that additional currency could be put into circulation without causing inflation . Police Suspend Radical Press . It is difficult to estimate what the National Socialists and the Communists are doing to confuse an already tangled situation , because the newspapers of both parties have been suppressed by the police . The government seems to fear Communist agitation more than National Socialist propaganda . Hitler 's followers have no clear program beyond an oftenrepeated threat to seize the government . The Communists seem desirous to wait until the 1-iitlerites pave the way for them . One of the ironies of the situation seems to be that one of the chief backers of the Rightist radical movement was hard hit by the collapse of the Darmstaedter und National Bank and no longer is in a position to help finance the Hitlerites . The Nationalist opposition , led by Alfred Hugenberg and Adolf Hitler , has been talking vaguely by " taking over responsibility , " but no indication has come as to whether the 0Pposition will wait for the next election or say it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifesto calling upon the government to turn away from capitalists , who , it declares , financed the Nationalist victory at the polls last September . " Once and for all , " the document says , " the autocracy of the big banks must be swept away . "                     