@@701916

txt Disclosures that the Black Legion has a potential strength in Michigan alone comparable in numbers to the United States army came tonight as authorities investigated a third violent death , connected by suspicious circumstances witlt:the gang of ? night riding gunmen . Reports are gainini : credence that the whole number of " executions will reach the amazing total of fifty ; when all ramifications of the cult 's terrorism are known . At the same time state police . launched a man hunt to seize every ranking , officer of the secret terror , society . Several of the state leaderN missing for three days since investigation of their fanatical cult was begun , were reported to be in hidings Killed Near Recent Execution Spot . The third death of which the legion is suspected is that of Rudolph Anderson , 40 years old , of Detroit , who was found shot to death the night of Dec. 16 on a lonely road near the spot where hooded legion gunners shot and killed Charles A. Poole , young WPA worker . Poole 's murder , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the society , A second death , that of Paul Avery , , state prison guard at Jackson and a member of the legion , who died last April , is alleged to have occurred after fellow terrorists flogged him : with lether thongs for daring to withdraw from their order . Anderson was shot and killed by an army rifle which lay near his hand , Although a careful investigation at the time failed to -. - eveal any motive other than suicide , police were unable to explain how a man could shoot himself in the heart with the rifle . Inquest Will Be Reopened . " The inquest , at which a verdict of suicide was returnel , will be reopened , " Police Inspector John r ; Navarre announced tonight . " There are certain suspicious circumstances . " Anderson was an employe of the . Detroit Public Lighting company , a. municipal corporation . Harvey Davis ; a " colonel " in the Detroit branch of the legion , and Dayton Dean , confessed slayers of Poole , also were employect by the utility company . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been toLi by several informants , " Navarre added , " that the . Black Legion men have concealed numerous terror slayings by making them appear suicides . " Prison Guard Is Suspended . Ramifications of the legion , said to be an offshoot of the old Ku Klux Klan , were discovered in official documents found in the home of Ray Ernest , Jackson prison guard , held in connection with the Avery death : Ernest was suspended from his prison . duties tonight . Ditc Hawley , another guard , and two brothers of Ernest , Glen and Clarence , all members of the " God ' fearing " cult , are under subpena to . testify Monday at an inquiry into Avery 's death . Harold Colburn , chief investigator , of Wayne Detroit ' county , revealed how the legion was organized in a report he made tonight to Prosecutor Duncan C. McCrea . Colburn had been at Jackson investigating , the Avery , death with officers of the state police sent there by Capt . ha H. Marmon . Organized on Army Footing . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " said . Colburn , " since the legion was organized here in 1933 . Each brigade was divided into 16 regiments , 64 battalions , and 256 companies . There are . 1,700 men to a regiment . " This would mean a possible strength of 136,000 men , nearly as much as . the regular army . Few of the regiments were at full strength , membership lists disclosed , but with only half of the possible total under arms , it would mean a lot of men , Each of these men was supposed to carry a pistol or some side arm . " One regiment , that at Ecorse , had a 100 per cent complement of men , and was known as the downthe-river ' unit . Regiment No. 1 , which engineerea Poole 's murder here , has only about 600 men . " Based on the military arrangement of the United States army , the various units of the legion are commanded by a captain , major , colonel , brigadier general , major general , and " four star " general . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be one William Sheppard , who lives either in West Virginia or Ohio . It was in the hill country of the south , through West Virginia , Tennessee , Kentucky , and Mississippi , that the legion had its origin . Capt . Marmon said word has been sent out to arrest Sheppard , " General " V. H. Effinger of Lima , 0. , commander of the " western division " of the legion , and Arthur F. Lupp , a " major general , " said to be in charge of state activities . Lupp , who lives in Highland Park , a Detroit suburb , and Effinger have been missing for three days . Consider Themselves Outlaws . Ray Ernest and Hawley held the ranks of " brigadier general , " each in charge of 13 counties . Davis , as a " colonel , " commanded the Detroit legion . Owen Hudley , prosecutor of Jackson county , told other details of the Legion as revealed in papers found at the Ernest home . Sworn to " uphold the constitution " and bear arms against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ termed themselves a guerrilla " army , " fighting as outlawed men . One document stated the purpose of the organization is to " lay waste , tear down , and kill our enemies . " " They were directed to organize first in the guise of a Renublican and then as a Democratic club in order to bring as many persons as possible within their order and thus become a political power , " said Hudley . Punishment for Blabbing . " If a member divulged secrets of the cult , he knew the result would he a ' fearful punishment . ' said punishment , known as 0 , ' to be inflicted by the ' D. K. ' We do n't know what these symbols mean . " Each neophyte was asked if he could ride a horse , drive an automobile , shoot a rifle or pistol . " The three Ernest brothers had permits to carry guns , Hudley said , although the permit of Ray Ernest had expired . At the time they were obtained , the reason given was for " personal protection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issuance of all gun permits . One informant , said to be a renegade member of the legion , told authorities tonight that the society had a gang of " trouble shooters . " In order to provide alibis for a local legion unit , when an enemy was to be " removed . " the society dispatched an execution squad from a distant city to do " the dirty work . " 14 Members in Custody . Prosecutor McCrea announced tonight he is continuing to hold fourteen members of the Detroit legion suspected of some connection with the Poole murder . Of the original 16. two were released , McCrea said , because no evidence indicated they attended the meeting the night of May 12 at which Poole 's murder is alleged to have been plotted . Although admitting there was but little evidence to connect it with the legion terror , authorities also are investigating again the death of Jerome Garfield Wolfe , an oil prospector of Marion , Mich . Wolfe was found dead on a road near Napoleon , Mich. , a hotbed of night riders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was due to a ruptured liver . Wolfe , a Catholic , was known to have been on drinking parties with members of the legion . George J. Eckhardt , former chief of police of Pontiac , where the Black Mrs. Rebecca Poole , widow of Black Legion victim , with new baby . She insists her husband was kind to her . I Astotiated PI ( - Fs Wire lioto.1 Legion has a strong unit , notified Prosecutor McCrea tonight that " at least one-third of the police department and the same number of city employ ? s are , or have been , members of the legion . " Eckhardt named two police sergeants who he said had testified under oath that they belonged to the order .                     