@@700636

txt There is not much doubt that the Securities Act will take its place as an unpleasant legislative landmark in the history of this Congress . Introduced along with a Presidential message framed in the most general language , laying down postulates which , as a declaration of purpose , nobody could dispute , the measure was hurried through in the legislative hurly-burly of a year ago . Nobody knew who was directly responsible for its actual provisions . Warnings that its restrictions , the extreme penalties imposed by it for what might have been inadvertent or unavoidable inaccuracies or omissions in prospectuses , would result in stifling the flow of new capital into industry , received no attention . It was only when the visible effects of the enacted bill could not be overlooked ? when actual issues of new corporate securities during the rest of 1933 decreased more than 75 per cent from those of the seven preceding months ? that Washington as well as the business world woke up to realize that the law 's provisions were defeating industrial recovery . The upshot was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarm . Modification of its more impossible sections was demanded , especially in the Senate , where , nearly a month ago , the chairman of the Banking Committee proposed , in the form of amendments to the Stock Exchange Bill , a series of alterations in some of the worst extravagances in the Securities Act . It was taken for granted that his action foreshadowed correction - of the most serious mistakes in that unlucky measure . Now it turns out that the amendment as subsequently submitted by Senator FLETCHER , adopted by the Senate and sent with the Stock Exchange Bill to the conference committee , did not contain two of the most vitally important modifications which the Senator himself had previously suggested . It had so far changed the language of a third as apparently to rob it of its usefulness . When a weary and confused Senate was approaching the time for voting on the measure , Senator FLETCHER informed his colleagues that the amendment which he was formally offering " is the same as that " previously printed , " except that I have made one slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator could have meant , but the result speaks for itself ; and it is hardly conceivable that the occurrence should not have excited , in the Senate itself , a sense of indignation . Coming on top of the Banking Committee chair- man 's deliberate exclusion from the conference committee of Senator GLASS and Senator WAGNER , both of whom were entitled to appointment by seniority and experience but each of whom was able to understand the possible dangers of the controverted sections , it cast a shadow on the entire episode , and strengthens the suspicion of meddlesome intrigue outside the legislative body . How it will affect the action of the conference committee itself , er the attitude of the Senate in case it is asked to endorse action of that committee to perpetuate the blunders already made , it would be premature to guess . But if the Security Act and the Stock Exchange restriction measure were to have restrictive effect on business recovery , it is not difficult to imagine what will be the feeling of intelligent voters . A distinct loss to the Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge KELLOGG , for reasons of health , although Governor LEHMAN has appointed a competent successor . Before going to the highest court in this State Judge KELLOGG established for himself an enviable reputation during his service in the Supreme Court . of this State , until in 1918 he was designated as a member of the Appellate Division of the Third Department . Before that court appeals are constantly coming up to review decisions of State boards and commissions . While Judge KELLOGG was a member of it he had occasion to make many decisions in regard to interpretation and enforcement of the Workmen 's Compensation Law . It is generally believed that his judicial work in that connection had a great deal to do with making that statute workable . In the Court of Appeals , to which he was elected . after a joint nomination by both political parties , his work did not perhaps attract so much personal attention , yet his colleagues are of one mind in paying tribute to his legal scholarship , industry and love of justice which , in conference with the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped to maintain the high reputation of that tribunal .                     