@@703346

txt Decision to commit the disputed sovereignty of the Beagle Channel Islands to the arbitration of the United States was taken by Chile and Argentina at a visit of the Argentine Foreign Minister , Jose Mario Cantilo , here . It was a surprise for Chileans who , probably more than their transandean neighbors realize how their problem has marred the friendship between the two countries . The agreement , signed by Senor Cantilo and his Chilean colleague , Foreign Minister Jos ? Ramon Guttierrez Alliende , designated U. S. Attorney General Homer Cummings to arbitrate the sovereignty of Plcton , New Lennox , and adjacent islands in the Beagle Channel , between Tierra del Fuego to the north and the Dumas peninsular and Navarin Island to the south . The request will be conveyed by a joint note from the two countries ' Ambassadors to the Washington Govern ment , and the arbitrator will deliver his judgment after receiving each side 's case in writing , though he is also authorized to request further details from both parties . Acts of Possession In South America , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been frequent examination of maps to locate the islands . There has also been , probably , some speculation as to the history of this dispute ; for little information can be found in encyclopedeas or gazetteers , To appreciate the position , one must go back to the frontier limitation treaty of 1881 , which established that the islands to the south of the Beagle Channel and extending to Cape Horn , as well as those to the west of Tierra del Fuego , should correspond to Chile . Argentina , on the other hand , was considered the owner of Staten and other islands in the Atlantic , to the east of Tierra del Fuego , as well as all those in the eastern coast of Patagonia The treaty stipulations were clarified in an 1893 protocol , which recognized the absolute sovereignty of each State over its respective littoral , so that " Chile can not claim any Atlantic port while Argentina can not claim any on the Pacific . " The limitation committee , however , never pi Decoded to any division of territory south of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time it was considered to have performed sufficient work by settling the boundary through the continent and the main islands , and no agreement could be reached regarding the course of the Beagle Channel waters and exactly where these flowed into the Atlantic . The sovereignty of Piston , Lennox , New , and adjacent islands , therefore , was left pending . The question was periodically revived , especially in the early years of the European ? War , when the exploits of British and German cruisers called for national vigilance . There were certain " acts of possession " by Chilean authorities : but representations by Argentina yielded satisfactory results , and effective possession was never exercised by either country . There was restraint on both sides ? justified , perhaps , because there was never any great material interest at stake  --  but , to avoid the prolongation of an unsatisfactory situation , a protocol was signed on June 28 , 1915 , requesting the arbitration of the British Crown , in accordance with the general treaties of 1902 . Great Britain , in the name of King @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Christ of the Andes was erected in Upsallata Pass , on the Santiago Mendoza route , to pledge eternal peace . The arbitration formula was never ratified ; and meantime both countries were accumulating more and more interests in their southern territories , especially with the development of the wool and frozen meat trade . It was accordingly agreed at Mendoza , where Foreign Ministers Carlos Saavedra Lamas ( Argentina ) and Miguel Cruchaga ( Chile ) met , in February , 1933 , that legislative procedure would be expedited to secure the adoption of the arbitration formula . Alternatively , a direct settlement was contemplated . There have been allegations that the latest arbitration agreement might be construed as a discourtesy towards Great Britain , because the British Crown was , designated arbitrator in the previous agreement , but that country is supposed to have withdrawn from the question in 1935 , recognizing new drift of inter American relationships . Even before the " good neighbor " era , as was proved in the successful settlement of the Tacna-Arica issue between Chile and Peru , Latin American States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement of disputes . La Prensa and El Mundo , two Buenos Aires dailies , have insisted that Chilean administrative acts in connection with the disputed islands should be disregarded in arbitration . La Nimbi ) , of the same city , considers that the question is devoid of great geographic importance , though It is politically necessary to secure early settlement . In Chile , there is little comment on the pros and cons of the dispute ; the nation seems rather to rejoice because of the friendship implied in the arbitration agreement ,                     