@@699792

txt To ad , minster the almost unlimited powers over industry which would be conferred upon the government by the pending Industrial Regulation Bill , President Roosevelt has chosen Hugh S. Johnson , soldier , lawyer and manufacturer . The post was offered to General Johnson by the Chief Executive over the telephone and he immediately set about whipping together a tentative organization , although the bill had been laid before Congress only twenty-four hours before . He has " not given his answer to President Roosevelt as yet , however . In view of the fact that General Johnson was one of those foremast in drafting the bill , the administration expected him to accept the appointment when the post is formally created by passage of the sweeping public works-industrial control measure . Headed First Draft Board . A close associate of Bernard Baruch , Democratic leader and New York financier , General Johnson was a member of the old War Industries Board . He also was head of the first draft board during the World War and since then has had extensive experience in manufacturing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ momentous bill which President Roosevelt sent to Congress yesterday , General Johnson would have the most extensive powers ever wielded by one man over the private business enterprises of the nation . The legislation , which declares the existence of a national emergency , is designed to present to the President broad powers to approve agreements within industry for the purpose of stabilizing production , regulating working hours and setting minimum wages . It also authorizes a rigid system of licensed industry , if necessary , to enforce the agreements . It empowers the Chief Executive to transfer this authority to an administrator . As a leader among those who drafted the bill , the former Brigadier General was asked by the Chief Executive to undertake the difficult task of administering it . Seated tonight in his apartment , he declined to say that he would accept the post , but admitted in answer to questions that it would not be easy to refuse . Confers With Baruch . Soon afterward he went into conference with Mr. Baruch , with whom he has been associated since before the war , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who worked with him far into the night for many nights in completing the legislation . Called to Washington to lend his wide experience in the drafting of a bill to bring industry together as a cooperative instrument for combating the depression . General Johnson had no idea that he was writing legislation which he would be called upon to administer . " My major thought is that I may not be the most competent to handle this bill , " he said . when confronted with the assertion that it was known he was to be the administrator . He was born in Kansas in 1882 and was graduated from Oklahoma Northwestern Normal School in 1901 . He turned to the army for , a career and was graduated from West Point in 1903 . When he retired in 1919 he was a Brigadier . General . Since leaving the army he has been vice president and general counsel of the Moline Plow Company , and since 19215 has been chairman of the board of the Moline Implement Company . General Johnson was active in devising the plan for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also planned the purchase , storage and traffic division of the General Staff in effect from August , 1918 , to the close of the war . As to the Plan 's Success . He is a heavy-set man of medium height , with bushy eyebrows , and is known in the capital- as a gruff person to those who first , encounter him , but - one who is extremely cordial once the ice is broken . He was in the capital for two weeks working upon the Industrial Control Bill before other than close administration associates heard of it . Friends who have worked with him during the last two weeks described him as believing that the success of the momentous undertaking in the legislation depended entirely upon the administrator . A. friend gave this as the General 's point of view : " Bad administration could spoil the best bill in the world and good administration could make a bad bill workable . The success of the undertaking depends on public opinion and public opinion depends on justice and common sense in administration . " The administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Congress and General Johnson is forming a working organization for administration even should he decline to become administrator . Secretary Frances Perkins disclosed yesterday that it was the intention of President Roosevelt to put the machinery into operation within less than a week after the bill is enacted , and she has begun conferring with State employment experts with a view of aiding administration .                     