@@701832

txt With Chinese art treasures valued at about $50,000,000 aboard her , the British liner Ranpura tonight lies firmly wedged in sand in the Bay of Gibraltar . She went aground this morning in a gale and day-long efforts of the most powerful Admiralty tugs have failed to refloat her . Fresh attempts will be made at high tide tomorrow . The liner left London on Friday for Shanghai . She carried ninety silk-lined steel cases containing the Chinese treasures . These had been shown at the great Burlington House Chinese exhibition and were being returned to the Chinese Government . There was such a strong southeasterly gale and high sea when the Ranpura entered the bay here that services between Gibraltar asd Morocco had been canceled . The Ranpura dragged her anchors immediately after the first tender carTying passengers ashore to Gibraltar had left the ship . She was swept away by the seas and gale and grounded on the dangerous sands known as Punta Mala , " bad spot , " at the northwest corner of the bay , off the Spanish hamlet of Mayorga , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were rushed to her assistance , but their steel hawsers snapped continually and it was not until nightfall , when the weather moderated , that the tugs were able to take off the remainder of the passengers . Meantime , the Ranpura lies fast in the sands . Chinese expert packers were responsible for the stowage of the treasures and it is understood no amount of shaking would damage them . On the voyage to England the treasures were transported in the British cruiser Suffolk all the way , but on the return journey it was arranged that a cruiser should be provided as an escort on the final stage , while destroyers should conduct the Ranpura in the earlier stages . The destroyer Scout performed this duty from Tilbury to North Goodwin Light , and the destroyer Veteran was ordered to do so from Gibraltar to Marseilles and Malta , but at the time of the accident the Ranpura was unescorted . Although the Chinese treasures are not insured , the fact that only five per cent is asked on the Ranpura herself for reinsurance in an " overdue market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underwriters do not take a grave view of the situation . Five per cent is the minimum rate charged for vessels in distress or overdue . M. Tang , Chinese Government official aboard the Ranpura , wirelessed tonight that " the treasures are safe and the prospects of refloating the ship are now better . " The Ranpura had 225 passengers aboard when she grounded , of which 100 were booked for Gibraltar and have been landed there by launches . The Pando Company 's liner Barrapool , which passed Gibraltar today outward bound for Australia , has been radioed to return to Gibraltar to take the Ranpura 's passengers and mails to Marseilles if necessary . ? Art Was Loaned Reluctantly The fourteen-week exhibition of Chinese art that closed late in March at Burlington House , London , was the largest collection of Chinese art ever put on display . A total attendance of 422,048 visitors was recorded . The display had been arranged by the Royal Academy in its series of art shows of various countries . The nucleus of the exhibition was a selection of treasures lent by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ museum collections in Europe and America . Some pieces were lent by the British royal family . The several thousand objects that were to be returned to China , the bulk of the exhibition , were loaded aboard the Ranpura at Southampton April 9 . Years of negotiation had been necessary to induce the Chinese Government to send the collection of art objects overseas . They finally left China aboard the cruiser Suffolk with a special guard of twelve Chinese experts . Chinese art lovers had demanded that the entire exhibition be put on display in Shanghai before and after the trip to London so that the people might be reassured that none of the objects had been damaged . When the valuable cargo was landed at Southampton last August it was transported aboard a special train to London . The cases were placed in vaults and carefully unpacked by the Chinese experts . Details of Chinese and English guards watched the pieces constantly during the public exhibition .                     