@@701712

txt Somewhere in the cellars of the State Capitol at Albany lives a jinx . About this time every year , when politics is brewing upstairs , he slinks out of his lair and bites a Republican . Nobody knows why he always selects a Republican , but the fact is that he never makes a. mistake . It is a terrible thing to be bitten by this jinx . As soon as the virus begins to work , the Republican is seized with an irresistible desire to bite another Republican , and pretty soon they are all quite mad . In this condition they are just as likely as not to march in a body down to the Executive Chamber and beseech the Governor to be kind to them and tie them to the wheels of his chariot . The Republicans started in at this session to pursue the strategy which had stood them in such good stead in the Assembly elections . " It is too bad " about LEHMAN , he has made a good " Governor . We ca n't attack him in " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " at his flank , identifying his followers " with FARLEY and his policies with " the New Deal , which is n't as popular " in these parts as it once was . " Opportunities were not lacking to mix Federal and State issues . The national chairman invited the attack by retaining his post as State chairman . The Democratic-controlled Legislature , on the Governor 's recommendation , had adopted a " Little NRA " on the Federal model . One of the first acts of the Republican Assembly last month was to vote for its repeal . It must have been just about at this point that the jinx emerged for his annual nip . For the Republicans suddenly swung from LEH1VIAN 'S flank to his center , which is well-nigh impregnable . They proposed to hold a hearing on the budget , not a joint hearing ? they refused to have any part in a nonpartisan or bipartisan consideration of State finances  --  but a hearing all of their own , where the budget could be properly torn to pieces . Well , they did have such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they " stole the show " from the rival Senate hearing at the other end of the corridor . But the question is this : Now that they have stolen it , what are they going to do with it ? It is one thing to charge the Democratic State administration with extravagance , as they have been doing for years past . It is pleasant and popular to cry out for economy and reduction of taxes . But they are now discovering that it is quite another thing to be confronted with a budget and told to point out exactly where it can be reduced . It is not always fair to subject tax-conscious citizens who appear at budget hearings to an ordeal of this kind , since they can not be expected to know all the intricacies of State finance . But responsible legislators like Speaker IVES have no such excuse . The Constitution requires that they be kept advised of every step in the formulation of the annual budget . The Governor saw to it that the heads of departments were present at this week 's hearings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under these circumstances the Republicans can not point to any substantial savings , their whole campaign will collapse , and its only result will be to advertise the fiscal prowess of of their adversary . There are evidences that they are beginning to realize the pit they have dug for themselves . " The budget is the Governor 's baby . " shrills the Speaker . " He can not , now or " later , lay , the foundling on the door " step of the Legislature . " But that Is exactly what the Constitution commands him to do .                     