@@701429

txt Five thousand Ethiopian regular troops , accompanied by great quantities of ammunition , set ' out from Harrar today for a field base . The troop movements coincided with the first distribution by Emperor Haile Selassie of gas masks to his subjects in anticipation of a possible gas bombing by Italian forces . The tribesmen , never having seen gas masks before , ' , examined them with incredulity , and when mask equipped soldiers appeared in the streets they caused more fear than curiosity . Call Off Mimic Air Raid . To the accompaniment of beating drums and sounding trumpets , town criers announced that the government had called off a mimic air raid ; fearing the natives might mistake ' it for a real raid . The Reuter 's correspondent at Diredawa , Ethiopia , said he heard an unconfirmed report that an advance guard of 1,000 Italian , trpops , with 1,500 native troops , crossed the Ethiopian frontier west of Assab . An official denial of the report ' , was issued at ROD/6J - ? ' The Ethiopian ernpgrerk ; ; Irk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered . modernization of army 's communication system by use of portable wireless sets of an American pattern . Sets Mounted on Mules . It was announced . that small wireless sets , mounted on mules and capable of keeping the capital in touch with headquarters on both the north and south frontiers , have been sent with trained operators to the principal chieftains of the empire . The wireless sets would supplement , but not supplant , Ethiopia 's ancient methods of communication by means of drums , smoke signals , fires , rockets , and human voices , relayed from hill to hill . Under this system Ethiopian warriors shout across the mountain passes such communications and commands as " victory , " " advance , " " defeat , " " retreat , " and " begin fire . " There is also in existence a primitive but satisfactory nation-wide system of single iron wires , serving for telephone communications . Iron is used because the tribes appropriate any copper wire to make bracelets , anklets , and wedding rings . Egyptians Offer Aid . Prince Ismail Daoud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haile Selassie that he would come to Ethiopia soon as a representative of Egyptians who wish to assist Ethiopia . The emperor ordered special accommodations to be prepared for Prince Ismail and his entourage . Italian diplomats experienced a bad scare when Lidj Gabre Aschubert , who has a reputation among the educated of his country as a writer , emptied a revolver in front of the Italian legation . Aschubert insisted he only wanted to test the pistol , but the emperor ordered him chained . Explosion Frightens Natives , Dynamiting of the rocky bank of a river passing the German legation , which is constructing a bombproof shelter to accommodate 150 persons , caused natives to believe war had begun . Explosions shook the entire legation quarter , causing natives to flee in fright . Following the German example , the Swedish legation began construction of a dugout . Thus far the American legation has no bombproof cave , but the sturdy stone residence which once belonged to the Ethiopian war minister might be used as an emergency shelter for the fifty-odd Americans here . Earlier in ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intends to do what he pleases within his own empire . Smiles at Protests . The British , French , and Italian ministers made representations to the emperor concerning his concession to American interests for development of more than half his land , but he merely beamed upon them and insisted on his rights to do what he willed within his own house . To the British minister . Sir Sidney Barton , who urged Haile Selassie to recall the concession , the king of kings replied only : " Peace be unto you . " Astonishment persisted among for-fit ! eign legations at the emperor 's granting of the concession for exploitation of oil and mineral resources to the American interests . A belief prevailed that tires soft spoken emperor had upset all the calculations and plans of European powers . Foreign legal experts said the charter was more explicit than previous similar contracts , eliminating the possibility of disputes and showing extreme care in the work of American lawyers who drew up the charter . The experts said there was nothing in the document to prevent the American interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In previous contracts Ethiopia forbade such a transfer . Neither are there any of the usual rigorous penalties if the engagement is unfulfilled . Britain Backs Down . A specification that any government action in the matter shall be made by a council of ministers instead of an individual removed the possibility that action by any single representative of the government might be repudiated on the ground that he acted without authority . The British government , after being informed of Haile Selassie 's defiance , was understood to have revoked its original instructions to its minister to advise a withdrawal of the concession , and directed him merely to watch events and seek additional information concerning possible political implications . British , French , and Italian diplomats , at first astonished by the granting of the concession , saki they found , upon reading the text of the charter , that England was not directly involved . Ethiopian government authorities , however , said they expected a formal Italian protest on the ground that the concession contravened Italian rights under existing treaties . Arab Troops to Aid Italy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reported to Premier Benito Mussolini tonight that hundreds of Arab troops have already departed for East Africa and their places in the Libyan army are being filled by volunteers . Balbo , leader of the 1933 transAtlantic flight of an Italian squadron of planes to Chicago , discussed at great length with Il Duce the situation In the northern African colonies . In connection with their conversation , reliable scources reported Italy has two divisions of regulars ready to move toward the frontier separating Egypt and Libya as protection against any hostilities between England and Italy . More Soldiers Sall . The steamer Belvedere sailed from Naples with 134 officers and 1,375 Fascist Black Shirt soldiers , destined for service in East Africa . The steamer Sacro Cuore also sailed , bearing 500 tons of chemical and aeronautical materials . Preparations went ahead at Naples for the embarkation of 4,000 troops to sail during the week for Africa . An announcement said 200,000 men , called to the colors this month from the classes of 1911 , 1913 , and 1914 , would be held under arms for a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first indication given as to the length of service the government lltieipated for the men to serve . The usually government inspired ? Tess offered the new Ethiopian concessions as final evidence of Italy 's duty to refuse any compromise in the African dispute . The concessions , Giornale cl'Italia said , might give Italy the right to file an accusation against Great Britain when the Italo-Ethiopian question comes before the league of nations council meeting Wednesday . The Giornale is edited by Virglnio Gayda , considered to reflect most accurately Premier Mussolini 's ideas . The Italian delegation , headed by Foreign Minister Pompeo Aloisi , left for Geneva for the meeting .                     