@@701534

txt An increase in group annuity rates , a move being strongly considered by all insurance companies writing this type of business , will be put into effect November 18 by the Aetna Life Insurance Co. , which will increase its rates 10 to 25% . Although other leading companies in this field ? Prudential Insurance CO. of America , Metropolitan Life Insurance Co , and Travelers Insurance Co. ? have not announced any changes yet , it is quite likely they will make similar increase on or before the above date . As a result of this increase , it is more than likely that many corporations which had been negotiating with insurance companies for group annuity contracts covering employes will drop the matter completely , as in practically all instances the increase would be borne by the employer . Although the increase at present will not affect those contracts now in effect , they will all be affected eventually as rates are guaranteed against changes for only five years . At the expiration of that time , rates can be either increased or decreased  --  depending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase in annuity . rates is due largely to the continued decline in interest rates , scarcity of satisfactory investment opporunitics and the low rate of mortality among employes . Cash derived from this source has aided in complicating the investment problems of most companies , with the result that the policy had to be made less attractive . As insurance companies ' experience in writing group annuity policies has been limited . they now are finding that the table of longevity of annuitants is not proving satisfactory , as annuitants generally are living longer than had been expected when the contract was , first drawn up . This factor played an important part in the decision to raise rates . Increase in rates on group annuity con- , tracts does not come as a surprise to the trade , . as practically all companies have increased rates on regular annuity contracts during the past year . Demand for Annuities - Up to the present , volume of premium income from group annuity policies has been running at a record rate . and officials had expected volume to increase further the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rate increase , it is quite likely that there will be at least a momentary let-up in demand for this contract . It Is learned that one company which stopped writing group contracts following the passage of the Social Security At is planning to reenter the field This decision probably is due to the belief that the federal plan instead of injuring will act as a stimulus to the sale of individual insurance and annuities , both regular and group . To safocuard private group annuity policyholders from duplication under the Government program , one company already has incorporated in its contracts the provision that the annuity payable to the employe under the employer 's part of the plan would be reduced by the amount of any annuity payable under a Government plan .                     