@@698556

txt In the mos* drastic reform Introduced since the country-wide controversy over short selling began , the New York Stock Exchange announced yesterday that , beginning April 1 , Its member firms would be required to obtain the express consent of customers before their stock could be lent to protect commitments on the down side of the market . The new rule , announced by the governing committee of the Exchange last night , imposes severe restrictions upon bearish speculators and will , in the opinion of brokers , reduce short selling possibly to the extent of 50 per cent unless means of circumventing the regulation are discovered . In some quarters the Exchange 's action Is believed to etamd the death knell of large-scale operations for the decline in the New York market . Rumors of the impending action by the Exchange governors were partly responsible for a lively rally in the stock market between 2 and 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon . Terrified shorts who did not learn of the proposed rurrifte17- Lie close of trading here turned to the markets in San Francisco and Los Angeles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leading issues which are believed to harbor a large short interest rose sharply , some of them as much as 3 or 4 points , as the frightened shorts sought to cover their contracts rather than risk the uncertainties of today 's market in New York . United States Steel , American Telephone and Telegraph , General Motors , Southern Pacific , United States Industrial Alcohol , Allied Chemical and Bethlehem Steel were among the stocks which Eastern shorts bid for frantically on the Pacific Coast . Trading goes on there after the close of the New Tork markets . Brokers said last night they also had orders to buy heavily in London before the opening here . Exchange 's New Lending Rule . Under the resolutions which the governors of the Exchange adopted yesterday , the indiscriminate lending of stock out of " long accounts " will be prohibited and the so-called " hypothecation clause , " under which member firms have been accustomed to obtain a sweeping but general authorization from their customers , will no longer be considered valid so far as lending stock is concerned . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated that customers In some instances do not appreciate that the usual form of customer 's agreement permits brokes to lend securities purchased on margin , and it has also been stated that some customers are not aware of the fact that they have the right to revoke any authorization to lend securities which they may have previously given to their brokers ; it was Resolved , That members of the ' Exchange shall not , on and after April 1 , 1932 , lend , either to themselves as brokers or to others , securities held on margin for customers unless they shall have obtained separate authorization in writing permitting the lending of such securities ; it was Further Resolved , That no general form of customer 's agreement , even though it includes specifically the right to lend securities , shall be deemed sufficient compliance with this resolution , but such right shall be evidenced by a separate authorization in writing ; it was Further Resolved , That in the case of the accounts of all new customers opened after the date hereof the requirement of such separate authorization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it was Further Resolved , That the committee on business conduct may , at its discretion , require that members shall at stated periods bring to the attention of all customers their right to revoke any authori- zation theretofore given for the lending of securities . ender Consideration for Some Time . The Exchange issued the resolution ! Without comment . It was understood , however , that the plan had been under consideration for some time . In brokerage circles , where the ' substance of the resolution was genprally known late in the afternoon , the move was interpreted as an ' ffort by the Exchange to remove all reasonable grounds for criticism of Its policy of short selling . That institution , through its president , Richard Whitney , has been actively defending the short sale as a legitimate ! market function . Previously , however , the Exchange bad not taken cognizance of what is perhaps the most persistent objection on the part of critics of short gelling  --  that brokers , under blanket authority given to them by margin customers , are permitted to lend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an advance in higher prices . ! The argument against this practice has been that shorts have been able , only by borrowing stock out of " long accounts , " to conduct campaigns to depress prices . The effect of this , it has been contended , is to make the Stock of margin holders a weapon to be turned against them . Interpretations of Ruling . The new rule is variously interpreted , but as brokers understand it hey will not be obliged to obtain iepecific authority of the customer to Inglesend any particular lot of stock ; a ingle written authority will be suficient in the case of each customer . spirit , the purpose appears to be , to require explicit permission in writing , but not in every individual lending transaction . Some brokers , however , are inclined to proceed on the theory that there will have to be a separate written authority every time a lot of stock is lent to protect short accounts . The Exchange may be requested by its members to clarify this point . The rule reads that the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a separate authorization , " but this apparently contemplates special permission from the customer , apart from the existing agreement under which a margin trader gives his broker very broad privileges . The existing " hypothecation clause , " which all Stock Exchange houses use in one form or another , will , it is assumed , be continued , with alterations . The clause , in effect , is as follows : Whenever I am indebted to you , and/or whenever you have entered into any open committment for me , and/or whenever I have a short position with you , all securities and/ or property and/or contracts for or in relation to commodities now or hereafter held by you in any account for me ( either individually or jointly witth others ) , or deposited to secure same , may , from time to time and without notice to rne , be carried in your general loans and may be pledged , repledged , EYpothecated , or rehypothecated or loaned by you either to yourselves as brokers , or to others , separately or in common with oter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or for a greater sum and without retaining in your possession or control for delivery a like amount of similar securities . Brokers probably will be able , under the new method , it was said last night , to obtain permission from many of their customers to lend stock ? but it is expected that the amount of stock available to borrowers will be sharply reduced , particularly since it is believed that many traders who have given the blanket permission as a matter of routine will now be impressed with the implied danger to their own interest in an expressly stated authority to lend their stock to short sellers . Furthermore , it is not believed that broker-1 age houses will , as a rule , urge their customers to give this written authority , In view of the Exchange 's own attitude and the wide agitation against short selling , firms will hesitate , it was predicted , to ask their customers to enter into such an agreement . Small speculators for the decline will be able to borrow stock to cover their commitments without much trouble , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sell short extensively and who require large amounts of stock will find it extremely difficult to borrow through the usual sources . The large-scale bearish operators always make their borrowing arrangements in advance of their sales , to be certain that they will be able to make deliveries . The borrowing of stock is an essential feature of the short sale unless a commitment is covered on the same day that it is entered into . Under the Exchange 's rules stock which is sold one day must be delivered by I 2:15 o'clock the following afternoon . Brokerage houses are not , however , the only lenders of stocks , although most of the business is done through them . Banking houses , investment trusts and even individuals are potential sources and speculators who are short of the market often obtain their stock from them . The subject of short selling has been widely debated ever since the market collapse in the Autumn of 1929 . Within the last few months the agitation against the short sale has resulted in a demand for legislative regulation and a House Judiciary subcommittee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrict short selling have been introduced . It was reported that the reform had been adopted by the Stock Exchange upon suggestions received from Washington , but this was not confirmed . So far as could be learned , the action was a voluntary one by the Exchange governors .                     