@@701871

txt Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia suddenly fled his stricken country today with the Italian invaders almost at the gates of his capital and with a revolt of local chieftains barring his escape to the western provinces . Deserted by tLe remnant of his army at the eleventh hour , the Emperor boarded a train at dawn , bound for Jibuti , French Somaliland . With him were Empress Qui7zero Menen and the 12-year-old Prince Makonnen , who had decided on flight several days ago . The Emperor and his family are expected to board a British ship at Jibuti and to find temporary refuge in Jerusalem , where there is an ancient Coptic monastery . It was rumored in London that he had abdicated and left the ruling power in the hands of his Ministers , but no confirmation of these reports was obtainable . Looting Quickly Breaks Out Looting broke out in Addis Ababa as soon as word of the Emperor 's flight spread . The imperial palace was sacked by disbanded soldiers who had refused to fight any longer against Italian poison gas and machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city was in flames . Americans and other foreigners in the capital were safe behind the walls of various legations , according to official messages that trickled through during the day . British subjects were unharmed behind the barbed-wire enclosing the grounds of the British Legation , guarded ? 4y Sikh troops from India in full war equipment . The news of the Emperor 's flight and the resultant chaos fell upon London like a bolt from the blue in a dispatch from Sir Sidney Barton , the British Minister . It was accepted instantly as meaning the end of organized resistance by Ethiopia to the Italian invasion and the speedy conclusion of peace on the conqueror 's terms . There is every indication in today 's messages from Sir Sidney and other official sources that the Emperor 's flight was decided upon hurriedly . Only the day before yesterday , when the Emperor returned to his capital after an absence of many months , he had planned to move his headquarters t . Gone in the uninvaded western part of his empire and to continue a semblance of resistance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to the French Minister and asked what impression it would make in France if the Empress and his children left for Jibuti . The French Minister is said to have replied that they would be perfectly safe on French territory . Emperor 's Decision Sudden The Emperor then mentioned that perhaps he might need to leave , but at the time this talk took place he sincerely appeared to have no idea of doing so . On the contrary , he told an interviewer yesterday : " Abandonment of Addis Ababa will have no significance . I shall establish a new seat of government . " Later , however , there was a. stormy conference between the Emperor and his leading Ministers which convinced him that flight from his country was inevitable . The Ministers are said to have re : ported to him that the troops on . whom he was relying for a lastditch defense in the west had refused to fight . Furthermore they told him the western part of his country was no longer friendly to him and that there would be serious risks to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rebellious tribesmen there . There was no way of escape except toward the east and out of Ethiopian territory . The Italians , I driving in from the north , were reported only thirty-two miles from the capital . In the south they were sweeping toward Harar . Probably the Emperor 's physical condition also influenced his decision . He was haggard and exhausted from the strain of the past few months , and his arm was bandaged over poison gas burns . If the Emperor takes a ship for Palestine or Europe he will presumably be safe from molestation on a neutral vessel , although he will be running the gauntlet of the Italian Red Sea fleet and then of the strong Italian naval forces now concentrated at various strategic points in the Mediterranean . Italy 's forces in the Red Sea are understood to consist of two cruisers , four destroyers , three submarines and several of the widely publicized thirty-foot speedboats . It is regarded as unthinkable here , however , that Italy would take the risk of following the British and German World War precedents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French official at Jibuti told the Reuters correspondent today : " His Majesty will be treated with the respect due to a monarch in distress , for he has not abdicated , as far as we know ? and is still legally Emperor of Ethiopia . He will be at full liberty to embark on any ship he wishes . If he left his capital without proper papers I expect the matter will be arranged for him satisfactorily . " Flight a Blow to Britain Before he left , the Emperor informed Sir Sidney Barton of his decision , without , however , telling of his ultimate destination . The news came as a stunning blow to the British Minister and his superiors in London , who had hoped the Emperor would continue resistance in the west during the rainy season . Sir Sidney reported today over ' the radio at his legation that every precaution had been taken for the safety of 1,000 British subjects , white and colored , still in Addis Ababa . The legation compound , he assured the Foreign Office , had been stocked with food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A company of 250 stalwart Sikh troops under white officers was patrolling the legation grounds , ready for any emergency . But Sir Sidney also indicated that there was no cause for alarm and that , as soon as the Italians had arrived , he expected the present disorders to cease . No word has I been received in London that the Italians are yet ' in Addis Ababa , but an army of 40,000 is reported encamped near the city and their motorized columns are expected there hourly . It is expected here that Marshal Pietro Badoglio will announce the end of hostilities as soon as Addis Ababa is captured and will call for the submission of the few Ethiopian chieftains still in the field . With their Emperor gone and their government non-existent , it is assumed here they will surrender , although the Italians will continue to face local attacks from isolated groups of fighters . British Envoy May Remain If the Italians permit the Ethiopians to carry on a native government under Italian control , the British Minister and his staff may remain . If military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ London that the Minister will leave as soon as he is convinced that British subjects no longer need his protection . The utter collapse of the Ethiopian Government was emphasized today by the fact that its legation in London had no news of the Emperor 's flight . " We have been unable to get any message through , " said a secretary at the legation . " The cable company could not guarantee delivery of messages . " The secretary could not bring himself to believe the news of the Emperor 's flight or his reported abdication . " Such action , " he exclaimed . " would be unlike him . It is more likely that he is escorting the Empress and their children to safety , then proceeding to some point like Harar within Ethiopian territory to reorganize his defense forces . "                     