@@700248

txt Retirement of John H. McCooey as Democratic leader of Brooklyn , either in the near future or some time after Jan. 1 , was reported yesterday to be a probability . A majority of the Brooklyn Assembly district leaders were said to have expressed a willingness to go along with the Roosevelt wing of the party , headed by Postmaster General James A. Farley , and to be ready to pick a leader to succeed Mr. McCooey . There is no disposition on the part of these leaders to humiliate Mr. McCooey and it is hoped that he may retire voluntarily within the next few months . Mr. McCooey has been in poor health for a year or more and intimate friends and members of his family were said to favor his retirement from the post he has held for more than a quarter of a century . Mr. McCooey is scheduled to return from a vacation at Dixville Notch , N. H. , next Friday , and it has been reported that he will issue a statement setting forth his position on his return . No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the district leaders toward agreement upon a successor to Mr. McCooey . Francis J. Sinnott , the postmaster , is unavailable because of his official position . Objection has arisen to the selection of Kenneth F. Sutherland , leader of the Coney Island district , who was one of the five leaders openly supporting Joseph V. for Mayor at the city election , and it is believed that an attempt will be made to elect as the new leader a man who was not identified actively with the campaign . Mr. Farley 's viewpoint is understood to be that the Brooklyn district leaders should make their own selection but should name a leader who will support the Roosevelt administration . The displacement of Mr. McCooey would be a blow at John F. Curry , leader of Tammany , whose chief ally he has been . All efforts on the part of Tammany to heal the breach between Mr. Curry and the leaders of the Roosevelt faction , among whom is Secretary of State Edward J. Flynn , Bronx leader , have failed . Emissaries from Tammany have been informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to receive recognition from the national administration . Attack on Curry Delayed . No immediate move against Mr. Curry is contemplated by those in Tammany who wish a change in leadership , and the declaration of James J. Hoey on his appointment as Collector of Internal Revenue that there must be a change of leadership in Tammany will serve for the present as a sign of how the Federal group stands . The attack on Mr. Curry will be delayed until the Tammany officials now holding office are deprived of their jobs on Jan. 1 and may be delayed until March or April . It is the belief of those opposed to Mr. Curry that he will be much weaker politically three months later than he is now . Several more important local Federal appointments are expect- ed in the coming week and none of them will go to appointees recommended by Mr. Curry . Mr. Farley is schdduled to sail for Rome next Saturday on what will be his first real vacation in years , and he was said to desire to have as many of these appointments as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will visit Paris , Brussels and London and will take a short trip to Ireland if he has time . He will be gone twenty-seven days . Mr. Flynn is due to return from a vacation in Bermuda on Thursday and wiil find that his leadership is under attack by Tammany and that the Tammany organization in the Bronx is moving to bring about the removal of the members of the Bronx Democratic County Committee in the Twentyfifth Senatorial District on the ground of party disloyalty . Under the law , the Democratic nomination for State Senator in this district to fill the vacancy to be cau ed by the resignation of Henry . Schackno , City Court justice-ele t , normally would be made by the members of the Democratic County Committee of the district . The Tammany group in this district , headed by License Commissioner Sidney Levine , is preparing to petition Governor Lehman to call a special session of the Legislature to enact a law for a special primary election to elect new members of the Democratic County Committee to replace the present members because of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mayor O'Brien . Under the existing law , a member of a party committee can be removed for disloyalty to the party or for corruption in office , but the removal must be ty the other members of the committee . The legislation sought by the Bronx Tammany group would put the issue of party disloyalty in the case of the county committee members of the Twenty-first Senatorial District up to the enrolled Democratic voters of the district .                     