@@697166

txt With the consciousness of having at least prevented the London Naval Arms Conference from ending disastrously for France 's good relations with all her friends and neighbors , Foreign Minister Briand returned to Paris this evening . His work has not been spectacular , and the public interest here is far more centred on the quarrels in the Senate and Chamber of Deputies over pension provisions and on the possible fate of the government than it has been for some time past on the happenings in London . But there is a general feeling of relief that it was M. Briand who had charge of the business of extricating the conference from a complete impasse , into which it seemed to have sunk some weeks ago . He has come back with the French naval program intact , and its fulfillment conditioned only on what other nations do . Even more important , he has managed in doing so to remain on excellent terms with England and he has avoided any further friction with Italian opinion . It may be a negative success and he himself is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with that there are several points which he is inclined to count as positive acquisitions . First , there is a new interpretation of Article XVI of the League covenant which will be a very useful matter for future discussion at Geneva . Secondly , the London naval conference has served more than ever to convince him of the interdependence of armaments and the necessity for tackling the whole problem methodically and on a basis of security first . And all these weeks of discussion in London have revealed many things to naval experts as well as to political leaders . . They have discovered among other things that in many cases they are placing emphasis on the wrong kind of armament . Some French naval experts , for instance , have returned convinced that the development of the submarine has been exaggerated and that its importance in reality is less than is imagined . During their intensive work on the problem in cooperation with the experts of the other powers they have discovered that the development of the seaplane has alterec ' considerably the potential value of undersea craft . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other powers have been developing their methods of fighting submarines and that the whole situation is not at all what they had supposed it . To a sagacious observer like M. Briand this sudden change of opinion among his own experts has served only to prove the weakness of reliance on arms of any one category and the foolishness of trying to achieve real progress in disarmament by concentration on one arm . If possible this week and certainly as soon after the Easter recess as possible , he is expected to have a full debate on the whole London situation in the Chamber , during which he will try to show that the policy he followed was that of the government as a whole and not necessarily his own policy . Perhaps if he had been freer , his followers say , he would have accom- , plashed more .                     