@@697853

txt The analysis of the Government 's finances , submitted by Under-Secretary OGDEN MILLS to the Savings Banks Association ? was widely " head-lined " as an official assurance that the public deficit did not make imperative an increase of taxation . It would be difficult , however , to find expression of any such opin-. ion in the speech . Mr. MILLS applied himself mainly to the reasons why a tax-rate which had met the expenditure of the fiscal years 1929 and 1930 with an abundant surplus left over , promises to fall a billion dollars short of expenditure in 1931 . This was no mystery to observant people , but the Under-Secretary provides some worth-while particulars . Two-thirds of the Treasury 's total tax collections come from the levy on incomes of individuals and corporations . Not only are such incomes heavily reduced in a period of severe trade reaction , but the deductions allowed for " capital losses " as an offset for the tax on " capital gains " cuts enormously into collections ' when they cover a period of precipitously falling prices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deplorable results this year " mean that taxes have been " reduced too far , or that the taxes " which have been retained do not " constitute a sufficiently well-bal " anced system " to provide the requisite revenue . But he does not clearly answer either question . He argues , correctly enough , that an economic convulsion of this sort is bound to play havoc with all kinds of tax collections . The records show , in fact , that customs revenue , the chief reliance in the ' 90s and the ' 70s , fell 35 per cent in the immediate sequel to 1893 and 25 per cent after 1873 , for the obvious reason of greatly diminished imports . Mr. MILLS does not discuss the advantage of more widely diversified sources of public revenue . Naturally , he touches lightly on the throwing-away of the excise revenue from wines and spirits , which yielded ; 278,000,000 in the year when we entered the war and produced only ; 11,695,000 last year . His own idea of the proper objective is a " balanced budget " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only a fiscal counsel of perfection . If applied in the ten years after 1918 or the similar period after 1865 , it would have prevented the large-scale redemption of the war debt which was the , outstanding Treasury achievement of both periods . He reasons conVIncingly , however , against the accumulation of a series of annual surpluses without regard to debt retirement . Every one knows how Congress would have met such a situation by swollen appropriations . Mr. MILLS , in short , does not commit himself in the matter of increased taxation - at this time . He does , indeed , remark that " the pres " ent year 's experience offers a most " inadequate criterion " by which to judge the adequacy of present taxes , and defers a positive conclusion to " further trial and experience . " We know pretty well already , through past trial and experience , what will happen . By precedent , there will be two or three years more of diminished revenue , as there were in the sequel to 1921 and 1908 and 1894 ; then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only new impression conveyed by the UnderSecretary 's speech Is in his remark on the public borrowing which the present deficit will necessitate . He calls attention to the fact that any addition to the public debt to meet that shortage will be offset , to the amount of $440,000,000 , by the continuing annual debt retirement under the statutory sinking fund , which is properly reckoned under regular expenditure in computing the deficit .                     