@@704244

txt On about the same day that William Allen White was announced  --  from New York ? as the Chairman of a new national committee to work for repeal of the arms embargo , and Alf M. Landon came down basically on the same side of the fence , their old friend Senator Arthur Capper of Kansas introduced into the Congressional Record an interesting set of petitions and letters he had received from that " typical Prairie State . " Grass-roots opinions , the viewpoints of the real folks , are always interesting . The fact that these statements were all anti-repeal probably is explained by Senator Capper 's strong partisanship in that cause . But they showed an amazing outpouring from humble people , who were not at all baffled by the intricacies of foreign relations . For example , the Epworth League of the Methodist Church of Cottonwood Falls , spoke with these positive words : " It is very obvious from our experience in the World War that repeal of the embargo section of the Neutrality Act will eventually lead the United States into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Christian way of settling difficulties , and that our entering into the conflict would only prolong the war and be of no benefit to the citizens of Europe or to ourselves , we plead that you will do all in your power to protect the neutrality law as it now stands . " Other Groups Against Repeal Here are some of the other folks who expressed the same views : The 21 members of the Worth While Club at Lyons . Parker Grange , No. 1467 . The Mennonite Western District Conference . The Catholic Daughters of Concordia . One hundred and twenty-five students of the rural high school at Schoenchen . ( Who , do you suppose , organized this petition ? The principal ? Some students ? A radio follower of certain orators ? ) Wallace A. Dunn and 16 other citizens of Richfield . ( Ca n't you see Wallace going around getting these 16 signatures ? Richfield has 437 citizens , it is near no big place , it is the last town before you get to Colorado in one direction and Oklahoma in the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signatures . He had to drum them up . ) Six hundred citizens of Union Township , Barton County . ( We 've been to Barton County , Kansas , and we think anybody who drummed up 600 signatures there did very well . ) The Sunday School class of mothers in the Ebenezer Methodist Church of Clay Center . Twenty-one young married couples of Chanute . ( An interesting group , that . Picture the human process that went on as they decided to get together and write Senator Capper . ) Twelve high school students of Tonganoxie . ( Youth , again . ) Members of Farm Bureau Unit , Onaga . ( Their letter says : " What mother is not concerned about her children at a time like this . . . . " ) W. C. T. U. of Oxford . ( Pop . 1,129 . ) Thus spake the grass roots of Kansas . Thus spake the grass roots of a good many other states  --  and some of the city pavementg , too . But that is not to say that the grass roots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take issue with any number of Kansans when he believes they are deceived or deluded , or even honestly and independently mistaken . Indeed , the great moments in Mr. White 's career often came when he was oposing with fervor some of Kansas 's common folks . His first great editorial , " What 's the Matter with Kansas ? " was an attack on the demagogic side of the populist campaign which was fooling many Kansans and concealing the State 's real strength . His only campaign for elective office , in 1924 when he ran for the Govethorship solely as a protest candidate because the other candidates had not repudiated the support of the Ku Klux Klan , was also against the tide of a prevalent popular movement . And in 1938 , Mr. White got out in front to denounce the Winrod effort to nail the swastika on top of the sunflower . It may be that today Mr. White , like many Senators or Representatives in Congress who are going to vote against the tide of mail they are receiving from voters , feels that many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions and by some false leaders . He may feel that another radio orator is pulling woolly words over the ears of the people . It is easier for an independent editor to turn against a popular trend than it is for a congressman to do so . Therefore , the present determination of many Senators and Representatives to disregard the strong tone of the communications that have been sent them is a noteworthy and long-awaited victory for representative government . It is a rebellion against the usually triumphant pressure-group system . It may even be a turning-point against pressures that have seemed recently to take over government , particularly if it is proved in the end that the people who wrote postcards and sent telegrams in ratio of 50 to 1 did not represent a majority after all . Reed Displays Independence Another Kansas editor , Senator Clyde M. Reed , is displaying equal independence . He has let it be known that he probably will vote for embargo repeal , though he received most of the same protests that went to Senator Capper . His editorial record has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even bucked the Kansas tide in 1936 , staying at home while his former secretary , Mr. Landon , ran for the presidency . However , there are some things that rise above politics , above arms erfibargos , above wars and rumors of wars . Oneiof them is Kansas friendship . William Allen White has proposed that Senator Capper receive the State 's nomination for the Republican Presidential candidacy next year , and Alf Landon has seconded the motion ! Erwin D. Canham                     