@@700286

txt Italy will lead all other countries in import quotas for liquor entering this country after prohibition is repealed , R. C. Miller of the Department of Agriculture predicted tonight . He is a member of the special committee making allotments . Mr. Miller said Italy would receive a higher quota than other countries because her shipments of wines to this country before the World War were greater than the shipments of wines or spirits from other countries . He explained that pre-war quotas were being made the basis for the allotment of imports of wines or spirits from the countries of origin , pending the negotiation of reciprocal trade agreements between the United States and other nations . Mr. Miller was not prepared to say how the various countries would rank on the liquor quota list . It was said that on the basis of gallons sent here before the war , however , whether of wines or spirits , France , another great wine producing country , would come second ; the United Kingdom , a leading whisky producing country , third , and Germany fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importation of upward of 30,000,000 gallons of wines and spirits . Up to early tonight , it was learned authoritatively , about 500 individual permits had been issued out of a total of 1,200 . It is expected that allocations to the remaining 700 will be made by Monday . Under these permits will be allocated a total of about 4,800,000 gallons to meet the immediate demands following prohibition . Mr. Miller and Dr. James M. Doran , Industrial Alcohol Commis- sioner , held a conference tonight at the Treasury Department . , Among the matters discussed were the questions of reciprocal trade agreements , on which future import quotas will be based . No statement on the discussion was forthcoming . The import permits that have been issued to date show that whisky allotments comprised less than 5 per cent of the total . This was taken as an indication that in the regulation of imports the administration 's policy of favoring wines and beer instead of hard liquors is being carried out . Revenue and customs officials were busy today drawing up regulations to limit the amount of liquor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Canada . Citizens of this country are permitted to bring $100 worth of foreign merchandise duty free upon their return home from other countries . Hence regulations are being prepared to prevent American citizens from making several trips a day across the border at Buffalo or Detroit or other points of easy access to bring back liquor supplies . The administration plan for control of the liquor traffic , at least until Congress adopts a policy of its own , was virtually completed this afternoon when President Roosevelt signed at Warm Springs , Ga .. the code for beverage importers . The brewers ' code was expected to be sent to Warm Springs tonight , but the policies it sets forth are already largely in operation . Self Control for Importers . Patterned closely after the code for the distillers , the compact as promulgated today for importers provides for immediate application of its provisions by the industry itself , but under the general and very definite regulations of the Alcohol Control Administration . The code places the importers strictly under a licensed system , with licenses to be issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules and regulations as it might make . The industry has five days in which to submit an acceptable plan for its own code authority . While the marketing agreement with the Secretary of Agriculture establishes the quota system , the code covers the issuance of permits , unfair methods of competition , price control and terms of sale , reports to be made by the industry and . the administration of its provisions . Among the unfair methods of competition are a list of practices , including false advertising , misbranding , failure to conform to requirements of the Food and Drugs Act ; failure to observe standards of fill , identity and quality ; failure to observe label requirements prescribed by the FACA ; commercial bribery ; shipment and delivery on consignment ; allowances and rebates for advertising and distribution services ; giving of prizes and premiums ; sales to unauthorized vendors and violations of any State laws . The code does not prohibit importers from engaging in retail business but does require them to sell in bottles only , except to rectifiers , bonders , dispensaries operated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for shipment in bond , or to wholesale bottlers under regulations prescribed by the administration . The code requires importers to keep on file with the code authority a schedule of prices and terms of sale covering all alcoholic beverages sold . The prices , it is stipulated , shall not be so low as to constitute destructive price cutting nor so high as to be oppressive to the consumer . Either the code authority or the FACA n-lay declare ineffective a price which is held to fail to conform to the requirements of the code . Sales at such prices would thereafter constitute a violation of the code . Duties of Code Authority . The code authority membership is subject to the approval of the administration and subject to removal at the discretion of the administration . Its duties are to administer the provisions of the code subject to the approval of the administration ; to prescribe rules subject to the approval of the administration ; to recommend to the administration amendments to the code ; to report to the administration on problems of the industry , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reporting its findings of fact to the administration . The FACA is empowered by the code to make regulations for its effectuation and such interpretations as deemed necessary . Such regulations and interpretations shall have the same effect and force as the provisions of the code itself . The administration is also empowered to instruct the code authority to take any necessary action toward enforcing the code , and to take such action itself if the code authority does not do so . It may investigate any apparent violations of the code and take such action thereon as it deemed desirable . The code becomes effective tomorrow , the day following its approval ty the President . The FACA expects that there will also soon be approved a license for importers of alcoholic beverages , which shall make the terms of the marketing agreement for the importers . approved Friday by Secretary Wallace , applicable to members of the industry who have not signed the agreement .                     