@@700311

txt Mayor-elect F. H. LaGuardia indicated yesterday that he would announce his choice for Police Commissioner tomorrow . Intimates of the Mayor-elect understood that he had selected Major Gen. John F. O'Ryan for the post . Reports of the selection of General O'Ryan were current all day yesterday , and they met with no denial . However , direct confirmation was lacking . Meanwhile , it became known that Langdon W. Post , a major figure in the Fusion movement , and unsuccessful nominee for President of the Borough of Manhattan , would be Tenement House Commissioner in the new administration . It had long been understood that Mr. Post would occupy a place in the new ad ! ministration , but what one was not known definitely until yesterday . Slated for License Post . George H. Bell , who was Commissioner of Licenses in the last Fusion administration , headed by John Purroy Mitchel , was understood to be leading for the same job in the LaGuardia administration . He is an old friend and associate of the Mayor-elect . Professor Russell Forbes of New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Purchase , a post which the Mayorelect considers extremely impor , tant , and indications yesterday ! were that Professor Joseph D. of Columbia University , a Fusion worker , would go into the administration as a Deputy Controller . If the appointment as Police Commissioner goes to General O'Ryan , Captain Lewis Valentine , who has been a deputy chief inspector in the Police Department , is regarded as almost certain to be chief inspector . Captain Valentine was in the position of being a " reserve candidate " for Police Commissioner , according to all indications ; that is , the Mayor-elect considered him for chief inspector with the idea that he might be made commissioner at the last moment if necessary . The first announcement that the selection would be made tomorrow was made by the Mayor-elect as he landed in Washington yester1 day afternoon on an Eastern Air Transport plane. , He was in Washington yesterday afternoon to attend the conference of Mayors being held there . Plans Announcement Tomorrow . Told of reports that General O'Ryan had been selected , the Mayor-elect said : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " Do you mean the appointment of General O'Ryan will be announced ? " he was asked . " There will be announcement regarding the office on Saturday , " he said , smiling . He repeated that statement upon arriving at Newark airport last 1 night , before driving back into the 1 city with Mrs. LaGuardia , who met him at the airport . The Mayorelect arrived at Newark at 7:20 1 P. M. , his plane having been de- layed forty-five minutes by headwinds . General O'Ryan was selected for the Fusion Mayoralty nomination last Summer by the original Fusion committee , in which former Governor Charles S. Whitman was a leading figure . The selection was inacceptable to Samuel Seabury , and Mr. Seabury walked out of the conference . Mr. Seabury and W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State chairman , engineered the rejection of General O'Ryan by other Fusion groups , and the " harmony committee " headed by Charles C. Burlingham picked Mr. LaGuardia . General O'Ryan withdrew from the race and actively supported the Fusion nominee . Captain Valentine made a favorable impression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigation of the city government . Forbes Purchasing Expert . The report of the selection of Professor Forbes was generally accepted as accurate yesterday . He has been active in studying city purchasing needs . Early this year former acting Mayor Joseph V. submitted to- the Board of Aldermen a plan for reorganization of the Department of Purchase drawn up by a committee to which Professor Forbes was consultant . The committee had been appointed by Mr. when he was acting Mayor , but the report was rendered after he had reverted to his former status of President of the Board of Aldermen . Professor Forbes was city management expert for the Bureau of Municipal Research , is on the staff of the National Municipal League and has been affiliated with the Governmental Research Association . In connection with the reported appointment of General O'Ryan to be Police Commissioner , it was re- ' called yesterday that the Mayorelect had let it be known months ago that he would like a man with army training for the job . The scheduled appointment of Mr. Post to the Tenement House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . LaGuardia to Be Honor Guest . Mayor-elect LaGuardia will be guest of honor at the annuaL holiday luncheon of the Columbia University Alumni at the Columbia University Club on Dec. 28 . Charles C. Burlingham will introduce Mr. LaGuardia , whose speech will be followed by the annual address of President Nicholas Murray Butler . William B. Symrnes Jr. , president of the Columbia Alumni Federation , will be toastmaster.                     