@@699940

txt With fair weather predicted , thou ' sands of New Yorkers are expected to turn  --  out this afternoon to welcome the Italian air fleet of tWentyfour seaplanes and ninety-six men , led by General Italo Balbo . The Italian aviators , who have Ibeen flying around the world , . s , casually as trippers on a world tour by boat , have completed their visit to the world 's fair in Chicago and Iwill take off for New York some li time between 8 and 10 o'clock ( New York Daylight Time ) this morning , according to dispatches from Chicago . I Uncertainty exists as to what time the Italians will make their landing I on Jamaica Bay off Floyd Bennett I Airport . It was originally expected that the fliers would arrive between 4 and 6 P. M. However , reports from Chicago last night indicated that the Italians planned to leave there , earlier than the announced sched- ' ule , taking off for New York at 8 A. M. Representatives of the fliers here said the trip , with favorable winds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was expected that the air fleet might reach " Jew York as early as 2 P. M. Should they start at 10 A. M. as at first scheduled they would arrive be-twceheinca4goanddis dispatches said that General Balbo intended to fly by way of Toledo , Cleveland and Buffalo to Albany , thence down the Hudson River to New York . His plan was to fly over lower Manhattan and the East River to Queens , and then to Jamaica Bay . Just what his route would be over the city , and how much time it would require . it was said in quarters close to the expedition here , would depend upon the time of his arrival . A . member of the Balbo entourage said in Chicago last night that everything possible would be done to give New York a good view of the seaplanes in flight formation . Weather and time permitting , it was said , General Balbo plans to lead his fleet in oircling over lower and middle Manhattan at an altitude of about 3,000 feet before heading for the airport . At Floyd Bennett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come into the municipal airport along the Coney Island waterfront , passing Coney Island , Brighton Beach and Manhattan Beach , along the Rockaway Inlet into Jamaica Bay . The Coast Guard has arranged to patrol a wide area , which will be kept clear of other vessels , to permit the armada plenty of room for landing . The direction in which the seaplanes land will depend upon the prevailing winds at the time . After landing , the planes will taxi to twenty-four buoys which have been placed for their accommodation . 19-Gun Salute Ordered . Rear Admiral Yates Stirling Jr. , commanding the Third Naval Dis1 1 trict , and Major Gen. Dennis E. Nolan , commanding the Second Army Corps Area , will put out aboard the Admiral 's barge to wel- come General'Balbo and bring him ashore . As General Balbo steps ashore a salute of nineteen guns will be fired by three army field pieces from Governors Island in accordance with the courtesy due a Cabinet Minister under international etiquette . The Sixteenth Infantry Band will play the Italian national anthem , with ruffles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a guard of honor . The navy dirigible Macon will take part in the ceremonies by flying over New York City at the time the Italian fliers arrive , according to announcement last night at the Naval Air Station at Lakehurst , N. J. This will be part of a train-1 ing trip for the Macon up and down coast . She left Lakehurst at 10 o'clock last night . Crowd to Get View of Fliers . General Balbo will be escorted in an automobile procession from the waterfront to the Administration Building of the airport , about a mile from the dock . The crowd will not be allowed past the steel wire fence that runs across the front of the airport property near the Administration Building , but the auto1 mobile procession will pass up and down a roadway just inside and parallel to this fence to give the crowd a close-up view of the Italian flier and some of his companions . After official welcoming ceremonies in the Administration Building , in which Generoso Pope , Italian-American publisher , and his associates on the Mayor 's committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city , General Balbo and his companions will be escorted by automobile to the Hotel Ambassador , where they will make their headquarters while in New York . Police and airport officials completed arrangements yesterday for handling the crowd and for protecting the fliers from any antiFascisti demonstrations that might be made . Thomas P. Cummings , Deputy Police Inspector , will have charge of the police at the airport . His force will include 415 patrolmen. 60 mounted men , 25 motorcycle policemen and 125 detectives . Roadside Parking Banned . . The police announced that no parking would be permitted on Flatbush Avenue Extension from Avenue U to the Barren Island ferry , a distance of three miles . This is the only road leading to the airport . Parking facilities for 30,000 cars on either side of the Administration Building , on the site of the old Barren Island airport , and on a strip of land north of the airport will be provided . When the parking spaces are filled , the police announced , no more automobiles will be allowed to travel on Flatbush Avenue Extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the dock for landing two of the Italian seaplanes , which will be placed on exhibition on platforms alongside the Administration Building during the Italians stay here . Because the crowds will have to be kept so far from the scene of the actual landing , loud-speakers will be installed at the Administration Building to keep the throng informed of the landing details , it was announced last night by Albert Goldman , Commissioner of Plant and Structures . Stirling to Be Dinner Host . At the Columbia Yacht Club tonight Admiral Stirling will be host at a dinner to General Baltic ; and his ten senior officers . Governor Lehman , Mayor O'Brien and highranking army and navy officers have been invited . Captain W. R. Sayles , chief of staff for the Third Naval District , who has had charge of arrangements for the navy , last night denied a rumor that this dinner had been canceled because of General Balbcrs disinclination to let social engagements delay his arrangements for a quick return to Italy . The Balbo party is expected to remain here for four or five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before leaving on their return trip . President Roosevelt will receive General Balbo and a group of his officers , who will fly to Washington in army and navy planes to-morrow , On Friday the Italians will be guests at a municipal reception at City Hall at noon and a reception and supper dance given by the Italy-America Society at the Waldorf-Astoria at night . Henry P. Fletcher . former Ambassador to Italy , will preside . The Weather Bureau said last night that westerly winds were likely for today , which would facilitate the flight from Chicago . The Navy Department announced that the trip of the ' Italian submarines which were to have arrived here simultaneously with- the Balbo air fleet had been ca4nceled.                     