@@701159

txt Amelia Earnart , courageong woman flyer , hopped off from the Union Air terminal at 3 : : 15 o'clock 111:25 o'clock Chicago time tonight in what she described as a nonstop good will flight to Mexico City . " I had Manned to leave unannounced . " sold:Miss Ear/fart , " and arrive in Mexico without great ado , hut it could n't be done . " Weather Changes Her Plans . While her plane was bring warmed up , Miss Earhart , who but a short time ago made thin long hop from Honoluln to Oakland , studied maps and announced she had decided to down the west coast until she was opposite Mexico City , then turn east . Originally she had planned a direct compass course , but disturbing weather conditions caused the change . Joe Nikrent , National Aeronautical association timer , placed ' a barograph aboard her plane and said if Miss Earhart made the flight nonstop it would be a record ' for women . " I expect to reach Mexico City in 12 or 13 hours , hut do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 9 minutes held by Leland Andrews . " said Miss Earhart . " My plane is not equipped for such a record breaking attempt . " No woman has made the flight nonstop . Husband Awaits Her in Mexico . Miss Earhart 's publisher husband , George Palmer Putnam , is awaiting her in ' Mexico . After she has been there a. while she will make plans for a speed flight to New York City , she said , although these are not now in a definite sta , ge . The flyer 's big monoplane was fueled with 5-14 gallons of gasoline . She car-led a " spare " parachute . She wore brown slacks , a brown tether jacket , white blouse , and a vari-hued scarf . As usual , she was bareheaded , and her tousled locks flew its the wind as she waved good-by to those gathered at the terminal . Takes On Ca. go of Mail . After getting into the air at 9:23 Mss Earhart flew down the field and landed to take on a cargo of mail . Then she was away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago time ) , which be ? came the official ( line of the take-off . The air line distance from : Burbank to litc.vtol City is 2,700 miles , hut Earhart 's route will take her a hundred or so miles farther . By comparison with her previous aviation exploits the flight to the Mexican capital should be a fairly easy one for Miss Earhart . She " was the first woman to fly tile Atlantic alone and last January became the first person , either man or woman , ever to fly solo across the 2,400 miles of open Pacific from Honolulu to Oakland .                     