@@704223

txt READERS LEVEL LANCES IN ABSTRACTION JOUST Further Discussion of the Problems Involved in Non-Objective Painting To the Art Editor : yOUR perspicuous treatment of the types of abstraction and your lucid definition of the critical vocabulary pertinent to it should , if it is heeded , effect a considerable clarification of the issues involved in this not inconsequential discussion . Such a discriminating attempt to make the terminology of abstraction definite and usable by an examination of it in the light of the psychology of aesthetic perception will at least dispel some of the chaotic murkiness . On the basis of your definition of terms , it should he possible to proceed to a more rewarding discussion of the validity and comparative importance of abstraction . " It must first of all be remembered that , as you cite Mr. Barr , " an abstract painting is really a most positively concrete painting , since it confines the attention to its immediate , sensuous , physical surface . " The term " abstraction " is a vestigial misnomer held over from the days when naturalistic painting was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis of objects , a " drawing out " of their essence , was considered an abstraction from naturalistic reality . It is still applicable to such " near-abstractions " as the paintings of Braque , Leger , and the early Picasso , where appreciation involves an immediate recognition on the part of the perceiver that certain configurations are really the abstracted elements of natural objects . The experiencing of near-abstractions , like the appreciation of representational art , requires a reference outside the canvas to the natural object and a cognizance that the artist , by analyzing objects , is pointing out generalized relations existing among their elements : plastic metaphors , as it were . Such experience in indirect , general and conceptual , and involves more successive symbolizations , more complicated mental processes , than mere apprehension of the familiar natural object . And this is precisely the meaning of the word " abstract . " Unfortunately , however , the word is grossly inaccurate as a description of one 's reaction to " pure , " or non-representational , art , for this reaction is really immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little reference beyond the actual perception of the physical work of art . Although " concrete " would probably be the most satisfactory word to denote this sort of pure art , insuperably widespread use of " abstract " almost compels its acceptance ; but it must be remembered that , as applied to pure , concrete art , it denotes the antithesis of what might be expected . That is , pure abstraction , or rather the experiencing of it , is immediate and particular . Pure abstraction is one extreme of a scale of progressive indirectness and abstractness which leads through naturalism and near-abstraction to ideal or " spiritual " painting , which is the most abstract of all . ASHER MOORE . To the Art Editor : I HAVE read your column with interest as I felt that you had an interest in and understanding of modern art . I studied with such men as Miller , Marsh , Zorach , Sternberg and Egas . When I started to paint non-objectively II was naturally interested to read your views on this subject . I was never more surprised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was emotion , which to me is the one thing it has so much of , and the reason I gave up the other art for it . You are used to feeling emotion prompted by subject-matter , therefore you feel non-objective art is an intellectual exercise that is limited . To me the " Music " panel by Schanker is limited by the subject-matter ; i. e. , the only things to be emotional about are the musical instruments . In non-objective art the themes themselves become the subject , and what happens to them is an experience which the observer as well as the artist can have . What one is emotional about is limitless and free ( one artist may give you a feeling of perfect calmness from start to finish , but it may mean different things to different people ) and to read meanings is as bad as doing it in music . Indeed , part of the difficulty in feeling these early non-objectives is that the rhythm is so perfect that it seems not to exist at all . Later , as happened in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more obvious changes in rhythm and appeals to the emotion . . . but emotion is there none the less if it is created by a painter with an emotional message . Objective art is in the first instance intellectual , because you think to yourself : " What am I looking at ? " and then , when you know what kind of people are in the picture or what the object represents , only then do you become emotional about it . MARY RYAN .                     