@@703252

txt A proposal for a more business-like government financial balance sheet , which would list fixed assets as offsets to the ? national debt and paint the government 's fiscal picture in more favorable colors , is reported to be regarded with interest by President Roosevelt . There is said to be considerable sentiment for it in Administration quarters .. Items now appearing only as expenditures on the Treasury statements would be shown in such a way as to present what the public gained in the way of capital assets from the outlays . Improvement- of the government 's financial reporting might be effected in several ways , experts say . It is a subject about which there has been considerable controversy among government officials and outside experts who have sought to guide the government in accounting and reporting methods . A considerable literature has developed on both sides of the question , particularly with relation to the advisability of including fixed assets in a financial statement as offsets to expenditures . Some critics say that to permit politicians to place valuations for bookkeeping purposes on " government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mineral reserves might prove a temptation to misrepresent the country 's financial situation and do more harm than good . The movement for some more understandable statement of government finances gained impetus in the last few weeks because of the fight on the reorganization bill , which would center the present duties of the General Accounting Office in the Bureau of the Budget , thus giving an opportunity for the incidental adoption of more enlightening financial statements . In an article in the current Harper 's Magazine David Cushman Coyle , an adviser of the National Planning Board , advocates a form of statement that would make a clear distinction between " Investment " and " spending . " As do other critics of the present reporting system , he complains that " the government gives a list of assets in its budget report , but in its general treatment of the budget it lumps the investments with other expenses ? and tries to balance the whole sum by the revenue of each ' year . " He says the government should distinguish between its capital budget and its expense budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up and checked by a wellrecognized firm of public accountants , should show the Federal Government to be in the black , a large part of the fear that now oppresses the American peoRle would disappear . " The Budget and Accounting Act of 1931 contemplated that the General Accounting Office would establish a central accounting control and publish a government balance sheet , as distinguished from a Treasury balance sheet , showing assets and liabilities as a whole . But this was never , done , a fact , to which some experts lay the criticism of the General Accounting Office which has been - heard in connection with the Reorganization Bill . The Territory of Hawaii has used since 1926 a form of accounting and reporting that distinguishes capital assets . This system , which has since been adopted by many municipalities in . the continental United States , was installed by Henry P. Seidernann of - the Brookings Institution .. Fixed Property Capitalized In a preface to . Mr. Seidemann 's book on the Hawaiian system , Dr. W. F. Willoughby , former Director of the Institute for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reporting methods , which briefly states the position of those now advocating reform : " One of the principal defects of nearly all accounting and reporting systems of governments is that the accounts are kept on a cash instead of an accrual basis . In the installations made in the ' government of Hawaii this defect has been remedied . " The levy of taxes , or the right to the receipt of any other payment , is recorded as an asset and an earning , without awaiting the actual collection of the money . Conversely , the incurring of an obligation to make a payment is set up immediately as a liability and an expenditure , without awaiting the actual liquidation of the obligation . " Thus the accounting system hereafter described is one which presents a true picture of the government 's affairs , and avoids the inadequate condition of accounting only ' for moneys actually received or paid out . " Another principle established in this manual is that the value of fixed property acquired is capitalized and not written off to expense , as is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be reflected on the balance sheets of current funds , the surplus account of the Territory is subdivised into ' current surplus ' and ' fixed capital surplus . ' The latter reflects the net values of fixed property still in possession of the government ; that is , fixed assets minus fixed liabilities , while the ' current surplus ' account reports the excess of all current assets over all current liabilities . " Whether the new form of financial reporting should include fixed assets , such as TVA , Boulder Darn , navy oil reserves and other such items as offsets to expenditures is a controversial question . Treatment of the foreign debt as an offset to the national debt is another debatable point . Recently Winthrop W. Aldrich , chairman of the board of the Chase National Bank , who was testifying before the Senate committee investigating unemployment , conceded the wisdom of considering some types of governmental expenditures as assets , even though they could not all be classed as self-liquidating . Conservation of soil and forests and some types of public construction , he admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among assets with their cost not charged off as loss .                     