@@701654

txt With the air surcharged with partisanship over President Roosevelt 's decision to address a spectacular joint session tomorrow night , Washington tonight was awaiting the convening of the final session of the Seventy-fourth Congress convinced that it would be productive of more political strategy than legislation . Plans were perfected for the opening day , including the unprecedented night session , in which Henry P. Fletcher , chairman of the Republican National Committee , accused the President of turning to political purposes his constitutional duty to address the session on the state of the Union . The session will formally open at noon , but this meeting will be confined to the swearing in of new members  --  one in the Senate and three in the House  --  and minor dee tails of organization . The principal event of the day is scheduled for 9 P. M. , when the President will appear before the joint session in the House chamber and deliver his prescribed annual message . It is this occasion which the Republican critics resent , as they foresee that the message , which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the keynote for Mr. Roosevelt 's campaign for re-election . Because of the intense political atmosphere developed by the President 's decision , unprecedented except for President Wilson 's war message , Democratic Congressional leaders were prepared for any contingency . Obstacles Threatened in House . Their first problem , which fell largely to the House chieftains , was to obtain authority for the joint session . Under the House rules , it may not be convened on the same day it is recessed or adjourned without unanimous consent . Inasmuch as the first formal session at noon necessarily will be recessed or adjourned before 9 P. M. , it will be necessary to reconvene . Encouraged by Mr. Fletcher 's actions to further stir the pot , some Republican members , notably Representative Rich of Pennsylvania , were threatening tonight to object to the night session . In such an event , the only recourse of the House leaders would be to force through a resolution suspending the rules and allowing the Speaker or majority leader to call the House back to session . Adoption of the resolution would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Speaker Byrns , Majority Leader Bankhead and Chairman O'Connor of the Rules Committee were preparing to do . Mr. O'Connor was said to have drafted the resolution suspending the rules and to have it ready for introduction at the first objection from the Republican side . Representative Boland of Pennsylvania , House whip , promised the necessary two-thirds majority . Seek to Appease Republicans . Hoping to avoid such a fight , Speaker Byrns and Minority Leader Snell were trying to work out an arrangement whereby the Republicans would be given a few minutes in which to criticize the night session , the President or the administration in general , but would make no formal objection to the joint meeting . Neither , however , could speak for all of his members . If a Republican , while reserving the right to object , should start an administration attack , it would be within the province of any Democrat to demand the " regular order " and then it would-be up to the Republican either to object or sit . down . Representative Snell had no doubt that some Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Speaker Byrns could give no assurance that some New Dealer on his side of the chamber would not seek to cut off any criticism of the President . Representative Rich promised tonight to save the trouble for the leaders , and himself object to the night session and thus force the whole issue to a vote . " If this is a political gesture , it is just too bad , " said the Pennsylvanian . " We ought to lick the whole bunch . I will object if it is only a political move . " Mr. Fletcher 's criticism of the night session was contained in telegrams sent last night to presidents of the two radio companies which will broadcast the President 's message . He requested , in the interest of " free speech , " an opportunity for Republican spokesmen to answer the President on a closely following day , at the same hour , over the same stations and for the same length of time . In answer , M. H. Aylesworth of the National Broadcasting Company offered the facilities of his chain to representatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " William S. Paley , president of the Columbia Broadcasting system , held that it was not In keeping with good program balancing to adopt a mathematical formula and " to surrender into the keeping of others the exercise of that editorial judgment and responsibility which we believe devolves upon us and which we gladly accept and seek to discharge . " Representative Fish , Republican of New York , himself mentioned as a Presidential possibility but who also is a stanch supporter of Senator Borah , announced this afternoon that he would take advantage of a broadcast already scheduled for Saturday to answer the President . Mr. Fish will speak in New York Saturday afternoon , from 1:15 to 1:45 , at a luncheon of the National Republican Club . Maverick Generous and Sarcastic . Stepping into the controversy , Representative Maverick , Democrat , of Texas , wired the National Broadcasting Company requesting that it give time already alloted him for Saturday night to the Republicans . " I see by the papers that the Republicans want radio time , " the Texas Democrat wired . " Inasmuch as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . than if I speak , I will be pleased to give up my time Saturday , which ought to partially cover their demands . I do this for your convenience and for the benefit of the Democratic party . " In his first public statement on reaching his office today , Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , castigated the Republican party leaders for " this effort to make a mountain out of a mole hill . " He admitted freely that the hour of 9 P. M. was chosen in order to give the President 's message the fullest publicity . " If any one objects to that , he has the same right to do so as others would have to approve it , " the Senator added . " It seems to me that no one should desire to prevent the country from becoming familiar with the President 's viewpoint , and any one who takes that attitude can not justify it . " Some have insisted , and no doubt others will , on their right to comment on the President 's message . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ choose his own method of doing so . " I am not interested in the petulance some have displayed because the President prefers to deliver his message in person , rather than to send it to Congress to be read by the secretaries of the houses . " President Discusses Attack . The President discussed the Republican chairman 's position today with J. David Stern , publisher of The Philadelphia Record and New York Post , who called at the White House . " In view of the fact that 85 per cent of the press is definitely conservative it would seem to me that Mr. Fletcher ought not to be so worried about the President going on the air , " Mr. Stern said on leaving the President 's office . In the political stir over the time and place for delivery of the Presidential message , little attention was paid to legislative matters . Nevertheless , several leaders were going through the preliminaries for starting the session . The bonus and neutrality bills are expected to be shoved forward on the first regular day . A bonus bill already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the administration will be ready by tomorrow to introduce its neutrality proposal . Senator Robinson predicted early action on neutrality legislation . He thought that steps would be taken to prolong the existing law , the principal provisions of which lapse on Feb. 29 , or enact something like it before the act expires . Sees No Delay on Money Bills . " The appropriation bills are in position to be brought forward early in the session , " he said , " and I expect them to be disposed of without any unusual delay . " He added that he was not informed whether additional relief funds will have to be voted . The Senator said it was difficult to forecast what farm legislation would be needed , if any , in view of the uncertainty of the Supreme Court 's action on the processing taxes . Physical preparations for the session were going forward on both sides of the Capitol . In the House the mace was polished , seats were dusted off , extra chairs moved in for the joint session and gallery seats were marked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old snuff box at the right of the Vice President 's dais was filled with a fresh specially ground blend ; the dusting bottles on each desk were refilled with blotting sand , and new American-made ink wells were substituted for those made in Czechoslovakia .                     