@@703913

txt The new situation which has developed as a result of Italy 's Albanian coup is regarded very seriously here inasmuch as seizure fat the strategic Adriatic kingdom is regarded SR the first step in a concerted drive by the Rome-Berlin axis for domination of eastern Europe and beyond . It obviously is a move for domination of Rumania , with its vast supplies of oil and wheat and its valuable outlet to the Black Sea . At the same time . it presents the dual lancer of isolating Greece . a potential British ai.y. and making encircled Jugoslavia a pawn in the hands of the axis powers . This threat in the eastern Mediterranean is duplicated by one in the west where Spain 's adherence to the anti-communist pact ( informal alliance between Germany . Italy and Japan i gives the dictator nations potential air and submarine bases . With two of Chancel:Li . Hitler 's chief aids circulating in the Mediterranean area . Marshall Goering in the Italian colony of Libya and Propaganda Minister Goebbets in the eastern Mediterran-ean , this whole area must be watched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Program In view of the new situation . Great Britain may be compelled to speed its already fev. ! risti armament program , and Parliament , which is expected to reassemble this week , may again press for creation of a Ministry of Supply . Sunday was taken up with preliminary government studies of the new situation in anticipation of the meeting of the Britis'i cabinet to be held today . Pending the cabinet meeting . there were no definite developments in London yesterday beyond the meeting of the Imperial Defense Committee with Lord Halifax , the foreign secretary . No decision has yet Attention in Paris last night was centered mainly about the question of what would be the reaction of Prime Minister Chamberlain of England to Italy 's seizure of Albania French resentment towards Italy being what it is , the inclination here is to believe that Great Britain must declare that the AngloItalian agreement has been violated , perhaps coupled with a pledge of protection for the territorial integrity of Greece . But b , so doing , it is thought that Chamberlain would invite Italy to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satellite . British Reaction Seen Necessary Great Britain clearly must react in some fashion , and however mile the reaction is , the Anglo-Italian gentlemen 's agreement has suffered a blow . But Mussolini may seek to soften it , say by offer of immediate withdrawal of Italian troops from Spain Until further proof is available . It is not safe to argue that Mussolini is anxious to break entirely with England or that Chamberlain is anxious to break with Mussolini over the sole issue of Albania . The second point on which speculation in Paris centered last night was whether the dictators intend to push their success further immediately or whether they will be content to consolidate their gains . Completely unconfirmed rumors were already circulating of ultimatums having been delivered to Poland . Yugoslavia and Greece in pursuance of a plan for delivering all of eastern Europe above the Danube to German influence and all territory below the Danube to Italian control . Dictators Seen Exalted by Success Such rumors imply that the dictators have been exalted by success to such a point that they are ready to challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be remembered that it is the game of the dictators to try to spread panic with the view of demoralizing their opponents Anyway , the fact that Mussolini . after months of campaigning against France as the only obstacle to Italian expansion , suddenly pounces upon Albania , which had already been abandoned to Italian domination and which was quite unable to defend itself , seems to be proof that the dictators do not think that they have yet exhausted the devices whereby they can extend their influence without challenging England and France threcti.v . AsIffi as the actual ? calcuprition of Albania by Italy is concerned , it is generally interpreted here as Hitler 's award to Mussolini for sitting pa tiently while the German legions overran Czechoslovakia and that it is his first reply to Chamberlain 's guaranty of Poland 's independence . The manner of Italian descent upon Albania exactly recalls the German descent upon Czechoslovakia . Both gave occasion for an exaggerated parade of military strength , which were equally sudden and without excuse . Motive for both was political and strategical . Hitler can congratulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for having delivered an indirect blow to Prime Minister Chamberlain . been given as to whether Great Britain intends to denounce the Anglo-Italian NIediteiranean agreement and the cabinet is understood to oe waiting for further explanations from Rome where Lord Perth , the British Ambassador , saw Count Ciano , Italian Foreign Minister , yesterday . The present threat to the independence of Greece may force Great Britain to offer an immediate pledge of assistance to Greece similar to that contained in the new Anglo-Polish pact . This might necessitate the dispatch of British warships to Corfu . ( United Prom dispatches last night referred to the presence of British warships at Corfu ) . Rumania Seen Ultimate Objective The ultimate objective of the axis powers is obviously Rumania both for economic and strategical reasons . This consideration has caused the Rumanian Foreign Minister , M. Gafencu to seek an anti-aggression pact between Rumania . Turkey and Russia , which Gafencu as now understood to be trying to negotiate at Istanbul . So far there has been no sign of withdrawal of Italian troops from Spain despite Franco 's victory and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view of the violation of the status quo in the Adriatic through invasion of Albania . Rumors also continue to circulate of troop movements in Germany . These rumors , however . are probably spread deliberately by Germany in order to increase anxiety among the democracies and to deter any other adherents to a democratic pact . On the other hand , there is always the possibility of some fresh coup by Hitler as the next move in the Berlin-Rome aggression .                     