@@701311

txt LONDON. ? In recent discussions of the new Banking Bill in Washington reference has been made , notably by Senator . Glass , to the Bank of England , that venerable central bank whose status is unique , whose affairs are surrounded by a good deal of mystery , whose profit-1 and-loss account is never published , whose management of the currency and the banking system has been on the whole sagacious . The British banking system differs from the American in the wider range of its activities and in the simpler and more centralized form of its organization . Its services ( because of its dominant role in financing international trade ) have long been spread over the world , but they have been carried on mainly by a few large banks and accepting houses with headquarters in London . Being the product of British experience and habits , the British banking system offers a striking contrast to the existing Federal Reserve System as well as to the scheme proposed in the Banking Bill pending at Washington . One Central Bank . The United States has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the law . Britain has a single central bank  --  the Bank of England ? whose activities are determined less by statutes or rules than by tradition , by custom , by what J. M. Keynes calls the mental limitations of its Governor , or by what the Negro spirituals call the " Grace of God . " It is easy to tell by simply reading the law what the Reserve Banks are supposed to do and not to do , but the scope of the Bank of England is neither so circumscribed nor so clearly defined . Each of the twelve Reserve Banks has power to conduct open-market I operations and to fix its own discount rate  --  powers which are exercised in Britain only by the Bank of England . Consequently the banking policies of the United States , being designed for widely separated sections of a large country , do not have , and are not meant to have , anything like the uniformity which characterizes those policies in Britain , where a single bank leads the way . Moreover , some American State banks are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all banks are closely linked in the unified system . The law requires the Reserve Banks to hold a definite reserve against their notes , whereas Britain leaves the amount of the reserve , like many other things , to the discretion of the Bank of England . The American Bill . The centralization of control over market policies and the discount rate , proposed in the new American Banking Bill , would presumably bring uniformity more resembling that in Britain . But here the parallel  --  if it is a parallel  --  ends . For the Banking Bill would increase the Reserve Board 's power over the banks and increase the administration 's control over the Reserve Board , thus putting the banking system and credit regulation into the hands of government appointees . Such a I proposal would horrify the British excepting some Labor party leaders . The issue of the government versus the banks , which has arisen in America , likewise came up here in 1931 when the Laborites said the bankers had wrecked their government . The Labor party has advocated public ownership and control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The keynote of Britain 's system , the Bank of England , is unlike any other central bank . It is the government 's bank and the bankers ' bank ; it is the controlling authority over the currency and credit ; its Governor and directors are the nearest British parallel to . our Federal Reserve Board . Yet it is a private concern , owned by its shareholders , and it carries on a private banking business . An individual may buy its stock in the open market , as he may buy that of any other company , and he may , if he likes , open a deposit account at the Bank of England . In other words , the Bank of England lis a central bank like the Bank of France or the Reichsbank or the American Federal Reserve banks , while being at the same time a private bank serving its shareholders and depositors in the manner of ordinary banks . Product of Evolution . Unlike the Federal Reserve System , - the Bank of England was not created in its present form by a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a product of gradual growth since its foundation In 1694 . Like the British Monarchy , it is an old institution that has been slowly and successfully adapted to changing times . And , like both the Constitution and the Monarchy , it has remained throughout its history just a little obscure and mysterious and incompletely defined , but nevertheless working remarkably well . As late as 1873 it could be said , as Bagehot put it , that " the directors of the Bank of England are in fact , if not in name , trustees for the public , to keep a banking reserve on their behalf , " but that " so far from there being a distinct undertaking on the part of the Bank directors to perform this duty , many of them scarcely acknowledge it and some altogether deny it . " This duty has since been explicitly recognized  --  though belatedly and with some reluctance . For the British like to leave things vague and to put their trust in persons rather than in written laws . Even today the duties and powers of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ernest Harvey told the Macmillan committee that , apart from statutory provisions relating to the issue of notes , the grant of loans to the State and the publication of a weekly statement , the Bank was " practically free to do whatever it likes , with one exception . " That exception is that , by the Tonnage Act of 1694 , the Bank is prohibited from dealing in " merchandise or wares . " Sir Ernest added that " the restrictions , so far as there are restriations , under which the Bank works , are restrictions which the Bank has imposed upon itself and which , of course , it has the power to alter . " Yet the Bank in fact works in close collaboration with the treasury , not merely in issuing notes and lending to the State , as it is obliged by law to do , but in administering the financial system of the country , in regulating the volume of credit , in effectively determining the movement overseas of British capital . Some of these functions are not officially admitted although they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of England is divided into two departments corresponding to its public and its private activities : the issue department and the banking department . As the sole bank of issue of legal tender , it controls the note circulation of the country ; it holds government balances and lends to the government ; it acts as custodian of the national debt by issuing government loans and paying the interest on them ; it holds the national stock of gold bullion and coin ( now $960,000,000 ) ; it manages the Exchange Equalization Account , created in 1932 to offset sudden fluctuations in the external value of the pound ; it controls , by fixing the discount rate , the volume of the nation 's banking credit ? " it is presumed in consultation with the government , " as the late Walter Leaf cautiously expressed it . In other words , the Bank is to the financial system of the ' country what a central generating station is to a system of electrical supply : it is the source at which the flow of currency and credit is regulated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the government . The Bank can determine , or at least influence , the course of prices in Britain at any Moment by changing the Bank rate ; and thus it can  --  though its Governor seemed unwilling to admit this in testifying before the Macmillan committee  --  influence the amount of business done and the amount of employment available . In this way it exerts a vital control over the entire economic life of Britain and indirectly over that of many countries , both within and outside the empire , whose economic activities are in varying degrees bound up with those of this country . Banking Functions . These are the strictly public functions of the Bank , some of them defined by law , some of them defined only by practice and custom . The other department of the Bank , the banking department , is responsible , not to the State but to the Bank 's shareholders and to other banks . The principal function of this department is to act as a reserve bank in holding the reserve deposits of the private banks , which amounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the Bank of England have in recent years amounted to about 10 per cent of their deposits , The Bank of England ( through its banking department ) lends to customers and to the money market by discounting bills or advancing funds against securities . It is the rate of its discount which determines the flow of credit and the dearness or cheapness of money which is so vital to commerce and industry . The Bank is like other banks in paying profits to its shareholders . The rate of its dividends has lately been 12 per cent , and its ' shares are quoted at 363.                     