@@701785

txt Wilhelm Furtwaengler , internationally known German conductor I of opera and symphony orchestras . has withdrawn from the post of general musical director of the New York Philharmonic-Symphony Society , to which he was named on Feb. 2S , it was announced last night . A statement announcing that he was taking this action on the general ground that his appointment tended to bring a political question into the realm of music was made public by the executive committee of the society . The appointment had been criticized here by persons and publications opposed to the Nazi regime in Germany . Abroad , the announcement that Dr. Furtwaengler had joined forces with the Philharmonic was followed by a series of Berlin announcements that he was being " rehabilitated " in Germany , after a quarrel with the Nazi authorities over their actions connected with music . No announcement of a successor to the German conductor can be made yet , it was said by the society . The announcement of Dr. Furtwaengler 's action made known however , that contracts with the members of the orchestra have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1936-37 will go forward , with a new conductor or new conductors named as soon as practicable . Dr. Furtwaengler , who is in Egypt , made known his decision to withdraw by cable . Announcing that the withdrawal had been accepted the executive committee of the society made public its statement as follows : " The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York is in receipt of the following cable from Wilhelm Furtwaengler , dated Luxor , Egypt : ' Political controversies disagreeable to me . Am not politician but exponent of German music , which belongs to all humanity regardless of politics . I propose postpone my season in the interests of Philharmonic Society and music until the public realizes that politics and music are apart . FURTWAENGLER ! " While confirming the position taken in a signed statement of March 7 , the executive committee of the society feels that it must regretfully accede to the wishes expressed in the above cable , although it involves the loss to New York of the artistic services of one of the foremost conductors of the world . " Mr. Furtwaengler 's selection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highest musical interests of the orchestra Iand its public . The executive committee is credibly informed that Mr. Furtwaengler has not been a member of any political party in Germany and it greatly deplores the political implications that have been read into the appointment . " Plans for the conductor or conductors for 1936-37 will be announced as soon as practicable , and the society will be guided in its selection by the same artistic standards which it has honorably maintained during the ninety-four years I of its existence . Meanwhile , contracts with the men of the orchestra for next year have been concluded on the basis of a 24-week season . " No Successor Named The statement for the society bore the names of Clarence H. Mackay , Marshall Field , Charles Triller , Felix Warburg , Walter W. Price , Edwin Rice and Richard W. G. ' Welling as members of the executive committee , and Arthur Judson I as executive secretary . Representatives of the society said that no time can be set for the announcement of a successor to IDr . Furtwaengler , but it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week or ten days . III their statement of March 7 , the executive committee had said that the appointment of Dr. Furtwaengler bore no national or racial significance . " There is no foundation whatever for any such representation , " the executive committee said , continuing at a later point : " Any attempt to make it appear that this engagement involves any recognition of the Nazi dictatorship or any approval of its artistic policies is unwarranted and misleading . " Protest Against Intolerance The statement concluded with a declaration that Dr. Furtwaengler had risked his permanent position lin Germany by a single-handed protest against intolerance toward mu- , 1sicians and composers . On the oc , casion of its March 7 statement , , I the committee also made public a ( cablegram from the conductor , who was then in Cairo , saying that despite the announcement from i Berlin of his appointment as guest conductor of the State Opera there , the announcement did not mean he would be chief of the Berlin opera . The same cablegram foreshadowed Dr. Furtwaengler 's declaration yesterday concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ My job is music . " Protests against the appearance of Dr. Furtwaengler as a conductor here began almost as soon as it was announced that he had been retained by the Philharmonic fol  --  owing the retirement of Arturo Toscanini . I. A. Hirschmann , chair- , man of the board of the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science in the new school , the " University in Exile , was one of the first to protest . Catholic Magazine Objected I He was joined by the Rev. Dr , Stephen S. Wise . Later a committee was formed to organize oppo , sition to the Furtwaengler appointment . Publications which have criticized the choice of Dr. Furtwaengler by the Philharmonic include " The American Hebrew , ' ' , and " The Commonweal , " the lat-o ter a Roman Catholic publication . Although no hint was available last night as to any progress the society may have made in finding a successor to Dr. Furtwaengler , it was regarded as likely that the search has already begun . Pend , ing the actual naming of a conduc @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a meeting of the board of directors will be necessary , persons familiar with the roster of lavailable musical figures said that the effect of the change on the fortunes of the Philharmonic can not be determined .                     