@@702273

txt The New York Life Insurance Co. yesterday bestowed its highest honor on Thomas A. Buchner , when be was elected chairman of the board  --  a newly created position . Mr. Buckner will be succeeded as president by Alfred L. Aiken . Mr. Buckner 's elevation to the chairmanship climaxes one of the most successful careers in the insurance industry . Starting with the company as an office boy more than 56 years ago , the new chairman has served the New York Life in practically every capacity . As chairman of the board . Mr. Buckner will head what is one of America s most distinguished groups of directors . He was instrumental in bringing to the board two former presidents of the United States and a former governor of the State of New York . The board , which actively manages the company 's affairs , is comprised of outstanding leaders in the fields of banking and finance , railroads , education , public utilities , merchandising and industry . Mr. Buelnier 's Career Mr. Buckner , at the age of 33 , was appointed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elected fourth vice president of the company and at 3S became vice president in e-hafge of agencies . Elected president on March 11 , 1931 . Mr. Buckner has served during the most trying economic and financial deprt.ssion in the company 's history of 91 years . Although ** T ... Aiken , the new president , may be known chiefly as a banker to many people outside the insurance business , he has long had direct Alfred L. Aiken and intimate connection with the affairs of the New York Life Insurance Co . He began his connection with the company in 1S94 , as assistant manager of the New England Department . New President 's Record After five years in that capacity , he entered the banking business He resumed his - annecLion with the New York Life in 1917 , as a member of the boa : cl of directors . Mr. Aiken became officially connected with the company in 1924 and was elected vice provident in : 931 In July 1909 . President Taft offered him the position of assistant secretary of the Treasury , which Mr Aiken declined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and in 1918 was elected president of the Nations2 . Sha  --  mut Bank . At yesterday 's meeting , the New York Life board of directors appointed Walker Din kner , vice president , to the nog/Lion of executive vice president . Walker Buckner , brother of the new Board Chairman has been v. ith the company for 51 years . He was elected senior vice president in 1933 , and is chairman of the executive committee and also head of the agency affairs of the company .                     