@@700294

txt Peru prepared resolutions today proposing to the seventh Pan-American Conference the formation of an intei - American bank and decrying the gold standard as " a factor of pert urbation . " The Peruvian resolutions would make a determination of the capacity to pay a prerequisite for foreign loans and would require international agreements on the subject of loans . An Argentine proposal for a Pan-American economic conference , to study problems of tariffs , commerce and navigation , was under consideration today by the steering committee of the conference . Investigation of Treaties Dr. Carlos Saavedra-Lamas , the Argentine Foreign Minister . said the American Secretary of State , Mr. Cordell Hull , supported the suggestion for a new and early study of ways to effect economic rehabilitation . Under the plan , which the committee was understood to have accepted " in principle , " inter-American shipping and commercial treaties would be investigated and the present and potential exports and essential import of each country would be analyzed . Freights , taxes , production costs , and sanitary restrictions would be on the agenda . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Pan-American economic conference would result in a world tariff change aimed at reviving world trade . Secretary Hull did not comment on the Argentine proposal definitely , but members of the American delegation , which Mr. Hull heads , communicated with the White House . A plea for the recognition of Cuba was made yesterday by Dr. Alberto Giraudy , a Cuban delegate who said his Government was sorry that only Mexico . Peru , Panama . and Spain have so far recognized the Gran San Martin Government in the island . The American Secretary of State said today that although international bankers have been antagonistic to President Roosevelt 's program , the United States feel that the discussion of private debts is outside the scope of the Pan-American Conference . Mr. Hull 's statement was part of an acrimonious debate in the steering committee of the conference . The discussion followed a Mexican proposal for a moratorium on all public and private debts with Cuba supporting Mexico . Argentina and Chile backed up Secretary Hull 's view of the private debt situation , Argentina suggesting that the question be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentine motion . Mr. Hull agreed that the United States delegation would serve on the subcommittee but reiterated that it would not discuss the question of private debts . The subcommittee was assigned to report Dec. 8.                     