@@703310

txt A plea to men of natural science that they unite with religious leaders and work for the common good of all mankind , spreading the gospel of common sense in world relations , was issued here during the closing sessions of the American Philosophical Society , by Prof. Emeritus William A , Noyes of Columbia University . Professor Noyes In a statement that included the Golden Rule said whenever an individual , class , or nation seeks his own benefit without reference to others he will lose all that is most worth while . " For nineteen centuries the rule has been followed by countless thousands of men and women and found to be good . This gives us the right to call it a scientific principle which has stood the test of experience . " Professor Noyes declared that the capacity for production in Europe is such that international cooperation could be easily possible . " Even the half-hearted application of sanctions against Italy demonstrated that if they had been properly applied and had included oil , the cold-blooded aggression against Ethiopia might have been stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . The three most aggressive nations at the present time , have no oil in their own territories . If the others are wise and control their own firms who manufacture armaments and munitions , they would stop  --  nowall shipments to aggressor nations of these and other articles used in war . iron , steel , copper , aluminum and oil . " The present race in armaments is almost as destructive as actual war . Furthermore , it is foolish for the United States to build a tremendous navy to defend herself against an aggressive Japan , and then turn around and furnish Japan with Wide World Dr. Harlow Shapley Reports to National Academy of Science at Meeting in Washington on Newly Discovered " island Universe " thousands of tons of scrap iron with which to build up the Japanese Navy . " Disarmament is easily possible if nations ( collections of individuals ) really desire it and are willing to bring it about . " Dr. Shapley describes misty stellar system , discovered by Harvard astronomers , at the annual meeting of National Academy of Sciences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , April 25 ? Details of the peculiar " island universe , " discovered by Harvard astronomers in distant space where stars are impossible to find except with the largest telescopes , were disclosed today by Dr. Harlow Shapley at the annual meeting of the National Academy of Sciences . Characterized as a large , rich cluster of stars that astronomers have been unable to fit into any of the commonly accepted classifications for galaxies , the new stellar system is found in the southern constellation of Sculptor . It was first noted on a long-exposure Bruce plate from the University 's station in South Africa and was thought to be another extended cluster of galaxies such as the well-known system in Coma . Subsequent protographs made with the southern 60-inch reflector show , however , that the individual members are stars rather than spheroidal galaxies . Galaxies Only Cogs The new find was a result of Harvard 's great project begun more than a decade ago , . . . said Dr. Shapley in an interview , . . . of making a complete survey of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classifying and recording all the great star systems in space . This means little attention is being given at Harvard temporarily , to the sun and its small family of planets , or to the visible stars . These , while they may be several billion miles apart in space , are all members of our own local milky way galaxy . Harvard 's task is to sweep , the cosmos beyond the visible stars , as far as its two 60-inch telescopes will reach . Already the survey has been carried to the eighteenth magnitude recording tens of thousands of galaxies each with tens of thousands of individual stars . Occasionally the galaxies them- selves turn out to be cogs in even greater systems referred to as " meta-galaxies . " Coming to Washington from Philadelphia where he already reported to the American Philosophical Society on another phase of Harvard 's galactic research , Dr. Shapley was persuaded after delivery of his formal report to translate mathematical and technical terms into everyday terms . The new island of stars , he told natural science writers , is shaped somewhat like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual stars can be detected only through very powerful telescopes . This , he implied , is why the group has never before been seen by astronomers despite its vast size , covering more than two degrees in the sky . Characteristics of Three " It displays many characteristics of three entirely different types of stellar systems , the globular star clusters , the Magellanic clouds , and the spheroidal galaxies . Yet it differs spectacularly from each of these on many points and may possibly represent a. hitherto unknown class intermediate between all three . " The most peculiar thing about the , Sculptor cluster , is the unusually even distribution of the stars . Unlike any other system the members are arranged rather compactly at the center of the group with the space between individuals increasing regularly toward the outer boundary . The brightest stars in the cluster are of about eighteenth magnitude , but whereas the brighter stars appear to be grouped more closely in the center of the system , there is no sharp nucleus to the group , and there are no outstanding or conspicuous individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any cloud-like formations , of other irregularities which would spoil the marked uniformity of the system . In fact , so unique was the find that Harvard kept it quiet for a considerable time , thinking perhaps it might be an error due to a defective plate , dust on the negative , or somebody 's dirty fingers in the developing room .                     