@@702860

txt On the eve of the twenty-ninth annual convention of the Metal Trades Department of the American Federation of Labor there were indications tonight that an attempt would be made to put through a re .. olution calling upon the federation 's forth ' coming convention to expel the suspended C. I. 0 . unions . In their annual report the officers of the Metal Trades Department condemn in bitter terms the activities of the C. I. 0 . and link the John L. Lewis organization to the Communist party on the grounds that paid organizers of the Communist organization are on the C. I. 0 . payroll and head some local C. I. 0 . unions . The report is signed by John P. Frey , president , and W. A. Calvin , 1 secretary-treasurer . It strongly favors amendment of the National Labor Relations Act to conform with craft union policy 1 and urges that the labor board be sheared of the duty of determining whether the unit for collective bargaining shall represent craft , plant , company or industry . More space is allotted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the NLRB than to any other subjects . In connection with its discussion of the vital problem which it says is presented by the power and authority exercised by the labor board , the report commends the judicial attitude of the board 's representatives in some cases . But the report quickly adds that " in a number of instances these regional representatives have acted as though their principal responsibility was to function for the benefit of the C. I. 0 . " The report voices fear that the Wagner act may mean compulsory trade unionism and points to the lesson of trade union mortality under dictatorships . It favors a labor law similar to that which definitely instructs the National Mediation Board for the railroad industry that " the majority of any craft or class of employes shall have the right to determine who shall be the representative of the craft or class for the purposes of this act . " It is pointed out that the metal and . building trade unions opposed the draft of the Black-Connery Wages and Hours Bill which was considered at the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Auto Strike Move Diesclosed It is disclosed for the first time that before the General Motors strike was settled the A. F. of L. spokesmen who had urged Gov . Murphy of Michigan by telephone and telegraph to prevent the corporation from entering into an exclusive bargain with the United Automobile Workers Union had also conferred with the Governor personally . The report says that " evidently " a Farmer-Labor party will be launched in the next year by the C. I. 0 . and declares that such a move would run counter to the " well established non-partisan political policy of the A. F. of L. " and " political confusion would be added to the industrial turmoil which has been created by the C. I. 0 . " The metal unions have made more progress in the last year than in any previous year , the report asserts , but adds that this is not generally known because the newspapers have not carried this news , preferring , in many instances , openly to approve the C. I. 0 . The C. I. 0. , it is charged , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made " constant raids " into the membership of the metal unions , and has " by threats , intimidation and mass picketing " sought to force A. F. of L. metal workers into the C. I. 0 . " Terroristic Methods " Charged These " raids , " according to the report , included " terroristic methods " in which A. F. of L. trade unionists were assaulted and their wives " terrorized by visits to their homes and calls over the phone . " The C. I. 0 . unions , it is further declared , invaded the jurisdiction of craft unions in the automobile industry . Wage agreements below the scale obtained by the A. F. of L. were made by the C. I. 0. , it is alleged . In 1936 , the report asserts , the bars against Communists that had been maintained by the American labor movement , including the United Mine Workers , were let down " to such an extent that leading representatives of the Communist party . were on the C. I. 0 . payroll as organizers , one definite result being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a large number of newly organized C. I. 0 . local unions . " Four months before the C.I . 0 . began its eteel campaign , the report states , W. Z. Foster , who conducted the 1919 steel strike for the A. F. of L. , opened headquarters in Pittsburgh and prepared an outline of instructions for organizers . " Weak Disclaimers " Hit " During the past year , " the report continues , " leaders of the C. I. 0. , including John L. Lewis , have made weak disclaimers of Communist connections with their organizations . They assert that as employers give work to Communist as well as other workmen , it is necessary to organize all employes , Communists and non-Communists alike . " These disclaimers , weak as they are , have no bearing upon the fact that a very large number of active members and officers of the Communist party have ? been on the C. I. 0 . payroll as organizers in steel , in automobiles , in the oil fields and in the textile industries . " The successful infiltration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . has led to an active effort to infiltrate into local unions within the family of the A. F. of L. during the year . As the result of this Communist influence , supplemented by the activities of the C. I. 0. , a number of A. F. of L. local unions adopted resolutions condemning the policies of the A. F. of L. , of President William Green , the executive council and many other responsible trade-union officials . " " Minority Rule " Tactics Assailed The report attacks the C. L 0 . as an organization that has " applied the methods and tactics of minority rule , this being particularly so in connection with their organizing of strike policy and their relations with employers . " Such " minority rule , " according to the report , meant that where the C. I. 0 . obtained a few members a sit-down strike would be staged , the shop would then be declared on strike , mass picketing would follow and " sometimes the pickets were imported from other cities and States . " Members of the A. F. of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forced to stay away from the shops or compelled to go through the hostile mass picket line , in which many women had been prevailed upon to take part . " The report asserts that the metal trades unions have-members in automobile and accessories plants , and recites the attempts of these unions to bring pressure to bear on General Motors and Chrysler Corporations against awarding exclusive bargaining rights to the C. I. 0 . The report adds that word was received friam General Motors " assuring your department that they would enter into no agreement which would give the United Automobile Workers of America authority to represent those who had the legitimate right to be represented by their respective international unions . " " When the strike against the Chrysler Corporation took place , " the report continues , " the metal trades department took similar action to what it had taken in the instance of the General Motors strike and in turn received similar assurances . " It is important to place on record the fact that in no instance were agreements entered into which gave the United Automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members . " Drive by Moscow Agent Alleged By The Associated Press . DENVER , Sept. ** report by the officers of the A. F. of L. ' Metal Trades Department charged that William Weinstone , American representative of the executive committee , Communist International in Moscow , had been in command of unionization efforts in the automobile industry in rivalry to the A. F. of L. The NLRB order for an A. F. of L.-C . I. 0 . election in the National Electric Products Company 's plant at Ambridge , Pa. , after the company had signed a closed-shop contract with the A. F. of L. , the report called " a most severe blow to collective bargaining " " Employers have become fearful that an agreement legitimately entered into with an A. F. of L. organization may be subject to reversal , resulting from appeals from the C. I. 0 . to - the board , " the report added .                     