@@700102

txt Discussing in THE TIMES last Sunday the Government 's " farm recovery " program of the past six months , Mr. GEORGE N. PEEK described these ex , perimental measures as " without pre " cise parallel , not only in the farming " industry but also , I think , in any ' ' other industry in any country at any " time . " The statement as a whole seems sweeping ; yet perhaps , when the drastic expedients invoked are considered , it would be difficult to discover any previous governmental undertaking of equal scope . For this there is the very good reason that there has been no precise parallel in history for the agricultural situation with which they undertook to deal . Nothing has been more familiar in the past than the derangement of agriculture in the aftermath of every great war . Precipitous readjustment of agricultural prices occurred as infallibly after our own Civil War , and particularly after the Napoleonic wars , as in the sequel to the recent European conflict , Return to normal conditions of production always sufficed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not always fall to the pre-war level , but the descent from " war figures " none the less upset the industry . The average British price of wheat in the twentyfive years after 1825 was 58 shillings a quarter , which compared with 48 in the twenty-five years before 1800 . In the period between 1800 and 1825 , however , comprising the Napoleonic struggle , the average had reached 78 shillings . It had been 126 shillings in 1912 . But no such rapid and continuous readjustment followed as occurred in the three years after 1929 . A century ago scientific wheat culture was in its infancy ; lack of transportation facilities utterly prevented such extension of production , even under the spur of war necessities and then of hard times , as has occurred on this occasion . Up to the later decades of the nineteenth century the world 's " wheat surplus " was at all times precarious . Harvest failure in one or two important producing countries repeatedly confronted the rest of Europe with famine . No longer ago than 1898 Sir WILLIAM CROOK.ES predicted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , within a comparatively short period , fall permanently below the requirements of the grow1 ing population . But the subsequent quarter-century witnessed the solution of that problem . Large-scale wheat culture , under the period 's constantly improving methods of irrigation and fertilization , extended to quarters of the world which had previously been excluded from calculation of supplies . The unprecedentedly rapid spread of production in neutral coun- tries during the recent war , followed by intensive governmental efforts at increase of the harvests in the previous belligerent States , treated a situation altogether new to agricultural history . These well-known circumstances sufficiently explain why remedial and corrective measures , if effectively applied , had to be " without precise parallel . " It is quite as well to keep in mind , however , that the expedients proposed by our Government are purely of temporary character , directed at a particular emergency . It is the London " world pact " of last month which , however imperfect as an immediate solution to the problem , points the way to the eventual harmonizing of actual supply with actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cooperative procedure can the fortunes of the industry be genuinely restored .                     