@@703683

txt With the city still struggling to clear away the Thanksgiving Day blizzard , another snowstorm began late last night and raged early this morning , threatening New York with as deep a fall as the one on Thursday night , eight inches . Warned last night by the Weatlier Bureau that north and northeast winds of gale force would reach the city and that the snow " probably " would be heavy , Superintendent Edward C. Nugent of the Department of Sanitation ordered out an army of 10,000 men to combat the storm during the night . At first , he expected to have only 3,000 working on snow clearance . All day yesterday more than 42,000 workers were clearing the streets . The storm conditions that caused the new struggle to keep the streets clear were similar to the ones that prevailed on Thanksgiving Day . The two snowfalls coming so close together and the probability that the second one would equal the first were considered unusual by a Weather Bureau observer . The observer said that if the new storm brought as iuch snow as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month of November , breaking a November record of fourteen inches of snow in 1898 . Storm Warnings Hoisted At 9:30 o'clock last night , storm warnings were ordered hoisted along the Atlantic Coast from Virginia to Eastport , Me . A disturbance that was central near Cape Hatteras in conjunction with a strong high-pressure area over New England and Nova Scotia was expected to cause increasing northeast and north winds probably reaching gale force last night . The winds were expected to shift to northwest this morning south of Sandy Hook and to be increasingly northeast or east from Sandy Hook to Eastport , Me. , probably reaching gale force . The forecast was for generally fair and colder weather tomorrow . The Associated Press reported a total of ninety-two deaths more or less attributable to the storm . The Weather Bureau reported that a large mass of cold air centered over the Great Lakes region was moving slowly eastward . By contrast , unseasonably warm weather was reported from the Pacific Coast . The Northern part of the nation was generally covered with snow . The lowest temperature reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The highest for the day was 33 at 3:10 P. M. The average was 26 . The record low of 16 degrees for Nov. 26 was established in 1932 and a high of 67 in 1887 . The normal is 40 . The latest available forecast indicated warmer and cloudier weather early today , with snow later in the day . At 8 o'clock last night the temperature was 31 degrees . Snowfall Varied Greatly The Associated Press reported there was sixteen inches of snow at Houghton , Mich. ; seven at Grand Forks , N. D. ; eight at Minot , N. D. ; eight at Albany , N. Y. ; five at Boston and four at Philadelphia . Early morning temperature readings as low as 15 degrees below zero were reported by The Associated Press in the Adirondacks . In Binghamton a temperature of zero set an all-time November record , while Albany made an unofficial report of 1 degree above zero , a reading equaling the November record set in 1932 . Syracuse reported 6 above , a new November record , and Rochester reported 11 above . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavy drifts hampered rail and bus traffic . Air traffic was normal or nearly so in most regions affected by the blizzard . Spectators at athletic and sporting events in many parts of the country shivered under heavy coats and blankets . For the first time in fourteen years officials of the Bowie horse racing track in Maryland were forced to call off the program because of snow and ice on the track . Snow fell throughout the Duke-Pitt football game at Durham , N. C. , and a few flakes were noted by spectators gathered in Philadelphia to witness the Army-Navy game . Whatever inconveniences was suffered at formally organized sporting events in the blizzard areas was made up by the fun that the early snow afforded to thousands of children throughout the country . Hillsides were crowded with bobsled coasters and skiiers and lakes and ponds supported thousands of ice skaters . Skiing , which had been limited for two years by lack of snow on many up-State ' and New England ski runs , attracted hundreds of enthusiasts . Extra coaches were scheduled to be added to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vt . In New York the Department of Sanitation workers labored in day and night shifts to clear the snow from the streets . Deputy Coratif stoner Powell reported that th k1,1 000 men at work constitut necessary increase over the on duty Friday . Twenty-eight Wmarre sand were emergency workers , 4i0 were men employed by variouePlitiVAtractors who do snow-removal 8,000 were men of the depa.rtni regular force plus employes offices of the various Borough romaidents and of the Sewer and Highway Departments . The work has not been seriously impeded by the cold wave , Mr. Powell said . " We have cleared about twothirds of the main thoroughfares of the city and we expect to finish them early tomorrow and begin on the secondary streets , " Mr. Powell said last night . " City traffic being light on Saturday afternoon , we were able to make what we considered excellent progress . A new snowfall will not hamper us very much , I believe . We will lie able to wash the snow out with hoses as soon as the temperature rises a little . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We got the snow pushed over to the side of the streets out of the way of traffic and have been able to handle it better . " Suburban areas were still digging themselves out . Nearly all main highways were open and bus service to and from the city was almost normal . Reports from Newark , N. J. indicated that little attempt had been made to remove the snow from Broad Street , which handles much traffic from all parts of the State . Last night tugs failed for a third time to pull from the rocks near Norwalk , Conn. , the 251-foot oilburning freighter Falmouth , which ran aground Thursday . High winds have kept back the tide that the salvage operators hoped would be sufficient to float the vessel . A fourth attempt will be made today before the cargo of general merchandise is removed to give the ship greater buoyancy . Many persons were injured by falls on the treacherous ice under the snow on streets and highways . One new death was reported in this city , bringing the total . up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,317 Avenue U , Brooklyn , was instantly killed when he fell from a sled and was struck by an automobile driven by Philip Schomer , 33 , of 1,937 East Twenty-fourth Brooklyn . The boy had been his sled , which was booked an automobile whose owner lice are seeking . Schomer IS eld on a technical charge of de . rge skylight , believed weary the snowfall , collapsed in ntral Market , 7 West 115th and narrowly missed injureral of the nifty or more nerathereci is the market at the                     