@@702942

txt To those who wandered in the woods and fields yesterday , watching the pageantry of the passing year and the evolutionary flow of nature , and to those who got just a glimpse above the housetops and the stones of the serene golden light irradiating the earth , Indian summer came as a moment of pause and wonder . Indian summer is one of nature 's soft and intermittent moods , born out of the southwest air currents , when the sun 's rays are becoming more oblique , when the atmosphere is filled with dust particles from dying vegetation and smoke from meadow fires , when calm descends and living things are given a few days to retreat to winter shelter , divest their outworn garments , take a last flight in the sun . Year 's Best Days . The first killing frost this year occurred on Oct. 14 , and since that time this section has had an unusual number of warm , fine days , the best of the year to many minds . It ' was 63 yesterday , eleven degrees above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dozen days of similar mellow texture . Indian summer is as uncertain in some ways as spring . In France it is likened to the last love of a woman . In England , it is called St ; Martin 's day , and ' the official date is Nov. 11 . But , it may come anywhere in late October or early November . The legend is that St. Martin gave his cloak to a beggar on a wintry November day and that because of this kind deed summer came again to the land where he walked . Its earliest use in America , according to researchers for the American . English dictionary being prepared at the University of Chicago , was in the letters of St. John Cultivateur , a Frenchmen writing home in 1778 . Origin Is Mystery . The origin of the term is a mystery . It is attributed , by some to roving bands of Indians burning over forest lands , or to the last season when the Indians might be expected to at , tack white settlements . Also its deceptiveness is likened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a similar season in East India . One of the most beautiful of the phenomena of the season is the flight of the spiders . Those who walked in the meadows or on golf links noted tht. unusual number of gossamer webs in the grass and bushes . Because of the refraction of the sun 's rays they are seen more clearly than at other times . Jonathan Edwards , American divine and metaphysician , who wrote of the freedom of the will , observed the flight of the spiders and described it . J. Arthur Thomson , professor of Aberural history at the University of Aberdeen , also called it the supreme note of autumnal restlessness . It occurs after the first shock of frost , when the young spiders get on top of plants and fences , their heads facing a gentle current of air . Nights a Revelation . Earlier American writers , such as Emerson , Cooper , and John Greenleaf Whittier , have written of Indian summer . At this season , with the new moon , the nights , too , are a revelation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season to the god of the southwest , where they went after death . Millions of insects are dying every minute , but they have made provision for their young , some even for their unborn progeny . The animals are busy hid ? ing their winter stores . The last tension of life has gone out of the leaves , but the withdrawal has only been in the nature of a storehouse for the seeds and green of the awakening next spring . Indian summer is a pause in the great rhythm of nature .                     