@@697941

txt The remarkable unanimity of enthusiastic approval with which the President 's proposal regarding the inter-governmental debts has been received , not only on all financial markets but by responsible financiers and public men . has two evident implications . It reflects general belief that the difficulty in Germany was the sore spot of the financial situation . It also indicates conviction that a year 's suspension of the financial commitments will give opportunity for reconsidering these international debt entanglements , in a new and sober spirit . The whole " debt controversy " has passed into a different phase . Obstacles will undoubtedly be encountered . But this has been true of every turn in the discussion of international debt settlements since 1919 . The whole world is now aware , by the course of financial events , of the stake which every nation has in the proper solution of the problem , and the response to Mr. HOOVER 'S proposal shows the attitude of the thinking community . The atmosphere of seemingly hopeless deadlock , once dispelled , can hardly surround the discussion hereafter . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created in financial circles would be to miss one highly important aspect of the situation . It is true that other and formidable difficulties exist in the present period of depression , which the relief of Germany would not remove . But long experience has taught that the dispelling of acute misgivings regarding one important phase of a crisis will sometimes have large effect on the general question . In that respect , those familiar with past financial hittory will find points of interesting analogy between this present turn in events and that which occurred with equal suddenness at the end of January , 1895 . Then , as now , we had passed into the acute stage of after-panic depression . The strain which the present reaction of trade and fall in prices has imposed on German finance had then con% erged upon the United States . It had come to be the general belief that the financial solvency of the United States Government could no longer be maintained . Gold was exported in wholly unprecedented quantities ; it was a " flight from the dollar . " Finally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ redemption of United States currency in gold only one day more . President CLEVELAND 'S action , insuring support by a powerful international banking syndicate , came like last Saturday 's White House proposal in an overnight announcement . The plan to arrest gold exports was concededly tentative ; it was admitted that the relief did not touch the root of trouble , that it was at best a temporary stopgap . But it achieved three purposes . It rehabilitated the Government 's shaken credit . It gave a breathing-space in which to apply more permanent corrective measures , and such measures were successfully applied , although at the moment they were deemed impossible . What was certainly not least important , its psychological effect was to put an end immediately to - an atmosphere of hopeless panic . In the six months during which th. , protective measures of 1895 continued to operate , the financial position was radically altered . The stock market received the news as it received last Saturday 's . But what was more unexpected , during 1895 , was the fact that in due course the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was dispelled . It soon appeared that the seemingly hopeless condition of producing and distributing markets had been largely a matter of absolute loss of confidence , and that confidence had at least for the moment been restored . It remains to be seen whether anything of this sort can be expected now ; circumstances are not today in all respects the same . Yet the remarkable fact about the business recovery of 1895 was that it did not come because of a change in direction in the movement of staple prices ; these , which had fallen 10 per cent on the average in 1894 , barely held their own in 1895 and declined in 1896 . Nevertheless , it has been the verdict of history that the " corner was turned " with the announcement from the White House .                     