@@699346

txt Very slowly , but apparently steadily , Premier Herriot is fighting his way forward toward obtaining the consent of the French Chamber of Deputies to the payment of next Thursday 's debt instalment . Even his opponents recognize that , his tactics during the past week have been admirable . If he had at any time permitted himself to be drawn into the debate he would have been beaten for the Chamber was unanimously against payment , angered by the various notes from Washington and their discrimination among the debtors . By getting Prime Minister Mac-1 Donald and Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , to come to Paris and by seeking to maintain a common front as debt payers with the same conditions as England M. I Herriot undoubtedly overcame a goodpart of the worst opposition and , 1 above all , won time for more mature consideration . Problem Again Debated . But he still has his big battle in front of him . All he has done was to prepare the ground and in some measure exhaust his opponents or , rather , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of today busily at that task . In successive commission meetings they argued everything over again and drew up a resolution which they presented to the Cabinet reflecting their views . M. Herriot thanked them and will probably discard their advice , or at least pick out only what suits him when the time comes to frame his own proposal as to what should be done . ' M. Herriot 's proposal is not yet known . There is no doubt the French Premier is waiting for the British Cabinet to say its last word Monday before finally deciding the conditions on which he will ask the necessary appropriations . That they will be in effect the same as those of Britain is certain . Meanwhile M. Herriot seems to pre- I fer to keep everybody guessing , and apparently the guessing is to go on until the last minute , for he informed delegates of the Chamber 's Finance and Foreign Affairs Commissions this evening that he expected to have an important communication at the outset of the debate on Monday which would necessitate adjournment of the Chamber while it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He did not indicate whether this important communication would come from Britain or the United States . Out of the day 's many discussions he got this comfort , that the Foreign Affairs Commission rejected a proposal to refuse to pay on Thursday . The vote was 23 to 5 , with one abstention . Two weeks ago similar suggestions probably would have had the opposite fate , but the two commissions are still - struggling hard with formulae for safeguarding the future . joint Resolution Approved . In the morning the commissions drew up a joint resolution and in the afternoon voted it separately . Into it they put everything relevant and otherwise . It began with the statement that the Chamber was faithful to common efforts with Britain for the restoration of Europe . Then they put in two paragraphs of immense importance to the never-ending discussion of treaty revision which seem to have been the work of Gaston Bergery and other revisionists . The first of these naragraphs read , F ' anxious to adapt treaties and international agreements to economic req lities and so fulfill its duty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of real peace . " That sentence will be seized upon with joy in Germany . But the second read , " but anxious also not to give an example of unilateral breaking of freely consented engagements . " Then the whole history of the debt negotiations down to the Lausanne agreement was set forth briefly . Finally the commissions put in these two conclusions : " First , the Chamber declares that the essential question just now is the meeting as soon as possible of an international conference having for its object to put an end to all international transfers which have not a. counterpart in securities and mer chandise , a conference whose work should be joined to the work of the world economic conference which will be charged with the improvement of monetary conditions and the restoration of credit . " Second , the Chamber , with regard to the limited question of the paywent due Dec. 15 , believes that it can not authorize the payment of these sums unless the United States agrees before this . payment is made that before any further payment is due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destined to  --  end the economic dis- , order which results largely from international transfers which do not have a counterpart in securities andmerchandise . " Normally this resolution would have to form the basis of the Parliamentary debate . In view of the fact that it was voted in two commissions by 20 to 6 and 25 to 4 with ' two abstentions it would have to be taken into serious account by the government . But between now and Monday afternoon M. Herriot hopes he will be able to introduce into the debate new facts which will call for revision of the commission 's decision . A Cabinet meeting was held this evening , but the debt situation took second place to discussion of the disarmament situation at Geneva ' and will not be finally considered until Monday morning .                     