@@700787

txt An investigation concerning possible sabotage aboard the Morro Castle , which burned off the coast of New Jersey Saturday morning after sailing from here on Wednesday , is being made by the port police , according to Naval Captain Oscar Hernandez , chief of that bureau . " The fire could not have been accidental , " Captain Hernandez said . " My opinion is that it was the work of Communists , possibly a passenger belonging to the Caribbean division of the Third Internationale , who carried chemicals in his luggage . We have been having considerable labor trouble , provoked by these Communists here . " I am unofficially informed that the Pan American Airways has received threats that fire bombs would be placed on one of its planes . My men are now watching all planes , searching baggage , passengers and express packages . " Although Captain Hernandez wcild not indicate the exact nature of the investigations or the grounds on which his assertions were made it is reported that records of all passengers embarking at Havana aboard the Morro Castle have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they have been found to be well known and unaffiliated with Communistic organizations . Stowaway Reported Aboard . It has been learned , however , that United States Secret Service agents in Havana are investigating a report that two stowaways are reported to have been aboard the Morro Castle when she left port . The agents refused to divulge the names of the two individuals who are said to have stowed away on the vessel . Inquiry at the Ward Line docks today also revealed that all stevedores and dock workers had been subjected to a thorough search before being admitted to the docks . All docks are bordered by highwalled buildings or heavy iron gratings , which make it almost impossible for an unauthorized person to enter without being observed . Ward Line officials here discount the theory of sabotage by any of their dock workers at Havana and assert that most of their workers have been in their employ for the last twenty-five years . Company officials here also point out that no clashes have occurred between the two rival dock workers ' unions either at or near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between members of the two unions occurred at Acosta and Damas Streets , elf ien oblocks from the line 's terminal . So far as can be learned , company officials say , no dock workers of the Ward Line participated in this clash . Line Denies Being Threatened . Dudley Thomas , general agent of the Ward Line , again denied today that the company bad received threats of any kind from labor factions . He said the line had had no difficulties of any kind with the stevedores ' unions . Havana newspapers published this afternoon a statement issued by the stevedores ' union , extending condolences to families , relatives and friends of victims of the Morro Castle disaster . George Grant Mason , Cuban representative of the Pan American Airways , denied that any threats had been received by his company . " We have never had any labor trouble at our docks , " Mr. Mason said , " and the vigilance now being maintained there is the same as we have had in force for the last thirteen months . It has been and continues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which we absolutely know the contents . This policy is maintained in every country where we operate when there is any disturbance of public order . " Reports that the Morro Castle had transported arms and ammunition to Havana for the anti-government faction also were denied this afternoon by the Ward Line freight department and also the customs authorities . Customs officials asserted that if there had been any unauthorized shipment of arms and ammunition it would have been entered in the ship 's manifest according to law and would have been confiscated by the government . Red Leaders Disavow Plot . Officials of the Cuban Communist party , affiliated with the Third Internationale at Moscow , categorically denied that the Communist party had any hand in the Morro Castle disaster . Two leaders , who of course refused to let their names be used because of their continual pursuit by the national police , made this statement from their present hideout : " The Cuban section has always been an enemy to terroristic attempts , " the statement said . " We believe in revolution , but by mobilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blamed us for terrorism , but these campaigns have invariably been carried out by various revolutionary sectors and not by us . The Morro Castle disaster without doubt is due to negligence , and the Cuban Communists had nothing to do with the case . " We have frankly stated *at only an insignificant portion of the dock workers are members of our party and we might point out that during the long drawn out labor difficulty at the port there has been no sabotage . The labor problem of the dock workers is merely a labor problem and their demands have been upheld by the courts in every case . "                     