@@698662

txt It is anticipated that the Constituent Cortes in Spain will be dissolved at an early date . As soon as the budget is passed the Radicals ? who incidentally may now be regarded as the largest Moderate party ? will consider that the work of the Assembly is completed . The Cortes indeed is not an ordinary Parliament . When the King had been obliged to abandon his post last year , the Provisional Republican Government , after taking preliminary measures , proceeded to a national consultation . The Parliament which was elected possessed a double character . Its first function was to frame a Constitution and to pass the necessary organic laws . It was therefore a Constituent Assembly . But it also received the ordinary prerogatives of Parliament , without any specific compulsion to resign when it had finished its primary task . Nevertheless its first character was obviously predominant . It was impossible to look upon it as a normal Parliament , whatever the legal position might be . A body which is called upon to do special work , and is elected for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its special work is done . Parties Temnorarilv United Such was the widespread feeling and it was supported by the division of the parties . Those parties had held together until Spain accepted a Constitution ; but it became increasingly difficult for them to cooperate when the Constitution was promulgated and the first President of the Republic was elected . As between the Socialists and the Radicals , in particular , the understanding which had made possible the consolidation of the Republic could no longer exist . Sefior Alejandro Lerroux and his followers believe that there should be no further delay in consulting once more the people . It is apparent that Senor Lerroux expects such a consultation to turn in his favor . He is convinced that his party will be strong enough , in conjunction with various elements of the Right , to govern . Moreover , he is convinced that what Spain needs is a Moderate government to resist the movement toward Socialism  --  and perhaps Extremism . The Catalonian question and urgent measures of agrarian reform are the two outstanding matters apart from the passing of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Government of Sefior Azana , and they only refrain from doing so pending the approval of the budget . The Radicals ' attitude , however , is one of opposition , and the Socialists , for whom Sefior Largo Caballero is one of the chief spokesmen , take un the challenge . Questions Await Solution It must not be supposed that there is no case for the continuance of the present Cortes . It is urged that it should not dissolve until it has passed all the fundamental laws . It this view prevails it will still have a long day before it . Among the fundamental laws are those which introduce and facilitate divorce ; those which protect the worker , obligatory arbitration in case of conflict on salaries and conditions of labor ; and a series of social laws rendered necessary by the backwardness of Spain . In the meantime there is some agitation and unrest both on the Right and on the Left . There are ultra-revolutionary forces and there are reactionary , that is to say Mon ' archist , forces at work . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled down to the new regime better than most observers anticipated . The real struggle is purely political  --  which parties shall govern , and when they shall have an opportunity of placing their case before the people                     