@@704176

txt Opportunities for Youth Plenty of Work Exists , It Is Held , for Those Who Will Seek It From May 11 , when the American Association of Advertising Agencies inaugurated its annual convention , to the Congress on Education for Democracy , which closed Aug. 17 , New York was host to an almost continuous procession of meetings held by organizations of national and international scope and influence . One subject common to all of them was that of unemployment . Men who in years past talked shop , this year talked national welfare . Committees were appointed to make investigations and reports . But suggestions calling for action , and getting it , were not in evidence . Good seeds were no doubt sown , but for meeting the urgency of present needs they were not valuable . Something needs to be done , something new , something practical , to help young men help themselves . So far we have given them horror stories about a panic of plenty and surpluses of everything but jobs . We need less distribution of fear and greater distribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the great inventions , such as the telephone , electric light , motor car , cinema , radio , inventions which put millions to work and make material changes in our lives , have been made . In any event , it would be asking rather too much to expect our young men to turn out a fresh batch of basic inventions . Yet , if given the stimulus of competitive association , our present crop of rising citizens could develop ideas which would take up some of the slack in their own unemployment ranks . Organizing for New Business There 's a big job waiting for some man or association who will promote what might be called a national new business club , with branches all over the country . Vacant office rooms and telephones turned over to young men as a meeting place where they could discuss ideas , work out plans together , cook up services they can render for which local business men and housewives would be glad to pay . Local industries and merchants could find such clubs useful when they need some special job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young fellows , inspired by such a club , creating work for themselves . Instead of the demoralizing round of asking for jobs when they have little or no experience to offer , these young men would create jobs for themselves and for each other . Each season provides special opportunities . This country is full of husbands who would gladly save a quarter out of their weekly lunch money to get out of beating the parlor rug at the time of Fall housecleaning . For an additional ten cents he would get his lawnmower greased , protected from rust and ready for the first Spring cutting . Every housewife hates window cleaning enough to squeeze a dollar a month out of the family budget . Digging up the garden and preparing it for Spring ; cleaning out the cellar or basement ; giving the lawn its final Fall raking ; cleaning , painting and storing porch and garden furniture  --  homes are full of jobs which need doing . Grocers and butchers would be ready to pay a commission for new business to boys who would call at back doors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , carfare , gasoline or telephone calls if they could get trustworthy boys to do their marketing for them . Businesses of real proportions can be built out of meeting the wants , which are endless and which are frequently no more realized as wants than was the electric light before it came on the market . Demand for Service Seen Let the community know that it has reliable , organized help on tap from which it can obtain prompt and special services , temporary help to sit in an office while the boss is at lunch , staying home with the children while the parents go out , wrapping packages in stores during the Christmas rush , . delivering invitations to a. party , delivering special orders factories have to dispatch by messenger , acting as ushers , messengers , errand boys at local celebrations , festivities , conventions  --  let a city or town know such services are available and jobs will roll in . With comparatively little direction and help the young men of this country could not only solve their own problems but , in so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country itself . Such a national organization might possibly be the means of putting the United States back on a profit basis . Many of our troubles have been due to the fact that the theory of economics and the practices of business have lacked realistic relationship . In busy times manufacturers have increased plant and production without considering the future of their markets in terms of consumer demand and competitive progress . The next generation is the most important thing produced and the only reason for planning future production . Why not give this " product " the opportunity to do the thing it was brought here to do ? build better than we have done and so . probably solve our problems ? Of course war may take these young fellows , some permanently and some for a year or two ; but war never solves any problem , and the need for developing a sound national economy that will save and improve in the American way is a nresent. urgent need . AMOS STOTE . New York , Aug. 29 , 193g Arming for Peace To TUB EDITOR @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a war-mad world , " is cruelly libelous . So far from being war mad , practically everybody outside the aggressor nations earnestly and prayerfully desires peace . Their armaments are for the purpose of preserving peace . Those of the aggressor nations are to force peaceful nations to surrender a part , or all , as may be , of their sovereignty or possessions . Had not the peace-desiring na- tions created their great armaments they would be utterly defenseless . Those who in the non-aggressor nations utter these words reveal their mental and moral ineptitude . They disclose an unwillingness to analyze and . weigh the moral standards of the peaceful as compared with the aggressor nations . What could be more serviceable , helpful and comforting to Hitler et al. ? , ROBERT BAKER . Brooklyn , Aug. 29 , 1939 . Foreign Exchange Control Opinion Here as to Its Desirability Found Likely to Be Diverse Under Federal Reserve auspices the appointment by New York financial institutions of a committee to " control international exchange speculation , pre . serve an orderly market in foreign currencies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foretold the likelihood of the break-up in the British-French-American Currency Stabilization Agreement in your issue of July 11 . The committee consists of representatives of five New York commercial banks , two private bankers with large foreign exchange interests , one foreign bank and one Stock Exchange member , The exact steps they take to control a situation with which the British Treasury seems to have been  --  unable to cope will be exceedingly interesting to follow when , and if , announced . Were the American dollar dropping in international markets the interests of almost the entire American public would be united for supporting our national currency in world markets . But , since the dollar is rising , and seems likely to rise further , American interests are a bit mixed . The desirability and undesirability of a " free " versus a " controlled " foreign currency market has two sides . Opinions especially differ as to the desirability or undesirability of " speculation . " Financial institutions , for example , make money by financing stock market margin speculation . So they defend stock market " speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speculation in foreign exchange interferes with the calculation of future prices by these same financial institutions . So they deprecate speculation in foreign exchange as " interfering with an orderly market . " Still again , some large and strong American industries which do a lot of buying and selling abroad like to be free to take advantage of foreign exchange fluctuations . Also , many Americans have enjoyed and profited by speculating in foreign exchange , especially since the World War . Passing this controversial though intriguing point , a free rise of the dollar in relation to foreign currencies will enable Americans to buy more European goods for fewer dollars . Some .. mericans will want to take advantage of this and will consequently want the international currency market let alone and not " controlled . " But other Americans will feel that the present tragic currency plight of England and France should not ? as a matter of decency and sportingness ? be taken advantage of . At any rate , the seeming break-up of the British-French-American currency stabilization agreement seems to exem ' plify the age-old axiom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supply and demand works well only to a limited extent . In these days of vast and complicated national and international reforms , some of which are hastily conceived on a basis of knowledge of only part of the facts , the lesson may be a timely one . RANULPH KINGSLEY . New York , Aug. 28 , 1939 . Physicians ' Parking Problems To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORIC Tates : * In the interest of public health and in justice to the medical profession , the time has arrived for relief from the parking problem of physicians . All conceivable privileges are accorded in the case of other situations involving public policy . Special places are provided for buses in order to safeguard and add to the convenience of the pedestrian . Special laws have been enacted to free the fire hydrants from traffic in anticipation of emergency . Right of way is given when health or life is at stake . The physician , on the other hand , the custodian of the sick , is harassed even when his automobile remains as a sentinel awaiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child , wife , husband , mother or father of the very authorities who have become the nemesis of the most altruistic profession in he world . RAYMOND C. CREASY , M. D. New York , Aug. 29 , 1939 . Travels of the Bastille Key To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : In relation to that most impressive relic , the key of the Bastille , sent to Washington by Lafayette , it may be of particular interest to note that it arrived in New York early in August , 1790 , in the care of John Rutledge and was delivered to Washington at the Mansion House , 39 Brbadway . It was first exhibited at this address , the day following its delivery , at the President 's reception . Lafayette 's accompanying letter represents it as corning " from a missionary of Liberty to its patriarch . " Washington took it to Philadelphia when the capital moved to that city , and thence to Mount Vernon , where the record states that he himself placed it in its present position . AGNES MILLER . Grafton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Preference To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Everybody is talking about war . The press and the radio are raising a hue and cry about the threatening events in Europe . I for one have had enough of this clamor . In our panic about the international situation we forget the ereative activities of poets and artists who are in our very midst . Personally , I 'd much rather , go to an exhibition-of paintings by some prominent artist than read those terrible ; creaming headlines . THELMA GROVES . New York , Aug. 25 , 1939.                     