@@703734

txt The program of Cordell Hull , United States Secretary of State , for restoring world peace will be formally adopted as a policy of the American hemisphere here tomorrow morning when the delegations of the twenty-one American nations solemnly sign the declarations , resolutions and other acts approved at the Eighth Pan-American Conference . Mr. Hull expects this to be his last such conference , and he will return home with a sense of great satisfaction at having achieved the three main objectives for which he came to Lima . But his greatest satisfaction undoubtedly is that his well-known eight-point peace program is now to be known to the world as " The Declaration of American Principles , " which is distinct from " The Declaration of Lima . " When he arrived in Lima he told newspaper men that he felt the countries of this hemisphere must set an example to Europe . He now feels that that example has been set here . As is well known , the Secretary of State has always argued that it is impossible to have one code for one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Code of Peace So as he leaves this Pan-American Conference he feels that he has left a code of peace that eventually must spread over the entire world . He insists , in fact , that peace can not be achieved anywhere except by the recognition of all eight points in the new code . Mr. Hull 's three outstanding objectives for the Pan-American Conference were that the American States should reaffirm the trade and political principles enunciated at the Montevideo and Buenos Aires conferences . Then they must go as far as possible beyond the Buenos Aires peace conventions In declaring their solidarity . All three of those objectives have been accomplished . The instrument that has been vor of Mr. Hull 's economic ' potThis policy would enable each try to produce what it can probest and then enable it to find d markets for those things out artificial barriers or other ictions . This would provide selling countries with bills of ange with which they could what they do not produce . . Hull has argued here , as he at Washington , that the greathe volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When volume was not restrained by aral measures each country gets air share of world trade and ybody is the richer and hapHe has argued that all trade ictions tend to reduce the volof world trade to lower levels . out a month after Mr. Hull . anted his eight principles he sent cular to all governments asking ey agreed with those principles , though most of the nations of world gave various degrees of oval , nothing more substantial lted . Now the twenty-one Amernations have formally adopted e principles as part of their inatonal policy . . Hull 's three objectives and at a press conference July 18 , , just after Japan had gone into a , again aggravating a world tion already upset by European itions . For Sound Economic Base is program embraces Mr. Hull 's istently preached theory that political program designed to ore and maintain peace in the Id must be based on sound cool ? principles . These principles adopted by the conference n it adopted the United States gation 's resolution favoring the ction of barriers to interns ; al trade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed by the delegates today and tomorrow . They were notified today that formal drafts of all instruments were ready for signing at the conference headquarters after 9:30 A. M. Ceremonial ' closing of the session has been called for 6 P. M. tomorrow . The American delegates and their large staff of secretarial and . cler ; ical assistants Will board the steam= ship Santa Maria at the Callao docks tomorrow night add will sail for home Wednesday morning . Mr. . Hull will be the only speaker at the great state banquet that President Oscar Be-navides of Peru is giving in. honor of the delegates tomorrow ' night . Alfred M. Landon , an American delegate , departed by plane this morning , in order to get home for New Year 's . Mr. Hull gave out a statement expressing his appreciation of Mr. Landon 's work as a delegate . Mr. Landon was one of the most popular of nearly 200 delegates who came to Lima , and wherever he went he was instantly surrounded by a large group of all nationalities . Secretary and Mrs. Hull gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evening , at Which many prominent Peruvians also were presented . Text of Declaration " The Declaration of American Principles , " referred to in the above dispatch , which has been adopted by the Pan-American Conference at Lima , was printed in late editions of THs NEW YORK Tinos Sunday . It reads as follows : Whereas , the need for keeping alive the fundamental principles of relations among nations was never greater than today ; and Each Mate is interested in the preservation of world-order under law , in peace with justice , and in the social and economic welfare of mankind . The governments of the American republics resolve , To proclaim , support and recommend , once again , the following principles , as essential to the achievement of the aforesaid ob-jectives : 1 . The intervention of any State in the internal or external affairs of another is inadmissible . 2 . All differences of International character should be settled by peaceful means ; 3 . The use of force as an instrument of national or international policy is proscribed ; 4 . Relations between States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 . Respect for the faithful observance of treaties constitute the indispensable rule for the development of peaceful relations between States , and treaties can only be revised by agreement of the contracting parties ; 8 . Peaceful collaboration between representatives of the variout States and the development of intellectual interchange among their peoples is conducive to an understanding by each of the problems of the other , as well as problems common to all , and makes more readily possible the peaceful adjustment of international controversies ; 7 . Economic reconstruction contributes to national and international well-being , as well as to peace among nations , and 8 . International cooperation is a necessary condition to the maintenance of the aforementioned principles . tries signed it . Furthermore , it should not be forgotten that the . Declaration of Lima was the subject of several secret conferences by the steering committee , - composed of the chairmen of the twenty-one delegations . This committee included ten Ministers of Foreign Affairs . Each of them is returning home with a clear understanding of what his colleagues are prepared to do regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be important , whatever it is interpreted to be . Dr. Afranio de Mello Franco informed the plenary session that Brazil interprets it as a collective security pact . It has already been reported in , Europe as just that . If there was any doubt in the Mind of any one as to what the American countries really meant by the declaration that doubt must have been dispelled when at the same plenary session the conference approved by acclamation Mr. Hull 's eight-point declaration of principles . This second declaration was put before the conference in the form of a resolution presented by Dr. de Mello Franco , but every one knew it was Mr. Hull 's now famous program for peace . This is the only formal program for peace now being actively pushed anywhere in the world . It is based on the so-called eight pillars of peace set up by the Buenos Aires peace conference two years ago . It was first enunciated by Mr. egates that it is a much better dv laration than some of them thong 4 c ared themselves unanimously at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes that leaves no room slue doubt that the American county stand solidly together . It is At phrased that almost anything caith be read into it if an emerge arises . It has the advantage ? veto/ treaty or convention that it doelg not require ratification by c61112 gresses. bet All the American governmeMe have spoken through delegates ve have ambassadorial authority to Mat and speak in the name of thecae countries . The courts in interp ing laws usually look for intent ' Wilt the part of the legislative bodies that frame them . There never v. &; be any doubt about the intent of tehei Declaration of Lima . if t , but Intent Demonstrated the Its intent was demonstrated whbefin all the delegations rose to their ' and cheered it . The determinatifik behind it was clearly oulined speeches made by the leading d gates setting forth why their cc per named " The Declaration of LimaLn is undoubtedly the most imports BE ' w ? of all . The more the delegates reft : it the more they like it . This is , pecially true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this declaration over the wedled end holidays has convinced the ( IV                     