@@698602

txt Geneva is a unique city . Of course , all cities are unique  --  each has Its peculiar flavor . But the uniqueness of Geneva is unique . TautSiogy has its uses , and any repetition which serves to bring out more emphatically the uniqueness of Geneva is not superfluous . It has more geographical connection with France than with Switzer , land and yet it is intensely Swiss . Cut off from its own country by the lake , it is found to take its walks abroad and to do its marketing in foreign territory ; and its right to regard this foreign territory , for purposes of promenades and purchases , as its own , was left unchallenged for more than a century  --  until at last the French ' announced their intention of making their customs frontier coincide with their territorial frontier , and thus began a long controversy that is still pending before the World Court . It is curious , too , in having given France at least one of its peat writers , and of having become the theater of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiarly French ; the French theologian is peculiarly Swiss . There has been this constant interchange of French and Swiss influences , yet Geneva remains completely unFrench . Even its current language is French with a difference ; it contains expressions never heard in France , and many of its citizens have an accent that is strangely unFrench . Diversity of Characteristics Nor do its citizens as a whole lay ' claim to French affinities . I. find myself , in the restaurants and in the shops , separating the waiters and servers of German descent and connections from those of Italian descent and connections , and from those of French descent and connections . They would , however , be offended at the suggestion that they are German or Italian or French  --  they are Swiss . They are Swiss from cantons where German is spoken , and Italian is spoken , and where Romande is spoken . Switzerland is only a tiny country but it is , in a certain sense , the superstate . It is a blend of nations which have become one and different . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Geneva , Geneva and , indeed , Switzerland generally , was a league of nations . ' One could imagine Europe as a large-scale Switzerland , with its British cantons and its German can- 1 tons and its Russian cantons , all of them ceasing to be specifically Brit- ' ish , German , or Russian , and becoming European . Each part of Switzerland maintains its independence , yet the parts make a whole . Guests Febt at Home It was some years since I had been in Geneva , and I kept my eyes open for changes brought about by the establishment of the League of Nations . There are naturally material changes , but Geneva itself does not seem to have changed . It continues its life , aware of its new inhabitants and the influx of visitors , and anxious to do everything that is possible to add to their comfort . Yet it goes Its way as though League delegates did not disturb it . It pursues its occupations . It is too polite to notice the strangers in its midst . It accepts ? those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to it . Years ago when the League was founded I was in Geneva , and Geneva was then somewhat excited . But today it has overcome Its first effusiveness , and , having made proper provision for its guests at the Disarmament Conference , it leaves them to their own devices , and attends to its own enterprises . Perhaps this is because celebrities are so common , but I prefer to think it is because the Genevois are so polite . Nowhere else does fame rest so lightly on a man 's shoulders ; nowhere else does it impose so few fetters.                     