@@704313

txt Driven by the hope of returning the first division of 58,000 Chrysler Corporation employes back to work Monday or Tuesday . the spokesmen for the corporation and for the United Automobile Workers-C . I. 0 . held a night session after having reached a tentative agreement on nearly al ' disputed points except the union ' ; wage demands . The conference adjourned at 10:45 until 2 P. M. tomorrow . James F. Dewey , Federal conciliator , stated that all phases of the dispute had been settled except that of wages . " The company proposed an adjustment of some of the wage rates which were out of line , " he said . " Then the discussion centered around vacations with pay and other wage demands . " The company , it was understood , offered wage increases which would add about $3,000,000 to the payroll , but protested that the several wage adjustments requested by the union would increase the payrolls by $8,000,000 , and that this would be " out of line " with the wages paid by other automobile companies . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the corporation would have to grant vacations with pay , together with a blanket 5 per cent wage increase as well as upward adjustment of wages for skilled men . The corporation was willing to make a blanket percentage/ increase of about 3 per cent , applying it either as a vacation bonus or as a straight wage increase , but was unwilling also to add increases for the skilled men . While the corporation stuck to its refusal of the union shop , a demand which the union finally dropped , the workers finally traded off this point for several other concessions . One was the elimination of the no-strike clause of the old contract . By this provision the union had been prevented from striking during the life of the contract . Under the new arrangement , the union may strike if it finds itself unable to make progress on major problems , but if it does so , then it also agrees that the contract is at an end . This means the union must permit cancellation of the entire contract covering all the eleven plants . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one plant as a wedge to force concession in all the other plants . It was reported that the union was unable to obtain a clear-cut arbitration clause but that instead It was agreed to have a final committee of two from each side to handle grievances which had not yielded to settlement . This committee would be ordered to make a settlement and If it agreed to arbitration the company would have no objection . Management Has Last Word The corporation 's fear of having the plants " Sovietized " by the union demand for a voice in production was dispelled by a clause similar to that in the General Motors contract , which calls for a new time study of the operation in dispute if a worker complains he is being speeded . Final authority in determining whether the rate of production expected by the company is adhered to by the employe remains witk the management . It was also reported that the corporation was agreeable to reinstatement of the 114 men allegedly discharged for slowing down operations since Oct. 6 , but the management asked for some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About thirteen discharge cases , accumulated under the old contract which expired on Sept. 30 , may be left for arbitration by Mr. Dewey . Dispute Sets Record The conferees were also actuated by the desire to enable the employes to have Thanksgiving dinners next Thursday . Unless the first contingent returns to work by Tuesday at the latest the other employes will not be able to resume their places in the plants before Friday . That would be too late to participate in any earnings in time for a cash advance by the corporation before Thanksgiving Day . Such an advance was requested today by Richard T. Frankensteen , Chrysler divisional chief for the union . The dispute has already broken the forty-three-day mark set in the General Motors Corporation sitdown strike , the Chrysler controversy having ended its forty-fourth day today . Herman L. Weckler , the Chrysler Corporation 's operating vice president , said that it would be difficult to assure the employes an advance in cash for Thanksgiving Day unless they were back at work early in the week . " If there is any hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he added . " If the union wishes more time to consider some matters we will be agreeable to an adjournment until Monday . " Reports Most Terms Accepted " We had a very successful session this morning , " said Mr. Dewey at noon . " We reached a tentative agreement on most of the terms of the contract itself . Better headway was made this morning than at any time since the negotiations began . " Mr. Frankensteen concurred with Mr. Dewey 's statement concerning the advance made today in the negotiations . Once the union agrees upon the proposed contract which it will recommend to its members the latter may be called together by a twelve-hour notice to discuss the proposal . The members must approve the contract before the men go back to work . Usually the acceptance of a contract by the negotiating committee and its recommendation that it be accepted are sufficient to cause the members to agree . Meantime , Harold Cranefield , regional attorney of the National Labor Relations Board , decided today to recommend to the NLRB that hearings be held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there be another election in the Evansville ( Ind. ) plant of the Chrysler Corporation , where the A. F. of L. won a victory . The NLRB attorney said that it had been brought out that four days before the plant election was held a plant manager stopped a C. I. 0 . steward and threatened to discharge him for union work that he was performing on his own time during the noon hour . At the same time , Mr. Cranefield added , it had also been learned that a sign derogatory to the union had been allowed to remain on a work bench during the election period . These incidents were sufficient to cause a hearing on the union 's protest , but it did not mean that the Labor Board would decide to have another election as requested by the C. I. 0. , he said .                     