@@700779

txt Much of the talk by radicals about maldistribution of wealth in the United States is " sheer invention , " Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler , president of Columbia University , declared yesterday in an address at the Parrish Art Museum , Southampton , L. I. The same thing might be said about many present-day estimates of unemployment in this country , he asserted . In both cases , the exaggerated statements are symptomatic of a world-wide radical attack upon liberalism , he said . His speech was devoted largely to discussing this attack and the methods by which liberals may hope to retain leadership in matters affecting international progress . Four hundred persons heard the address . Dr. Butler declared that the time is coming when the nations must organize a union of " citizen States " to deal with international problems . Such a union , he pointed Out , would be a logical extension of the federal principle in government . It should set up a central authority to deal with all matters of mutual concern , leaving to the individual nations the management of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Widely Spread . With reference to wealth in the United States , Dr. Butler said that " a favorite declaration of the radical " was that under liberalism in the United States some threefourths of the national wealth was held by 2 or 3 per cent of the population . This is not the case , he said , continuing : " The distribution of wealth in the United States , while yet by no means all that it might be and will be . is nevertheless very wide indeed . " In support of this assertion , he declared that statistics show 15 , - 000,000 owners of corporate securities in the country ; savings bank deposits in 1932 of $25,000,000,000 belonging to some 45,000,000 persons ; 10,000,000 members in building and loan associations with assets of more than $8,000,000,000 ; 115,000,000 life insurance policies with a total face value of more than $100,000 ; 000,000 ; 14,000,000 families , or half those in the United States , owning their own homes ; two out of three families , at the time of the last Federal census , with telephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such facts as these demonstrate that it is " grotesque " to'assert that under the principles advocated by liberalism no progress has been made in bringing great economic benefits to vast numbers of citizens , Dr. Butler said . Radicalism vs . Liberty . Dr. Butler defined a liberal as onel who is devoted to furthering the , principles of liberty . Few radicals are liberals , he said , for the reason that in their desire to establish a new order involving some form of collectivism they are- " ready to throw all liberty overboard in order that they may obtain , through compulsion , what they look upon as economic security . " Mediocre politicians , emotional populations and the economic disturbances following the World War have created a. condition that invites revolution in the world , he continued . " The economic , the monetary and the political turbulence which just now is world-wide in its manifestation is quite inconsistent with consideration of fundamental principles of social and political thought and action or with reflection upon them , " he said . " The emotional life is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the rear . " Some years ago , a brilliant member of the Academie Francaise , M. Emile Faguet , wrote a clever and engaging little book entitled ' Le culte de l'incompetence , ' the title of which may perhaps be appropriately rendered ' The Exaltation of the Third-Rate . ' No happier phrase could be found to describe what we see going on all about us in the public life of a world which has been accustomed for some time past to regard itself as civilize &; Knowledge and power are abundant both in the Intellectual life and in the conduct of industry and commerce , but it is surprising to how small an extent this competence finds its way into official public life . " There is hardly a nation in which public opinion , in respect to all matters of greater importance , is not in advance of the action and policies of the government . Bult so wide has become the gap between instructed public opinion and government and so usual the control of government by passion , by legalistic formula and by highly organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deadlock in almost every field of public action . " For World Money Unit . To bring about greater economic Stability , Dr. Butler advocated establishment of an international Monetary unit , to be measured in terms of gold and silver bullion . " This unit will do for the measurement of money what the establishment of the meter and kilogram have done for the measurement of length and weight , " he said . " The responsibility for the oversight of such an international monetary system , as well . as its general administration , might best be placed in the hands of the Bank for International Settlements at Basle . " In other parts of his advocated program , Dr. Butler urged liberals to concern themselves with the steady raising of the standard of living in all countries , to work against exploitation of wage-earners or the return of child labor , to support economically sound social and unemployment insurance , to stop exploitation of natural resources , to work against nationalistic barriers to commerce and to insist upon judicial settlement of international disputes by the Permanent Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax reforms and curbs upon excessive governmental spending , declaring that in a democracy the two best forms of taxation appear to be an income tax which lays a burden on virtually all citizens , and a sales tax , which touches virtually all expenditures . Such taxes , affecting all persons , rather than merely those with incomes in the higher brackets , would make the nation conscious of its tax burden and would cause citizens to exercise a supervision over government that is now lacking , he declared . " No matter how small the amount of the tax may be in any individual case , " he said , " it Marks the fact that he who pays it is a contributing citizen , schooled by this very payment to watch the actions of his government and to resent and resist either abuse of power or extravagance on its part . " Regarding the need for a new " society of citizen-nations , " Dr. Butler said : " Joint action and responsibility in all that concerns every nation , with separate organization and responsibility for that which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be achieved . " The world is waiting for a new application of the federal principle . If liberty is to survive , it can only do so in a world organized on the principles of liberty , but in terms of present-day needs , conditions and opportunities . Only so can liberty find air to breathe . Through the attempt permanently to balance production and consumption , nation by nation , liberty may easily be suffocated . There must be brought into existence a society of bitizen-nations . " Sovereignty , neutrality , freedom of the seas are all eighteenth and nineteen century words ; what they represent has been put behind us and has passed into history . The conception of a League of Nations was admirable and far-sighted , but unhappily the foundation upon which it was made to rest was outworn and insecure . It must be rebuilt in terms of today and tomorrow . " The whole theory of a world of armed and jealous nations taking but most casual , cognizance of their literally colossal joint and common interests must be given up forever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and no lasting peace , until this is done . Therefore , the true liberal is looking to international understanding , international cooperation and international organization as absolutely necessary if the world is to be saved from political and economic collapse and if liberty itself is to be protected against the vigorous attacks of compulsion in any of its forms , these attacks being everywhere greatly strengthened by doubts and difficulties that are local or national . " Liberty or Compulsion . In developing his attack upon the foes of liberal principles , Dr. Butler said : The effective protection of liberty against compulsion must rest not on force , but on moral principle . " The real liberal is at once truly conservative , since he preserves and builds upon all , that is best in the past , and progressive as well , since he constantly goes forward to new and constructive applications of his fundamental principles . " There are very few radicals who are liberals ; radicals are almost without exception advocates of compulsion in some one of its forms . Today it is liberty and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compulsion which liberty now faces is altered in form but not in principle . It is precisely the same compulsion today that it was in days gone by . It is compulsion through the forms of government , even of democratic government , by 8. class , whether large or small , which deems itself privileged to rule because either of its number or of its intellectual inferiority . " It is in the realm of economics that attacks on liberty seek and find their chief weapons . It is true that too often liberty has been interpreted as license and too often its name has been seized upon by a false doctrine of liberty , which on the one hand would leave the individual free to respond to the profitmotive in whatever way he might choose , even'though some of man 's highest ideals were to be impaired or destroyed thereby , and on the other , would resist to the utmost those fundamental and far-reaching social reforms , the accomplishment of which should be an essential part of any doctrine of liberty rightly understood and applied in public policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the utmost importance to distinguish between the true doctrine of civil , economic and political liberty and the doctrine of what is known as laissez faire . The exploitation of one man by his fellows is no part of liberty ; it is a form of license which , in the name of liberty , quickly proves itself to be true liberty 's worst enemy . Until the ideal of service dominates every ' form of human effort , including the profit-motive itself , liberty will not be secure . " We are told by many voices that the free competitive system in production which liberty invites , has failed and must necessarily fail since under its operation there can be no orderly balance between production and consumption . Therefore it is said that at whatever cost public control or compulsion must displace liberty in order that there may be no unemployment and that consumption and production may be in balance . " But the matter can not be so easily dealt with . As a matter of fact , the true reason for the conditions which have called forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that our world of sovereign nations has not yet been able or willing to adjust itself to those modern conditions which man 's new control over nature and the discoveries of modern science have brought about . " At another point Dr. Butler alluded to the policies of economic nationalism which had resulted in the setting up of tariff barriers by the various countries . " The natural and necessary effect of this policy , " he said . " could only be to offer artificial stimulation to the production of certain articles behind the barrier of these protective tariffs while completely destroying the balance and adjustment of production and consumption , of supply and demand , in the world at large . In due time this destruction of the balance between production and consumption extends to each and every individual nation and wrecks its prosperity , " Favors Taxes for All . Discussing taxation problems , Dr. Butler said : " There is a very subtle mode of seeking to undermine liberty and liberalism , without in anywise either changing the form of our government or appearing to alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the use of the tax , ing power in the interest not of the whole people , * but of groups and sections . If there is to be a just and wise use of the taxing power and an equally wise and just expenditure of public funds , then those by whose authority the taxes are laid must themselves help to pay the tax and be made tax-con , scions thereby . "                     