@@700418

txt Mayor LaGuardia and his Fusion associates on the Board of Estimate repudiated yesterday the twenty-five-year bus franchises voted to five Manhattan companies in the closing days of former Mayor John P. O'Brien 's administration . The board ordered Corporation Counsel Paul Windels to challenge the validity of the grants in the Supreme Court , where the five companies and the city are defendants in a suit brought by Sadye Greenberg , taxpayer , to set aside the franchises . Simultaneously the board directed Paul Blanshard , Commissioner of Accounts , to make a thorough and speedy inquiry to determine whether " improper means were used to influence the granting of the franchises . " The board 's action was taken after hir . Windels in a report had recommended both courses . On Jan. 3 the board adopted a resolution submitted by Aldermanic President Bernard S. Deutsch directing Mr. Windels to investigate the circumStances of the franchise awards . Deutsch Cites Graft Rumor . Immediately after his resolution Was adopted Mr. Deutsch said that he ' had heard reports that $300,000 had " changed hands " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " persons produced before me did not offer tangible proof of corruption or improper influence , " but he expressed the belief that this phase of the bus situation should be investigated further " because of the history of the transaction and the terms of the franchise contracts . " Commissioner Blanshard was suggested as the proper agency to make the investigation . The five companies involved in the bus situation are the Fifth Avenue Coach Company ; its two affiliates , the New York City Omnibus Corporation and the Madison Avenue Coach Company ; and the two companies sponsored by Samuel R. Rosoff , subway contractor , the East Side Omnibus Corporation and the Comprehensive Omnibus Corporation . The vote to investigate further Ihe circumstances surrounding the franchise awards was taken upon motion of Borough President Samuel Levy of Manhattan , sole Tammany member of the board . It was unanimous . Mr. Levy and rorough President George U. Harvey of Queens did not vote on the motion to contest the validity of the grants in the Supreme Court . " I will not vote on this or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the payment of $300,000 are cleared up , " Mr. Levy declared . Mr. Harvey took the same attitude . Mr. Windels , pursuant to the board 's order , will file an answer in the taxpayer 's suit , asserting that the contracts are invalid on various legal grounds . The case has been set for trial on Feb. 5 . It is expected that he also will ask the Transit Commission to postpone pending hearings on the applications of the five companies for certificates of public convenience and necessity , or at least to reserve decision at the close of hearings . Question of Law and Fact . The Windels report cast doubt upon the legality of the procedure followed by the O'Brien Board of Estimate in making the contract awards . Whether the money value of the contracts had been properly determined and properly embodied in the agreements , it found , was a serious question both of law and fact , as was the question of proper compensation to the city . The report also suggested that the grants to the New York City Omnibus Corporation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received only thirteen votes . According to the repart , there is doubt whether the Commissioner of Public Works for the Bronx and Richmond were legally entitled to vote for their superiors while the latter were in the city . The report also challenged the validity of the city 's assumption of the repaving obligation of the street car companies . Throughout his report Mr. Win- dels assailed the grants as unsound business transactions from the viewpoint of the city . " It is my opinion that the contracts are unconscionable and an imposition upon the city , " he declared . The absence of any contract provision giving the city the right to recapture the franchises during their twenty-five-year terms was stressed in the report , which also expressed the belief that the corn- II pensation allowed the city was grossly inadequate . Assailing the contracts for failing to provide for transfers to new lines , for extension of the granted routes , for combination of existing routes and for securing compensation for injured persons , Mr. Windels concluded that they made no adequate provision " for the protection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declared also that there was a failure , except in the case of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company , to ascertain the financial responsibility of the grantees . " These contracts are so framed , " the report found . " that future bus service is completely at the mercy of these grantees , who will exact a price for future service similar to the price which some of them have just obtained for practically worthless street car franchises . " Conceding that the recommended litigation and investigation would further delay motorization of surface car lines , Mr. Windels declared that " this board is not responsible ; for the sordid story of the past ten years with regard to bus franchises and should not permit itself to be forced into acquiescence in a twen-1 ty-five-year gift precipitously grant- I ed in the closing hours of an administration that had mismanaged this problem for many years . " This statement drew angry protest from Mr. Levy and from several civic workers who were active in urging the awards now in controversy . Mayor LaGuardia cut short all discussion with the terse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The holders of the franchises , It was indicated , would make a vigorous court fight to uphold their validity . They have already filed their answers in the taxpayer 's suit . The complainant in that action is the wife of M. Bernard Greenberg , counsel for the Green ' Bus Lines , Inc. , operator of six Manhattan crosstown lines which are divided between the New York City Omnibus Corporation and the Comprehensive Omnibus Corporation under the challenged franchise grants .                     