@@699957

txt LONDON , July ** British Government 's decision to repay United Kingdom gold bonds of 1917 in paper dollars or depre , clated sterling shows what queer things are happening to British financial morality after two years of terrific strain . Only a few weeks ago an outcry went up from financial London over America 's abrogation of the gold clause . Charges of repudiation were leveled at the United States and one financial newspaper headed its report from America with the caption , " The Race 's Progress . " Articles written about New York as a world financial centre compared it with London with its unshaken dominance and its unshakable honor . Yet scarcely a ripple of protest has been caused by this week 's ingenious conversion scheme , which whether justified or not would have been unthinkable in the old days . Not only is there almost no complaint against the ethics of it but scarcely any one in the City outside a. few financial pursuits will even discuss its moral implication , . Financial Circles Approve . Sir Walter Layton may lament that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circles , so far as is discernible , approve the transaction as clever and fully justified . The fact is that the British people are being forced for the first time to compromise with their own superb standards of financial responsibility . They find themselves in a world in which the sanctity of obligations is being widely impaired . They have been trying ever since their own abandonment of the gold standard to maintain themselves as the one rock of moral if not monetary stability in a disordered world . but the struggle is becoming difficult and the temptation is greater all the time . The corrosion of the British metal becomes more apparent when one reads the popular newspapers or the speeches of politicians . The words " financial honor " are still prized as much as ever , but some politicians and editors have learned how to gloss them over with convenient catchwords . Thus the present conversion scheme becomes a patriotic step that enables the British holders or dollars to flock back to sterling -- the only safe currency . So , too , one hears complaints , not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orthodox and too wedded to what are called here as well as in Washington " the fetishes of the international bankers . " The first sign of the way the wind is blowing was the decision of a British court that a Belgian issue in London containing the gold clause be repaid in paper sterling . Early in June came the debate over the payment or repudiation of the American debt , the discussion ending In a small token payment that would not even have been proposed in other times . The present conversion operation b6ongs to the same category . None of these transactions has been outright repudiation , but none has stuck to the letter of the bond . either . In future months it is possible that the British may be forced to make even more daring compromises with their financial consciences , especially if the economic situation fails . The next token payment in the war-debt program will be indefinite , if there is any payment at all . The next depreciation of sterling , if it comes . may not be forced by a run on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliberate . Those who protest against such courses will be called worshipers of outworn theories and will be incessantly reminded that " Queen Victoria is dead . " No doubt the word " repudiation " still sticks in British throats as it always did , but the mere thought of it does not have the terrors it once had .                     