@@700667

txt Swift and stern retaliation against Germany was expected tonight to be the British Government 's answer to her default on the Dawes and Young loans . Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , intends to make a statement on the moratorium in the House of Commons tomorrow , and there is little doubt that he will recommend severe counter-measures . The most probable method appears to be a compulsory clearing arrangement whereby the government would recoup for British creditors out of Germany 's favorable trade balance with Britain . The German balances here are so substantial that this government could easily take out of them the interest due its citizens on the two loans . Germany sold almost 130 , - 000,000 worth of goods to Britain last year and bought less than ? 15 , - 000,000 . The whole amount of the Dawes loan outstanding in London is a little over ? 17,000,000 and of the Young loan about ? 11,000,000 . Warned Reich Two Months Ago . Two months ago the British Government warned Germany that it would take " a grave view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Young loans , " and at that time the compulsory clearing system was hinted at . Now that the moratorium has come it is generally felt that the government can not postpone action on behalf of the British creditors any longer . The Cabinet Ministers are said to be disturbed over the effect their compulsory clearing plan will have on Anglo-American relations . They realize that by impounding German balances here they will be making it more difficult for the American creditors ever to get anything out of Germany . But they feel that no other choice is open unless Germany reconsiders her action before July 1 , when the default becomes effective . Inasmuch as the default had been expected , its effect on the financial market here was slight , though German bonds fell heavily , the mark diclin.ed further in terms of sterling and prices of commodities weakened generally . Far ? more significant , however , was the shout of rage that arose from the City , even from financial quarters that hitherto have been sympathetic to the : Hitler regime . The default was castigated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an event that the Ger- man authorities themselves had made inevitable by their policies . Almost unnoticed by the press and the public was the fact that at midnight tonight the first default by Britain since the reign of Edward III 500 years ago became an accomplished fact . But the British suspension of war-debt payments and the German suspension of the Dawes and Young loan transfers are viewed here in a completely different light . If there is any analogy between the two it is not mentioned in the bitter British comments directed toward Berlin . The Times of London angrily charges Germany with " a direct breach of good faith " and calls the defense of Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , president of the Reichsbank , " reminiscent of the murderer who having slain - both his parents pleaded for mercy on the ground that he was an orphan . Asserting that Germany 's economy has been deliberately planned to make an export surplus impossible , The Times continues : " In the peculiar circumstances of the world crisis no reasonable person would have felt inclined to blame Germany for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ herself willing to do all that lay in her power to keep herself solvent . " The gravamen of the charge which will be brought against her Is that her whole policy since the advent of the Hitler regime has been calculated to create precisely that inability to make foreign payments which Dr. Schacht professes to deplore . " It is really impossible to avoid the conclusion that the reversal of Germany 's trade balance since thebeginning of the year has been the direct result of her inflationary domestic policy and of the retaliatory measures provoked by her treatment of the Jewish population within her borders  --  both factors for which she must be held solely responsible  --  even if no account is taken of the more sinister implications of - her increasing dmports . " In pursuing this course the German Government have been willfully neglectful of their good name . By allowing a forced default upon their international obligations they have shattered the remains of their credit . "                     