@@701340

txt Traffic and earnings of the railroads of the country In the latter part of this month probably will start to show gains over both the two preceding years . Although the feeling in railroad circles is that business currently is in a state of suspense . movement of crops is expected to act as a spur to all lines of activity in the transportation field . At this time a year ago car loadings began to register weekly decreases from 1933 and in only four weeks in the balance of the year did they exceed the corresponding periods of the preceding year . But 1935 is expected to show . a resumption of the usual autumn upward movement in rail traffic . which has been nonexistent for some three years . Naturally , this assumption is based partly on the fact that this year 's agricultural output will be more normal than in any of the past four . However , the present lack of an export market will detract from the full benefits gained by the railroads from large crops in pre-depression years . June Results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out now , for the eastern industrial and coal carriers generally are expected to show gains in gross revenues over a year ago , with the possibility of some roads registering better net operating income figures . The Northwestern lines are not believed to have done so well and will not make as good comparisons . with the expectation that net operating income of roads in that territory generally will be below a year ago . With income available for fixed charges in many cases running below a year ago in the first six months and with other income failing to aid the carriers ' reports materially , it is generally believed that few roads will be able to show charges covered for the initial half of 1935 . Many factors , besides increases in expenses , have contributed to reducing the roads ' earnings so far this year . Exceptionally cold weather in the Southeast and in the Rio Grande valley destroyed citrus and vegetable crops which ordinarily would have moved in the first four months of the year . Snow removal costs last winter were exceptionally high throughout the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the grain territory , which had suffered four years of drought . Floods in the second quarter adversely affected earnings . In May , roads serving Colorado , Nebraska and adjacent territory not only suffered from increased maintenance expenditures , but also a loss of gross revenues , due to traffic interruptions . In early June . Texas lines were hit by the same factor , while in July roads serving upper New York State received similar setbacks . Motor Production Spread Besides prospects of good crops in most sections of the country this year , industrial activity also is expected to be an aid to rail earnings . New production methods of automobile companies , whereby work is sought to be spread throughout the year . will help the latter part of the third quarter , whereas formerly this business was not received until the fourth quarter of the year . It is also felt that the heavy industries are on the road to recovery . Two classes of traffic which probably will continue to make poor comparisons with the preceding years are livestock and less-than-carload business , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisions . Movement of distressed livestock last year , however , while tending to swell shipment figures , did not produce much revenue , since most of it was carried either at amdrgency or land-grant rates . A factor which will improve earnings reports of most of the carriers for the balance of the year will be inclusion in coming months of credits because of the Pension Act decision . In 1934. from August on , pensions were deducted in most cases . Beginning with July 4. last year . 21,42% of the rail wage pay was restored , which increase lasted to the end of the year . Another 23,42% was restored on January 1 and the remaining 5% on April 1 , 1935 . During the quarter just ended rail earnings have had the full 10% in effect , as compared with no restoration in that period a year ago . This means that beginning with July 1 , last , wages for the balance of 1935 will be increased only 7i4% over a year ago , compared with a 10% difference in the second three months of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roads are expected to increase , one factor which is still causing much worry in rail circles is the low figure to which cash accounts have generally fallen . It is pointed out that the carriers would have to have exceptionally high volume of traffic to build up their cash to meet service requirements falling due late in 1935 and on January 1 . next . However , it is also pointed out that if earnings improve , rail credit also will be in better shape , which might enable them to temporarily tide them over their difficulties . Also , as rail credit improves , collateral available for loans will improve in value , giving needy carriers added possibilities of obtaining further funds .                     