@@700640

txt Under banner headlines today German newspapers , led by the serious Allgemeine Zeitung , announce that a military agreement between France and Russia providing for technical cooperation between their armies has be , en completed . Quite naturally , no such announcement has been made either in Paris or Moscow . Such arrangements are not negotiated to be proclaimed . But telephonic communication with Paris supplies what amounts to virtual confirmation . It is ann other instance of the necessity to seek diplomatic news outside the countries immediately concerned in creating it . Such an agreement has been long forecast . In Soviet quarters no attempt was made to deny or belittle the German reports . Pact at Geneva Likely . Paris reports that the RussoFrench rapprochement under discussion is scarcely fully arranged ; Geneva probably will be the scene of its completion . This is in accord with the German information . The military agreement is to be supplemented by an Eastern European mutual assistance compact as distinguished from the general European assistance pact proposed last year by France and then rejected by Germany and Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is understood a thorough understanding has now been arrived at regarding Russia 's entry into the League of Nations . It is to take place as soon as possible with the enthusiastic support of France , which , with the disarmament negotiations as an excuse , will send to ; Geneva in the near future an impressive delegation including prob ' ably Foreign Minister Barthou , Marine Minister Pietri , War Minister Petain and Air Minister Denain . The stage is all set in France to hail the Russian understanding , with its accompanying Near Eastern mutual assistance treaties , as a further guarantee of European ) peace and French security . Then France will be ready to talk again about disarmament . Germans See Encircling Wall . The German information is that a military agreement for coopera-tion in technical matters is already established as the first stone in a wall that will ring Germany on all sides . The agreement was said to have been negotiated between M. Rosenberg , Soviet Charge d'Affairs in Paris , with the assistance of Russian military experts , and General Gamelin as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to consist for the present in the exchange of " certain plans " and " inspection officers . " General Game-I lin , however , soon will go to Moscow with authority to decide on the spot how this agreement can be expanded into a genuine treaty of military assistance which is , of course , a euphemism for a military alliance . As for Russia 's entry into the League , it has already been facilitated by her dropping of most of the conditions previously placed upon her adherence , including diplomatic recognition by Switzerland . These are no longer of importance . Berlin 's Published Views . Thus the pieces are moved again on the chess board in the great game of European diplomacy as it enters a new stage not altogether tending toward that peace which it is Geneva 's mission to establish and which League adherents strive to find in all new developments . It is a move naturally not relished in Germany , but every effort is be ' ing made here to conceal under a smoke cloud of general discussion the real implications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers point out in connection with the news that the French Blue Book on disarmament , I just published . contains a French I note dated April 6 in which France ( according to their view ) does not really oppose German rearmament but merely declares France does not consider herself competent to decide about it and leaves it to " the main committee of the League " ? , meaning presumably the disarmsment commission  --  and that she is I willing in the meantime to continue I negotiations with London for obtaining additional security guaran-1 , tees . Such security guarantees ' have already been rejected by Brit- I ain so this seems beside the point . However , the German newspapers go on to argue that this Itusslan arrangement may satisfy this French craving for additional Security and therefore enable France to view German rearmament with greater equanimity , thereby providing new hope for some agreetitent which will legalize deli rearina. - , ment and thus remove the chief obstacle to the continuing of disarmament negotiations . Germans See Easy Course . French amazement over such optimism may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . Scrutiny of the newspapers reveals that the German opinielti now is that some kind of an arms agreement is better then none ; that even if disarmament is impossible at the moment much will be gained if arms limitations ( upon others ) is achieved . If German rearmament is agreed to , the rest , from the German viewpoint , should be easy . Thus is expressed Germany 's hope of extracting something for herself from a situation which represents for her the worst diplomatic disaster since the early Nineties , when the young Kaiser and the Chancellor he had put in Bismarck 's place dropped Bismarck 's Russian scheme and thereby set in Motion a chain of incidents which in due time led straight to the World War and Germany 's collapse . There is only one difference . Germany 's position is far worse now than then . In the Nineties she had two powerful allies . Today she has putative enemies all around . There is ho question that the more moderate statesmen who endeavor to steer German policy through the troubled European waters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolation deeply and , whatever they may say , would gladly return to the League and a calmer course if they could . They look with grave apprehension upon this revival of the Franco-Russian entente . On the other hand they are inclined rather to welcome Russia 's entrance into the League , for they believe this may tend to force reorganization of the League along the lines Germany wants , thereby opening up the road for her return there and also for adhesion of the United States . Such a reorganization would entail the removal from the League covenant of Articles X to XVI , all the so-called " force " articles providing for automatic intervention by League powers in disI putes affecting themselves . These are the articles which kept the United States out of the League and concerning which Germany made reservations when she joined . They would make the League perhaps useful , but , so far as Germany , anyway , is concerned , harmless . Press Angered by Bat-thou . With the League reorganized and German rearmament legalized , Germany thinks she could come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saar . German newspapers were highly indignant today about the latest speech by Foreign Minister Earthen of France , especially that part in Whin he said Germany 's mere promise to protect the Sear minernice would not be sufficient . This is denounced as " arrogant . " A Hugenberg newspaper charges in a streamer headline , " France is preparing to break the law in order to cheat the Saar . " As to the general situation only the Tageblatt dares say : " Clouds Continue to hang over Europe despite the softer tones of Barthou. the danger persists that out of hat ' demands for sanctions Pratte will develop alliances and blocs which *ill turn their weight against Germany . "                     