@@698249

txt Great Britain 's electorate will go to the polls tomorrow to determine whether Prime Minister 's National Government is to be returned to carry through the emergency program for which it was formed . bLOCIC Exchange election betting on the eve of the polling is that the National Government will win a majority in the House of Commons tomorrow of from 197 to 204 seats , made up chiefly of Conservatives , with both the Simonite and Samuelite Liberals , on whom the Conservatives can depend for support of protective tariff legislation . Neither the Labor party nor the free trade Liberals who are still loyal to David Lloyd George expect to win , but they are doing their own calculating tonight and will not concede in advance any such majority as the betting indicates or as the Conservatives are claiming . The Laborites , who won 287 seats in the last election in 1929 and had 263 when Parliament was dissolved , are now figuring their prospective loss as 75 , which would leave them 212 members in the next Parliament . Tariff Bloc of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Conservatives , who won 260 seats in the last election , or for the allied factions , which are more or less committed to tariffs . That would mean a tariff bloc at the outset of 335 members , plus such Simonite and Samuelite Liberals as may prove willing to accept the Conservative tariff program . But when the time comes for a vote on a full-blooded protection measure , with duties on food and raw materials , on which the Conservative die-hards are insisting , it is hoped and expected by the Opposition that many Liberals and the few National Laborites will balk . So what may be a big National Government majority at the opening of Parliament may materially dwindle sufficiently to block the enactment of protection measures . Even more problematical than this guessing as to election results Is the speculation concerning the political future of Mr. Lloyd George with reference to the Labor party . He is now virtually without a party of his own , and tomorrow 's voting seems very likely to reduce his Parliamentary remnant still more . He is only 68 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now rapidly recovering , he is expected to regain all his former vigor and vitality . Neither his friends nor his enemies can conceive of his being out of politics or being inconspicuous in politics . The Labor party , after losing Premier , Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Snowden and Attorney General Sir William Jowitt , is woefully in need of leaders , whether it is to remain the party in opposition or is to regain control tomorrow or at some subsequent election . More Radical Than Laborites . In the last two years Mr. Lloyd George has been more radical than either Mr. or Arthur Henderson , the Labor leaders . He has won the good-will of many Labor backbenchers who have been restless under what they have regarded as too much moderation on the part of their own leaders in Parliament . Furthermore , he has been a powerful ally of Labor in this election with his repeated appeals to Liberal voters , of whom there are about 5,000,000 , to mark their ballots tomorrow for Labor candidates against the Conservatives or Liberal tariff converts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political observers here , is that Mr. Lloyd George will go over to Labor in fact and name as he has been in sympathy and support ever since the Labor Government took office in June , 1929 , He would carry with him all the radical elements of his party , adding perhaps 2,000,000 voters to the electoral strength of Labor in future campaigns , The rest of the Liberal party would join the Conservatives . The country would settle down again to a two-party system with Mr. Lloyd George the real dynamo of Labor . regardless of what his title might ne in the organiaztion or what place he might hold in any further Labor Government . So much for the obvious , but speculation as to Mr , Lloyd George 's political future does n't end there . Mr. Henderson is the Labor leader and therefore entitled to the premiership whenever his party regains the government , but he would rather be Foreign Minister , continuing in his favorite role as world peacemaker . He has referred publicly several times in this campaign to the fact that he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ February , whether or not he is a member of the British Government then in power . Each time he has mentioned the subject he has plainly intimated be still intends to go to Geneva , regardless of the result of the result of the British election . His friends and party associates do n't see how he is going to be able to do it , because of the too long absence from London the Geneva presidency would involve for him . if he should be either premier or leader of the Opposition . None of Mr. Henderson 's asscielate leaders still left on the iLabor front bench is qualified to head the party of the Opposition and certainly not to he Prime Minister . Hence , as a long shot political bet , Mr. Lloyd George , it is asserted , may not only become a Laborite but also Prime Minister if and when Labor is returned to power . Ring Returns to London . LONDON , Oct. 26 ( SP ) . ? King George came hack to Buckingham Palace today from Sandringham to await the election returns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the manner of political generalissimos the world over . George Bernard Shaw today sent the following message to the coal miners of Seaham Harbor , where Prime Minister is running for re-election : " I am sorry , for old times ' sake , but you must vote against Prime Minister . " It will be a great personal achievement for Mr. if he succeeds in heating the Labor party machine in the mining district of Seaham Harbor , where the party he helped build up has cast him out . Two men are opposing him  --  William Coxon , bluff and hearty schoolmaster , who is the Labor candidate , and George Lumley , Communist . Mr. Coxon , secretary of the local Labor party , who is personally known to thousands of the voters , is the real threat . Another contest on which public interest is centred is in Burnley , where Arthur Henderson , successor to Mr. as Labor 's leader , is running against Rear Admiral Gordon Campbell , possessor of the Victoria Cross and Distinguished Service Order , and James Rushton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conservative and Liberal organizations . One of the most peculiar battles of the election is being fought in Darwen , Lancashire . There Sit ' Herbert Samuel , free trader , who heads the Liberal faction in the National Government , is facing another government supporter , Captain Alan Graham , Conservative Nationalist . In this divisijn the two groups of government forces split over the tariff issue , Captain Graham being a protectionist . Charles Rothwell is the Labor candidate . The other Liberal members of the National Government also face Conservative opponents , as well as Labor candidates . These are Sir Donald , president of the Board of Education , who is standing in Northern Cornwall , and E. D. Simon , Secretary of the Ministry of Health , who is up in Penryn and Falmouth . Says He Will Be Labor Leader . SEAHAM HARBOR , Eng. , Oct. 26 ( , /F ) . ? Prime Minister Ramsay ended his campaign at a big meeting tonight with the declaration that , although political fortunes have thrown him in contact with Kings , " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This was his ' reply to the accusation , made in the constituency he has represented in the House of Commons , that by forming the National Government he ceased to be a Labor man . On the last day of the campaign ? perhaps the most strenuous of his long career in politics  --  the Prime Minister visited twenty-eight miners ' communities , speaking on village greens , in halls , - in workingmen 's clubs and to groups of housewives on street corners . When his motor car stopped outside the theatre in which tonight 's meeting was held , it was engulfed by crowds of men and women who clamored to shake his hands . After the work of the National Government has been completed and Britain is through her financial and economic emergency , . the leaders of that government will go hack to their old parties , Mr. told his final audience . " You will not be in any party then , " a heckler shouted . " I shall , " the , Prime Minister retorted , " and I shall be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bed . BURNLEY , Eng. , Oct. 26 ( Ilse -- Arthur Henderson , leader of the Labor Opposition , who was taken ill with a cold here yesterday , was Improved today . Ilia temperature had subsided , but his physicians decided it was inadvisable for him to leave his bed . His eon , William , took his place at a number of campaign meetinzs.                     