@@698161

txt All outstanding differences between Governor Roosevelt and the Republican majority in the Legislature over unemployment relief legislation were removed at a conference which ended at 2 o'clock this morning after going on for five hours . . rne Wicks bill , amended so as to be acceptable to both sides , will be passed by the Senate and Assembly under an emergency message front the Governor when the Legislature meets later today . The extraordinary session will come to an end late this afternoon in accordance with the present program . Mutual concessions were made to arrive at the harmonious understanding . The Republicans yielded on two points and Governor Roosevelt on one . The Republicans receded from their contention that the administrative commission to be appointed by the Governor should be connected with the State Department of Social Welfare and agreed that it shall function as a wholly free and independent temporary agency of the State . Its life is to be terminated when the emergency is ended through proclamation by the Governor . Agree on Local Relief . The other concession made by the Republicans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolute limitation of $20,000,000 on expenditures to be made by the State in connection with unemployment relief . This was to meet objections made by the Governor on the ground that in its present form the bill virtually would give to localities a " blank check " and possibly obligate the State far beyond the huge sum contemplated . Governor Roosevelt withdrew his objections to the machinery set up in the Wicks bill for local relief distribution . The Republican leaders were absolutely determined that bodies appointed by the cities and Boards of Supervisors in county territory outside of the cities should handle the distribution of the funds for home and work relief . The conference , which began at 9 o'clock last night in Lieut . Governor Herbert H. Lehman 's suite at the De Witt Clinton Hotel , was attended by the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor , Samuel I. Rosenman , counsel to the Governor ; Senato ? - Fearon , president of the Senate ; Speaker of the Assembly , and Senator Dunnigan and Assemblyman Steingut , leaders of the Democratic minority . At an earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Governor should have his way in appointing a commission for administering relief which should have no connection with the State Welfare Commission . All day long warlike gesture had followed warlike gesture at the Capitol , coming both from the third floor where the lawmakers sit and the second floor where Governor Roosevelt had been at his desk with a " happy warrior " expression on his face , receiving bulletins from " the third floor front . " While the Governor was smiling frowning brows were displayed on the Republican sides of the Senate and Assembly , though yesterday was to have been the closing day of the session . The Assembly , as a matter of fact , had already adopted and sent to the Senate a concurrent resolution providing for final adjournment at 3 o'clock , Eastern Standard Time , when the prospect for a peaceful end of the unemployment relief contra : ersy began to loom . At the time the Assembly was enraged in a hot debate over the Wicks ; bill , passed in. the Senate Thursday , Which embodies the . Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Veto Awaits Bill . The Republicans pressing this pleasure for final passage did so , tulip aware that Governor Roosevelt ' Would veto it , but appeared to be Willing to take the risk of bringing their labors to an end without the enactment of legislation to meet the tmemployment emergency . Passage of the doomed Wicks bill was to have been the final order of business and with this done the Legislature was to have quit work and tone home , according to the program mapped out by the majority chieftains in the lower house overnight . A sudden turn late in the afternoon In the previously glum outlook led to a change and both houses now stand adjourned until 11 o'clock tomorrow morning . When George R. Fearon , temporary president of the Senate , and Speaker of the Assembly reached their desks yesterday morning they found a letter from the Governor in which he informed them that he could not accept and would veto the Wicks bill in the form the Senate passed it yesterday , and invited them to confer with him with a view to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approve it . Hold First Conference . This was the first link of a chain of communications between the majority chiefs and the Governor , all on the same topic . It was not until almost 5 o'clock in the afternoon , however , that Senator Fearon and Speaker appeared in the Executive Chamber , where the Governor received them with a face wreathed in smiles . The Republican leaders tried hard to disguise their feelings by reciprocating . Newspaper correspondents who were conferring with the Governor at the time were unceremoniously bundled out to make room for Lieutenant Governor Lehman , whose good offices are said to have had a great deal to do with bringing about the conference . After the Republican chiefs and the Governor had talked for two hours , the Governor made the following brief statement : " We have been in conference most amicably and we shall continue in conference this evening ; we have agreed to say no more at present . " " It is not very enlightening , " a Newspaper correspondent remonstrated . . " Nor is it intended to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grin . It was learned , however , that while for the first two hours the talk was more or less of a preliminary character , the Republicans had agreed that the relief administration commission would not be connected with the State Department of Social Welfare and that the Governor should have his way and establish one body as an absolutely free and independent agency . This was a substantial concession . Another Concesslim Intimated . It was more than hinted also , that While the Republicans are prepared to stand firm for retention in the WickS ' . bill of their proposals for machinery of local relief work , which the Governor has objected , they are prepared to meet him half way on a proposal to safeguard State contributions to localities so as to meet the criticism of Governor Roosevelt and Lieutenant Governor Lehman regarding this part of the Wicks bill . The criticism has been that : the Legislature would be handing to the localities a " blank check " which would assure them of being reimbursed , up to 50 per cent , for any local funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No information was available with regard to the changes which must be made in the Wicks bill to prevent the State from being obligated beyond the fund it is proposed to raise and , in effect , substitute State for local relief expenditure instead of making the State fund supplementary to a 100 per cent endeavor on the part of the municipalities to do their utmost in alleviating local distress with local funds . Debate in the Assembly . The Assembly debate , which was interrupted by a recess when Speaker visited Governor Roosevelt , was protracted and a score of speakers of both parties paid their respects to their foes . Mr. Steingut took W. Kingsland Macy , chairman of the Republict.n State Committee , to task for not forcing his forces into line for the Roosevelt relief plan . " The high-minded Mr. Macy , " said the Democratic leader , " for months deluged the newspapers with interviews , roared speeches up and down the State , threatened county leaders , browbeat legislators , made deals and promises , and in person came to Albany with one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the affairs of the city of New York . " With regard to unemployment relief , Mr. Macy has become strangely silent  --  a feeble statement approving the Governor 's program and nothing else . No spectacular personal appearances at Albany ; no attempt to urge Republican leaders to fall in line behind the Governor 's effective plan of unemployment relief . " Can it be that Mr. Macy is more interested in mud-slugging in New York City than in aid to the 13,000 , - 000 people of the entire State ? " Does Mr. Macy approve the obstructionist tactics of the Republican legislative leaders in preventing relief to those in distress ? Does Mr. Macy approve the useless prolongation of the extra session at a cost of thousands of dollars of public funds ? money which could be used for unemployment aid ? Let him answer to the people . " Governor Warns of Veto . In his first letter to the Republican leaders , Governer Roosevelt informed them that not until he had received the Wicks bill , so that he could veto it at once and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature for another session , would he supply emergency messages without which a great many relief and other measures now pending can be passed . At first it looked as though the Republicans were willing to forego passing the bills which required messages from the Governor , although this would have left without action not only some of the relief bills , about which there had been no controversy , but many local bills and some in the anti-crime legislation group . What , in respect to these measures . will happen today is purely a matter of speculation . It is regarded as certain . at least , that the Wicks bill , in the form it was passed by the Senate will be put through in the Assembly in outright defiance of the Governor and that the Senate will concur with the action of the Assembly today in defeating any attempt to bring the Dunnigan bill for an up-State investigation on the floor for final action , even though some Republican Senators are known to be reluctant to stand up and be counted as against an up-State probe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           