@@703772

txt The Mexican Government is establishing machinery looking toward the forcing of commercial establishments and shops in Mexico to use German and other fascist goods  --  goods obtained through the barter of petroleum from expropriated United States and British properties  --  to the detriment of United States trade . Meanwhile , under new and larger barter agreements with Germany and Italy , Mexican oil shipments have been stepped up since the first of the year . The Mexican paper trust already is bringing into Mexico German newsprint obtained by bartering oil , and Mexican newspapers are able to get this paper at a price substantially below the world price . This arrangement gives both the Mexican Government and the German Government an economic tie with the local press because an arbitrary raising of newsprint prices is capable of financially breaking many Mexican newspapers . Rolls of this paper can be seen by any observer in Mexican newspaper establishments . Rayon Group Set Up An association of rayon manufacturers has been set up . Rayon obtained through this organization ? under the real control of the Mexican Government  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2.2 pounds compared with a tariff of 4.20 pesos on rayon not imported and distributed by the new organization . The Mexican Government is to obtain rayon from Italy in exchange for oil  --  oil that President Lazaro Cardenas , in a press conference last Spring , himself said included products of expropriated properties . The United States formerly obtained most of the substantial Mexican rayon business . The government , it is understood , intends to follow the same procedure for raw materials and manufactured goods in other industries and some American distributing companies have privately complained to the United States Embassy , that the Mexican Government is seeking to force them to obtain blocked marks . As to the oil shipments , tankers are slipping mysteriously and constantly from Mexican ports , their papers recording that they are sailing for Lands End , England . They do not arrive in England and most of them discharge their cargoes in Hamburg , Germany . From an airplane yesterday , this correspondent saw two of these tankers loading at Tampico on the Mexican East Coast . 7 Ships Off in Fortnight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to record that between Jan. 1 and 16 seven ships left Tampico for Germany , under consignment by W. R. Davis of New York , bearing 722,087 barrels of oil from expropriated American and British properties . Other shiploads were consigned to Ernst Jung of Hamburg , who acts as agent for the . German Navy . The last two tankers departing were the Scandinavian ships Henning Maersk and Jane Maersk . Mexican barter exports to Germany in 1939 , through Mr. Davis alone , will exceed the total Mexican oil exports for 1938 if the present rate of shipments is continued . At present speed , the $17,000,000 straight barter deal with Germany handled through Mr. Davis should be easily executed . Shipments of Mexican oil in 1938 totaled 14,560,000 barrels , compared with 24,960,000 in 1937 . In addition there are shipments this year for the German and Italian Navies and probably several cargoes for Japan as in 1938 . Although American trade fell from $99,867,000 in the first eleven months of 1937 to $56,000,214 in the same period of 1938 , as a result of Mexican official policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangements were made , United States trade has not yet felt the full force of German competition . This is because , while the Mexican Government has established substantial mark , lira and yen credits for oil shipped , merchandise from the Nazi and Fascist countries is only now beginning to seep into Mexico . Real Loss Not Shown United States trade figures do not represent the real degree of the American loss of trade either , since business held up in the first three months of 1938 and fell later to less than a third of its former volume . Within the past two weeks , according to United States Consular reports , the Tampico branch of the Mexican Government Petroleum Administration has canceled American office machinery orders in the belief that German merchandise is now available . Coincidentally some American automobile distributers in the Mexican capital complain that government orders have been issued that henceforth German trucks are to be purchased for official use . United States companies have until now obtained all this business . The foregoing information can not be sent in detail by American correspondents still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such details would lead to certain retaliation . American Sales Fall Off MEXICO CITY , Jan. 18 ( . P ) . ? Mexico 's oil barter arrangement with Germany has given a tremendous stimulus to trade with the Reich . Several United States business representatives say there has been a sharp fall in their sales , particularly of typewriters , office equipment and optical and scientific instruments in which German articles have strongly competed with those of other countries . Heavy purchases of irrigation equipment are understood to be planned . Recently there have been reports that Mexico was trying to sell aski marks ( Germany 's special foreign trade currency ) to certain South American countries . Informed persons said any such deals probably would be opposed by Germany , anxious to protect her own markets and the value of her aski marks . Other reports said Mexico planned to receive German goods here and then reship them to other countries for sale . Business men said government agencies were seeking to trade German typewriters and similar articles  --  large quantities of which were said to be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   