@@700814

txt ? Since Jan. 1 105 persons have lost their lives in automobile aecldents in Westchester County . On a percentage basis the number of fatalities during the eight and a half months already equals the record total of 158 deaths in 1928 . With the bus crash at Ossining and other recent major accidents fresh in mind , residents of the county are genuinely alarmed , and there is reason to believe that steps will be taken soon in a move to obtain more thorough enforcement of the motor-vehicle laws here . It must be admitted that some pretty bad driving has been revealed by highway accidents , and it has also been demonstrated that many of the heavy trucks and buses which jam the main roads entering New York are by no. means in proper mechanical condition . One of the most recent mishaps was found to be due to faulty brakes . Excessive speed was responsible for another crash . Human Elements Blamed . There is little doubt in the opinion of Westchester people that all of the accidents are due to failure of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the county 's multi-million dollar highway system is not to blame . The roads and parkways are the best that money and engineering skill can build , they are kept in repair and they have been carefully marked for the guidance of drivers . The trouble is that many drivers do not heed the signs . In this connection , it is contended , week-end motorists from New York  --  the socalled Sunday drivers  --  are greatly at fault . These people borrow or rent cars for week-end trips , and however level-headed they may be normally , they seem to lose all sense of caution and regard for others once they get off the city streets . That there is laxity in the enforcement of motor vehicle and traffic laws is admitted ; in fact.1 the laws themselves are not all that they might be . According to Health Commissioner Matthias Nicoll Jr. , worried about the increase in fatal automobile accidents , the laws and the way they are enforced would be discreditable to a " well-ordered insane asylum . " The commissioner charged that motorcycle patrolmen perform their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will permit several hundred drivers to speed by 1 them and then suddenly arrest one , apparently " to satisfy a sudden caprice . " Laws Not Uniform . In this the commissioner seems to have the support of public opinion.1 It has been pointed out that the manner in which many motorcycle men patrol their posts is farcical . Some of them , it is held , have a habit of ' ' hiding out " in by-roads , swooping out on an occasional motorist and neglecting the valuable preventive work they could do by riding the highways and curbing recklessness merely by their presence . But when it comes to enforcement of the laws , a difficulty is found in the wide variation of traffic rules even in adjoining communities . For instance , on the Long Island Sound side of Westchester County the towns and cities stretch in an unbroken line from the Bronx to the Connecticut line . There are seven distinct municipalities , separated only by signs denoting the boundary lines , and yet each has its own peculiar traffic regulations . Of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all parts of the United States , and until some uniformity is achieved there seems to be little hope of materially reducing the automobile death toll . Those who are conscious of the problem here feel , however , that a start could be made if the State would exercise greater care in issuing licenses to drivers and in the mechanical inspection of motor vehicles . There might also be better patroling of highways and stricter enforcement of existing regulations , unsatisfactory as they may be .                     