@@699412

txt Broadway moving picture houses , the show window of the industry , have been considerably encouraged by the improvement in attendance after Christmas . which followed a pre-holiday slump that brought receipts down to 30 , , of normal . Improvement is clue to the usual combination of better picture releases and seasonal factors which go together since the best pictures are shown at a time when attendance is apt to be best . With better picture releases available there should be sonic improvement in income of ' film companies in the next month or so . but the trend toward lower admission prices in many cities and reduction of public spending power in the third winter of the depression still cloud the outlook . The moving picture Industry , having passed through the most difficult year in its history , is looking forward to another year of readjustment and retrenchment in which the results of the work already accomplished should begin to take effect . However , the problem of budgeting expenses to meet a continued decline in income is still present . Important Economies Effected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjusting the industry to the change in operating conditions are a general seduction in office overhead and executive expense : a reduction in negatives costs due to studio economies and to a better scheduling pictures which saves waste of time by high priced actors ; reduction in rentals of the ties ; closing or sale of unprofitable theatres ; and a general policy of decentralization of thsatre management which reduced home office expense ; and the setting up of new and more drastic policies of film amortization in line with the new scale of income . The- latter . while obviously neither an economy nor a cause of Inwer earnings is of primary importance in showing film companies and their stockholders what their actual profits are under current income . Films are , practically speaking , the merchandise sold by moving picture companies . They , are charged into inventory at cost and as they are exhibited for a rental fee , a certain Percentage of the coat is charged off weekly , the balance being the company 's profit . The rate of charging off these films was of necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline in the available income of the industry . ( in other words a decline in the price for which the merchandise can be sold ) makes it necessary to.change the rate at which amortization of film costs are written off . Amortization Revised Thus silent films had a certain well estab lished average life on which tables of amortization were based . Sound films , which cost more an the average , and at first earned much more than silent films , later turned out to have a. shorter life  --  that is a greater part of their total rentals were received in the first fewmonths of release . This obviously meant that a. larger portion of the cost had to be charged . off in the early weeks of release . In the last year the sharp decline in box office attendance and available income required another and more drastic revision in amortization rates . The erection of de luxe houses all over the country in the last few years , the more rapid release of films in territories outside the big cities and the general trend toward a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changing conditions Paramount-Publix Corp . has set up a new scale of film amortization which at present 151 the most drastic followed by any company in the industry since it charges off 505 , of the cost of films in the first six weeks of release and 95.9 " ; of cost in the first 26 weeks . This scale is applied to the 90 " 0 of negative and positive film costs allocated to domestic business , the remaining 10 ' - being allocated to foreign busi. ness and amortized under a separate scale . New and Old Sealers The following table of Paramount 's present amortization shows cumulative portion of domestic cost written off : Positices are written off on about the same scale as Warner Bros Fox Film Corp . in amortizing Its feature negative costs , formerly charged off .50 ' , of gross domestic rentals on each picture weekly : for 52 weeks with the deficit if any charged off in the 52d week . This has subsequently been increased to 70 " - , of rentals . For internal accounting purposes 1-45 of negative cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gross domestic rentals is applied to the 67 " , , of the cost of feature pictures allocated to ( in ( - nestle business . The remaining 33 ' , of coot is allocated to foreign business and amortized beginning with the time of foreign release . under a similar scale . Loew 's . Inc. , has recently adopted a new and more drastic scale of film amortization as stated in its annual report recently published but a detailed schedule is not at present available .                     