@@701755

txt Concern over the uprising of army troops in Tokyo continued unabated here today , notwithstanding reassuring official reports from Japan . It appeared that the issue might not yet be settled and that the prospect of an extreme militaryfascist government , even though it might observe parliamentary forms , could not be dismissed immediately . The political implications of the revolt are not expected to be detected clearly for several days . Should army extremists gain complete control , a policy of direct action in foreign affairs would be looked for , particularly with respect to China and Outer Mongolia , observers here believe . In recent months the restraining hand of civilian influences has deterred the army somewhat in its ventures on the Asiatic mainland . Whether this would bring nearer the danger of war between Japan and Russia or some other power was felt by observers here to be too early for surmise . It was evident to informed observers that restiveness in the army under even relatively slight restraints imposed by civilian liberal elements had precipitated the nprising . Should it develop that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the implications would be gerbils , and would point to a major coup of far-reaching consequences , observers felt . Army Control Is Predicted . In any event , experts were very largely in agreement today that the revolt foreshadowed control of the government by the army . This would leave principally for determination by the events of the next few days whether the army itself would be dominated by extremists or by relatively moderate officers who would listen to appeals to reason from industrialists , financiers and other civilian elements , even though they might not adopt advice from these sources . Frequent reports were received from Tokyo today by the State Department from Joseph C. Grew , United States Ambassador to Japan , and by Hirosi Saito , the Japanese Ambassador here . These were mainly along the lines of press dispatches and threw little new light on the situation . The reports from Mr. Grew were not made public . Those from the Foreign Office to Ambassador Saito were given out in part through oral summaries , but contributed little to a knowledge of the situation . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops were again domiciled in their barracks under control of the First Division commander , or whether some or all of them were still in occupation of buildings they seized last night . ' Spread of the Revolt Feared . While apparently private pursuits of civilians were not being interfered with , a serious interpretation was placed on continued Tokyo reports that the government needed troops for reinforcement hours after the assassinations , and that , eventually , martial law had been declared . That the revolt had spread beyond Tokyo was indicated by a brief official report late today to the effect that Osaka was quiet . This was the first mention of that city in the reports . If the uprising were localized in a relatively small body of troops and a few junior officers , it was not understood here why reinforcements were needed , or why the necessity of them was proclaimed long after the outbreak , since many troops are always garrisoned in Tokyo and its immediate vicinity . Normally the army maintains from 30,000 to 40,000 troops in that area . They consist of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with attached auxiliaries nearly equal to another division , and of the reinforced crack guards division . There are thousands of additional troops within relatively short train dis-1 tance of the capital . Nor was it understood why naval ships had been ordered to proceed to ports near the area of revolt . Whether this meant that widespread disaffection existed in the army against the government but had not spread to the navy could only be conjectured . Martial Law Is Confirmed . Some reports received in diplomatic circles were that martial law had been declared in order to give the army complete control of the government without further bloodshed , until it had consolidated its political control . The Japanese Embassy would not comment on these reports . The Embassy had official confirmation that martial law had been declared and that the Goto Cabinet had resigned . It was disposed to regard the latter as a formality . The resignation , it was explained , could have been a form of assuming responsibility for the assassinations , in as much as Minister Goto was a member of the Cabinet when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a logical course for him to be continued in office pending the selection of a permanent Premier . - Official comment by government spokesmen here was restrained . William Phillips , Under-Secretary of State , said at a press conference that the State Department deeply regretted the assassinations . He expressed the opinion that the uprising would not have an adverse effect upon the London naval conference . Beyond this he declined to comment . Representative , chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , characterized the coup as " outrageous " and as detrimental to world peace conditions . He hoped that it " would draw the lines so closely that there may be a chance for civil authorities once more to gain control of the government . " " If running the government was left to the civil authorities of Japan it would mean much to the peace of the world , especially in the Orient , " said Mr , , Senators Withhold Comment . Members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee discussed the situation informally at their regular executive session today , but did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Saito viewed the revolt as a gesture by a limited group of soldiers , apparently bent on taking control of the government . He emphasized , however , that they were loyal to the Emperor , and said he was convinced that the outbreak would not change the fundamental form of the Japanese Government or affect relations with the United States . His reports , he said , stated that order and peace prevailed and that business was normal , although soldiers were protecting important government buildings as a police measure . Senator Elbert D. Thomas of Utah , who is regarded as an authority on the Far East , through years of residence there as a scholar , did not believe that the revolt carried in it the seeds of a threat to world peace . He read in it a lesson for orderly government . " The assassination method , " he said , " will be as much condemned by the people of Japan as it is in this country . A small group of overambitious persons trying to rule by terror does not represent Japan or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the recent Japanese election , in which the same group lost sixty , seats in the Japanese Parliament . "                     