@@698806

txt Although educational institutions were pioneers in general radiocasting , the number of educational stations has " decreased alarmingly " in the past eight years , said Mr. C. M. Jansky Jr. , consulting radio engineer , in an address before the second annual assembly of the National Advisory Council on Radio in education here today . Mr. Jansky was closely assocleft:1 with the establishment of radliset , sing stations at two of the largesruniversities in the country . " If broadcasting is the great potential educational force we now all believe it to be , why has the number of educational stations decreased 50 per cent in the past eight years ? " Mr. Jansky asked . He made it clear that when he referred to educational stations and commercial stations his distinctions were based on ownership and on types of programs . " Although stations owned by educational institutions were in operation well in advance of commercial stations , they were in the main operated by departments of physics and electrical engineering , " he continued . " But little publicity attended operation of these stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , educators as a whole at that time paid little attention to what was going on . " Commercial organizations , however , when they entered the , field were quick to realize the possibilities of broadcasting as an agency for reaching the public . As a result , commercial stations rapidly increased , in number . When conditions became such that serious interference resulted and improvements ; n power and frequency assignments could be obtained only at the expense of others in the field , it was inevitable that the enterprising and farsighted should attempt by every means available to improve and strengthen their position . Educational stations should be operated as a major activity of the institutions which own them and by persons who have a thorough knowledge of both possibilities and limitations of the medium of expression they are dealing with , Mr , Jansky said . Teachers whose privilege it is to appear before the microphone should not consider their radiocasting ' of secondary importance to any ? of their other duties , he said , but should serve their radio pupils " with that same high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers are remembered and loved by those who have been associated with them in the class room . " Special to The Christian Science Monitor MINNEAPOLIS , Minn. , May 20 ? Commercial domination of radio programs is undermining education , Mr. Joy Elmer Morgan of Washington , chairman of the National Committee on Radio Education , charged at the National Congress of Parents and Teachers here yesterday . " We can not afford to leave a national resource so powerful as radio in the hands of monopolistic interests , " he said . " The American plan of radio management threatens to crush out local culture in favor of New Yorkism and Hollywoodism . " Local communities and the states have little control over the ideas and attitudes being poured into people 's Minds through the air , Mr. Morgan asserted . " Educational programs either are forced entirely off the air or are given the worst hours , " he said . " The constant interference of the Federal Radio Commission with the operation of radio stations by educational institutions constitutes the greatest invasion in the country 's history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within their borders . " Guidance of Child Educational and welfare problems of children occupied the attention of other speakers at various sectional conferences . The " oll-fashioned " idea of developing obedience to authority from the cradle and a continuance of that habit through the plastic years was deemed most effective ' in preventing juvenile delinquency by Mr. E. F. Waite of Minneapolis , district Judge . Judge Waite declared the juvenile court should act as a centralized agency for the protection and welfare of children rather ' than as a criminal court . " When a child ? who has grown up in an antisocial environment is saved ? for good citizenship , . society sharesthe advantages of his reformation , " Judge Waite said . Parents , lie ' continued , should not have to be told to avoid shifting the entire responsibility for the moral education of their children to the schools and courts . Praises Statesmanship Mr. David Lawrence , publisher , of Washington , urged pares is and teachers to regard statesmanship as a noble profession , declaring that representative government is perfect government only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed electorate . Curtailment of education leads to decreases in business and industry , Dr. Augustus O. Thomas of Washington , secrdtary-general of the World Federation of Education Associations , said . A nation 's economic growth , he argued , goes hand in hand with the increase in the number of Its educated citizens . " If the 10,000,000 to 15.000,000 illiterates in the United States were educated , they would demand so many more conveniences and luxuries of living that they would more than consume the 10 per cent of our products which we are unable to export to foreign countries . " he said . Mrs. Robbins Gilman of Minneapolis , of the International Council of Women , recommended government control of motion pictures during production and distribution . She said that , the film produced for entertainment purposes is a menace to American culture .                     