@@698703

txt Six men are known to be dead , 57 are injured , while an undetermined number  --  possibly rang , ing as high as twenty  --  are buried under tons of debris , after an explosion late today that wrecked the state 's new $10,000 , - 000 13 story office building in the downtown section of the city . Three of the injured are not expected to live . The cause of the explosion has not been determined , but officials are working on the theory that bombs were responsible . Construction of the building , virtually completed , was halted a numl ) er of times as the result of labor disputes , it was recalled tonight . See Evidence of Bombs . Investigators first on the scene r ported that a sweet , pungent odor filled the structure . This odor , they said , could be accounted for only by the presence of detonated nitroglycerin . Officials also believe that there were several simultaneous explo.sions . The building commission started its investigation within an hour , after the explosion . The committee was- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused ' the ? ? blast and an explosion in the : boiler. room was impossible as there was noheat in the room . T. S. Brindle , state superintendent of public works , late tonight advanced the theory that high explosives wrecked the building . Damage to the structure was estimated at not less than $2,000,000 and some state officials feared there was a possibility that the entire structure would have to be rebuilt before it could be occupied . State offices on the upper floors of the building had been occupied for some time and the lower floors were to have been pressed into service June 1 . Fire Halts Rescuers . The workmen in the basement were buried by falling debris . Fire broke out and raged for two hours before it was brought under control . Water mains broke and the basement was submerged . Smoke and water added to the difficulties of the rescue crack 's . The origin of the blast was believed to have been in the basement boiler room and its irrepressible force carried to floors above through open elevator shafts . Scores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interior of the building and began their search for victims . Tons of marble , tiling . and plaster made progress slow , as did twisted beams of steel and iron . The first floor was entirely destroyed . The southwest corner and the west and north sides of the building were torn and ripped like pasteboard . Shattered glass was hurled against the concrete retaining wall 50 feet to the west . of the building and workmen in that section were flattened to the ground and a number of them cut by the flying glass . Elevator Shafts Demolished . Greatest damage was in evidence in the basement and first floor , for scarcely a section of the walls , floors , or ceilings was left intact . The elevator shafts were demolished through the eleventh floor . Strangely , John Whalen , the only elevator operator on duty , miraculously escaped death . Giant slabs of marble , perilously dangling from slithered plaster and wire reinforcements , made the heroic work of firemen dangerous . On the second floor the ceilings buckled , beams sagged , and columns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ window in the 13 story structure was shattered by the blast . The job of installing the glass had been completed only last week and they were receiving their first washing at the time of the explosion . Red Cross rescue workers estimated that it might be two or three days before the debris in the sub-basement could be thoroughly searched for remaining bodies . A wheelbarrow , scaffolding , and fragments of marble could be seen in the Scioto river following the blast . The river is about 70 feet from the building . . One of the first workmen to . emerge from the southwest section of the basement was M. M. Winkelman , who - was employed with W. R. Huff on one of a number of boilers . " I thought the entire building was going to come down on - us , " he said . The atmosphere was almost instantly black with a mixture of dust , but Huff and I managed to reach an opening leading to the first floor . " Those less fortunate than Hinkelman and Huff who were working in the depths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below the ground . Their means of escape was scanty , the only hope being a single ladder reaching from the bottom a the basement to an opening in the center of the first floor . Believes Over 25 Buried . - 0. 0 . Lammers , maintenance state electrician , who was doing special ' work on the second floor , said that he knew there were more than 25 workmen in the center portion of the basement . They were variously classified as tinners , electricians , plasterers , plumbers , and general laborers , a part of the estimated 160 men who were at work on the building . When officials went reconnoitering for bodies they found that the heaps of debris , under which many bodies *might be concealed , were covered with . the water . During this search , Lieut . V. T. : O'Rourke , a fireman , was knocked . temporarily unconscious by a falling slab of marble after he had helped ' remove almost a score of men , both ' dead and living . Twenty members of the Ohio National Guard were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night at the state office building . The building , being erected by the , Struck Construction company of Cincinnati and Louisville. was to have ' been completal in another month . ' State officials were planning to begin may the task of transferring furniture and equipment from a score of - cidely separated downtown state of:Sees into the 13 story structure of attractive Georgia marble . A. F. of L. Chief Shocked . Thomas J. Donnelly , secretary of tie Columbus Federation of Labor , received the following message from - william Green , president of the American Federation of Labor : " I am inexpressibly shocked over the terrible tragedy which occurred at the new state office building today . " I can not find language which will adequately express my feelings of distress . It is difficult to understand the origin and cause of such a terrific ex-plosion . The terrible loss of the building and the property destroyed is overshadowed by the loss of life and the injury which numerous workers sustained . I have recommended to the governor that a thorough and complete investigation be promptly taidertaken in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I respectfully ask that you join i 0 . this request for an immediate investigation and that you tender your services and the services of organized labor in Ohio , which has suffered so gently in this explosion , in making an ceEtigation as I have herein outrh , .0 . " ? Hail Saves Policeman 's Life . The fact that a workman called to Karshner , special policeman at office building , probably saved his life . As he answered the call , the policeman walked toward the north en-ira ace . Immediately thereafter , the blast occurred and where he had been sianding was converted into a yawning pit . The basement of the Columbus auditorium across the street was turned into a temporary morgue an hour tier rescue work had gotten under ' way . At the same time a burlesque xitow was being presented on the main : boor                     