@@702369

txt Democratic leaders in Congress echoed administrative praise of the Roosevelt program for judiciary reorganization . Republicans promptly attacked it . The program itself was quickly referred to the Judiciary Committees of the tWo chambers , preliminary to open hearings . There was evidence that the full New Deal strength in Congress would be martialed behind the surprise plan . Senator Joseph T. Robinson ( D ) of Arkansas , majority leader , was out with a prepared statement almost as soon as the message was released declaring it represented no " violent innovation " and adding : " It appears likely that the substantial recommendations in the message will receive favorable consideration by the Senate . " Speaker Bankhead , in the House , , said the message involved a " sound ? principle . " " It Is certainly the biggest thing we will have before us this session , " he added , forecasting the prdposal would be passed after " adequate hearings . " With only half its members present , the House listened intently as the clerk droned out the reading , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installed in the chamber to broadcast the reading Republicans were just as quick to express opposition to the program . Bertrand H. Snell ( RI of New York , minority leader in the House . accused the Administration of attempting to wreck the judiciary . " This Administration already had destroyed the economic stability of the country and apparently will not be content until It destroys the judicial stability , " Representative Hamilton Fish ( R ) of New York , declared that " the sole purpose of the . President is to pack the Supreme Court with a favorable majority for unconstitutional New Deal measures . " A more cautious attitude was taken by other Republicans . Charles L. illeNary ( RI of Oregon , Senate minority leader , for example , declared the " proposal must be studied with great care as It involves the transfer to the , President of greater power than ever befpre held over the judiciary . " Representative ' filen T. Tread , way ( B ) of Massachusetts , also thought it " too serious a matter . un width to pass snap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel much better If I were sure it was not inspired by the President 's desire to secure favorable decisions on the New Deal type of legislation . "                     