@@702453

txt Despite the current strike . Chrysler Corp . will be able to maintain normal sales for at least two weeks due to large stocks of cars now in the hands of divisional dealers . A settlement of the corporation 's labor difficulties within that period would presumably enable it to ride through its shut-down with a minimum of loss of business . It was , pointed out here that all Chrysler units had been running at capacity for the past several months , with the result that stocks were built up . Production was averaging about 6,000 units a day before the recent labor troubles and purchases were aggregating around $50,000,000 a month . Meanwhile , intercession of Governor Frank Murphy of Michigan raised the possibility of a. break in the strike deadlock which yesterday continued to tie-up Chrysler and Hudson Motors . The Governor , negotiator of the General Motors settlement , was expected to arrive here from Florida today . He is expected to immediately center his attention on attempting to reach a compromise on the CIO union 's demand for sole collective bargaining rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The afternoon conference of Chrysler and union officials was adjourned until this morning at 10 o'clock without any agreement being reached on the sole bargaining issue . Both sides restated their position , but neither made any concessions . Arrangements were made , however , for entry of office workers , opening up of switchboards , and entry of plant managers and superintendents into plants for inspection purposes . The company agreed not to make any effort to resume production . Meanwhile , operations were resumed at Chevrolet and Fisher Body plant No. 1 in Flint pending negotiations by local union leaders and plant officials on several minor disputes . Negotiations on a general agreement between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers ' Union , to provide a way of handling ' such , disputes without recourse to strikes , will be resumed this morning . The principal remaining issue is the union demand for establishment of a nation-wide minimum wage in all General Motors ' automobile plants . Hudson Negotiations Negotiations will also be resumed at Hudson today , with a conference scheduled for 4 p. 232. following a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Hudson main plant last night , 100 in the axle plant and none in the body plant . The most promising chance for a settlement of Chrysler 's difficulties seems to be the possibility of Governor Murphy working out a compromise agreement on the sole bargaining issue as he did in the General Motors strike . The formula used in that case , however , will not work here since the union is much stronger relatively in Chrysler plants than it was in General Motors where it probably lacked a majority . Its negotiators have a mandate from their locals not to compromise on this issue . The company 's position was set forth yesterday by B. E. Hutchinson , chairman of the finance committee . In commenting on the union claim of.90% membership among Chrysler employes , he said : ' The number of ' UAW members is not material . We have always been willing to discuss conditions of work and wages with any group on the basis of the workers it represents . Our position remains as it was yesterday . We have been dealing with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . just as we have been dealing with other groups . We are quite willing to continue to deal with - them on that basis . " Four plants of Bohn Aluminum &; Brass Corp . remained closed yesterday while negotiations scheduled for Tuesday afternoon were postponed until Wednesday . Meanwhile , the union held meetings of employes in two of these plants which had been closed as result of strikes in two others and voted to go on strike themselves . They planned to picket the plants this morning .                     