@@703796

txt The Republicans in the Legislature submitted today a program dealing with searches and seizures and wiretapping that is far-reaching in its implications and likely to revive the battle which raged last Summer in the Constitutional Convention . In addition , they announced that in the near future a twelvepoint program designed to aid public prosecutors in their war on crime will also be introduced . Today 's bills were sponsored by Senator Frederic R. Coudert Jr . and Assemblyman Mitchell , both Manhattan Republicans . The bills , as well as those promised for the future , have all the earmarks of being-the program of Thomas E. Dewey . It is definite that the bills were submitted with Mr. Dewey 's approval , even though they may not have been prepared in his office . Heading the list are search and seizure and wire-tapping , and only on the question of wire-tapping is there any element of compromise in the Republican attitude . The bills prohibit the introduction in court of evidence obtained by the interception , without court order , of any telephone or telegraphic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , documents , weapons or any other kind of evidence obtaioned without a search warrant would be made legally admissible . It is admissible now in the State courts , but not in the Federal courts , under a court ruling handed down by the late Benjamin Nathan Cardozo when he was chief judge of the Court of Appeals . In order to carry on wire-tapping and obtain admission of the evidence in court , the District Attorney would have to go to a judge , describe the person or persons whose messages are to be intercepted , and obtain an order good for a period of time specified by the judge , but not longer than for six months . After the judge had granted the order , all the papers in the case would be returned to the District Attorney . Another feature of the anti-wiretapping program is one which prohibits telephone or telegraph company employes from divulging to any person the contents of a message , but at the same time making it mandatory that the District Attorney be informed whenever " it shall appear that any criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unlawful business or transaction has been or is being carried on or conducted in whole or in part by means of telegraphic or telephonic communication . " Penalty for Not Giving Data A telegraph company official who fails to make such a report would be guilty of a misdemeanor . It would appear that the placing of a bet by telephone or telegraph , or the operation of a bookmaking establishment , would so have to be reported . The proposal to legalize by statute admission of evidence which apparently would be obtained in violation of the constitutional provisions contained in the State Bill of Rights is made more striking because of the fact that the first two sections repeat , word for word , the constitutional mandate on the subject . It then says : " Nothing contained herein shall affect the admissibility of books , papers , documents and other evidence in any court , or before any board or officer , or in any trial , investigation , inquiry or other proneeding , but no telephone or tele ; mph communication intercepted since the first day of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any court or before any board ) r officer , or in any trial unless an . ? . x parte order as herein provided for such interception shall have ) een obtained . " In the twelve-point crime pro ; ram , which was merely outlined n a joint statement by the two legslators , is a change in the Code . of criminal Procedure , making the tatute of limitations on conspirales to commit felonies five years nstead of two . Mr. Dewey has been ! sing the conspiracy charge with Lotable success , although handiapped at times by the two-year tatute of limitations . The Republican bills conflict sharply with the Democratic antiwire-tapping bills sponsored as a result of Go-. for Lehman 's annual message . The Democratic bills are " program " measures , which impose drastic penalties on violators , and follow the Democratic stand in the Constitutional Convention that evidence illegally obtained in any search and seizure shall not be admissible in court . Messrs . Coudert and Mitchell , talking of the Democratic arbitrary and , capricious and so drawn that their effect would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our bills are realistic and fair . " The two legislators declared also that the bills are " drawn to accord a fuller measure of protection for the innocent without in any way hamstringing the prosecution . " The summary of the Republican " legislative anti-crime program " which is still to come is as follows : " Amendment of various provisions of the penal law with regard to immunity from prosecution of witnesses compelled to testify so that all provisions are uniform in language . Would State Court 's Power " An amendment to the penal . law to provide that a jury recommendation for life imprisonment in a felony murder case must be unanimous , and to indicate more clearly that the court may use its discretion , even after such unanimous recommendation , in the matter of a life sentence . " An amendment to the penal law to , provide that recommendations for life imprisonment in kidnap convictions must be unanimous . " An amendment to the penal law to eliminate the distinctions between common law larceny , false pretenses and embezzlement in order to simplify the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the penal law to provide for grand larceny prosecutions ' even though the theft be made up of several takings , if those takings were from the same person and continuous in nature , motivated by a single impulse or desire . ' Under the present law a person who misappropriated money entrusted to him , even though his thefts , might reach a high total , may be prosecuted only for petit larceny if it can not be shown that he took more than $100 on any particular day . Change , in Revolver Law Sought " An amendment to the Penal Law to provide that the crime of receiving stolen goods shall not be a felony in all instances , as at present , but only in cases where the value of the stolen goods exceeds $100 , as in larceny . " An amendment to the Penal Law to make carrying a loaded revolver a felony whether or not the weapon is fully concealed . " An amendment to the Code of Criminal procedure to provide that the statute . of limitations for conspiracies to commit felonies shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , instead of the present two years . " An amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to provide that nate jurors in the trials of misdemeanors as welt as in the trials of felonies . " An amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to provide that a suspended sentence be considered a conviction for a fourth offense as well as for a second offense . " An amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to enlarge the power of the State to appeal . " An amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to provide not only for the bringing of witnesses from another State but also to compel the witnesses to produce books , papers or other evidence they may have in their possession or control . "                     