@@700738

txt Wrapped in his martial cloak , his hands folded as if in prayer , Paul von Hindenburg , twice chosen President of the German Republic , lay in state today in his old East Prussian manor . Death had been merciful to the 86-year-old warrior when it summoned him from a deep but painless slumber at 9 o'clock this morning , following a night of fast-ebbing strength which told bedside watchers that the once rugged old soldier had lost his last battle . An hour after the Presidential standard over the manor hou4e at Neudeck had dropped to half staff the official news machinery pro ? claimed to a stunned nation that in Adolf Hitler would be vested the powers of both President and Chancellor  --  giving him autocratic authority of a scope never accorded to a Hohenzollern monarch of the past nor vested in the head of any other modern State . Waving aside all considerations of constitutional niceties , the Reich Cabinet soon after Herr Hitler 's return from the President 's deathbed at Neudeck last night decreed permanent consolidation of the functions of President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reich leadership . The ' law became effective with the death of Field Marshal von Hindenburg today . Plebiscite Is Ordered . In an evident desire to give the Cabinet 's procedure a stronger legal basis . Herr Hitler addressed a communication to Dr. Wilhelm Frick , Minister of the Interior , tonight instructing him to make the necessary preparations for a plebiscite confirming his dual functions . The Chancellor also desires to be addressed only as Reich Chancellor or Fuehrer Leader , he said . President von Hindenburg , the Chancellor wrote , has by his greatness given a unique luster and significance to the office of Reich President and the title is " indissolubly bound up " with the Field Marshal . Herr Hitler therefore re ; . quested that the designation be confined to Field Marshal von Hindenburg . The plebiscite has been set for Aug. 19 . Meanwhile Dr. Otto Meissner retains his position as Secretary of State in the office of the President . By assumption of his enhanced authority , Herr Hitler incidentally becomes Commander-in-Chief of the Reich 's defense forces . Under an oath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was transferred from President von Hindenburg to Chancellor Hitler . The oath , sworn under orders issued by Defense Minister Werner von Blomberg , was as follows : I swear before God this holy oath : that I will render unconditional obedience to the Fiihrer of the German Reich and people , Adolf Hitler , Commander-in-Chief of the defensive forces , and that as a brave soldier I will be ready at all times to pledge my life for this oath . Becomes Sole Arbiter . As Herr Hitler is also undisputed leader of the National Socialist party , which is an integral part of the State , the man whom President von Hindenburg less than two years ago twice rejected as a candidate for the Chancellorship now becomes sole and supreme arbiter over the destinies of the German people . With Franz von Papen , who , it is known , was strongly backed by President von Hindenburg , shunted from the Cabinet to the post of special envoy to Austria , another 1 important change in the Cabinet was announced today . Dr. Kurt Schmitt , Minister of Economics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded for a six-month period by Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , who will continue to be president of the Reicbsbank as well . Under the provisions of the enabling act voted by the Reichstag in March , 1933 , the Hitler government received an almost indefinite cruising radius , but even an elementary interpretation of what remains of the Weimar Constitution suggests that the Cabinet 's procedure last night will not bear scrutiny . That the Cabinet appears conscious of this weakness was made evident today by the uniform absence of all editorial discussion of its procedure . It deliberately ignored the statute confirmed by the Reichstag that designates the President of the Reich Supreme Court as temporary incumbent of the Presidency , if it is made vacant by death or disability , pending a national election for President . The enabling act , despite its elasticity , does not touch Presidential prerogatives , nor does it permit the office of Reich President to be bandied or bartered . It remains the prerogative of the sovereign electorate . Legal Provisions in Situation . The legal provisions governing the succession to the Presidency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the National Socialists and adopted by the Reichstag with the necessary two-thirds majority on Dec. 9 , 1932 , declares : " In case of disability the Reich President will be represented by the President of the Reich Supreme Court . " The same provision applies in the case of a premature vacancy in the Presidency until a new election has been held . " The enabling act adopted by the Reichstag on March 23 , 1933 provides : " To the government is given powers to pass all ordinances , including changes in the Constitution in so far as they do not affect the institution of the Reichstag and the Federal Council as such . " But the act also provides explicitly that " the prerogatives of the Reich President remain untouched . " Public Curiosity Diverted . With the German press swamped with reminiscences of Field Marshal von Hindenburg and related topical news , undue public curiosity over the further consolidation of Herr Hitler 's dictatorship was easily diverted to other channels . In a country where political influences invade and almost ruthlessly dominate all fields of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouraged . In the welter of official and semiofficial pronouncements evoked by the death of President von Hindenburg , Herr Hitler is freely acclaimed the dead President 's political heir and the President 's authority is invoked for the Chancellor 's assumption of the Presidential functions . " President von Hindenburg opened the gates to a new Germany and thereby brought about the fulfillment of centuries of German longing , " observed General von Blomberg In his pronouncement to the Reichswehr , in which he admonished members of the German Army to follow Herr Hitler 's leadership . Whether the President left a " political testament " to German posterity remained an unanswered question today , although reports to that effect have long been current . Such appraisals of the political role he played as head of the nation as one encountered today were to the effect that President von Hindenburg 's political mission for all practical purposes had terminated with the " day of Potsdam " in 1933 which sealed his pact with Herr Hitler . Since that day ' he had left the affairs of State to the Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the Germ= popular imagination he remains the hero of Tannenberg . Clashed With Chancellor . That there were frequent and sometimes heated clashes between the President and his Chancellor has not been denied and there were plenty of rumors current today that differences over the position of Vice Chancellor von Papen in the Hitler Cabinet had brought about an estrangement between the two men . It was reported that the shifting of Lieut . Col. von Papen to the Vienna post was hotly disapproved by President von Hindenburg . The appointment to Vienna , it was said , was made over the President 's head , a procedure that irritated him all the more as it represented an invasion of his official prerogatives . The encounter was his last argument with the Chancellor , who , it would now seem , ? won out .                     