@@701025

txt Chicago 's success in crashing a Chinese wall of freight rates at the Ohio river and opening a market in eleven southeastern states a few years back is now giving zest to efforts to increase trade with the Pacific coast . The struggle is to lessen the economic squeeze of the Panama canal upon industry of the central west Cheap water haul via the canal brought the Atlantic manufacturing seaboard closer to Pacific buyers . Years ago the central west realized it was in a nutcracker between coasts . Policies of the Central West . To ease the pressure , the efforts are : 3 . To preserve the Illinois waterway , which gives a water route between the Great Lakes and the Gulf of Mexico . Pending In Washington is the St. Lawrence treaty which threatens the Illinois waterway with insufficient water for navigation and which would give Canada Joint controt with the United States over Lake Michigan , an American lake . Z. To speed lip freight movement to the Pacific coast . In the last five or six years , two or three days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Chicago to San Francisco , Los An. , gales , Portland , and Seattle . Consignments now reach these cities , gate . ways to the orient , in seven days . It is urged six days would suffice . Significance of Freight Rates . Swifter delivery by rail . meaning reduced interest on goods in transit , it is held , Will materially help to offset the Atlantic seaboard 's advantage of low freight rates by water . One of Chicago 's business epics qwq is the fifty year siege of the Chinese wall at the Ohio river , which blocked Chicago commerce from eleven states of lire southeast . The city is some ? what over a century old , and during almost half its corporate existence it waged a struggle to get into , this closed territory on equal terms with New England and the east . Success in tearing down the wall is accounted the greatest single accomplishment of the Chicago Association of Commerce . J. P. Haynes , executive vice president of the association , led the fight . To change the metaphorical geography he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Post-Bellum Rail Situation . Alter the civil war Louisville and other Ohio river cities and St. Louis had railroad outlets and became active competitors of the eastern seaboard for t h e southern markets . From colonial times these markets bad been an outlet for manufactured products of New England and the east . To invade thin rich southern territory , Cincinnati built its own railroad to Chattanooga . Still owned by Cincinnati , it is leased to the Southern railway . Chicago , the great railroad center , was walled off . The Ohio river was the basing point for rail rates . Under these Chicago could not compete on an equitable basis with the North Atlantic , typified by New York and Boston nor with the Ohio river cities . Early in the %Os Chicago took the discrimination into the courts , which held they could not act . Discriminations all over the country led in 1887 to the formation of the interstate commerce commission . Ohio River Wan Crushed . Constant warfare in which Chicago was prominent went on before this eosnruisslon until 1922 , when an agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up a new rate structure . It was to be predicated on the stipulation that the Chicago to Atlanta , Ga .. freight charge be the same as the New York in Atlanta cost . Finally on Jan. 15 , 1928 , tarifs were established knocking out the Ohio river as a basing point. , 11172 ... - 47,1+1. from Chicago to Atlanta were made $1.91 a hundredweight , where they had been $2.38 . The drop of 47 cents opened the southeast to Chicago . " Transportation , " says Mr. Haynes , " is the lifeblood of Chicago , but it requires equable freight rates and fast service to escape hardening of the artArir .. a. "                     