@@701652

txt On the heels of a plea for harmony by Governor Lehman , the Republicans in the Legislature gave evidence today that they intended to fight the Governor and the New Deal tooth and nail , opening fire on the Chief Executive on several fronts . With the Governor declaring himself pleased with the public response to his annual message , the Republicans at once offered a series of measures to carry out important items in their own legislative program and indicated marked hostility to several major features set forth in the Lehman agenda . Speaker Irving M. Ives and Oswald D. Heck , majority leader of the Assembly , issued statements of comment on the message in which they set forth their belief that the Governor had helped himself to Republican ideas for the best parts of his program . At the same time , under direction of the leaders , the Republican members planned to push their bills differing in major aspects from some of the Lehman recommendations . While the Governor has agreed with the Republicans that a Statewide investigation of relief is necessary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markedly different from that proposed by the Governor . Assemblyman Herbert Brownell Jr. , New York Republican , introduced a bill to set up a relief investigation commission to which the Governor would have no power of appointment . Democratic Rule Feared . Under the bill the commission would be composed of the members of the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration and the Public Relief and Welfare Committees of the Senate and Assembly . The Governor urged a commission made ' up of the four Democratic and Republican leaders of the Legislature and four persons to be appointed by himself . The cleavage on this issue has not yet been defined , since neither side has taken a last-ditch stand for its particular type of investigating body . However , the fact that Mr. Brownell 's bill came immediately after the Governor 's message was accepted as indicating that the Republicans were ready to do battle on the program . One Republican contention , is that under the Governor 's plan he would be in a position to see that the Democratic party dominated the two Republican legislative leaders through the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want a nonpartisan , thoroughgoing relief investigation , " commented the Governor . After the Republicans had intro- duced their series of program measures it was made clear that in many respects they carried out recommendations of Governor Lehman , although in many instances ' they differed in particulars . Commenting on the Lehman message , Speaker Ives said : " Due to the rush of work which has followed on the heels of the organization of the Assembly , I have been unable to give more than casual attention to the Governor 's message to the Legislature . Perfunctory examination , however , would-seem to indicate that in the preparation of his message the Governor dipped liberally into both the agenda and recommendations to the Legislature adopted by the recent joint conference of Republican members of the Legislature and Republican county chairmen held in Albany on Dec. 18 last . " At the earliest possible moment I will analyze the message in detail and will have comment to make upon it at that time . " Mr. Heck . said : " The newspapers have asked me to comment on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had little opportunity to study it , I join with Speaker Ives in observing that Mr. Lehman has helped himself most liberally to recommendations of the recent Republican conference of legislators and county chairmen held in Albany and to previous legislative measures sponsored by Republican members of both houses last year and in previous years . Long-Range Planning Favored . " While exhaustive analysis of the message will follow within the next few days , cursory examination of this very lengthy document reveals the following : " I am very glad to note that the Governor has seen fit to accept several ideas advanced by the recent Republican joint conference for a legislative investigation of the whole relief set-up of the State , including its administration , and the unemployment problem generally . " The Governor , in his message , has finally come around to the Republican viewpoint and recommendation , that the duties of the TERA and its functions should be transferred to the Department of Social Welfare . This was first suggested early in the session of 1935 by Assemblyman Wadsworth , and it should be pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entire subject . " It also appears that the Governor has finally accepted the Republican viewpoint , also expressed early in the 1935 session by Assemblyman Wadsworth and the Republican minority , that there is need for long-range planning in the unemployment relief problem . " I note that the Governor in his message recommends compulsory motor vehicle inspection , and in doing so he once again echoes the recommendation of Republican members of the Legislature . A bill by Assemblyman Harry Goodrich , Republican , calling for this inspection was introduced and passed in 1934 , but was subsequently vetoed . " On Page 10 of his message the Governor recommends the creation of a State Traffic Commission . In this connection I would recall that in 1934 the Joint Legislative Uniform Vehicular Control Committee recommended the creation of a State Traffic Commission identically along the lines now suggested by him . " Included in the Republican program bills , presented were measures to abolish the TERA and put relief under the Department of Social Welfare , to establish a State Department of Justice , fix a flat $3 license @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-year terms for Assemblymen , establish State regulation of fee-charging employment agencies , and readjust present levies on railroads for grade crossing elimination . Approval Is Predicted . In view of the stand taken by Mr. Ives and Mr. Heck that such of these items as are recommended by Governor Lehman have been stolen from the Republican program , it is presumed here that both parties will approve them . On the important social security recommendations made by the Governor , there is still considerable doubt . The Republicans have introduced several bills designed to bring State law in line with the Federal Social Security Act , but ithe program is not complete . The Governor 's proposal that , to meet I the $4,000,000 to $5,000,000 extra I that will be needed by the State to Ifinance the changes in aid to the aged , the blind and others , a " moderate tax " on alcoholic beverages should be levied has produced the widest divergence of views . Even among the Democrats there seems to be protest against an increase in liquor taxes , although the Governor reiterated today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a moderate tax such as this to furnish the funds for that program . " Irwin Steingut , Democratic Assembly leader , admitted that while the party members felt that the Governor 's message should bring I their united support , there was some difference of opinion about the proposed liquor tax increase to finance additional social security . But the major factor on the social isecurity phase of the Lehman program is the political impact which might come from Republican policy . It is pointed out that the Republicans are aligned for a bitter fight on the New Deal and that they openly announce their intention to use the session of the Legis-1 lature as a forum for their attack . Still torn by party strife in the Assembly now under their control , the Republicans have not yet settled down to definite strategy , and as a result the precise line they will follow on various phases of the projected attack on the Governor and the New Deal has not yet been formulated . When the legislators return here Monday night for new sessions many issues between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the expected battle .                     