@@703651

txt In many ways the most fortunate political leader in this week 's electron was a man who did n't run for office at all : one Morello H , La Guardia , Mayor of New York City . He is the only third-party leader ( to describe him with real accuracy ) left with his head above the waves . He endorsed the winners in the New York state election . He still stands in well with Albany and with Washington . He has retained as an important colleague his ace district attorney , Thomas E. Dewey . He has elected a close political friend , an extreme progressive , former Representative Vito Marcantonto , to his own old seat in Congress . The political group with which he has most kinship , the American Labor Party , was the only third party ( except for Mayor Jasper 's impressive Socialist vote in Connecticut ) to retain prestige in this election . All these results - add up to the fact that Maim ' La Guardia is a more important political factor than ever . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the Republican presidential nominee in 1040 , for that speculation involved an almost incredible swing toward progressivism for the Republicans , and G. O. P. has swung toward the right rather than to the left in these elections , But it is possible that Mayor La Guardia will be the successor of the New Deal if President Roosevelt does n't or ca n't run again . He might be backed by a concentration of all Progressive , factions ; Wisconsin Progressives and Farmer-Laborites and New Dealers Anyway , Mayor La Guardia emerges unscathed and happy from an election in which most other regional progressive forces have gone under ; he Is footloose rind fancy free ; and though the obstacles facing him as a national political leader are formidable , 54111 , if he keeps on making trips to Arizona emphasizing the fact that he was born there , he may yet take over the reins of the New Deal . Upon What Meat Both They Feed ? And what manner of Republicans won on Tuesday ? Was It the progressively inclined ones ? Or the conservatives ? The answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reed in Kansas lean toward the progressive wing , But Thomas E. Dewey , also progressively inclined , lost where thorough-going conservatives like the two Pennsylvania candidates , Robert A. Taft and John W. Bricker in Ohio , Frank Fitzgerald in Michigan , and many another right-winger won . So every Indication is that the conservatives in the G. 0 . P. will now have the upper hand . The out-and-out opposition of Mr. Taft  --  who was reported as saying in his debate at Youngstown that he would repeal all Now Deal legislation  --  Is likely to prevail over the sympathetic policies of the Reeds and the Stamens . The 1040 campaign would therefore shape up with a Republican Party of outright opposition , for which the most logical and intelligent candidate would really be Herbert Hoover . The Democrats would meantime have to make their choice between Mr. Rooseveltor another New Dealer , or a candidate ranging from the mid-road position of Secretary of State Cordell Hull to the definite conservatism of Senator Harry P. Byrd , of Virginia , Senator Millard E , Tydings , of Maryland or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , after two more years of stress between New Dealers and old-line party men , finally swing back to conservatism , that would leave the two parties making a parallel appeal  --  as happened in 1924  --  and all progressive forces would be challenged to present a ticket of their own , To head that ticket , either President Roosevelt , or Mayor La Guardia are now the indicated candidates . Roosevelt Holds the Key But this talk has a very speculative ring about it . The immediate future concerns President Roosevelt 's reaction to the new mandate , and his attitude toward Congress . Will he seek to rally all Democrats into a tight old-fashioned party majority , now threatened by the traditional Republican opposition ? Will he continue his efforts to make peace with business and build up internal unity in America as an imperative policy in the post-Munich world ? Or will he conclude that things have gone wrong because he has not been militant , enough lately ? There is today no way of forecasting the President 's course , and much in impending American history depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly as important as his original decisions in 1033 or his second lap in 1037 . In 1033 ho essayed for a time the task of mobilizing the whole people ; in 1037 he set about the disruptive job of reshaping the Supreme Court and assisting a big labor drive . In 1030 he faces the end of his second term , and the vital question of continuance of his policies . Can they best be continued by going on the warpath again , or by perfecting their administration and operation so that they can not readily be rescinded ? File answer is obvious . Finally , a word on the fundamental meaning of the voters ' decision . The American people have proved that they can not be bought with lavish and continued expenditure of publics funds  --  it the New Deal spending policies be interpreted in their evident impact on beneficiaries , and for the moment ignoring the factors which have made a certain amount of relief spending and public works inescapable and imperative . But , to repeat the obvious , the American voters have " gone American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have debunked charges of dictatorship , They have made the same contribution to the working of democracy here that is made in Britain when a party goon ald1081 , voluntarily out of office for a time . Without debating the individual results  --  in many of which evident and sterile reaction has seemed to win  --  it In blear that the net result Is to clear the American atmosphere , an atmosphere that had become supercharged with passions and is now fresher and Willer . Erwin D. Cullum                     