@@702920

txt The Association of the Bar of the City of New York , by an overwhelming vote at an adjourned meeting last night at 42 West Forty ! fourth Street , endorsed Thomas E. 1Dewey as Fusion candidate for District Attorney of New York County . In a vote adopting two resolui tions , one declaring that Mr. Dewey was " highly qualified " and his 1 Democratic opponent , Harold W. Hastings , " not as well qualified " for the post of District Attorney , the association automatically approved the report of its Committee on the Judiciary , presented by the committee 's chairman , Alfred A. Cook . The report outlined the qualificiations of the two candidates and found that Mr. Dewey had proven his superior fitness . 31 Warrants Issued Meanwhile , warrants for thirtyone persons on charges of illegal registration from the same address in the Eighth Assembly District of which Assistant Attorney General Charles A. Schneider is Tammany leader , were obtained from Chief City Magistrate Jacob Gould Schurman Jr . by Aaron Benenson , head of the law division of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised to tell in another radio broadcast tonight , entitled , " Murder and Another Politician , " why Mr. Schneider is " so desperately anxious to save the District Attorney 's office for the Tammany machine . " The first resolution adopted by the Bar Association follows : " Resolved that , in the opinion of the bar of the City of New York , Thomas E. Dewey is highly qualified for the office of District Attorney of New York County , and that the enforcement of law and the interests of the community will be best served by his election . " Hastings Service " Commendable " The second resolution read : " Resolved that notwithstanding the commendable service rendered by Harold W. Hastings as Assistant District Attorney in charge of , the indictment bureau of the District Attorney 's office of New York County , lie is not experienced in the investigation and prosecution of organized crime and is not as well qualified to meet the extraordinary responsibilities of the District Attorney of New York County during the next four years as Thomas E. Dewey . " Hastings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt a resolution declaring Mr. Hastings qualified for the District Attorney 's office . Former Justice Alfred J. Talley , Vhe office of District Attorney Sew York County and it would be a ' loss to the community if he ere ' not elected . Ilit ommittee originally proposed acting as floor leader for thentr c Jags following , criticized Me dorsement of r . Dewey at ng of the association a week of the judiciary committee ass iMeirti - ? t hen the resolution was tabled qualified to make an adverse r .. lz ? ittp , week on the ground that the on Mr. Hastings because of . or that meeting was " in remembership. on the Dewey SR - n. committee which , paig he imitt to candidates for judicial offide ' and that the committee had ed , showed partisanship . ed the candidacy of Mr. Has= Lyon . Boston , - who is participita actively in the campaign for Hastings , asserted that Mr. Hastings 's qualifications had been demonstrated by the fact that he shaped the prosecution policies of the District Attorney 's office and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesmen for Mr. Hastings were Maurice I. Wormser , Terence J. , Lloyd Stryker , State Senator Thomas I. Sheridan and George Gordon Battle . The champions of Mr. Dewey were Mr. Cook , Charles C. Burlingham , Thomas D. Thacher , Clarence J. Shearn and George Z. Medalie . Sees Hastings 's Service Limited In substance , the report declared that Mr. Hastings 's long service in the District Attorney 's office had been " limited substantially " to the Indictment Bureau , in which he had been " competent , " but had conducted no trials and argued no appeals for the District Attorney 's office . The report said that Mr. Dewey , on the other hand , was qualified for the post of District Attorney by his experience in the United States Attorney 's office , where he had had important administrative duties , conducted important inves-tigations and successfully Conducted trials in financial frauds and socalled racket cases before embarking upon his successful racket I crusade as special prosecutor . " The central agency in the en-forcement of criminal justice is the office of District Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's , importance , influence and effectiveness depend directly upon three factors : First , the ability and equipment of its personnel ; second , its freedom from and independence of political obligation ; third , devotion and loyalty to the job of law enforcement . High Qualifications Needed " The modern demands of the office call for a conception of law enforcement which abandons the lethargic principle that the District Attorney must wait for the presentation of complaints and evidence and recognize the vigorous , virile principle that the District Attorney must collaborate in the relentless pursuit of evidence . In short , the office calls for initiative , resourcefullness and marked ability . " After declaring that " dissatisfaction with enforcement of criminal law , long widespread and profound , has been augmented alarmingly in recent years by the development of organized and systematic crime " or racketeering , the report asserted that Mr. Hasting 's training in the District Attorney 's office coincided in part with the futile attempt to start a racket investigation ending with the , demand that the Governor appoint a special prosecutor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Hastings , " did not equip him to meet responsibilities which will be imposed upon the District Attorney of New York County in the coming four years . " In the opinion of your committee , Mr. Hastings is industrious and earnest and a man of character and integrity . He has performed the , tasks assigned to him satisfactorily 1 and is highly commended for these services by judges of the Criminal Court . In the opinion of your committee , these considerations are , however , not enough to establish his executive ability or his skill in directing investigations or trials , or to establish that he is possessed of the initiative or independence necessary for the successful conduct of the office of District Attorney of New York County . " Contrasted With Dewey Record In contrast , the report cited Mr. Dewey 's record as Chief Assistant and later as Acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York , and more recently his successful prosecution of racketeers . Of his work as special prosecutor , the report said : " Mr. Dewey has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years . In that short period he has provided the community with an unprecedented example of law enforcement . " He has demonstrated an initiative and ? dynamic force together with the administrative ability required to produce effective results . The work that Mr. Dewey did is work that normally should have been done , and ! in  --  the future must be done , by the office of the District Attorney . We know that it will be done if Mr. Dewey is elected to that office and brings to it his methods of investigation and prosecution . " His experience and ability in the field of criminal law investigation and enforcement are such that ,                     