@@697248

txt Drastic recommendations designed to protect property holders against excessive assessments on local improvements and prevent the threatened dislocation of the city 's budget arising from the present assessment procedure as related to the improvements in question are proposed in a report to be submitted today by Controller Charles W. Berry to the Board of Estimate . With a warning that the great number of local improvements already authorized , the costs of which are paid by city and borough assessments , will add between $75,000,000 and $100,000,000 to taxes during the next five years , Controller Berry in his report urges a more rigid and more scientific method of financing . Mr. Berry presents sixteen suggestions for improving the present procedure , together with the major recommendation that the Board of Estimate authorize the Mayor to appoint a committee , representing the Supreme Court , Corporation Counsel , the Controller and such other interests as may be appropriate , to consider the present assessment procedure and necessary corrective measures . The recommendations of this committee would later be enacted into law by the Municipal Assembly or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Berry 's report , based on many months of study , is entitled " The Financing of Local Improvements by Local , Borough or City Assessments . " and is believed to be ' probably the most exhaustive and comprehensive study of the question ever i undertaken . The report covers fifty-six pages and is replete with facts , figures and examples showing the successive steps in the progress and financing of various types of local improvements . A table shows that local improvements in the aggregate are second only in magnitude to the city 's vast rapid transi construction program . The table reveals that While the city paid out in actual cash $83,991,753 for rapid transit construction last year $60,959,149 was spent for local improvements . After discussing some of the evils of the present system of financing . local imnrovements , such as the ' impossibility of ascertaining the final cost of a project , often resulting in an ultimate cost several times the figure originally set , and the embarrassment arising therefrom to both the city and the taxpayer , Mr. Berry declares that this often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggesting changes that will enable both the Board of Estimate and the taxpayer " to know within reasonable limits what an improvement will cost and who is to pay the bill before the improvement is authorized , " Controller Berry proposes including in the budget a considerable share of the cost of local improvements that under the present procedure is added to the assessment ? bills of the property owner . Mr. Berry says that the expeditures in connection with a local improvement now involving the activi- ties of the Board of Assessors , the Bureau of Street Openings in the Corporation Counsel 's office and the offices of the respective Borough Presidents could be provided for by a budget appropriation . This , he declares , would tend greatly to reduce the assessment bill of the property owners in the area benefited and relieve property owners of their present obligation to pay interest on the money the city advances for the payment of contractors , engineering and inspection costs and the services of legal and real estate experts . Points to Present Difficulties . " One condition that the City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the extremely rapid growth of our outlying sections has produced an imperative need for costly local improvements , and there is no way under our present procedure to ascertain precisely what such an improvement will eventually cost . Example after example can be given where engineers have advised that the acquisition of property ( land and building ) would cost a certain sum , only to have the award turn out to be several times the figures set by them . On the other hand , the final cost of the proceedings , despite all taxable values and other data furnished by the responsible officials , has in most cases so far exceeded all estimates as to create a most embarrassing situation for the city and the taxpayer . " The records will show many instances where assessments levied have been more than the value of the individual property , for while the law says no single assessment shall exceee. one-half the value of the land , the assessments for various purposes , taken all together , may actually deprive the owner of his property . The Board of Assessors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere are sole judges of the value of the ' property after the improvement has been effected . The assessed valuation is not the criterion . Often our citizens are confronted with this situation and in consequence are likely to lose their homes and life savings . " The city authorities are continue ally being petitioned for relief from excessive charges for local improvements that appear to be confiscatory of the small home owners ' property , and while many of these cases are worthy and deserve full consideration , the fact remains that there is something wrong with our entire assessment procedure as applied to the financing of local improvements . " Suggests Changes in Procedure . Following are the outstanding changes in the present procedure suggested by Controller Berry : The present method of placing a portion of an assessment on the city or borough or both , without due consideration being given to existing commitments , should be stopped . The Board of Estimate and Apportionment should not authorize local improvements without accurate knowledge of their cost and proper consideration as to the distribution of the assessment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a local improvement in an adjoining or a distant borough requires attention . After the apportionment of costs of a local improvement has been carefully considered , the decision reached should not be changed . The area over which the cost of a local improvement is to be apportioned should not be determined until the cost of the work is known , and conversely the improvement should not be authorized until this knowledge is available . Wants Notices Issued . Every property owner who Is affected either by having his property taken or being liable for an assessment should receive adequate mailed notice of the intended proceedings , with descriptive map , before such are authorized . Meetings should be held in the Borough Hall , engineers fully corp . versant with the project , should be present to explain details , accurate estimates of costs should be on hand , and the matter settled to the satisfaction of the property owners before it is brought to the Board of Estimate and Apportionment , which should only act as a court of last resort in deciding as to the necessity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement , except actual construction , the acquisition of property and interest , could be provided for in the annual budget of the city . Provision should be made requiring confirmation of an assessmentwithin one to three months after registration of the contract in the office of the Controller . Some procedure should be instituted to reducA the time which elapses between the date that title vests in the city and the date awards are made by the courts . The procedure in connection with the acquiring of property should be changed , so that in no case will it be necessary to ? confirm assessments and awards separately . Procedure should , be amended so s " that ? oWnierS " Of condemned prop . , erty be. , trested justly and part ' - or all of . the Money due them for their , ho'dings paid within a reasonable time . ! Mere should he some reasonable proportion between the assessed value of real estate and the value placed thereon by the courts . The expenses of the Board of Assessors and of the Borough Presidents , now being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expenses of the street opening bureau and of the Borough Presidents , now being paid from the fund for street and park openings and added 1 o the cost of a local improvement , could be properly included in the budget and paid from taxes . Revision of the present procedure of acquiring private property by eminent domain is urgently needed . Advantages of private purchases of lands for city purposes should b  --  made available when such would be a benefit to the city and property holder . Mr. Berry 's report will be considered this morning by the Board of Estimate sitting as Committee of the Whole .                     