@@704053

txt The impression gained ground here today that the Japanese Government would not , after all , choose this as the moment for challenging all of Britain 's remaining rights and interests in China . Another day went by without the receipt of any official communication from Tokyo repeating the virtual ultimatum already delivered to the British by the Japanese Army spokesmen in Tientsin . The undisturbed arrival of two British freighters at Tientsin was regarded as a sign that Tokyo was having " second thoughts " over the wisdom of a direct clash with Britain now . Indeed , there is again a belief here that the authorities in Tokyo are willing to see the dispute revert to the status of a local incident over the fate of , four Chinese held by the British authorities in the Tientsin Concession . If this belief proves to be right  --  and it was too early tonight to be sure  --  there is a chance that Britain can extricate herself from a first-class embarrassment in the Far East and keep her attention riveted upon the challenge of Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to limit the scope of the dispute at Tientsin is supported by a Japanese Foreign Office statement published yesterday . In it the Japanese appeared to demand only satisfaction over the case of the four Chinese sheltered by the British , but there was no reference to the broader demands of the Japanese Army , which is responsible only to the Emperor . Whether the army will acquiesce in the new attitude of Tokyo is not yet clear . Expected to " Wait and See " The Ministers here had been held in readiness for a full Cabinet meeting tomorrow in the event that the Japanese Government had definitely backed up the army 's demands . In the circumstances , however , there is not likely to be more than a meeting of the Cabinet Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs and another decision to " wait and see . " The effort on the British side will be to keep the issue narrowed as much as possible , to press for the establishment of an independent committee that could judge the case of the four Chinese at Tientsin , and to continue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Far East ever since Japan began her war against China . In this diplomatic struggle ' Brittain 's best card is unity with France and the United States , and she can be counted upon to play the card so as to keep the specter of a united front - in the Far East always before Japanese eyes . To this end Britain has kept the United States , France and the British Dominions informed of every move in the Tientsin dispute , and for this reason , too , British spokesmen have constantly reminded Japan of the " parallel " Anglo-American diplomatic defense of foreign treaty rights made as recently as May 24 . The British are determined not to let themselves be singled out for any challenge at the hands of the Japanese ; they believe that all foreign treaty powers are on the same footing in China and they will not fail to use the argument in ' any diplomatic tussle with Japan . Would Keep Japan Guessing As far as can be determined here . the British have not asked any United States help in the imposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenge . It suits the British much better at the moment ' not to ask , but to leave the Japanese guessing whether the United States would cooperate in the event of need . If it is really true that Tokyo is drawing back from an attack on all BritisL interests in China , the reason , as the British see it , is Japanese uncertainty over what the United States would do . The Japanese are not quite ' sure they would face Britain alone ; the British are content for the moment to leave it at that . There is still a certain amount of talk of economic reprisals , but the idea arouses little or no enthusiasm here . So far every proposal made to the Ministers by their experts is believed to have been vetoed on the ground that Britain can not undertake a policy of sanctions without the cooperation of the United States to make it effective . Vague threats of sanctions probably will continue to come from London in an effort to frighten the Japanese , but in the present state of Europe the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy alone . If a British woman at Tientsin should be attacked or killed by the Japanese this attitude would change in a blaze of public anger ; but luckily for the harassed British Government no such incident has yet taken place , although one English girl was reported today to have been " manhandled " by a Chinese policeman outside the Concession gates . Methods of Reprisal Various methods of economic reprisal have been suggested , such as the closing of all British ports to Japanese shipping , a refusal of all credits and other financial facilities or an outright embargo on all imports from Japan . These proposals may be dusted off again and submitted to the Ministers if the situation grows more serious , but they will hardly figure prominently in tomorrow 's Ministerial meeting . Instead , the Ministers are likely to discuss how to send food and essential supplies to the beleaguered Concession at Tientsin and how to handle the case of the four accused Chinese whom the Japanese want . The whole affair has been an ugly experience for the British Government as a demonstration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Comintern powers when they act in coordination , and , second , of its own weakness in the Far East without the help of the United States . The dispute has shown the British at last that the anti-Comintern pact is something more than a gesture . It has reminded them uncomfortably that just as Japan times her anti-British actions according to the situation in Europe , so Germany can time her next hammerblow whenever Britain and France find themselves in trouble in Eastern Asia . Accordingly , an accident in Tientsin might conceivably set Europe aflame  --  a thought that does not make for rosy optimism or complacency in London . Keyes Finds " War " on Britain Perhaps for this reason those here who favor a " strong " anti-Japanese policy in theory are neither vehement nor specific in urging action now . It is true that Admiral of the Fleet Sir Roger Keyes , who cornmandee a destroyer in Chinese waters many years ago , said in a speech today that " the events at Tientsin , with the support given the Japanese by Germany and Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Empire , and it is a challenge which must be met . " " I am convinced , " Sir Roger said , " that if we are firm and show the world that Britain is ready to enter a struggle , making full use of her wealth , industry and man Power , we can win this war without a clash of arms . If we hesitate , humiliation is certain to follow and war will be inevitable . " But the admiral was an exception ; most political speakers and newspapers confined themselves to vague warning ? of a sort that Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain may repeat in the House of Commons tomorrow . The official and general view is expressed by The Times of London , which says that if Japan is not trying to differentiate British rights and those of other Western powers and if discrimination applies only to the Tientsin incident , " then the dispute seems capable of settlement . " " Certainly nothing in the semiofficial statement in Tokyo , " The Times declares , " seems to prevent adoption of the British proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the affair should be submitted to an independent advisory committee under a neutral chairman , whose conclusions the government is prepared beforehand to accept . " It is still too early to assume that Japanese diplomacy has taken charge of the situation . If it has , so much the better . Otherwise His Majesty 's Government , which recognizes the gravity of , the situation and is in close communication with the other interested powers , may be trusted to act with circumspection but without hesitation in defense of British interests in the Far East . "                     