@@704055

txt Officers of the United States Army know the meaning of democracy and have neither the desire nor the intention of establishing a military dictatorship over this country in the event of war , according to Col. Louis Johnson , Assistant Secretary of War , addressing the thirty-fifth annual convention of the Advertising Federation of America at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel here today . Colonel Johnson declared the Army realized it must be subordinate at all times to the civil authority and that it was unfitted by training , education and temperament to take over the con-1 trol of American life in an emergency . Business Preparedness Using " industrial preparedness for security , " as the theme of his address , Colonel Johnson held , however , that the country must have a definite , practical program enabling it quickly to shift from peace-time to war-time conditions of industrial production when the need arose . A Nation-wide survey of ' industry had , he said , enabled the War Department to work out a war-time production schedule that would go into effect immediately upon the outbreak of hostilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need , " Colonel Johnson continued . " We know where we can get it . We know how long it will take us to get into production . If our industrial mobilization program had achieved nothing more , it would be a tremendous advance beyond the state of our preparedness on April 6 , 1917 . " Bread and Bullets Teamed Allan Brown , publicity director for Bakelite Corporation , another speaker , spoke to the Federation on " industrial preparedness for peace , " stressing that economic soundness was fully as important as military preparedness and that the former must come from mutual co-operation within the country . " It is all very well for the economist or the reformer to devise elaborate plans for national recovery , " he said , " but as long as distrust and enmity and stubbornness are rampant throughout the land , antagonizing one group against another , such plans are doomed to failure . " If I were to select one word to shout from the mountain top in this kaleidoscopic world of today , it would be ' tolerance , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure . " Gov . Lloyd C. Stark , of Missouri , speaking at the Federation 's annual dinner last night , declared that the recent smash-up of the Thomas J. Pendergast political machine of Kansas City was the beginning of a new era for the industrial and municipal life of that city . " It is a signal for the rebirth of faith in the tenets of democracy throughout America , " he declared . " In my considered judgmen , it marks the beginning of the swing of the pendulum from civic corruption , gangsterism , racketeering , graft-infested politics and contempt for law and order in state and nation , and a swing toward an era of sanity , respect for democratic government and the religious precepts of our forefathers . " " The people are ready to throw off the yoke of political corruptionists and their spawn of criminals . They are ready to plug the $16 , - 000,000,000 leak in the national pocketbook at its sources . We need in this- nation public officials who will not tolerate corruption conditions . We need courts where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We need fearless law enforcement officers who will keep the underworld on the run and exterminate it . " Capper Presents Award The proceedings yesterday also featured the presentation of the Joseph Snapp award for outstanding contribution to advertising during 1938 by a woman to Virginia E. Porter , of Libby , ' and Libby . The award , a sterling silver vase , was presented to Miss Porter by Senator Arthur Capper of Kansas . M. S. Rukeyser , economic commentator for Hearst 's newspapers and for the International News Service , advised business leaders to widen the function of advertising beyond the mere selling of products . " They should undertake to give the newspaper-reading public a better understanding of what business , linked with science and invention , has done for the living standards of 30,000,000 American families . " he declared . Fighting Gloom I. A. Hirschmann , vice-president of Bloomingdale 's , of New York , warned today 's meeting of the Newspaper Advertising Executives ' Association , which is meeting concurrently with the Federation 's Convention , that business departments of newspapers must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspapers . Mr. Hirschmann illustrated his warning by asking the advertising executives what reader of their paper wants to buy a refrigerator , vacuum cleaner or clothes when the neighboring piece of news is " a column of despair and gloom ? " Other speakers at the various open and executive meetings of the Federation and its associated groups were Douglas Taylor , Vice-President of Printers ' Ink Publications ; Wilson Condict , National Advertising Manager of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch ; Elizabeth Arden , Beautician ; George Sokol-sky , commentator , and Don Francisco , President of Lord and Thomas .                     