@@702094

txt Wireless to Tram NSW ' YOH . TJarsa. the government to create a mobile force other than the one which has been concentrated in Asturias . So far the balance of success has lain with the insurgents , but at the same time the fact that they have not been more successful indicates they have not got the strength or equipment necessary to reduce a country which is largely hostile . Even if they reach Madrid , Catalonia will continue the fight , and some of the best judges of the situation declare that for Spain the outlook is that it will become what Mexico was . Division Among Rebels Among the insurgents the only common link is opposition to Marxism . In their ranks they have Carlists , Monarchists , Liberal Republicans , Fascists and , of course , large numbers of ardent Catholics . Sooner or later these elements are bound to clash , for Spain 's history has been too often one of rival generals and antagonism between church and military . General Mola said the other day that there would need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that opinion he certainly is not followed by a large number of even his immediate adherents . General Franco is opposed to restoration of the monarchy and " for the constitution of a military republic as in Portugal . But he can not give public expression to his ideas because he has so many royalists in his ranks . Both he and Mola have in their day as soldiers taken the oath to defend the monarchy and the republic in turn , so what or who they will swear to defend next is an open question . If the Madrid government wins , " It can only win an enfeebled country in which all the worst elements are armed and bloodthirsty . Already the real power is in the hands of the extreme Red elements , and there being not much to choose between the records of the Whites and the Reds in the matter of cruelty and massacre , perhaps the best that can be said is that if once established a Red State may grow more moderate , whereas it is the habit of Right governments when in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Popular Front parties is , however , as certain to break out as it is among the generals , for their forces include an amazing gamut of opinions from the Catalonian anarchists to the Basque Nationalists , and whichever side wins a long continued state of anarchy or near it seems inevitable . Europe Takes Sides It is undoubtedly the whole world 's business to keep out of this hornets ' nest . But that is just what scarcely anybody is doing . Nearly everybody in Europe at least is taking sides passionately . Here in France the majority of sentiment is strongly with the Madrid Government and the Spanish Over War That Is Proving Ruinous International . Spanish volunteers who opposed Rebels north of Madrid . PARIS , Aug. ** the end of the first month of the Spanish civil war the balance seems to incline in favor of the insurgents , while so far , although the situation is still extremely delicate , international complications have been avoided . There is , however , as yet no certainty that without active foreign assistance General Franco and the military party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainty that the French Government 's proposal that other powers should not intervene will be accepted , or if accepted wholly , acted upon . To most people it has been something of a surprise that the insurgents after a whole month of effort have not been more successful . Their leaders undoubtedly expected a far more general response . Even now they have got to face the fact that a majority of the Spanish people , even in some of the occupied provinces , are hostile to their enterprise . In Estremadura , Franco is encountering sullen opposition which may become an active threat to his rear . In Morocco his position is far from safe . There have been mutiny and resistance among the natives , and the local cadis seem preparing for revolt and liberation of their country from insurgents and governmentalists alike . It is only in old Castile and Navarre that there is any enthusiastic rallying to the insurgent flags , and the government is within its right in claiming that even though the insurgents may now be in occupation of nearly half the country it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other hand , the advantage of military experience and training undoubtedly lies with the insurgents . They claim to have transported about 25,000 trained troops from North Africa , among them a strong contingent of the Foreign Legion . In many places the Civil Guard rallied to the revolt and there is no question that if the contest is to be one of endurance trained men ; if they are properly supplied , are going to prove successful in the end . Recent visitors to the Madrid front , however , declare that the government militia has lost none of its original enthusiasm and that it is adapting itself to real war with ability and courage . This past week interest has been divided between the effort to effect a junction between the southern and northern insurgent armies and the fighting which has been going on for Irun and San Sebastian . Morally , perhaps , the capture of these northern frontier towns will be important . Strategically , however , the result of the campaign depends far more on the effective linking up of Franco 's and Mola 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largely a volunteer force , with elements from the Moroccan army . After the capture of Badajoz some units of the Foreign Legion got through by train to Valladolid , but it seems certain that claims of the Madrid government to have defeated and dispersed the main motorized column at Medellin in Estremadura are fully justified . Madrid 's Victory In Madrid that victory , in which airplanes were used effectively , is described as the most notable feat of the war so far . One victory is not , however , likely to be sufficient to prevent the junction of the two forces and the concentration in the Guadarrama Mountains of an attacking force against Madrid . Franco is certain to make another attempt . Meanwhile , what look almost like two separate wars are being conducted actually behind the insurgent lines . All week insurgents have been attacking Irun and San Sebastian with prospects of success , while at Oviedo a terribly straitened garrison of insurgents is still holding out against a besieging force of Asturian miners . Apparently , this volunteer force of miners is prepared to wait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government says the released forces will speed down on Asturias , Leon and Guipuzcoa . Thus in some respects the campaign reduces itself to a race , although a slow one , between the insurgents to unite their armies and Popular Front . That sentiment derives , of course , from the popular tradition in France 's own history , where the struggle went on for centuries between what may be called the priest and soldier conception of government and that of the workers . But even here in France that struggle is not yet completely over . While popular and , in present circumstances , governmental opinion is on the side of the Spanish people despite the excesses that have been committed  --  there are terrible red pages in the history of France 's own struggle for freedom  --  there is at the same time the passionately strong sentiment among the minority in favor of the insurgents , whose excesses are in turn condoned and excused on the ground that they are fighting for the delivery of Spain from the Bolshevist peril . It was as much in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as intentionally that Premier Blum , on the advice of Foreign Minister Delbos , launched the appeal for a non-intervention pact . But so far he has not succeeded either abroad or at home . Every morning the newspapers in Paris show markedly how partisan sentiment has become . Not only headlines and the placing of news show partiality , but there is no effort made to present a fair picture of this struggle between Reds and Whites , neither of whom has seemed to the impartial observer with the least humanitarian sentiment to justify confidence or approval . British Point of View The same partisan opinion as divides France divides , of course , every country and countries from each other according as their governments are Right or Left . M. Blum and his colleagues have derived much comfort from British support of their neutrality proposals . But there is this difference between their outlook and that of London , that whereas here governmental hopes lie on the side of a Popular Front victory in Spain , British policy is being dictated by the realization that it is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Spain , or a Fascist Spain closely linked to Italy and Germany , is likely to prove an unpleasant neighbor in the Mediterranean and a source of trouble . In England , as elsewhere , it is the sentimental self-dubbed pacific Left which is , as here , anxious for intervention . Probably in Great Britain the warning of the Ethiopian experience will prevent sentimentality about Spanish " liberalism " going too far . But here there is still a danger that the advanced Popular Front elements which are strongly critical of Delbos will try to push the government into active support of Madrid unless the non-intervention pact is soon and surely made . Of course , the accusation here Is that the delay in the Italian and German replies  --  although the German Government , having bigger matters in view , has been at least circumspect ? is simply a cover , while active help is being given to the Spanish insurgents . Accusations Exchanged There is much mutual accusation going on , and on which side the guilt may lie is not clear . To French accusations it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transport right for munition trains over French rails from the Mediterranean frontier to Hendaye to aid the defenders of Irun and San Sebastian is not neutrality in its strictest sense . Although the final argument is not concluded , it , however , gave some small encouragement for those who want peace that no one has definitely rejected the French plan . ' Even Mussolini , to whom it is reported Franco has already sold the bear 's skin in the shape of Spanish territory before he has caught the bear , has not dared openly to support the Rebel cause . Meanwhile , even although this effort to prevent intervention by help to either side has not entirely succeeded , the work has been begun of trying to find some way of intervening between the two combatant forces , to find some way of putting an end to the killing . " That , however , seems likely to prove even more difficult .                     