@@698555

txt The Chinese will not accept the Japanese ultimatum presented yesterday , demanding that the Chinese permanently evacuate an area of 400 square kilometers in Shanghai and north and east of it , and both sides are busily preparing for the crucial clash . The fighting is nearly certain to start long before 5 P. M. Saturday 4 A. M. Saturday , New York time , the zero hour set by the Japanese for the demanded evacuation of the Chinese lines . Presumably Japan would feel justified in beginning shelling at 7 A. M. Saturday 13 P. M. today , New York time , thli time when the evacuation was to begin . Chinese Will Use Air Force . But unless totally unforeseen developments arise , the Chinese - will not have begun evacuation at that time . On the contrary , a Chinese air force will be over Shanghai at dawn tomorrow to repel any Japanese aerial attack and field guns will begin shelling the Japanese before daybreak . An opinion that is stirring foreign diplomatic circles here is that the Japanese have abandoned any pretext that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense of the International Settlement , and that Japan now apparently considers herself in a state of hostilities with China . This opinion is based upon the fact that neither the /foreign consular body nor the Municipal Council was notified by the Japanese concerning last night 's ultimatum . Hitherto , while Japan has officially maintained the attitude that she has been acting solely in defense of the Settlement , Japanese naval , army and diplomatic representatives have punctiliously observed the niceties of the situation by communicating to the consular body and the Municipal Council simultaneously all missives to the Chinese . Reports that General Chiang Kaishek was coming to Shanghai were officially denied today by a government spokesman . One report had it that General Kai-shek was already at Liuho , but the government spokesman said he was at Nanking or Pukow and did not intend to come to Shanghai soon . The Japanese ultimatum was presented to General Tsai Ting-chai of the Nineteenth Route Army at 9 P. M. yesterday . The Japanese pledged themselves not to shell or otherwise molest the Chinese during the proposed withdrawal , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Japanese also demand complete and nation-wide cessation of ! anti-Japanese movements in China and of the boycott of Japanese goods . Copies of the ultimatum were delivered to Mayor Wu Te-chen of Shanghai . but the central government of China was not notified , the Japanese persisting in their attitude that the Shanghai clash is a local matter and that the troops opposing them are not connected with the central government . During the night Japanese guns were again shelling Chapei . At a meeting of Lieut . Gen. Kenkichi Uyeda 's chief of staff and General Tsai Ting-chai 's chief of staff yesterday morning the Japanese officially demanded the permanent demilitarization and razing of all fortifications in an area of 400 square kilometers around Shanghai . That demand was so completely unacceptable to the Chinese that the Chinese Generals did not even make counter proposals , and the meeting was adjourned without results justifying any hope of a peaceful solution . Though the Japanese exerted the greatest efforts to cloak the proceedings in the deepest secrecy , it was authoritatively learned that the Japanese terms verbally outlined in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nineteenth Route Army at 9 o'clock last night , when the ultimatum was , in fact , presented . The " necessary measures " which the Japanese plan to take if the ultimatum Is rejected mean warfare here on a larger scale than anything known in the twenty-one days that this situation has endured . The Chinese reaction to the Japanese demands was an attitude of stern resistance and a somber but courageous facing of a battle over Shanghai , which , they realized , might be extended into an indefinite retreating and defensive campaign over the whole coastal region of China . Those Japanese terms demanded immediate and permanent withdrawal not only of the Nineteenth Route Army but of all Chinese military forces in this area , which terms , if accepted , would mean that China 's greatest city would never be defended or fortified . For the permanent razing of Woosung and all other defensive forts in this zone and perpetual Chinese demilitarization here Japan was willing to concede only that her army and landed naval forces should withdraw into the lines held prior to the clash on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese begin across the river from the middle part of the French Bund and , run due eastward to the ocean . Then the lines begin down river at the border of the International Settlement , follow the Settlement boundaries inside Hongkew and Chapel to the extreme northern tip of the Settlement area and then run westward along the tracks of the Shanghai-Hangchow Railway to a point northward of Jessfield Park , then northward to the Yangtse River . These lines bound a great triangle with east-west and north-south boundaries on land , while the long side of the triangle , including the mouth of the Whangpoo and Yangtse Rivers , would make access to China 's greatest waterways permanently undefensible , for within this tirangle , besides Woosung , lie Paoshan and Liuho . It is noteworthy that the proposed demilitarized zone does not include Nantao and Lunghwa , nor the areas adjoining the French Concession on the south ' and west . The Chinese naturally found these demands totally unacceptable , and all day yesterday the Chinese troops were digging in. preparing for the Japanese army 's assault , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delivered , would follow tonight . And , too , it wash ' felt that even if those Japanese military terms had been accepted they would have been quickly followed by diplomatic demands for a permanent Japanese concession somewhere in this area . The Japanese agreed that if the Chinese withdrew the Japanese would merely send a temporary army of scouts as well as airplanes through the specified area in order to verify the withdrawal . Japan would not attempt to assume the garrisoning of the borders of the proposed demilitarized area , but presumably planned a long retention of an adequate military force within the Settlement and the Hongkew areas expeditiously to repel any Chinese force which by incursion might have broiten the proposed agreement . At 6:30 P. M. yesterday a thirtyseven-hour artillery silence was broken and a few shots were fired , reminding Shanghai that a state of war still existed despite the curious Quiet on the Chapei-Hongkew and ICiangwan fronts and even at Woosung , where the Chinese trenches and forts were still stoutly held by the Chinese . A Japanese communique in the afternoon was limited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the army 's parley with the Chinese . The statement merely announced that nearly all Japanese sailors had been withdrawn from the Chapel and Woosung fronts and would henceforth guard the Japanese military headquarters and lines of communications . A denial was issued concerning the Chinese report that Japanese sailors had landed on the south side of the river near Woosung . The Chinese civilian who was injured here yesterday when the Japanese import establishment of Mitsui Bussan Kaisha was bombed died of his injuries . The Thirty-first United States Infantry at 3 P. M. yesterday took over the defense of the remaining front lines which had been held by Shanghai volunteers . The latter hereafter will be on guard solely in the interior of the Settlement , assisting in policing the streets and quelling food riots .                     