@@703055

txt Interest in the message which President Roosevelt will deliver at 1:30 o'clock tomorrow afternoon , standing before members of Senate and House as the second regular session of the Seventy-fifth Congress begins , rivals in intensity perhaps , that which attended his first maes- ' sage to Congress in 1933 . At a few minutes past noon both branches will convene in their own quarters ; the Senators will then recess to go to the House chamber and join in listening to the President . Every seat in the galleries will be occupied . More than a week ago officials in charge said all reservations were gone and that members of Congress were seeking places for friends and relatives without success . Various reports are afloat in . Washington as to what the President will stress . Some who profess to know what is in his mind believe he will devote no small part of his message to the relief problem , which , because of the business lag , is once more becoming-acute . Others , because of the sharp attacks by Robert H. Jackson and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , think that the President will have something to say along the same line . May Treat World Situation Some Congressional leaders are not so sure pf this . It is known that they believe Congress and the Administration must give business and . industry a chance to know " where it stands " if the recession is not to become- a major depress sion , and have so informed the President . They are said to feel that he may confine himself to other issues . In addition to relief some of them expect that he will deal with the in-. ternational situation , with special reference to the Far East , perhaps by emphasizing the need as he sees it for strengthening the army and navy . One indication that the President may devote some time to foreign affairs is found in the fact that broadcasting companies have made arrangements to - rebroadcast his speech in both Europe and the Far East . While this has been done before , the fact that it is being done at this particular time is considered significant . Wage Bill Also an Issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hours Bill to replace that blocked through recommits ' in the House at the special session . Influential members expressed . hope today that he would say something about tax revision that would encourage business and industry . Following weeks of study by a House subcommittee , tax law amendments which-would liberalize the imposts on undistributed profits and capital losses and gains ? are about completed and will be introduced early in the session . Efforts will also be made to obtain outright repeal of some sections of the tax laws . On Tuesday the President will send down his budget message . Interest attaches to this message because of the possibility that the current business decline may block his budget-balancing program . The House plans to start consideration Tuesday of the first of the series of appropriations measures , the Independent Offices Supply Bill . The . Senate has nothing on the calendar until Thursday , when it is scheduled to take up the antilynching measure by special agreement . Attempts were made by foes of the measure to have the debate postponed until Jan. 10 , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposed of as soon as possible : Those for and against the bill expect a fight . Many believe that a filibuster will be employed in an effort to prevent its passage . Among other legislation that may ocratic country the people e a right to demand that govment keep order in our ecoomic house as well as police our insets . The President has said t " this generation has a renvous with- destiny . " We are y late . We must hurry if we to keep that appointment . The reduction in governmentale expenditures ( after we take i tpa account the payment of the ( sir diers ' bonus ) was aeiproxima el three billion dollars in this fi year , as against expenditures the last fiscal year . In of words , 245 million dollars a mo less is being spent . This redudee tion in purchasing power , acc rear panied by rising prices and he building up of huge inventories , has produced the crisis within the crisis which we now experience . Are we to make the same mistake now that was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sad and bitter experience ? To my mind this is the great question which the regular sessions of Congress must answer . I trust that in our answer we will not overlook a few simple truths : 1 . That we can not produce wealth by idleness . 2 . That although the government does not owe any one a living , any government worthy of that name has the responsibility of providing an opportunity to enjoy a full and a decent life to people ready and willing to work . Obviously to carry on any such program . we must recognize first of all the necessity for increased taxation based upon ability to pay . To insure the success of this program we will also need a civil service administration which will eliminate considerations of partisan politics and an expanded system of employment exchanges ing used for grazing or ra crops for livestock and dairy whose products were to be keted . Secretary Wallace and other ministration leaders are very opposed to this amendment an forts will be made to have it de by the conference committee . Also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whic House and Senate versions do differ essentially . Senator Wa said on the day the special se ended that the differences coul straightened out in an hour 's cone ference . Senators Broadcast in Progr In a national broadcast tong Senators La Follette and Card outlined what they believed ease the most important problems bef Congress . Mr. La Follette declared that employment stood alone in I portance. ort Senator Capper listed three pre loins : ( 1 ) Foreign affairs ; ( 2 ) e'emic eminent administration , and ( fel ? legislation dealing with economi such as taxation , labor and farnT legislation and recovery legislatictee The Kansan , who is a member the Foreign Relations Commi tow said he believed that United Stars vessels should have been withdreseee months ago from the war zone Mil the Orient . encounter difficulties is the Bill . Both houses passed measures at the special session these differed in so many impo features as to provide a diff task for the conference commi Both measures contain an ment that would prevent land from intensive cultivation fro CONGRESS DIESSA . EAGERLY AWAIT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic is that problem is the most acing one confronting us. epigram about starvation in midst of plenty long ago eyed the unpleasant validity ruth . As a Senator I have me increasingly dismayed as ave observed that in our rice , with such vast resources , a productive capacity unhed by any other nation and the most skilled workmen in e world , we are each year con " No ted with the same dismal tigsa pect of millions of workers ken : ble to earn a living for themes and their children . e have had eight years of is , and today we face a crisis ' n that crisis . Once more the conflicting theories which e divided the nation 's counsince 1929 are being advod with renewed vigor by their erents. e orthodox economic approach wings in the business cycle is , once the excesses of the period have been written by bankruptcy and foreclosand the price level stabilized , ate investors will pour enough ey into new expenditures to e a reversal in the downward pi al and eventually will produce perity. grant that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning of this ' s I have contended that eping changes in the economic ronment of the United States made it impossible for this odox theory to work , even e people of this nation would again accept meekly the sufg which even its advocates it it would involve . e closing of our physical fronand the rising tide of ecoic nationalism which has pt over the world closing othontiers has for the immediate re so drastically reduced the cement for the reinvestment of private money for capital expenditure that it will not take place in a large enough volume to prevent our economy from contracting . In making this statement I am not unaware of the investments made to replace wornout machinery , or the moderate amount of investment brought about through new inventions and improvements in machines , but by and large they are not sufficiently potent at the present level of demand to keep the level of business from falling . 1929-33 Lesson Still to Be Studied It is tragic to me that we should have to prove this all over again when we went through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1929 to 1933 . Have we forgotten what happened while they tried to let the depression cure itself ? There were 15,000,000 unemployed , 3,000,000 families put through the demoralizing process of becoming paupers . Six million farmers had their purchasing power greatly reduced or even taken away altogether , and hundreds of thousands of them lost their farms . Industrial production was cut in half , credit was contracted by billions of dollars through bank failures and the annual income of the people was More than cut in two . That is what did happen here while the theory of letting the depression run its course was in vogue . The reinvestment of capital fell from $10,000,000,000 in 1929 to $600,000,000 in 1932 . Does any one seriously contend that we have forgotten the heroic efforts to restore confidence by conferences , exhortation and promises that prosperity was just " around the corner " ? In 1930 and 1931 President Hoover was assured that business would take care of the slump . Then , as it does today , big business asked that it be relieved of taxes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and finally desperate . ' In 1933 the heads of the largest corporations in the country came to President Roosevelt and asked government to interfere with business , at least to the extent of saving their skins . And it was government that turned the tide and produced a measure of economic recovery . By bailing out the banks , arresting foreclosures on homes and farms , by increasing agricultural income , by providing employment for a part of those unemployed through FERA , CWA , PWA and WPA with the reinvestment of capital so caused , the government , acting collectively for its citizens , was successful in lifting the annual income of the people to the point where many believed that the back of the depression had been broken . I have recently seen figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics which show how comparatively cheap it was for the government to step in and save the people by adding to the capital structure of the country . According to the bureau , the labor and materials needed for public works construction cost approximately $1 for every man employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or transportation of the materials for the job . This was the total cost , but as the Federal grant varied from 30 to 45 per cent the major part of the cost was borne by the local communities , which were delighted to be able to increase their facilities . Therefore it cost only 30 to 45 cents a manhour for the Federal Government to build these thousands of projects . But despite this essential economy of the Public Works and Works Progress program , business incessantly insisted that the budget be balanced . Time and again it asserted that if the goy ! ernment would stop spending priI vate business would carry on . The He favored a navy so strong that it would be " positively unsafe " for any nation to attack this country . He referred to the Panay incident , which he said never would have happened if the government had withdrawn its vessels . Turning to the Administration 's government reorganization program , he said he would oppose increasing the Executive control over civil service or such independent agencies as the Interstate Commerce Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General - ender the Executive branch .                     