@@704338

txt The government , denying that Finnish artillery had opened fire on Russian troops , said early today that Finland will reject Soviet Russia 's demand that all Finnish forces withdraw twelve or fifteen miles from the frontier north of Leningrad . " In no case can there be any unilateral withdrawal of troops from the Soviet-Finnish frontier , " said the government spokesman . He indicated that the only way in which Finland would agree to demilitarization of the frontier zone would be by a joint withdrawal of both Soviet and Finnish troops . The protest and demand for the Finnish troop withdrawal was handed last night to the Finnish Minister in Moscow , Baron Arno Armas Yrjoe-Koskinen , by the Soviet Premier and Foreign Commissar , Vyacheslaff M. Molotoff , and reached Helsinki about midnight . Russian Accusation Denied Both the Finnish General Staff and government officials categorically denied the Russian accusation that Finnish artillery had opened fire on Soviet troops on the Karelian Isthmus north of Leningrad , killing and wounding thirteen Red Army officers and soldiers . Finland has more than 300,000 troops under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them in the line of fortifications on the Karelian Isthmus between Lake Ladoga and the Gulf of Finland . The government said that telephone inquiries to points along the frontier had shown the Russian accusation to be " completely untrue . " There is no proof whatever of shooting from the Finnish side , the spokesman said , but the Finns have evidence that there have been repeated " incidents " involving shooting from the Russian side of the border . There was no activity on the Finnish side of the border , it was stated officially , but the Russians across the frontier held mortar and grenade practice throughout the afternoon . " It any Russians were killed it must have been from their own fire , " it was stated . An influential Finn , discussing the Russian charges , said : " It might be safer to withdraw the Russian troops to avoid incidents . " He expressed suspicion of the fact that the Russian charges and demand coincided with a sharp attack earlier in the day on the Finnish Premier , Aimo Cajander , by the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finnish Government changes its attitude it may suffer the " same fate " as Poland 's . Field Marshal Baron Carl Gustav Mannerheim , who fought the Russians in Finland 's struggle for independence , was along the frontier yesterday at the time Finnish artillery were alleged to have fired on the Soviet troops . Finnish leaders placed stress on the fact that Russian mortar and grenade practice was witnessed by Finnish frontier ? guards at 3:05 P. M. yesterday , approximately the time that the Finnish guns were alleged to have opened fire . Considerable point also was made of the fact that the Moscow radio broadcast the charges within three and one-half hours after the Finns are alleged to have opened fire , an extraordinarily brief time for a military report to be coordinated , checked and released publicly . Finnish officials , asked about Pravda 's bitter attack on Premier Cajander , said it was " too ridiculous to answer , " but they expressed disgust at the invective used in referring to the Premier . " I suppose , " said one official , " that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia 's allegations that the Finnish Government was afraid to place the matter of Soviet-Finnish relations before Parliament and that Britain was behind Finland 's resistance , officials said " there is no reason to go into that again . " WARNED BY RUSSIA Premier Cajander of Finland Times wide World . 1939 Helsinki Entrances Closed Wireless to TEE NEW YORK TIMES . HELSINKI , Finland , Nov. 26 ? The Finnish naval command announced that further entrances to Helsinki had been closad to shipping . The city is protected by a wide minefield leaving only one narrow passage open for shipping . The fate of the inhabitants of the Finnish islands of Hogland , Titarsari , Seiskari and Lavansaar in the Gulf of Finland  --  which are included in the Soviet ' Government 's demands  --  is still uncertr  --  n . At the beginning of the RussoFinnish dispute the inhabitants of these islands ? were hurriedly evacuated to the mainland . Permission was granted to them later to return to look after their homes and cattle but they refused to go . Now permission again has been withdrawn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the islands .                     