@@704149

txt Count Ciano , the Italian Foreign Minister , entrained this evening for Salzburg , where . n important meeting with Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop of Germany will take place tomorrow . The last time the two met  --  in May  --  a military alliance was signed , and this time again it is indicated that developments of great interest to Europe will follow . Three things are certainly on the agenda  --  Danzig , Hungary and Japan . Afterward it is possible that Count Ciano will see Premier Dragisha Cvetkovitch of Yugoslavia either in Trieste or in Rome . As far as Danzig is concerned , one may take it as fairly certain that the Italian Foreign Minister will again counsel prudence on Premier Mussolini 's behalf , as indeed he has been counseling ever since the Danzig situation became acute . Italy is committed to go to war at Germany 's side if one starts over the Free City . But that does not . mean that Italy wants to see a conflict either over Danzig or anything else . The Hungarian Question The Hungarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going easy , but with much less emphasis . There have been many observers in recent weeks predicting that when trouble starts it will be over Rumania , not Danzig , and if so , Hungary , Bulgaria or both would provide a lever . However , before that happens Hungary must " go Nazi , " and there are rumors that Germany feels the time is nearly ripe . Here in Italy there is n6 objection to Budapest 's going completely totalitarian , but there is a natural desire not to see Hungary come entirely under Germany 's sway . The Hungarians are caught firmly by the Axis , but they have thus far been able to move along it , so to speak , in the direction of Italy . If a Nazi government were imposed , it is feared such a state of affairs would end . On the question of Japan 's adherence to the Axis the two statesmen will certainly see eye to eye . Toshio Shiratori , the Japanese Ambassador to Rome , had a long talk with Count Ciano yesterday after , noon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see Japan join a military alliance , but he and the military clique he represents are meeting opposition from Tokyo , while the Axis powers themselves are wondering whether they are not getting a bit more than they bargained for . One can not conceive Germany or Italy pledging to go to war if Japan is attacked unless all have decided that .. world war is inevitable  --  and there is no reason to suppose that they have . Some Arrangement Expected Yet some arrangement is certainly going to be made with Japan . It has probably already been drawn up . It will bring Japan within the sphere of Axis politics , but will not go as far as a military alliance like the Italo-German one , according to what is being said here . The general impression is that nothing definite will be done until the Japanese mission arrives at the end of the month. - Virginio Gayda , writing a cautious ' little editorial from his vacation resort , says that the Ciano-Ribbentrop talks will embrace everything that has happened Since the alliance was signed as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and military , economic and cultural de . velopments as well as foreign affairs . The conversations were prepared sometime ago , he says . " The encirclement policy that Britain , France and the United States have conducted against Italy , Germany and Japan , in open contrast with tile principles of European collaboration that seemed to flourish at Munich , makes the future darkly unpredictable and imposes the neeer. - Count Ciano , the Italian Foreign Minister , will arrive at Salzburg tomorrow morning for a one-day visit to Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop , who is spending his vacation at the near-by Castle Fuschl . The meeting of the two Axis statesmen is to serve the purpose of surveying problems of foreign policy that immediately concern both countries , it was stated here . It was originally intended to give the impending exchanges a more formal setting , and reports were to the effect that Premier Mussolini and Chancellor Hitler would take a hand in them . So much of the ground has been traversed through preliminary diplomatic contacts between Berlin and Rome , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two Foreign Ministers , it was stated here , will be largely in the nature of registering concurrence between the Axis powers on matters of more immediate urgency . The Danzig issue , it was explained in official quarters , will receive precedence on tomorrow 's agenda , as the Gellman Government has agreed to " consult " with Italy on its policy respecting the Free City . As that policy has been restated with considerable emphasis during recent weeks , any fresh revelations that Herr von Ribbentrop may be prepared to offer Count Ciano regarding the Reich 's position on . Danzig and the British guarantees to Poland will remain in the confidence of both governments . Hungary Held Chief Topic The relations between Hungary and the Axis powers , on the other hand , it is believed in neutral diplomatic quarters , will come . more immediately within the purview of Italy 's interests , and the Salzburg conversations , it is predicted , will therefore occupy themselves chiefly with the problem of bringing Hungary more intimately /into tune with the aspirations of the Axis powers . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its consummation , it is believed here , will meet with less resistance than the Axis powers are likely to encounter- in the case of Yugoslavia . Reports that the Belgrade government has served notice on Berlin and Rome that such neutrality as that country may desire to adopt in an emergency would not include the right of troop transportation through Yugoslavia were branded in official quarters here as " a clumsy invention . " The Belgrade Government , it was stated , has given no indication of its attitude on this or related issues . Italy 's interest in the progress of the German-Soviet trade talks and the Anglo-French-Soviet negotiations will also come within the scope of tomorrow 's conversations . Chancellor Hitler , who attended yesterday 's performance at the Salzburg festival , returned last night to Berchtesgaden , where he listened to tonight 's broadcast of Albert Forster 's speech in Danzig . Count Ciano 's visit to Herr von Ribbentrop and the Danzig open air protest against the " Polish press barrage , " it is emphasized here , will probably disappoint expectations abroad as neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning to be seriously perturbed by what is commonly called " the war of nerves , " and that Fascist power , notwithstandingkits dogged resolve to stand firm , now feels compelled to pay serious heed to that new trend ' of public ophaion . Several signs have been nelcorded during the last week , to indicate that Italy might not continue to keep her foreign policy keyed to the pitch of the anti-French demonstration of Nov. 30 when cries of " Tunisia , " " Savoy " and " Nice " were used in the Italian Chamber . Th ? extraordinary communiqu ? the authorities issued to the press last Saturday to deny that the purpose behind the armament manoeuvres in Northern Italy was to make preparations to repel a French invasion bears witness that signor Mussolini had better take care not to put the loyalty of his countrymen to too severe a test . It . is surmised that Count Ciano means to tell Herr von Ribbentrop that the first available opportunity ought to be seized to approach Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and enlist his good-win in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end the cooperation of the Holy See could be enlisted . It is difficult to ascertain upon what foundation this new view of Italian policy rests , but it is an incontrovertible fact that it is entertained here by serious people . Moreover , it is asserted from a diplomatic source that , notwithstanding all indignant denials given out in Rome , Signor Mussolini 's health is seriously impaired . Expert opinion here emphasizes that the Western powers must turn a deaf ear-. to any suggestion that may reach them to relax their diplomatic and military action and that , were , they foolish enough to comply with such a suggestion , the dictators would automatically become bolder . Of course , it has always been anticipated here that if the worst came to the worst , the Italian Government might try with Germany 's approval to observe an attitude of armed neutrality . This probably would be the best contribution it could make to their common cause , since all offensive outlets that the Western powers contemplate exploiting are in the Alps and in northern and eastern Africa , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are that neither France nor Britain is likely to accept passively the bottling up of their armies on the I'Vestern front , and the odds are they would eventually insist that the kind of Italian neutrality they would- be ready to tolerate must be defined by their general staffs . Cultural Ties Extended VENICE , Aug. 10 UP ) . ? The RomeBerlin Axis was strengthened with another rivet tonight as the German and Italian Propaganda Ministers , Dr. Joseph Goebbels and Dino Alfieri , concluded a series of agreements for more intensive collaboration in journalism , propaganda , movies , radio and on the stage . The agreements provide for greater exchange of ideas and talent between the two countries in these fields . // sity of constant and timely defense , " he says . Ever since Washington 's dentinelation of its trade treaty with Japan it has been the fashion here to couple America 's name with those of Britail and France as " encircters . " Dr. Joseph Goebbels , the German Propaganda Minister , added his bit last night in Venice by telling his Italian hosts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ducal palace , for instance , to convince one 's self that it boasts a history more famous than the whole North Arnettcan democracy . " Using that as its text , the Tribuna remarks that if the whole North American continent were wiped out the world would be impoverished by , many billions in material wealth , " taut the history of the human spirit wbuld scarcely suffer . " However , its readers are asked to imagine what would happen if a piece of the Italian peninsula  --  say , from Naples ' to Florence  --  were suppressed . " We should no longer be able to explain anything of the mind and forms of human civilization , " says the Tribuna.                     