@@697864

txt Demantis for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and restoration of State option on prohibition were made in planks drafted today for the platforms of the State Republican and Democratic parties at the concurrent opening sessions of their conventions here . The Democrats went even further than the Republicans , who pract ! cally repeated their 1930 prohibition plank expressing the views of United States Senator Dwight W. Morrow . The Democrats today made additional demands for immediate repeal of the Hobart State enforcement act and modification of the Volstead act , pending repeal of the amendment , to permit the sale of light wines and beer . These demands were emphasized by A. Harry Moore , nominee for Governor , in his speech of acceptance . Taxation occupied a position of almost equal importance with the platform committees of both parties , with the Republicans declaring for " rigid economy " and the curtailment of unnecessary public expenditures to bring about reduction in taxation . The Democrats also declared for economy , charging the Republican Administration with practicing " extravagance and waste of public funds to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Baird Jr. , Republican nominee for Governor , concentrated on charges of Hagueism and declared that his opponent was under the domination of Mayor Frank Hague of Jersey City , the State Democratic leader . Mr. Moore , in accepting the nomina- tion , asserted that Mr. Baird had been the " dictator " of the present Legislature and therefore responsible for its " side-stepping " on prohibition and for its " vicious " legislation . Senator Morrow , sounding the keynote at the Republican convention , made his first appearance before a political meeting since his election last Fall . The Democrats convened at the Stacy-Trent Hotel . Mr. Moore . in his speech , scored the rising cost of government . adding the remark : " Upon the back of an already overburdened people the Republican Legislature has laid a crushing weight , " and pledged himself for economy In government . The Abell bills for the reorganization of the State Government " were , at best , partisan compromises passed for political expediency , and possessed little merit , " the former Governor asserted . He characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " most vicious , " and grouped the Abell bills with other measures passed by the Legislature under the characterization of a " pseudo-reorganization . " That he looked to the threatened breach between Republican women and the State organiaztion over the question of patronage as an aid to his own candidacy was indicated in the assertion : " The Republican candidate has not been favorable to the claims of women for their just share of political honor . Today many women in his own party are roundly condemning and censuring his failure to recognize the merits and deserts of the women voters . " He called attention to the record of the Democratic party in its policy toward women . Mr. Moore attacked his opponent for having voted against the Wagner bills for unemployment relief when he was a member of the United States Senate and pledged himself for unemployment relief . He also condemned " Ripper legislation " and advocated constitutional amendments to safeguard local home rule . He said : " A contrast between the cost of State Government in the last year of my administration and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That cost has mounted from $26,000,000 to $37,000,000 , in round figures , or an increase of over 40 per cent . The Republican Legislature under the present Governor has increased the cost of government this year to the extent of $7.000,000 . Tax Reduction Pledged . " I pledge you that , if elected , I shall use my utmost efforts to reduce taxation by urging economy in every department of the State Government . In view of the present oppressive taxes and extravagant appropriation bill I will do my best to encourage leaders in industry , the business men , farmers and the home owners by inviting them as well as heads of taxpayers ' organizations and all others interested in taxation matters , to sit in conference with me to revise the budget , so that not one unnecessary item will appear in the appropriation bill . , " I advocate amendments to our State Constitution so that the executive branch of our government can be reorganized on a sane and business-like basis . I believe that all executive and administrative functions of our State Government should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive and administrative departments should be created and defined in and by our Constitution ; that the powers and duties of these departments in their general scope should be fixed therein . " The amendments should be broad enough to comprehend all of the State 's activities so that no new department should thereafter be created by the Legislature . New powers should be granted the Legislature to enlarge the duties and scope of such departments when prudence and necessity require . This would place an inhibition on the Legislature passing laws creating useless and expensive boards and commissions . I advocate that no administrative officers should be selected by the Legislature . It is abhorrent to our system of government that the legislative branch should infringe upon the executive branch . " Heher Attacks Baird . The Republican nominee " can not divorce himself from his financial interests , " Harry Heher. chairman of the State Committee , who acted as temporary chairman of the convention , charged in his keynote speech . " Contributing immeasurably to the inefficiency and high cost of our badly managed government is the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That this is a menace to popular government the present Republican candidate has conceded by his resignation from his directorates . He has thus , unwittingly , it would seem , framed one of the dominant issues of the campaign . The candidate himself recognizes that out of this relationship springs a conflict of interests and consequent disqualification . " A drift of Negro sentiment throughout the State from the Republican party toward the Democratic candidates was reported to the convention by Dr. Leroy Baxter , a Negro , former Republican Assemblyman from Essex County , who became an independent last year . All present officers of the Democratic State Committee were reelected at its reorganization meeting before the opening of the convention . They are Harry Heher of Trenton , chairman ; Mrs. Mary T. Norton of Jersey City , vice chairman ; Charles Quinn of Trenton , , secretary , and James Baker of Jersey City , treasurer . The convention adjourned until next ' Tuesday to allow the platform committee time to draw up its planks . Mr. Baird , speaking before an enthusiastic opening session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charged that his opponent had been " selected " for the candidacy by Mayor Hague and that if elected Moore would remain under Hague " dictatorship . " Mr. Baird , asserted that the outstanding import of the campaign would be this : " Shall the government of New Jersey be in the open or shall it be invisible ? If the people elect me iL November I will be their Governor . If they elect my amiable opponent , Mr. Hague shall be the Governor. ! ' The Republican candidate denied that he controlled the Republican Legislature or his party councils and stated that he had no wish to do so , but rather to be a leader by mandate of the electorate . The convention was called to order by State Chairman E. Bertram Mott , who in the morning at the reorganization of the State Committee , was re-elected to that office . The prayer was said by the Rev. I. W. Roundtree , Negro clergyman of Trenton . Morrow Praises Candidate . United States Senator Dwight W. Morrow , in addressing the convention as temporary chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ability and predicted that Republican unity would win success at the polls next November . Referring to Mr. Baird , Senator Morrow said : " As Governor of this State he will be merciless with dishonesty , in whatever political party it may be found . He is in politics not to make something out of it , but to give something to it . He comes from fighting . stock that can not sit by idly and see things done badly without taking a hand and trying to make things better . " In his speech , Mr. Baird said . " The people of the State must decide whether they favor Mr. Hague 's leadership or mine . " " This year , as in years gone by , " Mr. Baird declared , " the selection of candidates for State-wide offices has not been the free action of the Democratic party but rather the selections of Mr. Hague . ? He has not had the courage to submit himself and his partnership to the people of the State but has hidden behind the candidacy of another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am elected , I will lead . If my opponent is selected , he will be led . ' Governor Morgan F. Larson was permanent chairman of the meeting . Former Judge Robert Carey and United States Senator Hamilton F. Kean were among the speakers . Party unity was strongly emphasized . At the State committee meeting , Mrs. Elizabeth C. Verge , a prominent member of the Baird Camden organization , was elected vice chairman . Former Judge James W. McCarthy of Hudson County and State Controller John McCutcheon were also elected vice chairmen , as was Mrs. Adelaide Meyers of Jersey City . Mrs. Elizabeth C. Oliver of Middlesex County was elected secretary . Mrs. Demon S. Prentice of Rumson was re-elected treasurer . BOTH PLATFORMS DRAFTED . Women Submit Republican Plank ? Democrats Assail " Waste . " Special to The New York Times . TRENTON , N. J. , May 26 . ? Both major parties drafted tentative platforms here today . More than a score of planks were in the hands of the resolutions committee at the Republican Convention . They included one favoring repeal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , a pledge that the party recognize women by granting them political office and influence in party councils , and planks endorsing economy in government and commending private business for maintaining wage scales . The platform , to be finally approved next Tuesday , will meanwhile be mailed to convention delegates for their study . It is expected that it will be adopted practically as now written . United States Senator Dwight W. Morrow was strongly influential in drawing the proposals on prohibition and economic depression . Text of Dry Law Plank . The prohibition plank , as drawn , sets forth his views , stating : " The Eighteenth Amendment should be repealed and there should be substituted therefor an amendment restoring to the several States the power to determine their policy toward the liquor traffic and vesting in the Federal government the power to protect dry States from the invasion of such traffic from wet States . We favor constitutional procedure to accomplish this purpose . So long as the Eighteenth Amendment is the law of the land , we favor law enforcement . We oppose the return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic depression was very similar to views expressed by Mr. Morrow in his Senatorial campaign last Fall . After declaring that expenditures for public improvements , prevention of governmental waste and public employment offices could " do much , " the plank continued : " But when the government has done what it can it will still remain true that the prosperity of the people will rest largely upon their individual industry , initiative , courage and thrift . We recommend especially those private and corporate employers who have followed the example of the State government in maintaining the existing wage scale . " The Women 's State Republican Club submitted the following proposal for the platform : " We pledge the Republican party of New Jersey to a full and deserved recognition in the appointments to office and in party councils of the women of our State who have made such splendid contributions to the success of our party and to the cause of good government . " The tentative platform also included a pledge for tax reduction , a progressive and liberal attitude toward labor and strengthening of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for the elimination of the gangster and racketeer . " The Republican policy of a " protective tariff " was reaffirmed . Government reorganization ' in accordance with business principles was pledged . State Senator A. Crozer Reeves is chairman of the resolutions committee . Democrats Demand Economy . The tentative Democratic platform as released by the secretary of the convention contains planks calling for prohibition reform , tax reduction and reorganization of the State Government for " stability and economy . " It attacked the National Administration for having failed to relieve business depression and the State administration for " wasting the public funds to an alarming degree . " Regarding prohibition , the tentative platform says : " We again solemnly pledge that we are in favor of the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and State enforcement act and will do all in our power to accomplish this result . We favor a legislative petition to Congress to call a convention for proposed amendments . If two-thirds of the States join in this call the Eighteenth Amendment can be repealed and the right restored to each State to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immediate modification of the Volstead act pending repeal of the amendment so that the people of this State can have light wines and beer at once . " The present Republican administration at Washington was condemned in the plank on the National Administration as " the weakest in all our national history . " It " has been noted for doing nothing to relieve business depression , hard times and lack of employment . " The Democratic platform favored unemployment relief , and scored Congress for failing to pass the Wagner unemployment relief bills . Modernization of the judicial system was urged by the creation of a separate Court of Appeals as well as the lodging in the hands of the Supreme Court judges the appointment of jury commissioners . The Republican candidate for Governor was strongly attacked for his attempts to abolish civil service and the platform pledged establishment of the civil service system and its s maintenance . Moving up of the primary from May to September was urged , as well as repeal of the permanent registration law . The platform reiterated the party 's recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department of Labor should have full power to regulate night work .                     