@@702879

txt A hushed break in the cabinet over the administr a tion farm prog ram flared into the open to ? day when Secretary of Commerce Daniel C. Roper warned a g a inst continuat i o n of crop control through subsidies in two speeches . deep in the cotton belt . In an invasion of his home country , Secretary Roper struck at the policies of his cabinet colleague , Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace , as t h e latter was engaged in preparing a crop surplus control program for a special session of congress . The clash of the cabinet members , which had been smoldering behind closed doors of the cabinet meeting , burst into flames here when agricultural experts studied advance copies Secretary Roper had left behind ' Of speeches at Charleston ; ? S. , ? c. , this morning and Gibson , N. C. , tonight . Challenges Crop ' Control . In both speeches Roper challenged Wallace 's commodity loans , crop con ? trol subsidies through the intricacies of the soil conservation program and the subsidies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanded that Wallace " find the substi. tute for benefit payments that will accomplish the objective of relief without artificial means . " Roper warned of the dangers of carrying farm subsidies too far and urged farmers to look " more to the reduc. tion of trade barriers that affect foreign markets than to financial aid from the treasury . " Commodity Loans , he said , " should be regarded as an emergency plan and not a permanent policy . " Remembering the tradition of state rights in which he was steeped , he added fearfully , " superimposed controls , except under emergency conditions , have a tendency to thwart the principles of democracy through a form of regimentation that we righteously condemn in other forms of government . " The 70 year old South Carolinian indirectly lent his support to charges that Wallace 's policies have lost America 's foreign markets and particularly the world cotton market . Cotton Program Attacked . Critics of the secretary of agriculture assert that his artificial price pegging has stimulated cotton production abroad so that American cotton exports have tumbled . Before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the cotton in foreign markets . Today it accounts for but 45 per cent . In both addresses Roper stressed the Democratic tenet of the old south that agriculture 's salvation , and particularly that of the cotton south , is to be found in ever widen . ing foreign markets instead of In Wallace 's " domestic economy . " Time and time again he hit at artificial price control through subsidies and crop curtailment rather than exportation of surpluses . Bring Split Into Open . The Roper speeches brought out into the open a long suspected split in the official They brought the widest break in the cabinet since the Harding administration when the then secretary of commerce , Her . Bert Hoover , clashed with Secretary a Agriculture Henry C. Wallace , Sather of the present secretary , over the control a the foreign services of : the two departments . Undoubtedly Wallace will be wait . ing for a few words with Roper on his ? return here . If Roper holds his ground an official reply probably will come from his colleague . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably will be failed upon to swallow his words in a public s l ? tentent.                     