@@697527

txt EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES . Practices Which Caused Complaint Are Being Eliminated . To the Editor of The New York Times : John B. Andrews , secretary of the American Association for Labor Legislation , makes a wholly unwarranted attack on the employment agencies in his letter to THE Tr . tiffs , charging them with extortion , misrepresentation of jobs , theft , fee-splitting and immorality , all of which in his opinion calls for an effective State regulation . I will not deny that these charges had foundation in the past , but at present they are entirely baseless .. Never have conditions been more wholesome among the fee-paying agencies than at present . With strict supervision on the part of the Commissioner of Licenses , complaints have gradually decreased for the past year . On the other hand , the agents have reached the conclusion that , regardless of what course shall be taken by the Legislature in respect to changes of the present law , it is for the good of all concerned to run the business on a sound business plan , which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At present the great majority of agents , in their desire to cooperate with the commissioner and mindful of  --  present conditions , are returning all fees the same day applicants report failure to secure the positions , despite the fact that the law allows them to hold the fee three days . No more than one applicant at a time is sent to any job . These two points alone , if vigorously carried out , would eliminate 99 per cent of complaints , as is now being demonstrated . In a recent conference held in the commissioner 's office Miss Mary Kennedy , deputy commissioner , laid down a series of rules to the agents which every onepresent pledged himself to observe in order to put the business on a , plane of self-respect and avoid any possible complaint during these trying days when there exist such appalling conditions among the job seekers . J. C. VALLE . New York , Dec. 30 , 1930 . A FURTHER EXCEPTION . Judge Moore Disputes Statement in White Biography . To the Zditor of The New Terris Times : Having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Jusserand , formerly French Ambassador at Washington , in relation to a letter he had read in the recent biography of the late Henry White , in which he is represented as having been " extremely prejudiced " against England , I venture to call attention to a misrepresentation concerning myself in the same volume . Referring to the delegation of the United States to the Fourth International American Conference at Buenos Aires in 1910 , the biography states that the delegation comprehended myself , General Crowder , Paul S. Reinsch and David Kinley , later president of the University of Illinois ; and that the " wives of these four men accompanied them , a fact which caused White some justified uneasiness . " It is not an agreeable thing to read such a statement concerning either one 's wife or one 's self , but I have heretofore refrained from taking public notice of it . I wrote to the publishers and stated the facts , and they promptly answered that they would erase the statement and substitute another page . The other day , however , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that he had just purchased a copy of the book and had noticed in it the slur to which I have referred . As it is thus evident that copies containing the offensive statement have not been withdrawn but are still on sale , I feel obliged publicly to state the facts . The only one of the delegates above mentioned who was accompanied by his wife was Professor Reinsch , and as he is dead and no longer in a position to defend Her , I will say that she was remarkably unobtrusive in her demeanor and unlikely to cause any disturbance . As concerns General Crowder , Dr. Kinley and myself , the facts are simply these : General Crowder never had a wife , Mrs. Kinley remained in the United States and my wife was in Europe with our children . So far , therefore , as concerns Gen. eral Crowder , Dr. Kinley and myself , the indecorous statement that the presence of our wives with the delegation caused the chairman of it " justified uneasiness " is simply false and destitute of any foundation whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1930 . WHAT OF THE NEW YEAR ? There Are Several Things We Could Do to Remedy Conditions . To the Editor of The New York Times : The close of the year will find many business men sitting on the anxious seat , wondering what is in store for them in 1931 . The thought occurs that in the brief interim while the usual material inventory is in progress , it might be well to also devote some consideration to our mental and physical equipment for meeting the new year 's problems , to study the internal economics of our own business as a change from those of the country as a whole . There is little doubt that in too many instances we have been too willing to accept generalities for facts , to rely upon the general feeling of " depression " rather than to subject ourselves to a severe mental and physical self-analysis . After all , a mass is made up of individuals , and . it is from individual initiative that mass progression is accomplished . If we all . sit down and accept conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I position . There are still one hundred and twenty-odd million people in this United States of ours to be fed , clothed and housed . Quite a few of them have small change to spend on luxuries . Stocks of merchandise have been shrinking for months . Soon they must be replenished . Somebody will get that business . Why not , at any rate , be ready to go out after it ? To the business man of today the most vital question is Why ? If we will take the trouble to prepare a comprehensive self-analysis chart of ourselves and our business and obligate ourselves to answer it honestly , this insistent little interrogation will still remain as the key to the whole situation . It is , for instance , not enough to know that sales have fallen and profits diminished . Let toi get at the " why " behind it . If production costs are to blame , or excessive sales costs , or lack of cooperation between production and Hsales , let us at least know it . We hear of many concerns lament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general or individual ? Can we honestly blame general business con , ditions if we ourselves are deficient in enterprise ? It is to just such businesses that I commend this idea of a self-examination  --  the more severe , the more likely it is to be of effect . Our trouble is that while we may occasionally be forced to face the facts , we are apt to dodge the balance of the problem . Above all , we hate to believe that the fault may lie in ourselves instead of outside . Just now it is not only facts we need but the basic causes underlying those facts . Let us forget all about the world 's troubles and pay a little more attention to our own internal economics . If trade in Great Britain , Russia or Czechoslovakia is not as good as it might be , how does that affect our own factory ? To bring the matter closer home , are we perhaps reaching out too far , aiming at " national " distribution and neglecting our own home State ? Are there no unprofitable territories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our salesmen " gogetters " or merely order-takers ? Are we supporting their efforts as we should ? Is our product up to oj ' ahead of competition ? Are our factory methods efficient and economical ? Above all , is there any fault - in ourselves , our mental makeUp ? All of these questions are vital ; but , back of every one of them , let us not ignore that insistent , offensive little interrogation . " Why ? " AUSTEN BOLAM . New York , Dec. 23 , 1930.                     