@@697099

txt While the Senate and House met briefly to adopt resolutions of sorrow for the death of William Howard Taft and designate committees to attend his funeral , and while the Supreme Court in solemn session paid brief tribute to its departed chief , the War Department completed the final plans for the nation 's highest honors tomorrow to the former President and Chief Justice . With the exception of the church seritice and the motor cortege from the church to the cemetery , the military and naval forces will play the chief part in the ceremonies , with marching troops and gun salutes . At 9 o'clock in the morning the coffin will be taken from the Taft home at 2,215 Wyoming Avenue and placed upon a gun caisson , draped with the flag , for the slow march under military escort to the Capitol , to lie in state for three hours . ? About 10,000 persons are expected to pass in double file by the catafalque upon which also rested the coffins of Presidents Lincoln , Garfield , and Harding . Hoover to Go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Capitol , it was said at the White House , but will occupy himself with State business until noon . At 12:45 P. M. , with his official family of about fifty persons , Including the Cabinet , he will leave the Executive Mansion for All Souls Unitarian Church , where the services will be conducted by the Rev. Ulysses G. B. Pierce . President and Mrs. Hoover , the Cabinet and the Justices of the Supreme Court will occupy pews toward the front . About forty relatives of the Taft family will be seated near by . The 900 expected at the church will also include the heads of embassies and legations , the Congressional committee of twenty Senators and twenty-eight Representatives , delegations from governmental departments and the courts of the District of Columbia , jurists from throughout the country and friends of the Taft family . Following these exercises , the President will accompany the procession to Arlington National Cemetery and remain there until the sounding of taps and the firing of three volleys as the coffin is being lowered into the grave . A soldier 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his having been Secretary of War and , as President , Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy . However , he will be the first President to be buried in the last resting place of the nation 's heroes . While plans were being formulated during the day for the exercises , in which several hundred soldiers and sailors will form escorts end guards of honor , tributes of affection and esteem continued to pour into the Taft home , where Mrs. Taft , Mrs. Helen Taft Manning , a daughter , and Robert and Charles Taft , sons of the former President , rested for the long ordeal tomorrow . President and Mrs. Hoover will send a wreath to the Taft house tomorrow . It will be composed of lavender , sweet peas , Ophelia roses and sprays of blue delphinium , tied with a green ribbon . While the President will be in his office tomorrow morning , the Cabinet will adjourn immediately after the members have gathered ; and the various executive offices are expected to release their forces at noon . Because of his personal grief and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend , the President desired to issue an order declaring the day of the funeral a holiday in these departments , but he was restrained from this by law . This law , passed in 1893 , decreed that " the executive departments of the government shall not be closed as a mark to the memory of any deceased ex-official of the United States . " The army posts were notified of the death of Mr. Taft yesterday , at the same time that word was sent to representatives of the United States Government throughout the world . Acting Secretary of the Navy Jahncke made public the following proclamation to his forces.today : It is with deep regret that I announce to the naval service the death of ex-President William Howard Taft , which occurred at his home in the city of Washington on the eighth day of March , 1930 , at 5:15 o'clock in the aft  --  rnoon . And , It is directed that on March 11 , the day of the funeral of the late ex-President William Howard Taft , the ensign at each naval station and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mast and that a gun be fired at halfhour intervals from sunrise to sunset at each naval station and on board flagships and all saluting ships acting singly . All officers of the navy and marine corps when in uniform will wear the mourning badge until April 10 . Route of Caisson to the Capitol . The War Department announced the order of ceremonies for tomorrow as follows : The squadron of cavalry which will comprise the escort of the gun caisson carrying the casket to the Capitol will follow the most direct route from the Taft mansion . Going east on Wyoming Avenue , it will turn south into Connecticut Avenue , one of the most important north and south thoroughfares of Washington . Traveling south to Du Pont Circle . it will turn southeast into Massachusetts Avenue and proceed to Sixteenth Street , thence to H Street , across to Madison Place , down it and East Executive Avenue to Treasury Place and out of that street into Pennsylvania Avenue . Clattering down the broad surface of Pennsylvania Avenue , the cavalcade will approach the Peace Monument and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Capitol . The coffin will be carried inside and be placed on the catafalque under the dome , being made ready today by the Capitol chief carpenter . Associated Press Photo . ARLINGTON CEMETERY . g . The spot is secluded , Robert Todd Mr. Taft will be the first former which has gained hallowed associations through bearing the remains of three former Presidents and the Unknown Soldier during similar ceremonies . While the body lies there it will be guarded by two officers and twenty non-commissioned officers from the army and ten enlisted men each from the navy and the marine corps . Troops in the Line of March . At noon the coffin will be removed and carried in more impressive array hack over the same route to Sixteenth Street and thence north to All Souls Unitarian Church at Sixteenth and Harvard Streets . The escort under command of Major Gen. Fred W. Sladen , commander of the Third Corps Area , with headquarters at Baltimore , will consist of : The Army Band , the Third Battalion of the Twelfth Infantry of Fort Washington , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fort Myer ; the Marine Band , a battalion of marines and a company of bluejackets . These troops also will form a guard of honor outside of the church , finally standing at attention as the motor cortege departs for the cemetery , and then will disband and return to their regular posts . The route from the church to the Fort Myer gate of the cemetery was announced as follows : South on Sixteenth Street to Nevi Hampshire Avenue ; south on New Hampshire Avenue to Pennsylvania Aven-e ; west on Pennsylvania Avenue and M Street to the Key Bridge and thence to and through Fort Myer to the cemetery . After the motor nrocession reaches Fort Myer , its speed will be slackened and the automobiles will follow another escort up the winding road , way past the monuments of the soldier dead , and into the oak glade re . served for notables , where the burial will take , place , seventy-five yards from the only other grave there , that of Robert Todd Lincoln . A detachment consisting of the Navy Band , a battalion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Third Cavalry , minus the First Squadron , and one company of Marines will form the escort of 1 the slow procession through the cemetery . The lot , fifty feet square , in the i centre of which will be the grave , has been roped off and carefully ' attended . Workmen raked up the leaves today . The terraced sidewalk skirting the driveway leading from the Fort Myer entrance also was roped off and swept . The foreign embassies and legations here flew their flags at halfstaff . A proclamation by President Hoover required that this procedure be followed on all government buildings , and business houses followed , but similar action by the representatives of foreign governments was purely voluntary . The large department stores will close the business day at 2 P. M. , the hour when the funeral services begin . The National Geographic Society , with which Mr. Taft was identified for twenty-five years , will close its offices at 1 P. M. tomorrow as a tribute to his memory . Two radio hook-ups over the Columbia and National Broadcasting Systems will carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church and cemetery services . Among the prominent persons who will pay their last tribute to Mr. Taft by attending the services and the funeral will be General John J. Pershing , it was learned from a telegram stating his intention which was sent to Mrs. Taft today . It also has been reported that former President Coolidge might return to the capital , but this could not be confirmed . No reservation is known to have been made for him and the WhiterHouse has not taken notice of the report .                     