@@704154

txt Despite sensational attempts to create new alarms out of the conferences between Count Mann ( Italian Foreign Minister , and Joachim von Ribbentrop , German Foreign Minister , with Chancellor Adolf Hitler intervening as the ultimate arbiter , conserva- tive opinion not only in Berlin but other capitals is ? veering around to the belief that on the whole the effect of these parleys has not been warlike . Peace may not come out of them , but the result is likely to be to delay rather than hasten the dreaded European denouement , which has seemed inevitable . If there is to be forcible action in Danzig it will not develop , according to this view , before the National Socialist Congress , meeting in Nureomberg Sept. 2 to 12 , has given an opportunity for developing that mass hysteria which would be an important factor in justifying it . And , meantime , there will be furthe ? opportunity for negotiating a peaceful settlement in the last hope of solving the problem before August has run its course . ? Both Seem Determined Nobody goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The German claims are too uncompromising , and Polish fears , bred from the example of Czecho-Slovakia , are too deep-rooted for concessions . Poland sees in the surrende ? of Danzig merely the thin end of a wedge that would be pressed home until the loss of the " Corridor " and the sea outlet , with a partition or a German protectorate following , would be the ultimate end . Yet there does seem to be a prospect of a brief respite . A fresh and perhaps significant figure in these Danzig conversations has been that of Dr. Karl J. Burckhardt , until now the futile and disregarded League of Nations High Commissioner in the Free City . It is now confirmed that Dr. Burckhardt was in personal contact with Herr Hitler and Herr von Ribbentrop over the week-end . Actually there is nothing surprising in that . By virtue of his League mandate he is empowered to consult with Marian Chodacki , Polish High Commissioner in Danzig . Also the right could scarcely be denied to him to confer with the Reich Government on an issue coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is believed to be persona grata with Herr Hitler , who has taken occasion twice to commend his " tact and discretion , " but that a League representative should be received by the German Chancellor , who has never lost an opportunity to show that he despises the League , is a distinctly strange hut apparently favorable turn in the situation , showing that it is not yet out of the sphere of negotiations . Anglo-French Link Seen It is impossible that Dr. Burckhardt would have flown to Berchtesgaden without the knowledge of Britain and France , and it is known that after seeing the Chancellor Dr. Burckhardt desired to visit London . He was advised , however , that it would be better if he talked with the Poles and he is now back in Danzig . Speculation was general today over what was discussed , and what was decided in the conversations at Salzburg and Berghof , and the material on which this speculation was based was scant enough to have it range over a wide field . Any number of " reconstructions " of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most of them start from the indubitable fact that , as admitted in authorized comment since issued , the conferences were held under the German-Italian alliance agreement of May 22 . It is surmised that they took place on Italian initiative . From this it 18 a natural step to suppose that Italy took occasion to - urge that , before anything devel- aped over Danzig that might result in military action to which she might be committed , there should be a full discussion and clear un , derstanding of the aims to be achieved . It is also within the realm of probability that Count Ciano did not fail to impress on Herr von Ribbentrop ? if not on Herr Hitler  --  the difficulty of inducing the Italian people to go to war on account of Danzig alone and that , if there were any such prospect , Italy must first be assured of what she would get from it . It would be pair to believe further that in any really frank discussion Italy would diplomatically represent the danger of being again confronted w ith a fait accompli , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had to fight afterward to maintain it . Nor is it out of the way to assume that all the conferees agreed upon insistence of the firm rigidity of the Axis , the maintenance of a press campaign against interference with this rigidity and continuation of the military manoeuvres that have been so successful in creating world tremors as the best means of inculcating a state of mind favorable toward any concession . Mystery Is Technique The air of mystery thrown about the conversations , culminating in the absence of even a perfunctory communiqu ? concerning there , was also doubtless an agreed-upon matter . It is part of the totalitarian technique . Italian insistence on an advance revelation of war aims and an Italian warning against a fait accompli might well account for the frequent telephone consultations between Premier Benito Mussolini and Berghof and Salzburg . They would scarcely accord with the idea that national prestige is involved by the Polish attitude over Danzig , for which Germany must have a free hand in a matter that affects her honor . This is the German viewpoint , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all the points involved a fair measure of agreement was reached , since both German and Italian comment is insistent on unanimity produced on every issue raised . In Berlin today the tendency is to accentuate the view that the talks accelerated the demand for an early solution on Danzig , peaceful if possible , and that this is a thing apart , in no way to be linked with their other interests in Southeastern Europe . Negotiations are not mentioned ; nevertheless , that subject is in the air . At the Foreign Office it was merely suggested , regarding the absence of a communiqu ? , that this was an example that other statesmen might adopt with profit on the ground of the utter banality of most such documents . Viewed as Mediator BERLIN , Aug. 14 ** Karl J. Burclthardt , League of Nations Commissioner for Danzig , emerged tonight as a possible mediator of the German-Polish dispute over the Free City . German hopes tended in the direction that Dr. Burcithardt 's conversations with German , British and Polish officials would result in a solution by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gain a strip of land through the " Corridor " to East Prussia . Informed political circles here expressed the belief that Chancellor Hitler , Foreign Minister Josef Beck of Poland and Albert Forster , Nazi leader in Danzig , had accepted such a plan as a basis for ' discussion . Following his visit to Herr Hitler , Ali German comment indicated that , if mediation should fail , Germany was preparedwith the aid of Italy to enforce the Axis demands . Dienst aus Deutschland , a news service of officially inspired comment , observed that , while Danzig was the most pressing problem requiring a speedy solution , the visit to Germany of Italian Foreign Minister Galeazzo Ciano also emphasized unity regarding Italian aims , which it said might be grouped under the common heading of " a new just peace . " Count Stephen Csaky , Hungaria.n Foreign Minister , quietly returned today to Germany for his second visit within a week . He was staying at the home of the German Minister of the Interior , Wilhelm Frick , thirty miles south of Munich . Count @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Last Tuesday Count Csaky saw German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop in Fuschl Castle near Salzburg . Burckhardt Sees Polish Official Wireless to Tule NEW York TIMES . DANZIG , Aug. ** Karl J. Burokhardt , League High Commissioner to Danzig , has returned here from Berchtesgaden . In a conversation today he said his discussions in Germany concerned the DanzigPolish customs dispute only . On his return here , however , he talked with Marian Chodacki , Polish High Commissioner . He will remain in Danzig for the present and has no plans for any immediate visit elsewhere , he said . He flew to Berchtesgaden and was absent from the Free City for five days . In Danzig opinion his Berchtesgaden visit is not likely to produce tangible results .                     