@@698823

txt Prominent Republicans , In conference with President Hoover and other administration officials , have clearly Indicated that failure of the party to take a definite stand on prohibition calling for at least a referendum will make it exceedingly difficult for the party to get contributions and votes in the big eastern states on which the party must depend in the November elections , Campaign contributors are already facing heavy taxation , and many of them have lost miich of their fortune . It is pointed out that they will hardly feel like contributing to a party advocating continuance of prohibition which does away with a possible source of large federal revenue . Strong and confident claim that the session of Congress which meets soon after the Presidential election will vote for modification of the Volstead Act to legalize beer came from antiprohibitionists in Congress Tuesday . Prohibition Congressmen made private admission that after next . November the House might swing wet but placed their hopes in a dry Senate . From other quarters came information that anti-prohibition forces within the Republican party feel assured that they can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago convention . Between now and the convention opening their fight will be to make this plank as strong as possible . Election Likely to Aid Antis In yesterday 's vote in the House 228 Congressmen voted against the modification of the Volstead Act and 169 favored it . A change of 30 votes would have sent the measure through the House . Anti-prohibitionists are confident that conditions which ' congressional candidates will And during the election will change a great many more than 28 votes . In the first place , they expect that a general disgust with conditions of prohibition enforcement and a desire to change conditions will be plainly shown in hitherto dry territory . In the second plate , crew tir.ss which this session Will enact proviae a powerful urge toward modification . The citizen who must pay a tax on many articles be must buy , will be constantly reminded that many of these taxes could be repealed if beer were legalized and made subject to taxation . He will see beer sold more or less openly , but paying no tax . Conferred with Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed by the anti-prohibition wing of the Republican party . The anti-prohibitionist drive has been so effective that a number of drys within the party , have devised the scheme of framing a plank , which will be " moist " but which will not entirely alienate the Republican drys . In the antiprohibitionist ranks , however , there is a strong disposition to reject any move which has the appearance of a straddle . There is a belief that any declaration which would satisfy the dry element of the party would not be acceptable and there is some distrust on this score of a plank which merely calls for a referendum . Announcement of Senator Borah that he would not attend the Republican convention is regarded here as another indication of the strong position of the anti-prohibitionists . The Idaho Senator has been a consistent dry and if be should attend the convention the leadership in the dry fight would fall upon him immediately . A defeat in such a fight would not be to Senator Borah 's liking . Such a possibility is avoided if he absents himself from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the statement of Deets Pickett , dry leader , that Governor Roosevelt , as Democratie candidate , would not be unacceptable to the drys . Anti-prohibitionists interpret that as a threat to swing the dry strength to Roosevelt , should he be nominated , and against President Hoover . If this interpretation is the correct one , the concealed threat failed to accomplish its purpose . Anti-prohibition Republicans say very frankly that they would like nothing better than to have Roosevelt the candidate with dry support . They point out that he already is weak in the East , and that such strategy would make it impossible for him to carry any of the eastern states . Incidentally , Republicans have no hope that the Democratic candidate , whether it is Roosevelt or another , will have any dry leanings . Their real fear is that the Democrats will make a stronger appeal to the wet sentiment than the Republicans .                     