@@699860

txt Great Britain , in a note made public by the State Department today , tendered a partial payment of 810,000 , - 000 on its World War debt instalment of 875,950,000. due tomorrow , and asked for an immediate review of the whole debt . When it arrives the payment will be accepted and credited to the British account . Great Britain will pay in silver at the rate agreed to by the United States of 50 cents an ounce . The value of the payment on a gold basis therefore is about $7,200,000 . In a public statement the President said , " As a matter of information to the American public , I want to-make it clear that the economic conference now being held in London does not include in its program any consideration of the debts owed by various governments to the United States . The American delegates have been instructed not to discuss debts with the representatives of any of the debtor governments . " The President agreed to receive the British Government representations in Washington as soon as convenient , but emphasized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A note of reply to this effect was sent by Acting Secretary of State Phillips today . World Parley a Factor . The interchange of communications came at the moment when the success of the World Economia ' Conference appeared to be threatened by an impasse on the war debt problem . The British emphasized this danger In their note , and while the American Government questioned the soundness of this reasoning , the President in his statement said it was vitally necessary that , during the opening days of the conference , difficult and possibly protracted discussion of the debt be avoided . " In a spirit of cooperation . " President Roosevelt declared , " I have , as Executive , noted the representations of the British Government with respect to the payment of the June 15 instalment inasmuch as the payment made is accompanied by a clear acknowledgment of the debt itself . In view of these representations and of the payment , I have no personal hesitation in saying that I do not characterize the resultant situation as a default . " As the situation shaped up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readjustment of the British debt will be undertaken at conferences in Washington within the next few weeks . In the note to the British Government it was stated that " any results of such a discussion of the debt question can be submitted for the information or the consideration of the Congress when it next meets . " Unless another special session is called Congress will not assemble again until January . Britain has an instalment of principal and interest of about $118,000,000 due Dec 1 . senate Stirred to Debate . . A - o ' I.- : 7 , nlent of the British note rano the American reply precipitated a sharp debate in the Senate , as was expected . Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , and most of his colleagues who entered the debate , defended the British position and the President 's reply . Senator Glass attacked those who , he said , sought to malign the President for consenting to receive representations from the debtor nations . He described stories of American generosity toward their debtors as " a sham and fraud " be- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . " Senator Borah approved of the acceptance of the partial payment , saying that the developments had not changed the situation as to the validity of the debts . The attack on the President was headed by Senators Reed and Johnson , Republicans , who described the British payment as pure default . Action of Others Uncertain . As to what action the other debtor nations will take , there was no formal announcement . The French Embassy had received no new instructions on debts , but it was informed that Premier Daladier had left London for Paris . Any action by France tomorrow to meet its obligations was considered here as unlikely . Of France 's close political allies , only Czechoslovakia announced any intention of making any move . Ferdinand Veverka , the Czechoslovakian Minister , called on Raymond Moley , Assistant Secretary of State , this afternoon to say that his government would follow the British course by making a partial payment and asking for a review . The Rumanian Legation said that Rumania , Hungary , Poland , Estonia and Yugoslavia would default completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction from Rome was expected at the embassy hourly . It is anticipated that a course similar to the British action will be followed . Under its debt agreement Italy would have the right to postpone for two years the $12.300,000 of principal . although the payment of $1,245,438 in interest would be obligatory . Reports were current that Belgium would default completely , as on last Dec. 15 . L. Astrom , the Minister of Finland , notified the State Department that his country would meet in full its instalment of $148,592 due tomorrow . No news had been received of the Lithuanian payment of British note . delivered to Acting Secretary Phillips by Sir Ronald Lindsay , the British Ambassador , late Monday afternoon ; Mr. Phillips 's reply , written at the direction of the President , and the explanatory statement by President Roosevelt . The British note linked Great Britain 's failure to make full payment with efforts to make commodity prices rise , and pointed to the course of markets upward following the Lausanne agreement on reparations last Summer , by which Germany was relieved of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allied countries . It contended that the success of the World Economic Conference would be seriously endangered if the delegates were " hampered and harassed by doubts about the possibilities of a satisfactory settlement of war debts . " Payment of a further instalment at this juncture , the British held , would be interpreted to mean that no progress had been made toward settlement of the perplexing problem . It referred to the partial payment as an acknowledgment of the debt pending a final settlement and concluded with the request that negotiations for revision be undertaken as soon as possible . The American reply took issue with the British position of the importance of war debts in relation to the economic conference . It then emphasized the fact that Congress alone had the power to alter the debt schedules or to reduce or cancel the debts . It closed with the invitation to start negotiations at Washington as soon as convenient . Word " Accept " Is Not Used . Mr. Phillips 's note avoided any use of the words " accept " or " receive . " It informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accompanying this communication is a payment of $10,000,000 . " President Roosevelt in his supplemental statement to the public , in referring to the $10,000,000 , said that such payment did not " in any sense prejudice the freedom of either government in any subsequent discussion of the entire debt question , which will take account of this and other debt payments . " Saying that difficult and protracted discussion of the debt problem must be avoided now , the President referred to the Congressional resolution of December , 1931 , ratifying the Hoover moratorium of that year , which said specifically that the debts should not be canceled or reduced . His constitutional powers , however . would permit him to entertain British representations concerning the debt settlement and to lay them before Congress , the President said . Discusses Matter With Press . At the President 's conference with the newspaper correspondents this afternoon , he discussed the wardebt problem . The conference assembled at 3:30 o'clock , half an hour before simultaneous publication of the notes here and abroad . The President read to the newspaper men the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own statement . As he read , he occasionally explained some of the points made in the formal documents , and emphasized his determination that debts should not be used for bargaining at the World Economic Conference . The President stressed with a gesture and by raising his voice the sentence in his explanatory statement that " I have no personal hesitation in saying that I do not characterize the resultant situation as a default . " He indicated that the debt negotiations would probably not be started until the World Economic Conference had reached some definite conclusions .                     