@@700899

txt A city-wide strike of elevator operators , engineers , watchmen , janitors and other building service employes was declared a certainty last night by James J. Bambrick , president of the Building Service Employes International Union , Local 32-B . Over the telephone from Atlantic City , where he was spending the week-end , Mr. Bambrick refused to indicate the time of the strike , explaining that it was part of the union 's strategy to strike suddenly in. an effort to effect a complete tie-up . At union headquarters it was hinted that the strike might be called this afternoon or tomorrow Morning . The truce between the union and the realty owners ended on Friday ' at 5:30 P. M. and the reason that the strike was postponed over the week-end , as explained by union spokesmen , was that it would be futile to call a strike on Saturday when many buildings normally were closed . In Atlantic City Mr. Bambrick said he would confer with the union 's board of strategy here this morning at 9 o'clock . He promised a statement on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While admitting that he knew of no method of averting the strike of 45,000 members of the Building Service Employes International Union Local 32-B , Ben Golden , chief examiner of the Regional Labor Board , said last night that he would continue today his efforts to bring about a settlement between the real estate owners and the union representatives . Mr. Golden will first confer with Mayor La Guardia . After a conference with the Mayor last week , Mr. Golden announced that the Mayor had authorized him to act as his representative in negotiations for a settlement of the controversy . The basis of the controversy is as follows : The Building Service Employes International Union , Local 32-8 , which called a strike on Nov. 1 . affecting some 400 buildings - in the garment centre district , is demanding recognition of the union , closed-shop , a general minimum wage of $30 a week , a forty-hour week , eight-hour day , and the right to arbitrate . The Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations , whose offer to arbitrate wages and working conditions was rejected by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to establish a scale of minimum wages and maximum hours without lowering wages higher than the minimum or increasing hours that are shorter than its proposed maximum . The board represents a large group of real estate owners , but does not represent the Real Estate Board of New York . Closed Shop Demand Rejected . Lawrence B. Cummings , chairman of the control committee of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations , declared that the building owners would never yield to the union 's demand for the closed shop . The control committee proposed to set up a scale fixing a minimum wage and maximum hours . Mr. Cummings 's statement follows : " The Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations will not permit the fact that the new union demands a ' closed shop ' as a condition to peace to interfere with assuring elevator men and other building service employes decent wages and fair hours in those isolated cases . where wages are low and hours long . " We shall never meet the outrageous demand that we discharge 200,000 loyal , trustworthy non-union men . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and office buildings to labor agitators capable of making such a de-mand " But their refusal to discuss wage and hour standards will not prevent us from correcting the infrequent abuses which they have seized upon as a pretext for collecting ' , from our employes , our tenants and the owners . " This board now recommends that no elevator operator in any commercial building be required to work more than 48 hours a week . It further recommends that no male operator receive less than $21 per week in any office building up to 12 stories in height . In any office building over 12 stories , no elevator operator should receive less than $22 a week . The board further recommends that'the minimum rate of wage for elevator operators in loft buildings , shall be not less than $18 a week . " In fixing these minimum standards , the Advisory Board has not taken into account the fact that almost all building employes receive gifts and bonuses which add substantially to their incomes  --  a condition which does not prevail in most other occupations . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are always sure of employment throughout the year . There is never any fear in their minds that bad business conditions or seasonal lay-offs are going to deprive them of their pay checks . " In fixing these particular minimum wages , the Advisory Board emphasizes that these proposed rates are only minimum wages , and are intended only to correct those cases where men are working longer than 48 hours a week , and where the wages are below the minimums cited above . " In a large majority of the office buildings , substantially larger wages are already being paid to elevator operators . This board has no intention or idea of doing anything which will reduce the higher rates of wages now being paid , or to seek any increase in working hours where shorter hours prevail . " Further , this board intends to direct its efforts to a general increase in wages just as soon as business conditions and rentals will give the owners and operators a few dollars over what they have to collect to pay taxes and mortgage interest . " While many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owners have a difficult time collecting their rents , and in thousands of cases they have been forced to carry the tenants temporarily with no rent payments . In order to carry these tenants they have frequently had to borrow money and pay 6 per cent interest on it , which has added further to their operating burden . ' " The board has not completed its survey as to office buildings , and will make further recommendations from time to time in respect to employes other than those in elevator classifications . " The board at the present time is concentrating its efforts , in a study of wage and working conditions in apartment houses . Just as soon as the data of this survey can be put together recommendations will be made . The board is providing methods of adjustment for the many borderline cases which are bound to arise in an industry where working conditions and requirements are so widely diversified . " Having exhausted every effort to negotiate a fair settlement with the spokesman for the union , we are convinced of their bad faith . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Union Leader Replies . When informed of the contents of Mr. Cummings 's statement , Mr. Bambrick declared that it was not Mr. Cummings but that ' it was he , on behalf of the union , who had first proposed a scale of minimum wages and maximum hours for building service employes . " I maintain that the policy of the Real Estate Board in importing out-of-town thugs ? and we know that they are thugs  --  to act as guards with pistol permits is not only dangerous to the general public but indicative of their own short-sightedness . I further state that Mr. Cummings 's statement in this morning 's Times shows the utter weakness of the owners ' position . " It is a fine way to increase the ratio of New York City 's unemployment problem . The net result of this stupid policy of bringing outof-town strike-breakers into the city will be this , that until this case is settled New York City will have on its hands an additional floating army of derelicts who will have to be taken care of . Mr. Cummings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a failure . " Mr. Bambrick declared that ' he had said over the radio last Wednesday night that the open shop of which the realty owners " boasted had been admittedly a sad failure as attested by the low wages and long hours now obtaining in the real estate industry of New York . " He further asserted that " when I broached the question of hours and wages to the Real Estate Board six months ago they said they were not interested " ; also that when he had asked the Real Estate Board to urge its members to sign the President 's Agreement and display the Blue Eagle they had replied that they were " not interested . " Mr. Bambrick also declared that the real estate spokesmen " had , turned down with contempt " his proposal that they sit across the table and discuss his offer to present to them a survey of 250 buildings " showing the need of stabilizing wages and hours . " Wages Called Disgraceful . ' " Now since Local 32-B of the Building Service Employes International Union , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disgraceful conditions existing among the building service employes of Greater New York , the Real Estate Board finds itself in a corner , " said Mr. Bambrick . " They know they ca n't justify present wages and hours because they are disgraceful . " He then asserted that the Real Estate Board had " turned down flat " his proposal that they urge their members to adhere to the State law requiring one-day-in-seven of rest for building service employes ; that they rejected his appeal for them to take steps to remedy conditions in buildings in which lived some 35,000 families under conditions which produced rickets in children and tuberculosis in adults . He continued : " I reminded the committee of five headed by Henry W. Howell that the indifference of the Real Estate Board itself showed they were utterly contemptuous of the social as well as the economic consequences of their apathy toward conditions among building service employes . The gentlemen at that time stated that the Real Estate Board was primarily interested in brokers ' commissions and nothing else . The question of hours and wages for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presenting the demands for union recognition to the control committee I made the statement that it constituted a joint partnership of the . representatives of the employes and the owners as well ; that if the owners had the privilege of selecting their representatives my men had the same privilege . Again I stated that the partnership would be a genuine enforcement agency . I also stated that any scale of wages and " hours arrived at should be reached by agreement bee tween both parties ; that the Real Estate Board had no right to arrogate to itself the sole privilege of fixing wages . Bambrick Cites Section 7-A. - " The employes working in various buildings had every right in the world under Section 7-a to have a determining voice in the fixing of their own wages . My concluding statement to these gentlemen was : The program as advanced by Local 32-B for a forty-hour week and $30 minimum wage would , if adopted , create employment for 100,000 citizens of Greater New York and would do - more to bring down unemployment and the drain on the funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter could be brought to the general attention of the public , I asked the members of the Real Estate Board to agree with me. that we both select a halfhour on any prominent radio station , the expense to be borne by my organization , and let the facts speak for themselves . I was perfectly willing to let the public be the judge , and that still goes . " Mr. - Bp.mbrick also announced that his offer to let the city ad-1 ministration conduct a plebiscite of the building service employes of New York City to determine whether they desired his leadership still held good , but he was not willing to permit ' the building owners to conduet'inch a referendum .                     