@@699317

txt Writing in the " English Review " ( September , 1932 ) on " The Significance of Bolshevism , " Christopher Dawson ( author of " The Making of Europe , " distinctly one of the important banks of 1932 ) says : " Bolshevism is not a political movement that can be judged by its practical aims and achievements , nor is it an abstract theory that can be understood apart from its historical context . It differs from other contemporary movements above all by its organic unity , its fusion of theory and practice and by the way in which its practical policy is bound up with its philosophy . In a world of relativity and scepticism it stands for absolute principles , for a. creed that is incarnate in a social order , and for an authority that demands the entire allegiance of the whole mass . " He quotes the German , Waldemar Gurian , as saying : " These revolutionaries are not simply politicians satisfied with the possession of power . They regard themselves as bearers of a gospel which shall bring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperfections of its earthly existence . " It is in fact , as Dawson calls it , an - atlicocracy , a. spiritual order of the most rigid and exclusive type . " Questions Attraction for Un In what , he asks , has it attraction for certain elements in the Western World notably the so-called intelligesitzta ? And in what is It a menace to Western Society ? He answers that it is a natural consequence of the spiritual anarchy , the doubt , the scepticism of an irresponsible intelligentzia , in that it substitutes for these the certitude of an absolute authority embodied in social institutions . " It is true , " he says , " that the Bolshevik philosophy is a poor thing at best . It is philosophy reduced to its very lowest terms , a philosophy with a minimum of spiritual and intellectual content . It impoverishes life instead of enriching it and confines the mind in a narrow and arid circle of ideas . Nevertheless , it is enough of a philosophy to provide society with a theoretical basis and therein lies the secret of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy is better than no philosophy . and that a regime which possesses a principle of author- , ity , however misconceived it may be . will be stronger than a system that Tests on the shifting basis of private interests and private opinions . " In a word , Bolshevism attracts because it offers a vigorous and complete denial of those essential traditions underlying the Western civilization which a sickly and sciolist relativism , professed in justification of a growing hedonistic " morality , " has in its own feeble way subjected to a process of strictly unphilosophic doubt . It is natural that those who have led the procession in this direction should be disposed to view with sympathy a bold authoritative synthesis of negation , in which they can merge both their doubts and their practice , and enjoy the luxury of a definite symbol of unfaith with a philosophy to back it . Test of Recognition The " menace " to the Western World of Bolshevism depends upon the degree in which the ideas of this intelligentzia have percolated into the regions of " intellectual Suburbia . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be measured by observing the extent to which " sympathy " with " Russia " is manifested by commuters from that interesting residential section . The question of " recognition " by this country of the " Union of Socialistic Soviet Republics is likely soon to become again sine . This writer will not presume to argue the question from the point of view of international law in Its bearing upon trade , commerce or anything else . He will not indeed argue it at all . It seems to him however that the question when it does come up , will afford us an opportunity to find out what proportion of our population has been infected with the modern disease above described . A man will Classify himself both qualitatively and quantitatively with respect to this infection by the degree of his enthusiasm for " recognition , " quite apart from the arguments that he may advance to support that emotion . When we have the results of that ' blood-test ' we shall know better how much of a " menace " Bolshevism holds for us . Incidentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made is called by Mr. Dawson " the , bourgeois culture . " He regards it as but an ' episode " in European history , but in this country he finds it existing as a " self-subsistent whole . " It will be interesting to see how far his diagnosis will prove itself correct . If he is right we may see some interesting developments .                     