@@700168

txt A sensation was caused in business and financial circles this morning by the publication of an order issued by Finance Minister Pinedo prohibiting remittance to any country of funds blocked previous to May I , on the ground that such action would violate the Anglo-Argentine trade treaty . American companies are the heaviest sufferers under the embargo , but Spanish , German , French and other nationalities have funds blocked here . Representatives of several large American companies affected described Dr. Pinedo 's order as nothing less than an attempt to force foreign loans , but others were willing to admit that Dr. Pinedo had no other choice under Article II , Paragraph 5 , of the treaty . Foreign Loans Involved . Under the circumstances such foreign-owned funds can not be remitted except under loan agreements similar to that under which British frozen credits are being thawed  --  that is , until the other foreigners are willing to lend Argentina amounts equivalent to the frozen credits for twenty years at 4 per cent interest . Dr. Pinedo 's instructions , issued to the Exchange Control Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4 per cent sterling bonds which are to be issued by virtue of the treaty with England , you will take steps to prevent the issuance of exchange permits for the remittance of any funds blocked before May 1 , 1933 , to any country , as it would violate what has been specifically convenanted in the treaty with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Wales . " Article II , Paragraph 5 , of the Anglo-Argentine treaty says ; " The Argentine Government pledges itself that in no case will applications for exchange permits for remittances to the United Kingdom , either of peso balances or for current transactions , be treated less favorably than similar applications for exchange to cover remittances to any other country whatever . " It is estimated that there are about 300,000,000 pesos $110,610 , - 000 at yesterday 's exchange blocked here . These funds belong almost exclusively to American branch houses here , which sell their products in pesos . They include importers of petroleum , agricultural machinery and automobiles . A large number of factories established with American capital manufacture widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , &c.; More Awaits Collection . The order does not affect American drafts against local importers for merchandise imported since May I. It is estimated there is another $35,000 ; 000 in these drafts awaiting collection . Under the terms of the Anglo-Argentine treaty , these drafts also are in a less favorable position than drafts covering British imports because preference in current exchange transactions is accorded to Britain under Article II , Paragraph I. That establishes that the full amount of exchange proceeding from Argentine exports to Britain shall be reserved for remittances to Britain " after deduction of a reasonable sum annually toward the payment of service of Argentine public debts , national , provincial and municipal , payable in countries other than Britain . " Under the terms of these provisions , exchange proceeding from Argentine exports to Britain can be used for payments on Argentine bonds held in the United States but not for payment for American imports . The Exchange Control Commission recently has been following .4 policy of permitting remittances to the United States only with exchange proceeding from Argentine exports to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentina 's total exports last year and only 5 per cent in the first six mmiths of this year . The control commission takes the position , therefore , that Americans are entitled to only 3.5 or 5 per cent of the available exchange . The Control Commission tells American applicants for exchange permits that it is willing to grant permits as rapidly as there is any exchange available from American purchases of Argentine products . Minister of Agriculture Duhau told the American Chamber of Commerce Saturday night at the chamber 's annual dinner that Argentina was determined to protect countries which make reciprocal trade treaties against the competition of those countries which did not . Newspapers Are Affected . The embargo on remittances is the first definite move in that direction . One of the first interesting results of Dr. Pinedo 's embargo will be a cessation of paper supplies to a large number of Argentine newspapers . With the exception of the two most important papers , which import paper direct , Argentine newspapers buy from the local dietributers of Canadian and Swedish mills . The representatives of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to customers only upon payment at the port of shipment in the currency of the exporting country . Subscriptions to the British 4 per cent sterling loan closed today with total subscriptions of ? 13,526,335 . American firms having large balances here have been cool toward suggestions that they subscribe to loans . Dr. Pinedo 's ruling , unless modified , leaves them no choice between lending their balances to the Argentine Government at 4 per cent or leaving them indefinitely tied up or bootlegging them out of the country at exorbitant exchange rates . Several American firms with large balances here , fearing some such embargo , recently have been arranging exchange transactions in New York , selling pesos to firms desiring to remit to Buenos Aires . They collect dollars in New York and instruct their Buenos Aires branch to deliver pesos to the buyers ' agent in Buenos Aires . A considerable Volume of blocked American funds has been moved under this arrangement and there is so far no provision in the exchange control regulations to prevent its continuance . French and Belgians Study Plan . The agreement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Argentine Government for their " blocked pesos " ? known as the Runciman-Roca agreement  --  may be followed by French and Belgian exporters , who are studying the matter . American acceptance of the plan is by no means certain . The matter here is in the hands of a committee composed of General Palmer E. Pierce , chairman of the Council on Inter-American Relations , Eugene P. Thomas , president of the National Foreign Trade Council , and James S. Carson , vice president of the American and Foreign Power Company . When this committee , appointed at a meeting of interested American corporations last week , has finished its study , a report will be made to the companies involved and definite action taken . It is known that there is some opposition to the plan by some companies unless a way can he shown whereby the bonds can be disposed of and cash realized . Others would prefer a plan whereby plant construction in Argentina could be undertaken on a large scale with the blocked pesos . The American Manufacturers , Export Association , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been unable to confirm reports that the British holders of the bonds accepted for the blocked pesos had facilities for disposing of them through the Bank of England . It is added that similar privileges are not available to American companies if they agree to the dollar bond plan for their balances . The Reconstruction Finance Corporation , it is pointed out , is not empowered to buy or lend on foreign bonds . J. A. Vido of the Argentine Exchange Control Commission has advised the association that its members may use the restricted funds in Argentina for " publicity , advertising , representation , telegrams and other special instances . "                     