@@702432

txt Strike Events of the Day Sixty sit-down strikers fled from the Fansteel Metallurgical Corporation plant at Waukegan , Ill. , under a barrage of tear and nauseating gas , fired through windows while they slept. ? Page I. Governor Frank Murphy of Michigan sent the State Labor Com , missioner to Detroit to act as mediator in the fast-spreading strikes in that city . Meanwhile , General Motors and U. A. W. A. officials took up wage issues in their efforts toward a final agreement in the automobile strike. ? Page . 3 . Leather union workers in Grand Haven , Alich. , began a " stay-in " at plant to balk a " sit-down " strike by C. I. 0 . sympathizers . Affiliated with A. F. of L. , their leader said the employes are seeking to protect their jobs. ? Page 3 . Speedy Eviction at Waukegan Special to Tax Nsvr YORK TIES . WAUKEGAN , Ill. , Feb. 26 . ? A barrage of nauseating and tear gas fired by deputy sheriffs and police equipped with guns , hand-grenades and an improvised battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Fansteel Mettallurgical Corporation 's plants at North Chicago . The spectacular surprise attack was the first successful forced evacuation of sit-downers since such strikes started spreading over the country . An hour 's fighting dislodged the sixty strikers without serious injury to either the attackers or the besieged union men . The sit-downers , choking from the gas , hurled scraps of metal and bottles of acid at the storming forces of forty police in an ineffectual effort to stave off defeat As the strikers fled through an opening in the barbed-wire fence surrounding the plant , a crowd of forty or fifty sympathizers threw paving bricks and stones at the deputies . Two Leaders Are Sought Tonight deputy sheriffs were hunting for the strike leaders , Meyer Adelman , a North Shore organizer for John L. Lewis 's Committee for Industrial Organization , and Oakley Mills of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee . The two union leaders had disappeared from the hotel from which they had directed the strike and negotiations for its settlement . Mr. Adelman and Mr. Mills were sought on a writ issued secretly yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court , ordering them to show cause why they should not be held in contempt of court for conspiring to violate an injunction issued on Feb. 18 restraining the strikers from occupying the plants . Mr. Adelman and six members of the strikers ' union , the Amalgamated Association of Iron , Steel and Tin Workers , also were sought on criminal warrants obtained this afternoon by State 's . Attorney Charles E. Mason . The warrants charge unlawful conspiracy to prevent enforcement of the circuit court 's injunction . Prosecutor Mason said the charges against the men would be presented to the grand jury when it meets on Monday . Conviction carries possible penalties of a $2,000 fine and one year in jail , or a one-to-fiveyear penitentiary sentence . Men Taken by Surprise The storming of the plants was begun at 5:15 A. M. by a picked force of forty deputies and policemen recruited from North Shore suburbs . The attackers brought into action an ancient weapon , a battle tower reminiscent of the war engines used in assaults on walled cities . The tower consisted of an eighteen-foot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides with fiber board , tar paper and sheet metal . Inside the tower were four marksmen wearing gas masks and armed with repeating tear gas rifles Through small slots two fir through the first floor windows an two through the second floor win dows . The guns , firing twenty-fou three-inch gas cartridges a minute soon filled plant No. 3 with stiflin fumes . Then the tower was move to Plant No. 5 and the attack repeated . Within an hour the sixty strikers , roused from sleep by the surpris attack , came out of the buildings choking and gasping . Officers made " no attempt to stop them as the rushed to the fence around th plants , cut a hole in the heavy wire and fled . The man who cut the wire w Arthur Holm , a foreman for the company for twenty years . He was not one of the strikers , he said to day , but had been remaining a work . He admitted he was sympa thetic toward the strikers and said . " I had a .38 automatic pistol an 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stop me as I ran t the fence . I found a. large pair of wire cutters in an automobile parked in the yard and used them to cut the fence . " Mr. Holm said he received a letter from the company today notifying him of his discharge . The oldest of the strikers routed from . the plants was Joseph Aigner , 78 , who was a janitor . He was found at his home , shivering under . a large , old-fashioned feather bed . " They used tear gas and knockout gas , " he said . " I know it was Times Wide WorW Photo . knockout gas because as soon as Police ramming a door at the plant after the tear-gas bombardment we hit the open air my body ached all over . It was just like war , but it was worth it . I 'm glad I did n't go home , as the other strikers advised me to , because of my age . " John A. Kondrath , president of the strikers ' union said he was sleeping in plant No. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gas shells through the windows and the smoke and fumes were terrible , " he said . " We covered our eyes with our hands and tried to grope around for fresh air but we could n't find any . The gas got so thick we could n't stand it . We had to get out . " $2,500 Worth of Gas Used In the storming of the two buildings the Sheriff 's office used about $2,500 worth of a $3,000 shipment of gas ammunition obtained for the attack . During the day Max Swiren. and Sidney H. Block , attorneys for the Fansteel Company , appeared before Judge Dady to announce they had prepared a petition for an injunction to prevent mass picketing and " coercion and intimidation of employes . " After a conference in the judge 's chambers it was agreed to withhold filing of the petition until 10 A. M. tomorrow . " We have agreed to delay action on the injunction upon the assurance of counsel that there will be no violence in the meantime , " Mr. Swiren said . Robert J. Aitchison , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to Sheriff Lawrence A. Doolittle and his chief deputy , Thomas E. Kennedy , thanking them for their work in routing the strikers from the company 's buildings without serious injury to any one . 1 " It is the definite intention of the Icompany to reopen the plants and resume operations as soon as posIsible after the necessary rehabilitation can be effected , " Mr. Aitchison stated . " We are notifying our employes to this effect , and will advise them shortly of the date operations will be resumed . " All of the men who participated in the sit-down strike were dis ' charged by the company . It has been the company 's consistent belief that more than half of the eighty men who participated in the seizure of the plant were compelled to do so through coercion and intimidation . Applications for reemployment from such men will receive favorable consideration . " Joseph Jacobs , attorney for the union , issued a statement on behalf of the strikers , denouncing the forcible removal of the strikers . Horner Reproves Both Sides Special to TES NEW @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Governor Horner made a statement here today reproving both sides in the Fansteel dispute . " Regretting as I do the necessity for the use of force and the failure thus far ? of all efforts at conciliation , " the Governor said , " yet I deem it only fair to all concerned to say that the action taken by the Lake County Sheriff was legal and required by his oath of office . " Although the strikers ' occupancy of the plant and their defiance of a court order can not be approved , there is also a question as to the legality of the company 's refusal to deal with representatives of striking employes and in their failure to accord the employes the rights assured them by the Wagner act . It is an established principle that to obtain equity one must do equity . "                     