@@697349

txt Midway between two little Iowa towns South English and Kinross stands a plain frame church . It rises stark and bare from the prairie , with no friendly vines , no protecting trees or shrubbery to bind it to the landscape . Yet its isolated appearance is not an indication of spiritual aloofness . For nearly eighty years it has been the centre of interests of every kind for the group of farm families descended from the original nine Brethren and the friends who settled in the district in later years . ELLIS L. KIRKPATRICK , who began his study of this Church of the Brethren because he wanted to acquaint himself with the social background of the Church of his childhood and youth , has given an amazingly complete account of it in a monograph just published by the State Historical Society of Iowa . He outlines the origin of the Church , which grew out of the German Pietist movement after the Reformation , and its founding at Schwarzenau in 1708 . He gives its doctrines , its religious practices , and describes in great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in everything is the underlying belief . Preaching is the foremost among the forms of worship , and sermons often consist of little more than long exhortations . Prayers precede and follow the ser-1 mons , and singing is usually conducted without the aid of a musical instrument . Once a year a love feast is held . It is greatly enjoyed by both adults and children , as it is almost the only united social meeting of the community . Even then emphasis is laid on spiritual strengthening , and there is much visiting , singing and prayer . The Brethren immigrants , mostly from the fertile lands of the Rhine Valley , were of a high type of farming population . A few of the present congregation have become business men and artisans , but most of them have continued to farm the rich valleys of English River . They buy improved farm machinery , take the best farm papers , are acquainted with the bulletins of the Department of Agriculture and until recently have attended State and county fairs . The slump in this latter interest appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could be negotiated more easily by a horse-drawn vehicle than by an automobile . It is curious , considering how pro-1 gressive they were in other ways , that the Brethren in their early days I were indifferent or hostile to higher education . They adhered rigidly to their belief in simplicity when educational matters were to be thought of , and insisted for years that " the " educated would fail to return to the " humble ways of the Lord . " When at last through contacts with other groups they saw that it was possible to be at once religious and educated they adopted the new idea enthusiastically . At that time they had traveled west to - Ohio , where the very air seemed to breed religious schools , and between 1870 and 1920 they established ten colleges . The congregation at English River is not strongly progressive in educational matters , but the number of children sent to college increases slowly year by year . Religious work still receives more attention than any other social activity . The poor at home are cared for , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aged . Church membership has not fallen off . The earliest record indicates 184 members , and the most recent shows 183 . When the Brethren are asked why their Church maintains its strength so well , they reply , that they have " held the young people " better than any other Church in " the community . "                     