@@699560

txt The little band of conservatives whom Speaker Garner relied upon to Icarry on his leadership in the next Congress was unhorsed at tie Democratic caucus tonight by a group of liberals , led by Representative Rainey of Illinois , Democratic leader in the present House , and Representative Byrns of Tennessee , chairman of the Appropriations Committee . In a strange combination of Tammany , Texas and Tennessee , Mr. Rainey was selected as the party 's choice for Speaker over Representative of Alabama by a vote of 166 to 112 , and Mr. Byrns was chosen floor leader by a division of 151 to 140 . Former Representative South Trimble of Kentucky was renominated for clerk after a hard fight , receiving 158 votes to 118 for Representative Nelson of Missouri , a " lame duck . " Kenneth Romney of Montana was renominated for the office of sergeant-at-arms , Joseph Sinnott of Virginia for doorkeeper and Finis Scott of Tennessee for postmaster , all without opposition . It appeared for a time that even these minor officers might be turned out in the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition to the last three named crumbled at the last minute . Move to Liberalize Control . Even the chaplain had to undergo a contest when Representativeelect Lee of Missouri demanded that the next House should have the spiritual guidance of a Democratic minister . The present chaplain , the Rev. James S. Montgomery , Methodist Episcopal , was reelected over the Rev. W. S. Dabney of Joplin , Mo. , Methodist Episcopal South , the candidate of Mr. Lee , by a vote of 131 to 75 . As soon as the slate of officers for the next House was made up , the new leaders started a move- ment for a further liberalization of , control , and brought forward an immediate plan for a Democratic steering committee to shape the legislative program and guide the destinies of the lower body in the new Congress . The outcome of tonight 's caucus , attended by 302 of the memberselect , was the result of an outright three-way trade in which Mr. ' Byrne withdrew from the Speakership race In favor of Mr. Rainey , with- the understanding that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York delegation entered the deal with its votes for the promise that Representative Cullen , its candidate for Speaker , would be made assistant leader . Several Texas votes were thrown into the trade with the expectation that Mr. Byrns 's elevation to the leadership would clear the way for Representative Buchanan to become chairman of the . Appropriations Committee . The deal had been worked out and actually announced before the caucus convened at 4 o'clock this afternoon . The **28;897;TOOLONG forces went to the floor with a well-defined program , calling for even the officers of the caucus , and it went through as planned with the exception of the effort to throw overboard even the minor officers who came in with Speaker Garner less than two years ago . Rainey Gets Outright Majority . Informed of the trade , friends of made a last-minute effort to rally their forces . Hasty conferences were held and the advice of the Speaker was sought . The report of the deal was sent abroad so early that the managers thought a reaction would set in , but at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rainey 's vote was an outright majority of all those cast . Representative Rankin of Mississippi received twenty ; Representative Jones of Texas , two , and Representative Bankhead , one . The trade was announced to the caucus through Mr. Byrns 's nominating Mr. Rainey for the Speakership . Mr. Rainey reciprocated later by placing Mr. Byrns in nomination for leader . Mr. was nominated by his colleague , Representative Bankhead , and seconded by Representative Connery of Massachusetts . Mr. Rainey was seconded by Representatives Crosser of Ohio and Cullen . The New York delegation went right along with the deal in the nomination and election of Mr. Byrns as leader . Representative Boylan , Tammany member , seconded Mr. Byrns 's nomination , as did Representative of South Carolina . Mr. Bankhead was placed in nomination by Representative Woodrum of Virginia and seconded by Representative Rankin . The Garner forces salvaged but little . Mr. , who had been the party whip , will be shorn even of that office , according to the new leaders . Representative Greenwood of Indiana probably will be installed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over , both selections were made unanimous by the caucus ; pledges of support and fidelity were exchanged and the caucus passed on to the next business . It was considered probable tonight that the New York delegation would receive additional recognition from the party organization and a move was on to make Representative Gavagan vice chairman of the caucus . Representative Lea of California was made chairman at the outset of the meeting and Representative Gregory of Kentucky was chosen secretary . Both Democratic leaders-elect came from the caucus wreathed in smiles and in splendid humor . Mr. Byrns said : " I have no statement about legislative plans , except I expect to put through the plans and policies of President Roosevelt . I understand an extra session will soon be called , but I have no definite knowledge of the probable date . " Mr. Rainey , in announcing the steering committee , said : " The House is organized on an entirely new basis . For the first time in the history of the Democratic party they will have a steering committee . The object will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put through policies until it is known that there are enough Democratic votes to assure the legislation . " It is a long step forward , and it takes from the Speaker powers he has arbitrarily exercised and gives it back to the House . Pledge to Roosevelt Program . " Failures in the last Congress have been due to the fact that the determination of policies has come entirely from the Speaker 's chair ; it will now come from the party . We will put over Mr. Roosevelt 's program . " The resolution , creating the steering committee provides that twelve members be named by the chairman of the caucus , and that these members group the country into from nine to nineteen areas . Delegations from the areas designated will then elect one member each . The Speaker , majority leader . chairman of the caucus and Democratic whip , will be ex-officio members of the steering committee , but will not be eligible to serve as chairman . Nor will the chairman be eligible to succeed himself . The functions of the steering committee will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with particular groups in order to assure harmony within the committee and to organize the party into a solid voting machine for whatever legislation the Democrats sponsor . It was Speaker Garner 's objection to such a ? committee that caused the first dissension between him and Mr. Byrns.                     