@@700482

txt President Roosevelt recommended to Congress in a special message today the abandonment by the United States of all military bases in the Philippine Islands as a further concession to the movement for Philippine independence . He also recommended that the future disposition of American naval bases in the Philippines be left to future negotiations between the United States and the government of the islands . Mr. Roosevelt suggested specifically that the Hawes-Cutting Philippine Independence Act , which the Filipinos themselves allowed to go by default , be revived and amended to this effect . The House was the only body to receive the message today , as the Senate was in recess . Soon after it was read Representative of Alabama . chairman of the Committee on Insular Affairs , introduced a revised version of the Hawes-Cutting bill . The modified measure conformed to the suggestions contained in the message , and it fixed the time for the required constitutional convention by the Filipinos " not later than Oct. 1 , 1934 . " Mr. said his committee would meet Monday to consider the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the committee being expected to approve the measure as introduced and return it to the House . Roosevelt Recalls Pledge . Mr. Roosevelt said in his message that in setting the Philippines free of all political domination of the United States this government would be simply redeeming a pledge to which it had been committed for many years . Philippine independence was " in keeping with the principles of justice and in keeping with our traditions and aims . " he said , adding : " We have believed that the time for such independence is at hand . " The President emphasized that while this government desired to grant complete independence to the islands , to shove the movement ahead without due consideration for the necessary economic adjustments would be " little short of a denial of independence itself . " " To change , at this time , the economic provisions of the previous law would reflect discredit to ourselves , " he added . The " previous law " referred to provided an interval preceding complete independence within which it is believed the islands will be able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years the relations between the people of the Philippine Islands and the people of the United States have been friendly and of great mutual benefit , " the President continued . " I am confident that if this legislation is passed by the Congress and accepted by the Philippines we shall increase the mutual regard between the two peoples during the transition period . After the attainment of actual independence by them , friendship - and trust will live . " Guevara Praises Message . The first to gain recognition when the 4nessage was read in the House was Pedro Guevara , Philippine Resident Commissioner . He t asked ' for unanimous consent to proceed out of order , and the House cheered him . " I believe I speak the sentiment of the Filipino people when I say that the message and the recommendations contained therein meet with their heartfelt approval , " he said . " There can not be found in the history of the world an action like that taken by the President of the United States in his desire to solve the Philippine question . " Now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be gloomy and confusing the message of the President concerning the Philippines will certainly encourage a more stable situation in that part of the world . " I am in full- accord with the measure recommended by the President in his message to extend the time limit for the acceptance of Act . 311 enacted by the Seventysecond Congress on Jan. 17 , 1933 , and it will have my earnest support . Hawes Ace Held Lacking . " At the time , Mr. Speaker , when I and those of my associates supported and advocated the passage of the Hare-Hawes-Cutting Act , we were on record that that law does not fully meet the aspiration and wishes of the Filipino people . Under the conditions and circumstances then obtaining we found out that this act was the best that could be secured from the Congress of the United States . " It was then a well-known fact , and it is now a matter of record , that when this law was enacted the President of the United States was opposed to it , and his opposition was manifested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assurances of those who supported and voted for its passage in both houses of Congress that then will sponsor amendments to the law that might be suggested or recommended by the representatives of the Filipino people from time to time . " It is a matter of satisfaction that those friends have honored their word by advocating now certain amendments to the law which will mean its improvement and will lead to the success of its policy and philosophy and to the acceptance by the Filipinos who had been opposed to the act as originally passed by the Seventy-second Congress . " Pittman Sees Senate Backing . Senator Pittman , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee , expressed confidence that the President 's desires with regard to the Philippines would be executed without serious opposition in the Senate . On one point the Senator was emphatic , insisting that the Philippines did not enter into the question of possible war in the Far East to the slightest degree , " Japan does not want the Philippine Islands , " he said . " If she captured them she would merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she wanted to do that she could find numerous other pretexts . " The Idea that Japan might seize the islands to force us to ' come to her ' to fight a war is absurd . We would not move until we wished , and if we ever move anywhere , we will win . " Senator Pittman asserted that the legislation outlined by the President represented a year and a half of work by his committee with intelligent Filipinos to find the best solution to the problem . " The clause about eliminating all military bases when we leave the Islands , as suggested in the President 's message , " he said , " was included at the desire of the Filipinos who wished an absolute expression on this . We can settle the question of naval bases as seems most propitious at the time independence is granted , which is a long way off . " Senator Borah , former chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and an advocate of Philippine independence , expressed himself as willing to support " any reasonable measure to give the islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message , " he said , " and see nothing in it with which I disagree . I might like to see immediate independence , but I recognize that no measure to grant this could pass Congress right now . " King Is Against Proposal . Senator King , advocate of immediate independence , did not favor the President 's suggestion . " It throws us open to the danger of war , " he said . " and can not be satisfactory to the islanders . I shall continue to push my own measure for forthright independence . " The United States military establishment in the Philippines consists at present of 553 officers , 51 warrant officers and 4,064 enlisted men of the regular army , and 82 officers and 6,398 enlisted men of the Philippine Scouts . These troops are distributed among eight principal garrisons , which include one aviation group , one general hospital and a group of coast defense forts . Major Gen. Frank Porter is in command of the forces . In the event of withdrawal of American troops , it is presumed that the Philippine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national defense forces . The scouts are officered principally by Americans now . Our Military Bases . The military bases operated in the islands by the United States are the following : Fort Santiago and headquarters , in Manila ? 52 officers , 1,114 men . Camp John Hay , Baguio , 171 miles from Manila-17 officers , 209 men . Fort mills , Corregidor Island , Manila - Bay , and the nominally manned posts of Forts Drum on El Pratte Island , Frank , on Carabao Island , Hughes , on Pula Cabello Island , and Whit , on Small Islands , In Manila Bay-134 officers , 3,145 men . Fort William , Guadelune , 9 miles from Manila-160 officers , 2,989 men . Nichols Field , 3 miles from Fort ? 42 officers , 517 men . Pettit Barracks , Zamboanga , Mindanao , 671 Miles from Manila-12 officers , 174 men . Fort Stotsenburg and Clark Field , PamPangs. 57 miles from Manila-106 officers , 1,921 men . Sternberg General Hospital-23 officers , 191 men . The navy maintains a permanent base at Olongapo1 about fifty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dewey floating drydock . There is also a navy yard at Cavite . A small permanent force is kept at these two establishments , estimated at not more than 200 men . Should the naval base be relinquished , navy officers here believe the Asiatic Fleet , which spends half its time in the Philippines and half in China , would be cut down . At present it consists of the Augusta , heavy cruiser , as flagship , three destroyer divisions and a tender , one submarine division and a tender , and three mine sweepers . QUEZON ISSUES STATEMENT . Filipino Leader Expresses Gratification at President 's Message . Senator Manuel Quezon , head of the Philippine Independence Mission to the United States , issued a statement at the Waldorf yesterday expressing gratification at President Roosevelt 's message on Philippine independence . Senator Quezon , who is starting for Detroit Monday on his way to the Philippines , said that in all his conversations with Mr. Roosevelt he found the President well informed and sympathetically inclined regarding conditions on the islands . The statement follows : " I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only does it recommend the elimination from the Hawes-Cutting bill of the provision regarding military reservations , to which I have so strongly objected , but it leaves the naval reservations open to future negotiations between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Philippine Islands , and it also holds out the hope to the Filipino people that Other provisions of the bill which may be found unfair to the Filipino will be corrected in due time . " The Philippine Legislature , I am sure , will accept the Hawes-Cutting law , if and when it is amended in laccordance with the President 's message , and then will invite a committee of Congress to come to the Philippine Islands to hear what the Filipinos have to say about the other provisions of the                     