@@701779

txt Admiral Earl Beatty , British naval hero and Ione of the outstanding personalities of the World War , died tonight after a long illness . He was automatically retired on Jan. 17 after reaching the age limit of 65 . I His heir , Viscount Borodale , was at his bedside . His wife , daughter of Marshall Field , died in 1932 . Lord Beatty left a sickbed last November to attend the funeral of his old chief , Admiral Jellicoe , to whose command he succeeded in 1916 . He was suffering from a chill when he marched in King George 's funeral procession in January . The people were struck by his sadness then , as though he felt he would soon make the last sad journey himself . Although he had been in ill health for some time , the gravity of his condition only became known last month when his doctors ordered a complete rest . After a few days he improved and seemed out of danger until last week , when a bulletin said his condition again was causing anxiety . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maurice Cassidy , a famous heart specialist , with other doctors , had been in constant attendance . Hope revived last night when a slight improvement was noted . Lord Beatty 's action at the Battle of Jutland aroused the bitterest controversy . Experts accused him of rashness while applauding Lord Jellicoe 's prudence . To these attacks Lord Beatty refrained from replying . First Sea Lord Seven Years . After succeeding Lord Jellicoe , he remained in command of the Grand Fleet until it was dispersed . Thereafter he was First Sea Lord for the unprecedented period of seven years nine months . In an editorial The Times of London says : " No wonder the officers and men of his command knew him far a great leader . It was his habit , after the first few days of the war , to remain on the open bridge when going into action . The nation will not remember Lord Beatty as an administrator , the First Sea Lord who held office longer than any of his predecessors . They will think of him as a commander who , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , proved the British naval tradition had lost nothing of its life and fire . " Was Glamorous War Hero . Many great military and naval personages appeared during the World War , but none was more glamorous than David Beatty , Earl of the North Sea and Brooksby , Who was ever in the thick of fighting and whose best-remembered action was his daring attack on the German fleet at the Battle of Jutland . Though his First Battle Cruiser Squadron was crippled and despite faulty intelligence and extremely bad visibility for firing , the attack had the result of putting Admiral Hipper 's squadron to flight and causing the main German High Seas Fleet to steam back after a short engagement with Admiral Jellicoe 's dreadnoughts . During the controversy that raged over a period of years after the North Sea fight Admiral Beatty was accused of disobeying orders and of failing to keep the appointed rendezvous with Admiral Jellicoe 's Grand Fleet , with the result that his squadron blanketed the fire of the more heavily armored ships at the crucial moments , thus allowing the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dallied in joining forces and thereby permitted the Germans to get away . The British official history of the war ( Vol . IV . Naval Operations ) , after avoiding all references as to blame , reads as follows : " The result of the Jutland action , may be summed up as follows from ' the purely strategical point of view : Admiral Scheer had failed In his object of cutting off and over , whelming part of our advanced forces and had found himself unexpectedly entrapped into meeting the Grand Fleet . From this encounter he succeeded in extricating himself at considerable eapense , but , on the other hand , both before and after the main action he had inflicted upon us more serious losses than he could ever have contemplated . Admiral Jellicoe had outmanoeuvred and surprises : the High Seas Fleet , and for him the net result of the action had been to increase the Grand Fleet 's large margin of superiority as to combative force , a defense against invasion and an instrument of blockade . The control of the North Sea- remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be weakened or taken from us had been finally dissipated . Merchant vessels which before the battle had been lying up in various ports put to sea on June 2 ( 1916 ) without hesitation . " Results of Battle of Jutland . Jutland revealed the excellent marksmanship of the German gunners as it revealed the faulty fusing of the British shells , but no critic . however bitter against Admiral Beatty 's methods , has ever said that he was not brave  --  perhaps to a fault . An American naval officer . Lieutenant Francis T. Hunter , U. S. N. R. , writing in The World 's Work , said : " Admiral Beatty assumed the burden of the risk at Jutland , and by magnificent manoeuvres engaged the entire German fleet with his one squadron , clinging to them as long as his teeth would hold , in order to entangle them until the Grand Fleet might come up to victory . Sir David Beatty leads because he is a fighter  --  and all Britain knows him as a fighter . " On two other occasions did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lion . Tiger , Queen Mary and Princess Royal . The first time was at Heligoland Bight when he administered the coup de grace to the German cruisers Muenchen , Koeln arid Ara acine . The second was when he chased an invading fleet bound for the east coast of England to shell unfortified towns and succeeded in sinking the battle cruiser Bluecher . Earl Beattv 's final triumph was when the great German fleet of battleships , heavy and light cruisers . destroyers and submarines steamed slowly into Scapa Flow ? the end of Der Tag , as far as German naval power was concerned . Earl Beatty was elevated to the Peerage with the title of Viscount Borodale of Wexford in 1919 . Shortly afterward the earldom was conferred on him and he received a grant of ? 100.000 for his services in the war . His father was Captain D. L. Beatty of Borodale , County Wexford , Ireland , and he was born in England on Jan. 17 , 1871 . He entered the navy in 1884 and was rapidly promoted , so that he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sudan campaign in 1896 and 1897 he was second in command of the gunboat flotilla which went up the Nile and used its guns effectively on the 1.19.11-1 dis . When Admiral Colville was wounded , Beatty , who was then a commander , assumed command and brought his vessels close enough to silence the batteries at Hafa and Dongola . He also fought at Atbara and Omdurman and received the Distinguished Service Order . During the Boxer uprising in China in 1900 he commanded the cruiser Barfleur and was twice wounded at Taku and Tientsin while leading landing parties of bluejackets . For this he was promoted to the rank of captain , and later he became aide-de-camp to King Edward VII . Wed Ethel Field of Chicago . In 1901 he married Ethel , only daughter of Marshall Field of Chicago . They were both extremely popular and frequently entertained members of royalty at Invercauld , their shooting estate near Balmoral , Scotland ; Brooksby Hall , and in their London house . Countess Beatty died on July 17 , 1932 . He was promoted to flag rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the First Battle Cruiser Squadron . In 1915 he was promoted to vice admiral and in 1916 , after the Battle of Jutland. he became commanding officer of the Grand Fleet . In 1919 he was first appointed admiral and later Admiral of the Fleet and in the same year he became First Lord of the Admiralty , succeeding Sir Rosslyn Wemyss . During the eight years that he held that position Earl Beatty saw the reduction of naval strength , as laid down by the Washington conference ; the application of war lessons to ship designs , plans for the enlarging of the aval bast at Singapore , the extension of the dominion navies and the creation of the air arm for the fleet . Earl Beatty was not merely a fine naval commander . He was also regarded as a capable administrator . This he showed during the long wearisome months before the Jutland battle , when he set his sailors to work at making munitions . After the war he urged economies in all branches of the navy , but both he and Admiral Jellicoe bitterly opposed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1930 . He wrote as follows : " We are about to commit the appalling blunder of signing away the sea power by which the British Empire came into being and is maintained today . If we send out naval forces to the east we shall be at the mercy of any power possessing great naval strength in the Mediterranean . " Widely Known Before War . Shortly before the outbreak of the World War Admiral Beatty commanded the squadron that paid a visit to Kronstadt and St. Petersburg . His reputation was already considerable before the first shots had been fired . His gold-braided cap , worn at a chic angle ; his stubborn jaws and fine features were known before he sank the first German cruisers at Heligoland Bight , and he was regarded as one of the logical naval commanders . On May 31 , 1916 , the eve of the Battle of Jutland , Admiral Beatty was in command of his battle cruiser squadron , to which was added two similar ships , ' the Indefatigable and the New Zealand . Under him was also Admiral EvanThomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as the First Destroyer Flotilla , nine shipsi and the light cruiser Fearless . The German advance force tinder Admiral Hipper consisted of five battle cruisers , five light cruisers and thirty-three destroyers . Fifty miles astern was Admiral von Scheer with the two dreadnought squadrons and six older battleships . Conditions , as regards visibility , were bad for the British and good for the Germans . " So much less was the visibility to the eastward , " states the British official account of the battle , " that it was not until twelve minutes later ( after Hipper 's ships had sighted two columns of British battle cruisers ) that Admiral Beatty sighted the enemy 's five battle cruisers on his port bow . " The firing began with a range of about 17,000 yards . The British marksmanship was fine , but the shells were faulty . In his eagerness to " get at " the enemy , Admiral Beatty got within range of I the German secondary batteries . The more lightly armored British ships suffered severely and several . were sunk by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chase , although his fl hi agship , the Tiger , had been badly t . Jutland was the last attempt of the German fleet to assert itself . The next chapter was thwarrnistice and the delivery and surrender of the High Seas Fleet off Rosyth . Aboard his flagship , the Queen Elizabeth , Earl Beatty received Admirals von Meurer and von Reuter , as well as delegates of the Soldiers and Sailors ' Council and the People 's Council . The Sixth Battle Squadron , five American dreadnoughts  --  the New York , Texas , Arkansas , Wyoming and Florida  --  under the command of Admiral Hugh Rodman , was present to see Earl Beatty 's hour of triumph . The German armada steamed slowly in , the Friedrich der Grosse , alone , flying the German ensign . Earl Beatty signaled : " The imperial German ensign will be lowered at sunset today and will not be hoisted again without my permission . " That was the end  --  until the scuttling of the German fleet in Scapa Flow . Shortly afterward Earl Beatty bade farewell to Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mist , " saying : " I want you to take back a alessage to the Atlantic Fleet that you have left a very warm place in the hearts of the Grand Fleet which can not be filled until you come back or send another squadron to represent you . " In 1921 Earl Beatty came to the United States on the invitation of the American Legion . He was accompanied by Countess Beatty and their two sons , the Viscount of Borodale and the Hon. Peter Beatty . He was present at the Armistice Day ceremony in Arlington Cemetery for the burial of the unknown American soldier , and later he attended the national convention of the American Legion at Kansas City , where also Marshal Foch and General Pershing were guests . Earl Beatty was received by President Harding in the White House and later was present at the Disarmament Conference in the capital . In New York , when he arrived on the Aquitania , he was escorted by destroyers and airplanes . He was greeted by Lieut . Gov . Jeremiah Wood as " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spoke before the Pilgrims ' Society and visited Chicago , Philadelphia and Annapolis . In October , 1932 , Earl Beatty and his two sons again visited this country . His trip was entirely unofficial , however . Earl Beatty was a splendid horseman and rode with the hounds . He was an accomplished tennis player , but he hated golf , which he described as " chasing a miserable , helpless ball over the hills . " He held a great many decorations . Together with Earl Haig he received the Order of Merit , the freedom of the City of London and the grant of ? 100,000.                     