@@704140

txt Administration officials who are fundamentally opposed to the theory that economic recovery depends upon everlarger outlays of government money are now quietly undertaking to impress upon business leaders and business organizations the " opportunity " which the final four months of 1939 afford to demonstrate that the spending cult cf New , Dealers is wrong . These officials disagree with President Roosevelt 's recent assertions to the effect that Congress took a gamble when it voted down the lending-spending bill . They can not , of course , express their disagreement publicly . But while the spenders are squaring away from a new congressional battle next year and are talking in terms of even larger amounts to be pumped into the national stream of " purchasing power " , the anti-spenders are telling their friends that the best way to keep Congress from changing its mind on this basic issue is to prove that business can go ahead without the promise of additional artificial stimulation . Statements Due Soon If this effort bears fruit , there will be expressions of opinion from business and industrial circles shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a shift in other New Deal policies such as power , labor and tax . The anti-spenders have made careful surveys of the present business situation and they profess to see no reason why the death of the lending-spending bill should not be as stimulating to business psychology and the spirit of private enterprise as the actual disbursement of additional Treasury funds would have been had the bill been adopted . One of President Roosevelt 's prominent economic advisers is of the opinion that this may prove to be the case , although he favored the new program . Re explained that since the plan stirred up so much opposition , its defeat might aid recovery for at least six months . On the basis of the statistical data used by the spending theorists , he said , such an outcome is impossible , but the statistics do not make any allowance for possible improvement in business sentiment and the possible increase in private investment resulting therefrom . Will Support President Among the strong supporters of the spending policy , who will urge the President to carry on the fight for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one of the chief executives ' six new administrative assistants , Chairman Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board , Secretary of Commerce Hopkins , Harry D. White , director of the Treasury 's division of monetary research . Edward H Foley , Jr .. Treasury general counsel , and Mr. Roosevelt 's two special advisers  --  Benjamin V. Cohen and Thomas G. Corcoran . The anti-spenders include such officials as Jesse Jones . Federal Loan Agency Administrator ; John W. Hanes . Undersecretary of the Treasury ; Edward J. Noble , Undersecretary of Commerce ; Leo T Crowley , head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. ; Stewart head of the Federal Housing Authority . and Preston Delano , Comptroller of the Currency . While Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau supported the lending-spending bill and appeared before congressional committees as its chief official sponsor , he was persuaded to do so , Treasury circles revealed when the bill went to Congress . only because he considered selfliquidating loans preferable to outright grants . His future position will remain in doubt , therefore , if the spending theorists return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without any arrangements for a direct cash return .                     