@@699425

txt Great Britain is not complacent over the prospect of having to wait until March 4 , or nearly then , before effectively reopening the question of the British war debt to the United States . On the contrary , the government is restless ana anxious and would like to proceed at once to discuss the ! point with a high representative of the next administration . This was made clear today when the writer of this dispatch learned that the real purpose of Ambassador Sir Ronald Lindsay'es call on Senator Borah Saturday was to ask him unofficially if he had any suggestion how to begin reconsideration of the debt at once . The ? upshot of the conversation was that the Ambassador and the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations agreed that an effective beginning is ' impossible until it is known who is to be Secretary of State in the Cabinet of Presidentelect Roosevelt . The Ambassador , ever since he paid the call , has declined to discuss it and has communicated with the inquiring press only through intermediaries . Borah Is Silent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the information contained in this dispatch , refused also to give any facts about the visit . He said once more that Sir Ronald 's call was both confidential and friendly , and that he would not violate the usage of such occasions either by confirming or denying any more inquiries on the subject . He limited himself to the reiteration that the Ambassador had lodged with him no protest of any sort , either with respect to his Senate speeches on the war debts , or any other subject . Yet , it was definitely learned from a trustworthy source that the Ambassador . reflecting the restiveness of his governments during the period between the last HooverRoosevelt exchange and March 4 , called to see if Senator Borah had any helpful suggestions . 's Approval Seen . It is not possible that Sir Ronald would have taken this step without the knowledge of the Cabinet , and perhaps with the assent of the Hoover Administration as well . Accepting then , that Great Britain wants to make an early move for debt review , if it can locate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 4 , the visit is unusually interesting . Dispatches from the vicinity of the President-elect , and Democrats here who said they were in close touch with him on the subject , have given the impression that he believes that Great Britain Is well content to wait for the new administration to reopen the matter of that nation 's capacity to pay under the existing agreement . The purport of these dispatches and conversations was that , in view of . the British , there will be plenty of time after March 4 . No impression was given that the British Government shared the wish of many important persons in both parties in the United States that Mr. Roosevelt would soon name his Secretary of State and give the British some one in authority with whom to begin at least informal conversations . Yet , that seems to be precisely the fact . Roosevelt Informed by Stimson . There is no reason to presume that the President-elect knows anything of the discussion between the ' Ambassador and the Foreign Relations chairman . But it is believed here that , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stimson gave him this information about the anxiety of the British . What effect this had and whether Mr. Roosevelt responded by direct communication with the Ambassador , or by giving Mr. Stimson the name of some one with whom he and British representatives could immediately begin the discussion , is not known . But if the President-elect entertained the view that Great Britain was satisfied to wait , he has probably changed it by this time . When President Hoover sent his telegrams to Mr. Roosevelt , proposing various methods ot immediate cooperation for debt review , the underlying administration thought was that , if the tender was accepted , Great Britain could be notified to reopen its case at once . When the President-elect rejected Mr. Hoover 's suggestions seriatim , it was commonly supposed that the British were resigned to the impasse . The subject matter of the conversation Saturday between the Ambassador and Senator Borah wholly dispels this impression .                     