@@701393

txt New York is to have " noiseless " days and nights in the near future . if Mayor La Guardia has his way . The noiselessness in this city of unceasing activity is not expected to be that of a desert , however . Rather , it will consist in the elim- I ination of " unnecessary " din , and the Mayor plans to enforce by law the comparative peace that is to descend on millions of ears . As a preliminary to the . q.doption of a drastic noise abatement ordinance , the Mayor announced yesterday , the city will launch an educational campaign next month that is designed to eliminate unnecessary noises . The first really active step in the drive will be taken Oct. 1 , when a month of " noiseless nights " will be ushered in . " Noiseless days " will be decreed after the period of " noiseless nights . " Later , there will be entire twenty-four-hour periods during which warnings will be given for making unnecessary noises . Major Henry Curran will be in charge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner . He is now in Europe studying noise abatement methods which have succeeded in various cities . The campaign will be under the direction of the . police in cooperation with other city departments . The Mayor said that civic organizations , automobile associations and other groups have been asked to cooperate in bringing the campaign to the attention of the public . During the trial period of " noiseless nights , " all motorists using their horns unnecessarily and persons responsible for other discord , between 11 P. M. and 7 A. M. will receive formal warnings from the police . " We are entering upon this campaign of noise abatement after careful and deliberate study , " said the Mayor . " There have been thousands upon thousands of complaints against various types of noises in this city . Some of these can easily be averted . " Naturally , in a city the size of New York , there must be some noise . However , with complete cooperation from citizens , all of whom have at some time or other found themselves annoyed by unnecessary noises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city as quiet as possible . " In taking this step I am asking cooperation from everybody . Every person is entitled to have a certain amount of peace and quiet . There is no reason , for instance , for people to toot automobile horns in order to get friends to come to an apartment window . Radios can be controlled so that they are tuned in softly and heard only by their immediate listeners . " Frequent sources of complaint are at garages and other places which stay open all night . A driver bringing his car to a garage in the early hours of the morning should realize that there may be people sleeping in the vicinity at that hour and refrain from tooting his ' horn to attract the garage man 's attention . " Raucous Sounds Unnecessary . The decision to embark upon the educational campaign to be followed by anti-noise ordinances followed a survey of conditions here and in other cities which consumed a year and a half , Mayor La Guardia said . This survey , he added , showed that in other cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warning signals , that they were not a protection against accidents , and that milder types of horns serve the purpose . The use of horns , the survey showed , is merely force of habit in most cases ; good drivers restrict their use to actual emergencies . In asking public cooperation the Mayor frankly admitted that cityowned vehicles , such as lumbering Sanitation Department trucks , have been and are responsible for a fair share of the noise . These refuse trucks , he pointed out , which " rattle and rumble through the streets at all hours , " were badly designed . Until the city is able to replace them , he went on , the Sanitation Department will do its utmost to silence the trucks . ' To aid in eliminating truck noises , he added , an ordinance will soon be introduced designed to ban the use of solid tires on trucks in the city . Even the Police and Fire Departnamts vehicles will be curlped in the anti-noise campaign . " Our fire engines and police radio cars , " said the Mayor , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call and not when returning : " During the preliminary noiseless periods , the Mayor added , the entire personnel of the police motorcycle and traffic squads will be on duty to serve warnings to- makers of unnecessary noises ;                     