@@702681

txt In pursuance of their efforts to dispose of the court bill controversy quickly by compromise or indefinite postponement , the administration leadership in the Senate had virtually decided today not to draft a minority report answering the Judiciary Committee ? majority 's denunciation of the measure as filed on Monday . The leaders felt that their purpose would best be served by withholding any words in defense of President Roosevelt 's plan for judiciary reorganization , particularly with that part dealing with the Supreme Court . To file a minority report would agitate the controversy still more , , the leaders believed , and , furthermore , if they replied to the Judiciary Committee 's attack on the bill i they would have to defend the terms of the original measure as submitted by the President , when , in fact , they are now actively seeking a compromise . The committee 's majority report was directed against the bill as originally drawn up and as it I still stands , with its provision for naming five new justices to the Supreme Court ( six before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to supplant or supplement those over 70% years of age . Misgiving Among Senators In its recommendation , which became the official finding of the committee , the majority condemned the bill as " a needless , futile and utterly dangerous abandonment of constitutional principle " and asked the Senate to reject it with such definiteness - " that its parallel will never again be presented to the free representatives of the free i people of America . " The truth is that there is hardly a Senator among those of the committee minority refusing to sign the majority report , including Chairman Ashurst and Senators Neely , Logan , Dieterich , , Pittman , Hughes and Norris , who would deIfend the bill in its present form . Practically every one of them has I expressed misgivings about it at various times . The principal reason , however , that no minority report has been forthcoming is grounded in the strategy which the Senate leadership is now following . The best prediction today was that the question will come to a head in about three weeks and that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Robinson , the President 's " broker " in the matter , was still trying today to negotiate a compromise , one that would permit the President to name at least one if not more justices to the Supreme bench in addition to filling the Van Devanter vacancy . Those familiar with the situation said that he was having little or no success . Postponement Move Is Likely The judgment of reliable Senators was that the first test will come soon after the Court Bill is called up for consideration on the Senate floor on some form of motion to postpone it . This would either be a motion to postpone the bill indefinitely or to recommit it to the Judiciary Committee or to lay it on the table . In fact , a plan of strategy was being evolved today looking to that end . Under this plan a motion would be made to take the bill up for debate arid consideration , which undoubtedly would be carried . Then , with little or no discussig , n , a motion would be entered to recommit it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Senate would proceed to a vote on the motion . If it carried , as would be expected in case it should be made , the court bill controversy would be over for this session and possibly for all time so far as the pending bill is concerned . It would be left pending but would not be brought up again . Should , however , a postponement or recommittal motion fail , the Senate , under this plan , wollei go ahead with consideration of the I measure . A compromise amendment providing a smaller number of new justices than asked in the pending bill would then be offered and , in the words of a Senator today , " the fat would be in the fire . " Leading Foes of Bill Hold Finn In the event this latter course results , the Senate would be expected to settle down to a long-drawn-out and bitter discussion of the court proposal , since leading opponents of the President 's program have announcEA that they will oppose any alteration in the Supreme Court 's size and that they will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any of the suggested compromises . The attitude of these foes of the Court Bill also was considered as the principal threat to the plan to dispose of it by postponement or recommittal . This group , consisting of perhaps a dozen Senators , was insisting today that the issue be fought out finally at this session on the terms laid down by the President in the bill which he sent to Congress . Members of the group intimated that they would oppose any plan of action vthich would leave the bill pending as a club over the head of the Supreme Court , to be drawn out and used later if decisions did not continue to run in favor of the New Deal . Some in the opposition leadership felt , however , that they could persuade their other colleagues to allow a quick disposal of the court issue so that attention might be turned to other pressing legislative matters .                     