@@698852

txt A bill to make possible the development of a vast new industry in the United States , construction of giant airships and operation of trans-oceanic aerial passenger and freight lines , held second place on the House calendar today with excellent chances for prompt enactment into law conceded . The House late yesterday adopted a special rule giving the Crosser airship bill first place on today 's agenda , but its sponsor consented to let it lie over until after the House takes up the home loan bank discount bill , part of the Administration reconstruction program . The vote of 137 to 62 in favor of the rule was accepted as indicative of the overwhelming House sentiment in favor of the measure . Favorable action in the Senate , if the House sends the bill there , is also considered a foregone conclusion . A companion bill has been reported favorably there by the Commerce Committee . Plans for construction of a fleet of four ships larger than any yet built , to cost approximately $5,000 , - 000 each , ape ready according to officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and preliminary work will be commenced the moment the Crosser bill is enacted . Construction of ships and suitable terminals for a transatlantic line alone would involve a capital investment of over $25 , - 000,000 , it is estimated . Airship operating companies , contemplating regular passenger and fast freight service to Hawaii , the Philippines and the Far East , are understood to be in the process of formation on the Pacific coast and will be able to commence operation as soon as the Goodyear Corporation can build ships for them . The announced purpose of th ? bill is to promote American overseas trade by making possible the construction of the world 's fastest transoceanic freight service . It would accomplish this by extending the provisions of maritime law to cover overseas aircraft and by authorizing the Postmaster-General to grant subsidies at a rate not to exceed $17.50 a mile for ships with a capacity of 10,000 pounds of mail capable of a speed of 85 knots ,                     