@@697293

txt The endurance plane City of - Chicago , piloted by John and Kenneth Hunter , at 1:40 o'clock this morning passed its 513th continuous hour in the air , ninety-three hours beyond the former record , and continued t4 circle above Sky Harbor after a day replete with danger and annoyance . Trouble came to the brothers at dawn yesterday . The motor , which had coughed alahriingly through the preceding night after three weeks in the air without care and repair , began to falter more noticeably . A note brought magneto parts and the engine again resumed its even drone . Trouble came again a few hours later when the refueling plane " Big Ben " faltered as Walter and Albert Hunter were about to make the morning contact . As they warmed up to take of , the motor sputtered and died . Several minutes of frantic haste by the ground crew put the engine in tune . The contact was made without further difficulty . Trouble at noon dampened the spirits of the backers . A note from Kenneth stated that they would a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 520th hour , about 8 o'clock Thursday morning . This was the record which the brothers , had promised to establish when they took the air more than three weeks ago . Set Sunday as the Goal . Before the refueling plane could take off to learn the cause of what appeared to be a new difficulty , a second note was dropped by John , the older brother . He said that theyi would keep up over the Fourth of July and attempt to stay up aver Sunday for the additional gate receipts . He added that Kenneth had at first balked because the drone of ' the motor was getting on his nerves . For five hours the , plane swung in lazy circles without mishap . At 5 P. M. Deputy Sheriff Matt Porten arrived on the scene to bring further trouble with Sheriff 's Custodians Francis Geiss and Harry Howard . They served notice of a bill for a receivership and petition for an injunction on Walter and Albert , and on Wilson Herrin and Michael Conroy , backers of the flight . No attempt will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they will be met when they land . The action is brought by five men , who claim ownership of stock in the Chicago-We-Will Corporation formed last year to back the brothers ' un successful attempt to break the record . *The City of Chicago is the same plane as the Chicago-We-Will and still belongs to the corporation , the petition alleges . The complainants , T. J. Xelowski , Thomas Cashion , Peter Orgynski , Andrew Kucharski and Gilbert Nelson , declare that the president of the corporation , Bernard L. Majewski , disposed of the plane to the Hunter brothers and their backers climbing up until we were a mile high and driving along over the waves of cloud . Everything cleared up before we reached the Allegheny River and we came down to 2,000 feet for the rest of the trip . At Cleveland we dipped down over the busy airport , and then , skimming along the edge of Lake Erie , laid our course straight for Chicago . We went out over Lake Michigan after passing over Niles , Michigan , at a place marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Michigan City , Ind. , we saw the towel s of Chicago . That was a sight . The blue lake and the sky without a cloud , white ripples , and a head of us , dim in the smoke , colored almost purple by the sun , a city rising like a mirage out of the lake . By air is certainly the way to visit Chicago . We crossed the lake in about thirty minutes and then banked around so that we were flying north . We followed the city in this way from its southern boundary to Evanston and then swung across westward to the Curtiss-Reynolds airport . Some planes flew out to meet us and I noted especially one trio , flying in the tightest of tight formations . It proved to be part of the Curtiss-Wright exhibition team . We kept on beyond Curtiss to Sky Harbor , another big level and wellcared-for airport . Greet Endurance Fliers . Then we saw what we were looking for , the refueling endurance record plane City of Chicago , a black and orange Whirlwind-Stinson . That Hunter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulled up alongside them and gave them " Cheerio . " One of the boys  --  I do n't know whether it was Kenneth or John ? climbed out through a hatch and we had a good look at him . He did n't appear so badly off . No one would have believed he had been in the air almost 500 hours , nearly twenty-one days . That ought to prove to folks who do n't fly long distance because it is tiring that it is a pretty comfortable way of living . Down below there were hundreds of cars and thousands of people . I am told that there has not been much sleeping for any one lately in the neighborhood of Sky Harbor . After a couple of turns around the field we landed at the CurtissReynolds Field , one of the best airports I have seen in the world . We were met by a committee of Chicago 's prominent citizens , and among them officials of the national air races , another event in this country that I am doomed to miss if I am going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major Luke Christopher . Clifford Henderson , Casey Jones and officials of Vacuum Oil , who had made arrangements for getting our plane ready for tomorrow 's 1,200-mile flight . Chicago Police on the Job . The Chicago police proved to be every bit as much on the job as the New York motorcycle artists . We were away from the field in a hurry . Just before leaving , Captain Saul met a. cousin of his and several other relatives . We stopped at The Tribune Tower for a handshake and then came on to our hotel for a bath and dinner . Tomorrow morning we will leave at daylight for a flight across the plains and mountains to Salt Lake City . Tonight mechanics are busy working on our radio generator , which for the first time in many thousands of miles refused to do its full quota of work today . We expect to have it running in the morning again , however . I must mention a little surprise . and a pleasant one , we found at . Roosevelt Field when we got there this morning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the transatlantic fliers , was on hand with three roast chickens , sandwiches and vacuum bottles of ice water and hot chocolate . We had made no provision for eating on the plane , and that bountiful lunch just filled the bill . FLIERS RADIO APPRECIATION . Send Messages to Hoover and Others While on Flight . While the Southern Cross was in flight to Chicago yesterday Major Kingsford Smith sent from the plane by radio to Tile NEW YORK TIMES messages for President Hoover . Mayor Walker and others who have honored the fliers . The messages , all dated " Southern Cross in Flight , July 2 , 1930 , " were as follows : To President Hoover . The Honorable Herbert Hoover , The White House , Washington . As we fly over the Alleghanies toward your own California , Mr. President , in our gallant old Fokker , Southern Cross , may we take advantage of the radio which saved us in the fogs of th. : grand banks to express to you the deep appreciatio we all feel of the honor you conferred upon us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Irish and Dutch , take this means of conveying to you our high regard and respect . C. KINGSFORD-SMITH , EVART VAN DYK , J. P. SAUL , JOHN S. W. STANNAGE . To the British Ambassador . His Excellency the British Ambassador , Washington , D. C. May we take this opportunity , sir , of expressing to you our deep appreciation of the corutesy you showed us in coming to meet us in New York and in presenting us to the President of the great country to which you are accredited . C. KINGSFORD-SMITH , EVART VAN DYK , J. P. SAUL , JOHN S. W. STANNAGE . To Mayor ' Walker . The Hon. James J. Walker , Mayor of the City of New York , New York . As our gallant old Fokker , Southern Cross , carries us once more smoothly and faithfully out of sight of the towers of your won-. derful city we take advantage of the modern miracle of radio , sir , to express to you and your fellow citizens our deep appreciation of the very generous hospitality we have enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ KINGSFORD-SMITH , EVART VAN DYK , J. P. SAUL , JOHN S. W. STANNAGE . To the Dutch Minister . His Excellency , the Dutch Minis-ter , Washington , D. C. May we take this opportunity , sir , as we fly westward to express to you our deep appreciation of your courtesy to me and my companions in Washington . EVART VAN DYK . To Grover Whalen . Grover Whalen , chairman of the Mayor 's Committee , New York : The gallant old Fokker , Southern Cross , is just carrying us out of sight of the great towers where you and your committee , and especially the police force for which you have been responsible , made our way so pleasant and smooth . May we take this means of expressing to you our thanks and appreciation . You showed us how efficiency may be made a kindly thing . C. KINGSFORD-SMITH , EVART VAN DYK , J. P. SAUL , JOHN S. W. STANNAGE . To Adolph S. Ochs . Adolph S. Ochs , Times , New York . The crew of the Southern Cross join me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fashion in which your great paper treated our exploit . As we fly out of sight of the miraculous towels of Manhattan we use the miracle of radio to thank you and to hope that we may come soon again . C. KINGSFORD-SMITH . To the Irish Charge . His Excellency , the Irish Charge de Affaires , Washington , D. C. May we take this opportunity to express the deep appreciation of myself and companions of the Southern Cross of your courtesy in coming to New York to meet us and your hospitality in Washington . P. SAUL . START FROM ROOSEVELT FIELD Weather Reports Fail to Deter Cm* of Southern Cross . Special to The New York Times . ROOSEVELT FIELD , L. I. , July 2 . ? Despite weather reports which would have deterred the ordinary aviator from flying the course , Major Charles E. Kingsford-Smith took off here this morning at 8:05 o'clock on the last long flight to com plete his circumnavigation of tha globe by airplane , which was started two years ago when he took off from Oakland . Cal. , on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ veteran monoplane Southern Cross lands Its wheels at Oakland the pilot alone will be the returning hero . Of the four others with him this morning , none was present at the start of his career of air adventure , most of which will go down in the annals of aviation history as pioneering achievement in transoceanic flying . The leader of the flight arrived at the field today at 7:30 . In today 's I flight in addition to Evert Van Dyk . John W. Stannage and Captain J. Patrick Saul , co-pilot , radio operator and navigator respectively , of the present crew , he carried with him L. D. Lyman , aviation editor of THE NEW Yonx TIMES , as passenger . While the motors were being warmed for the take-off , the flier received last-minute weather data . A dense fog was reported hovering over the Alleghanies , but the conquerer of three oceans , an experienced " blind " flier , said that he would not change his course to Chicago to get around the fog , but would once again trust to his instruments and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports also forecast strong headwinds to cut the ground speed of the plane oh its first day 's hop to Chicago . Just before the take-off word came to the field of Major KingsfordSmith 's promotion to honorary Wing Commander in the Australian Air Force . His actions indicated he would await official verification before adopting the title . With the three motors crackling rythmically , the plane 's door was ciosed and cheery adieus were waved after requests for autographs from those among the 300 spectators had been met . Among those who witnessed the departure were officials of the Department of Commerce and the Fokker company , including Colonel Rickenhacker and Anthony H. G. Fokker , who designed the Southern Cross , local representatives of the National Aeronautic Association and mem- , bers of the various committees which sponsored , arranged and supervised the details of the stay of the fliers in New York .                     