@@702637

txt By noon Paul 's Church of Darlington , County of Durham , had en t6red the ch ? teau gates and had begun to make preparations for a religious wedding service to be held in the music room of the ch ? teau after Dr. Charles Mercier , Mayor of Monts , finished the civil ceremony according to French law in the drawing room . The Rev. Mr. Jardine made the following statement to the press : " I volunteered to conduct this ceremony . No permission has been asked nor given . I did not consult any ecclesiastical authority , I consulted only my own conscience . I knew that the Duke of Windsor and Mrs. Warfield strongly desired a religious ceremony . When I made my offer it was accepted by the Duke . It was an entirely voluntary offer on my part . " The inference is that neither Mrs. Warfield nor the Duke of Windsor knew Mr. Jardine before or had ever seen him . The Rev. Mr. Jardine is a parish priest such as exist by the hundreds in England  --  simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last Friday he wrote the Duke offering // TOURS , France , tomorrow Mrs. Wallis Warfield will have become the wife of the Duke of Windsor in French law and by British law , as the British consul will be present , and with the blessing of a clergyman of the Anglican Church . Monts , Tours and the world press , assembled here by the hundreds , have not recovered tonijat from the surprise of this morning 's announcement that after all that has happened , all that has been said . and all that has been written , a Church of England clergyman will bless this union and place the wedding rings upon the fingers of the bride and bridegroom . In his usual quiet manner , Herman L. Rogers , American spokesman for the Duke , announced this news this morning at the gate of the Ch ? teau de Cande . There was a gasp of astonishment , a rush for telephones and a good-humored realization that despite the assiduous watch of the last few weeks the ch ? teau had " put one over " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ watch was being kept , the Rev. R .. Anderson Jardine , vicar of St. his services , and on Sunday . these services were accepted . He was the only one of the thousands of rriests of the Anglican Church to offer to bless the marriage of his former King to the woman he loves . In appearance the Rev. Mr. Jardine might be a direct descendant of Chaucer 's clerk of Oxenford , somewhat frayed , somewhat hesitant , but tonight with a mission . Tomorrow will be his great day , and with a simplicity almost equal to his own the Duke and Mrs. Warfield will bow their heads as he prays for a blessing on their union . Somehow it is felt here , even by the most indifferent to these matters , that tomorrow 's wedding , which had looked as if it were going to be banal and insufficient , has become real and human . There seems some justification now for all the flowers with which the ch ? teau I is filled , for the organ music , for the morning coat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed somewhat out of keeping with the simple formality of a French civil wedding even in such special circumstances . At the first ceremony only Dr. Mercier , the Duke and Mrs. Warfield and their two witnesses , Major Edward Dudley Metcalfe and Mr. Rogers , and five newspaper men , representing news agencies , will be present . If the Mayor keeps his congratulatory speech to anything like the usual length , this ceremony should be over in five minutes . It is to the religious wedding in the music room that the other guests will be admitted . There chairs have been placed for thirtythree persons and through the open door of the library fifteen servants of the ch ? teau will be able to take a peep . According to French law , which demands that weddings shall be public , the Prefect of Tours and the Police Commissioner will be present and able to testify that the doors of the ch ? teau were open . What will happen at the gatesperhaps will be a different matter . The British law will be satisfied by the presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to enter in his records the fact that the wedding took place . Hugh Lloyd Thomas , British Minister in Paris , and , formerly private secretary to the Duke when he was Prince of Wales , will be present in his private capacity as an invited guest , having been exempted from the order forbidding the attendance of those holding office under the Crown . What Mrs. Warfield will wear , except that it will be blue , is for tomorrow 's description . It was emphasized today by her spokesman , however , that she will not wear , as has been reported , a diamond tiara made specially for her in Paris and one of the bridegroom 's gifts . Her bouquet , it is said , will be of wild flowers gathered tomorrow morning in the fields around the ch ? teau . Like all her guests , she will wear a hat .                     