@@703657

txt Controller Joseph D. announced yesterday in his official annual capital budget message that the city planned not only to remove the Sixth Avenue elevated line , but the Second and Ninth Avenue lines in Manhattan and the Fulton Street line in Brooklyn as well . " The Fulton Street elevated in Brooklyn and the Second and Ninth Avenue lines in Manhattan will be acquired for demolition , and the cost apportioned by assessment , which is the present procedure in the case of the Sixth Avenue elevated , " ' the message said . The Controller indicated that the $315,000,000 of bonds exempt from the debt limit which were authorized by the adoption of Amendment 9 to unify the rapid transit lines would be sufficient to purchase the private railroads , with the exception of the elevateds , which are to be paid for by assessment . " Mandate " on Unification " Negotiations have reached the stage where prospects for final agreement are nearer at hand than at any time in the city 's history , " the message continued . " With the adoption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city voted its approval by 934,302 to 367,330 , the city government has a mandate to proceed with unification . " . The announcement , slipped in with apparent casualness in the message dealing with other aspects of the capital . outlay budget , was the first intimation of a plan which , if carried out , would mark one of the most important civic improvements in New York City in recent decades . It was received with surprise by city transit experts , who announced flatly that Mr. was speaking as the city 's financial officer and without exhaustive consultation with the city and State officers entrusted with the city 's transit problems . It was pointed out that no plans existed even on paper for adequate facilities to duplicate all of those that would be removed if the sweeping demolition of the elevated lines occurred . Transit experts pointed out that on the Fulton Street line in Brooklyn , 25,000,000 fares were collected each year . The nearest city-owned line duplicates the service only in part . 120,000,000 Fares Collected On the combined Second , Sixth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annually . No transit expert has yet suggested the removal of the Ninth Avenue elvated for years to come and in the instance of the Second Avenue line , the only plan ever brciached was one included in a comprehensive program advanced some years ago by John Delaney , Chairman of the Board of Trans-1 portation , but subsequently abandoned and never seriously revived . The removal of the Sixth Avenue elevated was made possible by the fact that the owner , the Manhattan Railway Company , was placed in a position of having to accede to the city 's wishes because the city was able to threaten it with a tax lien sale against all its properties . The city stands to get one part of the line for taxes plus enough for one group of bondholders . The remaining sections of the company 's holdings , the Second , Third and Ninth Avenue lines , would thus be freed of the tax arrears and can not be forced to yield by means of the tax threat . Effect on Unification Discussed Persons associated with the unification negotiations now under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for the wholesale removal of elevated lines at this time . Some said the move undoubtedly would delay unification moves for some time and that the private interests involved would resist vigorously any attempts to dismember the properties through piecemeal negotiations . The opinion was expressed that the Transit Commission , which has expressed some doubts over the advisibility of permitting the removal of the Sixth Avenue line before the Sixth Avenue subway is finished might be expected to make still further objections to authorizing the removal of elevated lines for which no adequate substitute service ex isted even on paper . Charles Franklin , counsel for the company owning the Sixth Avenue elevated line , predicted legal delays lasting three years if the city followed its present plan of obtaining the structure by condemnation . Mr. Franklin declared condemnation was equivalent to " seizing our property " and indicated that such tactics might provide a wedge for abolishing the five-cent fare . The Board of Estimate held a hearing on the apportioning of the ! cost of obtaining the old structure for demolition . It is indicated at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Merle-Smith bondholders committee by condemnation for $12,500,000 , of which almost $10 , - 000,000 is In the form of back taxes . An alternate plan is to purchase it outright from the committee . In explaining the stand of the Manhattan Railway Company , owner of the Sixth Avenue elevated lines , Mr. Franklin said that legal evidence had been adduced to indicate that condemnation of the line might breach the contract between the city and the transit lines establishing the five-cent fare . " ' Are are going to bring a taxpayer 's suit for an injunction , " Mr. Franklin said . " It will probably take three years and it will prevent transit unification for that time . We are forced to do that . " In view of the adoption of the constitutional amendment author1 izing the city to exceed its debt limit to buy unification , there is no reason for the Board of Estimate to attempt to ruin 4,000 or 5,000 people who hold $60,000,000 of stock equity in this company . Unification could take care of the whole thing " The condemnation proceedings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sixth Avenue elevated line in relation to the rest of the lines making up the Manhattan-Interborough Rapid Transit system . The Interborough , Mr. Franklin said , would not sign a stipulation that the removal of the line would not be advanced as a reason for breaking the contracts by which the city obtains the operation of the lines at a stipulated fare of 5 gilts .                     