@@699559

txt Homer S. Cummings of Stamford , Conn. , was picked tonight by Presidentelect Roosevelt as Attorney General in place of Senator Walsh of Montana , whose sudden death made a quick selection for that important post imperative . Mr. Cummings , it is expected , will serve as Attorney General only temporarily until Mr. Roosevelt can make a permanent choice . He had been definitely slated for Governor General of the Philippines and unless there is a. change in plans will assume that post as soon as Mr. Roosevelt decides upon a permanent Attorney General . Mr. Cummings was formerly chairman of the Democratic National Committee and was an active supporter of Mr. Roosevelt for the Presidential nomination . He is a close friend of Senator Cordell Hull , the incoming Secretary of State . Mr. Roosevelt decided to offer Mr. Cummings the Cabinet post during the trip from New York . He undoubtedly conferred with his friends on the train , including James A. Farley , Democratic National chairman and Postmaster General designate , and William H. Woodin , who is to be the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tonight announced the appointment of Henry Morgenthau Jr . of Hopewell Junction , N. Y. , to be chairman of the Federal Farm Board , succeelling James C. Stone of Kentucky , whose resignation takes effect Saturday . The President-elect said that he proposed a regrouping of all farm credit functions and the activities of the Federal Government under one ? consolidated agency , of which Mr. Morgenthau would be the head . The new agency is expected to embrace such functions of the Farm Board as it may seem desirable to retain , including the financing of farm cooperatives , and also the Federal Land Banks , the Intermediate Credit Banks , the production loans of the Department of Agriculture and the emergency loan ' activities of the Region Agricultutal Corporations now under the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Mr. Roosevelt said that the wheat and cotton stabilization operations of the Federal Farm Board would be liquidated under Mr. Morgenthau 's direction as rapidly as possible . Mr. Morgenthau is publisher of the American Agriculturist and also operates large fruit and dairy farms in Dutchess County . For the past four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advisory ' committee which assisted Governor ! Roosevelt in the formulation of farm policies . Mr. Morgenthau recently resigned as State Conserva ' tion Commissioner . Is Native of Chicago . The new Attorney General-designate , now in his sixty-second year , was born in Chicago . He received the degree of Bachelor of Phi-1 losophy at Yale in 1891 and a legal 11 degree from the same institution two years later . He has practiced at Stamford , Conn. , ever since he was admitted to the bar in 1893. / He was Mayor of Stamford for three terms and corporation counsel for four years . Mr. Cummings has been a prominent figure in Democratic politics for many years , was a delegate at large to the national convention in 1900 , 1904 and 1924 , and a member of the Connecticut Democratic National Committee from 1900 to 1925 . He was vice chairman of the State committee for six years and chairman in 1919 and 1920 . In 1902 he was a candidate for Congressman at Large from Connecticut . He made the race for United States Senator in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic National Convention at San Francisco . Four years later he was chairman of the resolutions committee at the National Convention in New York . For ten years Mr. Cummings was State 's Attorney for Fairfield County , Conn . Director of Stamford Bank . Mr. Cummings married May Cecilia Waterbury . He is a director of the First Stamford National Bank and Trust Company . He was president of the Mayor 's Association of Connecticut in 1902 and 1903 and of the Stamford Board of Trade from 1903 to 1909 . In 1917 he was a member of the Connecticut State Council of Defense and in 1930 chairman of the committee on State prison conditions . His clubs include the Metropolitan and National Democratic of New York , Suburban and Woodway Country of Stamford and the Congressional Country of Washington . While Mr. Cummings 's office is in Stamford , his home is in Greenwich .                     