@@700352

txt The closing session of the Seventh PanAmerican Conference this afternoon was a dramatic and exciting festival of peace at which the American nation turned over to the League of Nations their one war problem , . that in the Gran Chaco . Alfonzo Lopez of Colombia struck the keynote when he said " We turn over to the League what we were incapable of settling . " After two hours of speechmaking , mostly praising the American ideal of peace , the delegates signed six treaties and conventions . The assembly chamber resembled a great opera house on a festive occasion . Its galleries were packed with stylishly dressed women , and the floor was crowded with delegations , diplomats and specially invited guests . Outside the Uruguayan Presidential Guard and Military Cadets in full dress uniforms rendered honors to each arriving delegation and a military band played their respective national anthems . Hull Offers Peace Resolution . Foreign Minister Alberto Mahe of Uruguay presided with Enrique Buero , Secretary General of the conference , on his right . He opened the session with the announcement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding the Chaco war : " Whereas Bolivia and Paraguay are bound by the Covenant of the League of Nations to submit their dispute for pacific settlement , and " Whereas the Council of the League has , with the concurrence of both parties , sent to the fighting zone a commission to help them bring about a final cessation of hostilities and a definite settlement of this long-standing controversy , " The Pan-American Conference resolves to express the unalterable opinion that the question of honor is not now involved as to either nation , but that both peoples can cease fighting with entire credit to themselves , and hence further fighting can not possibly be justified . " Therefore , this conference further resolves that the conference , equally friendly to both countries , earnestly requests their officials , and through them the citizens of both nations , to accept juridical processes for the solution of their differences , as hitherto constantly recommended by the League of Nations commission and as consistently urged by the Chaco subcommittee of this conference , presided over by His Excellency , President Terra of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acclamation , the delegates standing and applauding him . Neither the Bolivian nor the Para- guayan delegates were in their seats . Dr. Mane announced that the League Chaco Commission had been especially invited to attend this session of the conference . Its members were ushered to their places amid tremendous applause . Casto Rojas of Bolivia then tried to slip in through a side door , but was seen . The delegates jumped to their feet and tendered him an oval tion . As he sat down , Justo Pastor Benitez and Geronimo Zubizarreta of Paraguay entered behind the rostrum and there was another outburst of applause . By this time the assemblage was tense with emotion . Dr. Mane invited Julio Alvarez del Vayo , chairman of the League Chaco Commission , to address the session . Senor del Vayo thanked the conference for its collaboration in the League 's efforts in favor of peace and lauded the success of President Terra and the conference in arranging an armistice . He read a telegram the commission sent to the Presidents of Bolivia and Paraguay today urging an extension of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked for the floor to say : " All who love humanity are hoping and praying that these two fine peoples who have been ' so long in a death grapple will now be able to meet the supreme test of civilization by entering upon a lasting peace . Useless shedding of blood has no place in the age in which we live . With innumerable agencies for the peacefinl settlement of disputes between nations , war is useless as well as odious and repulsive and a challenge to organized society . Demands End of " Scourge . " " The present war is as deplorable as it is dangerous in its consequences to all naighboring countries . The peoples ' here represented must rise to demand that the awful scourge of war be forthwith banished and that this fighting permanently cease . " In addition to praising Senor Terra and the conference leaders for their peace efforts , Mr. Hull declared : " League of Nations agencies have functioned steadily and efficiently . " At the termination of his talk Mr. Hull received a tremendous ovation . Senores Rojas and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference in the names of their governments for its efforts to bring about peace . They were followed by Foreign Minister Miguel Cruchaga of Chile and Alfredo Solf y Muro of Peru , both of whom urged that Bolivia and Paraguay accept peace . Senor Solf y Muro said : " The people of Bolivia and Paraguay wilj be as heroic in peace as they have been ' in war . " Several other delegates also spoke in the same vein . Dr. Mane then delivered the farewell address to the delegates , thanking them and their governments for their cooperation in making the conference a success. , Foreign Minister Carlos Saavedra Lamas of Argentina replied in behalf of the delegates . At 8:30 Dr. Marie declared the session terminated and the seventh American-Pan Conference closed asl it opened , amid a downpour of rain and with the dark clouds of the ' Chaco war still hanging over Southl America .                     