@@697748

txt Mayor WALKER 'S return to the city in improved health is a source of public gratification . So is his apparent determination to concentrate his time and strength upon the municipal business more assiduously than he has done in the past . People like a genial and smiling Mayor , but they would prefer that he should not too often turn off important matters with a laugh . There is no doubt of the Mayor 's ability to administer his office with vigor and success . Sometimes he has seemed to lack the will to do it . Everybody must hope that his announced resolve to be hereafter punctual and efficient will be lived up to . He has an opportunity great enough to round out the ambition of any public man . He stated yesterday that he would at once set about answering the charges laid before the Governor with a demand for his removal on the general grounds of laxity and incompetence in office . In reply , the Mayor has intimated that he will recite the list of public achievements and betterments under his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be met by the assertion of good work in other fields . To dwell upon what has been done in the way of building schools , buying new parks and playgrounds , strengthening the work of city sanitation , consolidating hospitals and so on , is very well- in its way , but does not rebut allegations of wrongdoing elsewhere . Mayor WALKER is lawyer enough and a sufficiently skillful politician to be aware of this , so that he may be expected to meet his accusers directly in the gate . This he announces that he will do with his own right arm . He scorns the idea that he will need to invoke the aid of any Tammany lawyers or board of strategy . This attitude raises the question what will happen when the legislative committee , with Judge SEABURY as counsel , begins to probe deeply into the conduct of municipal affairs during the past few years . The pending charges against Mayor WALKER may have been disposed of , probably will be , before that time . Then will come , however , something much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official integrity of Mayor WALKER , but into the whole system of which he has been and still is an important part . What New Yorkers see before their very eyes is an organization , calling itself Democratic , in control of the city . They know that , from the very necessity of its being , Tammany has somehow to make money out of its political power . Otherwise it could not go on from year to year . Such an elaborate organization as it keeps up all over the city costs a great deal . The sums paid out by its district leaders and other aspiring politicians have to be recouped in one way or another . The strong suspicion is that this is done partly by office-jobbing , by levies on city employes and , even more largely , by throwing big contracts and other perquisites incidental to the city 's vast and complicated business to favcfrites , who see to it that a portion of their profits goes to the organization , or to some other place " where they will do the most good . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gigantic interlocking directorate of Tammany politicians , which Judge SEABURY is expected to search with a lighted candle . Then will come the need of real defense by Tammany and by the Mayor . Mr. WALKER 'S handling of the immediate case against him will be child 's play compared with the job he will have to face if the operations of Tau many during his administration at turned inside out . That thorougi going scrutiny most of our citizen are anticipating with keen interes In Tammany Hall and the City ? Ha it must be contemplated with man , qualms , and certain individuals , a least , already betray the feeling c " a fearful looking for of judgment .                     