@@700860

txt Latest plans for handling the controversial service charge problem in the bank code call for appointment of two committees which simultaneously seek a final solution . One would be selected by the financial community , the other by NRA . This suggestion will shortly be laid before the band code authority by the recovery administration . This step followed an aommistrative board refusal Friday to approve a proposed code amendment providing for regional basic service charger . Board officials explained that the committee plan reflects NRA views that banks should be reasonably compensated for service rendered customers , but that arbitrary establishment of charges in banking . a service industry , is an unwarranted excursion into price fixing . Pending settlement of the charge question . the existing code provision making such fees mandatory will be suspended , at least informally . The second proposed amendment to the code . providing for collection of funds from banks to maintain a code budget , was withdrawn by the code authority . Officials stated that this amendment , which carried the usual proposals for assessment and court action by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by NRA . However , it was understood that the industry preferred to withhold it at least until the matter of service charges was settled . The rejected amendment had been drawn by NRA officials themselves prior to the time the new administrative board took office . It provided for systems of service charges to be effectuated regionally , in cases where ? Sr , - of the banking community , measured both numerically and by resources , desired . Regional scales of charges were subject to disapproval by NBA . Under the mandatory pi ovision in the code schedules , schedules were submitted to NRA in the past but none was approved . It was learned that recovery officials urge d withholding of such proposals until an amendment could be agreed upon , as those submitted received widespread publicity and caused public protest to nRA . The amendment just disapproved did not come up for public hca ' - ing . Previously there had been pressure both from the industry and from some NRA officials for setting up service charges on the grounds that they constitute a sound banking practice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery administration has been oath to allow the present original code provision to stand , since it places NRA in the position of demanding establishment of service charges .                     