@@699680

txt Edward .1 . Kelly was inducted into ? nice as the fifty-ninth mayor of Chi . cage last night in a ceremony in the chamber of the city council which elected him last Thursday to tilt the unexpired term of the late Mayor Anton J. Cermak . The council chamber was packed for the occasion . Gov . Henry Horner delivered the chief address and after Mayor Kelly had given a brief acceptance speech and had been presented a new gavel by the council he called that body to order for regular business . His job had begun , a job which he and all the other speakers of the evening realized was one of the hardest that ever confronted any mayor . Asks Help of Council , Mayor Kelly asked the council for help In solving the major problems of the city , which he listed as payment of back salaries , the tax situation , the gangster problem , and further reduction of the cost of government . A Id . Frank Corr , who acted as temporary chairman , promised him full cooperation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the new mayor just before getting down to business , " we all love Chicago . We have problems , it is true , but we shall meet them like men . I invite all our citizens to join In the task . We shall not sell Chicago short . Her destiny is to reach the first place among the cities of the world . Let us begin now to , carry her forward toward that destinyt , f , Horner Voices Hope for Future . This was the note of the inaugural . which was less a celebration than a dedication . The shadow of the recent assassination of Mayor Cermalc was over the room . But there was hope and confidence there , too . Gov . Horner voiced this when lie said : " Days that seem darkest are always Preparations fur greater advance . Chicago 's ' I Will ' spirit must never , wit , never perish . We were cast Into gloom by the death of our mayor . To day we face the future in new hope . We face our task with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the privilege of serving . must give up everything else in life . There is only one compensation , the approve , of our fellow citizens . God grant that Chicago 's trials will soon he over and that you will contribute mightily to that speedy passage . Sees Brilliant Administration . " Edward Kelly possesses all the necessary qualifications to give the city a brilliant , economical , efficient administration . If we ca n't find a way to pay salaries to teachers . policemen , firemen , and other employes who have faithfully stood by us . It we ca n't do this , council and mayor our prayers and expectations of the future are well nigh hopeless . " But he will not fail in this respect His life has been devoted to OVCITOM lag obstacles . His election is a pledit , of better things for Chicago . Mayor Cermak was lashing gangdom from the city . State 's Attorney Courtney has continued that war . You will find Mayor Kelly fearlessly by his side . " Gov . Horner congratulated the council and Patrick A. Nash @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crisis after the killing of Mayor Cermak . Chairman Frank J. Corr invited Mr. Nash to the plat ; form to speak but , he could not be found . Crowd Packs Council Chamber . The throng that packed the council chamber included ' friends of the new administration , aldermen and their families . Admission was by card and there was not a seat vacant in the hell or galleries . The platform was crowded with judges , officials , and citizens . D. F. Kelly was presented to the audience . Edward Ir . Dunne , for , mer . mayor and former governor , spoke briefly , congratulating the mayor and the council and recalling a time 18 years ago when Mr. Kelly . as a state engineer , ' presented a plan for the building of . the lakes to the gulf waterway . He said the council had made a most admirable choice for mayor . ? Rufus Dawes told of the cooperation which he had received from Mr. Kelly and other members of the south park commission in planning for A Century of Progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Chicago does not yield to despair , " . he said . " It shims a capacity for endurance and resources for.recovery still in reserve , Chicago nosy makes firm forever hi claim that it is the city of accom ; plishment . " State 's Attorney Courtney said that tile Democratic party realized its heavy responsibilities and had selected a man of energy , perseverance and constructive ability . The party was unanimous for Kelly , he said , because of his achievements ; Robert M. Sweitzer , Clayton F. Smith , and Judge John J. Sullivan were other speakers . Judge Sullivan . urged that all citizens respond to the call to purchase tax anticipation war . rants . The mayor , he said , could no ; do this alone . The Rev. Theodore C. Hume , pastor of the New England church , opened the ceremony with an invocation . The entire inauguration ceremony was ' broadcast over W.G-N , THE Clue.yeo TarnrSE radio station . I NEW MAYOR 'S ADDRESS an his Inaugural address in the city council chamber last night Mayan Edward J. Kelly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall a glorious and eventful scene . We cheered and applauded the new mayor , little knowing that we were watching the opening scene of a great tragedy . " At that time our city was at the lowest mark in its history . Our treasury iaS empty . The criminal element had a strangle hold upon us . The whole world looked upon Chicago as if it were the very symbol of lawlessness . But an iron man had conic to take hold of its affairs , and so marvelously did he perform that within less than live years he compelled the whole world to recognize that this is a city of God fearing and law abiding Americans  --  that we hail the will and the power to raise ourselves to our rightful position among our sister cities . " By the action of this council I am called to take the place made vacant by Anton J. Cermak . I ant not prepared to present a detailed program . Time . since my election , was too short for that . But I do know the plight in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our teachers , policemen , firemen , and other municipal empley6s have been working for months without pay . " Economic conditions are making it Increasingly difficult for our citizens to pay their taxes , while others able to do so are delaying or refusing Pal ' . ment . " Two hundred thousand families are dependent upon public or private charity for their daily bread . " The lawless elements of our city are not yet completely conquered . " The cost of government has not vet reached the lowest possible figure consistent with good public service . " These conditions present our major problems . To solve them I shall need your help . This Is a council governed city , and while the law places responsibility upon the executive , it Is my earnest hope that through conference and coUperation , mutual on . do rstanding between us will always prevail which will enable us to deal with all our major difficulties harmoniously . Pledges Aid to Prosecutor . " Chicago , for a great many years , ha : ; suffered from adverse criticism , s.ire of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claim had been made that law enforcement had broken down in Chicago . I ant proud to say to you now that that impression has been dissipated to a great degree , and I pledge specifically the fullest cooperation with our able and energetic state 's attorney In the administration of his office to the end that organized crime be effectively driven from our cone in unity . " We are now approaching a great historic event In the life of our city . On June 1 we shall open to the world A Century of Progress exposition . ' We shall be visited , I hope , by milthat we shall be able to give evidence of a real century of progress . " I am Inviting taw fellow citizens to join me in presenting to our visitors Chicago as it really is  --  the heart and spirit of Chicago . A city great In population , great in physical . mural , and spiritual achievement , and a city full of hope and tall of confidence In the far greater destiny that lies be . fore It . Pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he com plete were I net to pay tribute to a great leader who , justly , was your first choice for the peskier ) which I now have the honor to fill . The self-effacing sacrifice that Patrick A. Nash made by refusing to accept the honor proffered to him is only another evidence of his high character , loyalty and unselfishness . " We have problems , but we shall meet them as men . I invite all of our citizens to join In the task . We shah not sell Chicago short . Her destiny Is to reach the first place among the cities of the world . Let ifs begin now li , as coming from every quarter of to carry her forward toward that the globe . It Is my profound belief destiny . "                     