@@698622

txt Only Senator King of Utah put into words today a feeling which has spread throughout the ranks of the Democrats in Congress that Alfred E. Smith should withdraw from further contest for delegates in the national convention . Respect and admiration for Mr. Smith , and regret that he has as ' sumed a political position which subjected him to the overwhelming defeat in New Hampshire , were the burden of all Democratic comment , private and public . But equally unanimous was the sentiment that continued activity by him will jeopardize the chances of the convention nominee and achieve no constructive purpose . Mr. King referred to his strong advocacy of Mr. Smith in 1928 and said that he , with millions of other Democrats , had made another choice for 1932 in the belief , " from statements made by him Mr. Smith I , that he was not a candidate " this time . He deplored that any friends of the ex-Governor , through " mistaken loyalty or affection , " should imperil the prospects of party victory . Suggests Dropping Out . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandon his candidacy . " Governor Smith won a high place in the affections of the Democrats and progressives of the United States , " said Senator King . " He was worthy of the support given him as a Presidential candidate , and the extraordinary vote which he polled was conclusive evidence of the high esteem in which he was held by the American people . I regret exceedingly that he was not elected President . If he had been , the policies which have been fraught with such disaster , inaugurated and executed by Mr. Hoover and the Republicans , would not have been inflicted upon our country . " Governor Smith still holds a high place in his party and can and will be a potential factor in carrying his party to victory in the coming election . Many of those who loyally supported him  --  and I was among the number  --  have believed , from statements made by him , as well as from other circumstances , that he was not a candidate for the Presidential nomination in the coming election . Back Avowed Candidates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Smith . are giving their support to eminent Democrats who are candidates for the nomination . Undoubtedly they believe the situation calls for the nomination of one among the number who are avowed candidates for the nomination . " It is not inaccurate to say that many of those who , in good faith and with a desire for the welfare of their party , are giving their support to the various candidates , regret to find that some of the friends of Governor Smith  --  and all Democrats are his friends  --  are projecting him into the contest . " No one questions their right to do so or their right to entertain friendship and indeed affection for him , but the issues involved are more important than friendship for or devotion to any man , no matter how great he may be . The issue involves the welfare of our country , the restoration of the government to the hands of a party which is loyal to the Constitution and in whose hands the liberties of the people will be preserved and the prosperity of the country assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person should jeopardize the results of a contest pregnant . with such serious , if not vital , consequences to the American people . As I see the situation , the best interests of the Democratic party , as well as the highest welfare of the American people , call for Democratic unity , and for the selection as standard-bearer in the coming fight of one among the candidates whose claims are being considered by the liberal and progressive Democratic forces of our country . " Not much hope was expressed by Democrats in Washington that Mr. Smith was disposed at present to take any such advice . His telegram to Mayor Curley of Boston , who spent the day here , was taken as a firm expression of his intention to remain in the contest .                     