@@697428

txt Price movements in the abbreviated session at the week-end demonstrated that Wall Street was not wholly resigned to the defeatist psychology prevailing in speculative quarters . friday 's collapse in the industrial , railroad , and utility averages to new lows for the present bear market heightened the recent pronounced pessimism in trading circles , and brought another flood of selling in the early dealings . New lows for the year were reached by New York Central , General Motors , General Electric and Westinghouse . and further extensions of the current reaction occured in Steel , American Can , Consolidated Gas and American Telephone . Additional declines took place in specialties like Gillette Safety Razor and Worthington Pump , and the general list was under severe pressure . This fresh sinking spell reflected the liquidation of impaired accounts , and renewal of professional operations for the decline . Resumption of bearish activities was based on the thought that the lack of support shown in Friday 's session indicated that another selling climax was in sight . ? ? ? However , the manner in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still in evidence for the account of people feeling , there was no reason to give up hope altogether . ? Accumulation based on - the belief that ' the speculative community was overemphasizing the trade depression brought about moderate rallying tendencies toward the end of the first- hour . ? ? ? However , it was sensed by the b ...... crowd that the support in the market was of passive character , while the gloom perverting many sections of the financial and business world was counted upon to make further discouraged liquidation easy to accomplish . Improvement in the general list was wiped out at the start of the second hour , by another selling wave which at first converged on American Can . Latter stock experienced a sharp drop to new low ground on the movement and pressure spread throughout the list , Steel common dipped to its lowest 1930 levels , and bad breaks took place in individual issues like Gillette Safety Razor and General Refractories . ? General Motors was helped by the statement by Alfred P. Sloan , Jr. , president of the corporation , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the S3 dividend rate . While the reference was to the quarterly dividend due in November , these assurances indicate confidence of the management that the corporation is In position to maintain the present payments under conditions in the corporation 's business anticipated for next year . Continuance of the dividend at this time suggests that the management is satisfied that improved business conditions and earnings are in prospect for 1931 . It is believed that if the prospects for next year were not encouraging , the management would take this opportunity to reduce the dividend payments to a level in line with anticipated earnings . Due largely to the steps taken by the management late in 1929 to meet changing conditions in the automobile market , the corporation will be able to come through the severe depression of 1930 showing its full dividend requirements earned and in stronger financial position than at the end of last year . AU things considered , it is unlikely that another year as difficult as the present one for the motor industry will be seen for a long time to come . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels since February , 1927 , and many Stock Exchange houses now borrowing hardly more than their respective capitals , it was evident that a good part of the recent selling represented liquidation of banks ' security loans . This item showed a reduction of $218,000.000 - in last week 's statement of reporting member banks and the renewed pressure on the market following the mid-week recovery indicated that further decrease would be set forth in the next statement . Selling of securities being carried with banks undoubtedly has reflected widespread discouragement over the business situation . Disappointment over the failure of seasonal improvement to develop in generid trade has caused many people to close out their commitments in the belief that little hope could now be entertainedtfor any important revival in commercial and industrial activities this year . Conditions in the steel industry show further slackening , and trade experts report a feeling of caution in the industry as a result of continued reaction in the grain and securities markets , and fresh weakness in the prices of scrap , pig iron and finished steel . Pressure on the rails has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revenue cars being loaded by the leading carrier companies . News of this character has brought a persistent volume of liquidation from weary holders of deflated shares . and created a situation similar to that existing at the bottom of severe depressions when general abandonment of confidence usually foreshadows a turn for the better . ? ? ? Observers experienced in market crises of the past feel that the universal bearishness now existing is one of the most favorable symptoms of the present situation . It is argued that current psychology is exactly the opposite from that prevailing a year ago when bullish enthusiasm obscured the unmistakable signs of rapidly decreasing business activity . During the summer of 1929 , many far-sighted bankers , investment trust managers , and guardians of trust funds were changing their views regarding the advisability of retaining high-priced issues returning disproportionate income . While liquidation resulting from this attitude proved temporarily inadequate to check the rampant upswing in stock prices , it eventually led up to the October-November collapse . At the present time , people who were selling in the final stages of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attractive yields to replace their lines . Accumulation of this kind is based on the thought that representative shares are now soundly priced in relation to their average earning power prior to this year as well as their intrinsic merit . ? ? ? Some companies now can fully cover , or substantially equal their present market valuations with working capital alone . In many instances where stocks still have a high price-to-earnings ratio , this situation can be justified because of exceptional long-range prospects . Until liquidation dries up , this buying will exercise no greater influence than last year 's selling by people who were not inclined to try for the top of the bull swing . But when the current wave of pessimism subsides , it undoubtedly will develop that there was no more reason for parting with good stocks under the present circumstances than there was for making long commitments at the height of the 1929 boom . ? ? ? Volume of freight now carried annually on the United States ' inland waterways , including the Great Lakes exceeds the ocean borne tonage of this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Dominick &; Dominick. where has been a steady increase in the amount of freight transported on the inland waterways , the volume of such traffic in 1928 being more than double the traffic in 1922 . Plans for the development of new waterways projects and the improvement of existing waterways indicate that a substantial increase in water-borne freight may be expected within the next few years . Most important American waterways system , in point , of actual current use , is that of the Great Lakes , whose annual traffic approximates 150,000,000 tons . The tonnage of American vessels engaged in trade on the Great , Lakes is practically identical with that of all privately owned American vessels operating on ocean trade routes . . ? ? ? " While it can be seen that substantial progress has been made toward the development of an adequate inland waterways system , waterways transportation services should not be blindly advocated at the cost not only of huge governmental outlays , but also of reduced revenues for the railways which , unlike waterways , are expected to operate every day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interrupt barge service , " the firm continues . " To justify the construction and maintenance , of waterways , it must be shown that they are essential and will reduce distribution costs , while at the same time making a profit on their own operations . " There is a distinct place in our national transportation system for inland waterways -- chiefly in the carriage of bulky , low grade freight ? but their development must be coordinated with the other means of transportation already on existence . "                     