@@697970

txt The British Government today put the Hoover plan for one year 's war-debt holiday formally into operation by addressing a letter to the Bank for International Settlements at Basel , informing it that no member of the British Commonwealth of Nations will claim the next Installment of German annuities falling due July 15 . This announcement is made upon the understanding , the letter adds , " that the terms and conditions of the suspension of this payment , and of the eventual transfer of the amount suspended , will be those agreed upon hereafter for giving effect to President Hoover 's proposal . " It is also announced here tonight officially that His Majesty 's Government has issued invitations to the powers primarily concerned in drawing up the plan to a conference , meeting here July 17 at 11 a. m . These powers are France , Italy , Japan , Belgium , the United States and Germany . It Is understood that desire noon the part of the British Government to speed up relief for Germany has prevented the invitations being on an even wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions in regard to the method of giving effect to President Hoover 's proposal . " By ROBERT 8 . ALLEN STS ? ? Co  --  IP EsPoN DENT &WM.; TROM MONITOlt BUREAU WASHINGTON , July 10 ? President Hoover 's conviction that the war debt moratorium he sponsored will powerfully stimulate world trade was publicly expressed yesterday by him in a message to President von Hindenburg of Germany . Mr. Hoover 's cable to the Reich 's President was in reply to a commnication expressing the latter 's appreciation on behalf of himself and the German people for the American relief measure . " It is my sincere hope and expectation , " Mr. Hoover cabled , " that this proposal , which has been presented to and accepted by the nations of the world , will revive confidence and promote prosperity among all peoples . " The Administration here is watching with deep interest the German economic situation . It was Its extreme precariousness that prompted Mr. Hoover to propose the one-year debt holiday . His step was taken in the hope that it would afford Germany immediate relief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world economic conditions . It is realized here that , far-reaching and important as is the effect of the war debt moratorium , It by no means solves all of Germany 's difficulties . Heavy Burden in Interest Germany in the last decade has borrowed many hundreds of millions of dollars in private loans . These vast funds have gone for ninny purposes , developing numerous municipal projects , meeting reparations payments , and developing Industry . Interest charges on these private loans present a great bUrden , and with German industry hard hit as a result of the world depression the entire economy of the country has been subjected to great strain . Unemployment , relief for more th7tr , 4,000,000 workers has been an added load on industry and government The resulting trying conditions have been reflected In tar-flung political turmoil in the country , the extreme Rights , Nationalists , and the extreme Letts , Communists , gaining thousands of followers . In the last 24 hours discouraging reports have reached the administration here about German conditions . One large and long-established textile corporation was reported to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other organizations . It is also learned that withdrawal of capital is continuing and that short-term credits are being called . Germany is declared to be badly in need of heavy long-term credits , and is now hurriedly seeking such from the various important banking institutions , such as the Bank of England , Mince , Belgium , and the United States Federal Reserve Banks . " morally In Effect " The Administration here has every confidence that Germany will not be called on to pay the additional reparations payments due July 13 . The whole purpose of the President 's proposal , it was declared , was to relieve Gerinany of making such returns at this time , " The Administration considers that the President 's proposal Is morally In effect , " and that has been impressed on each of the European powers . Mr. William IL . Castle Jr. , Acting Secretary of State , declared that France and the United States mutually understood that the President 's plan became effective as of July 1 , and he expressed confidence that . the other powers were in accord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of acting bong such a line , Mr. Castle 139inteti Out . Fie expressed every confidence , that ?  --  a satisfactory arrangement would be evolved which would relieve Germany of meeting its July 15 payments . Mn Hugh S. Gibson , Ambassador to Belgium , . who will represent , the Uniteil States at the meeting of Treasury experts called for July 17 , in London , to work out the details of the agreement on the Hoover plan , will attend in the capacity of an " observer , " Mr. Castle said . It was made plain , however , that Mr. Gibson will take an active part in the deliberations and activities of the conference and he will make every effort to see that the understanding reached is in full accord with the " spirit and purpose " of the President 's plans .                     