@@704009

txt If only because it dispels doubts and illusions concerning the solidarity and significance of the Rome-Berlin Axis , the military alliance concluded in Berlin yesterday is an event of major importance in the rapid alignment or opposing forces in Europe . It is all very well to keep on doubting that the bond between the two totalitarian governments is as strong as they keep on insisting that it is , or to minimize the force of the new agreement by arguing that it does not alter the relations already existing . The chief signatories imply that it does not change basic facts , Herr von Ribbentrop when he states that the pact sets " the logical seal on a perfectly natural development , " Count Ciano when he says that it simply bestows " the form of precise obligations " on the close unity welding the two states into an unbreakable bloc . But if this is the case , why the joint admission that the step was decided on only two weeks ago at the meeting of the two Foreign Ministers at Milan ? Why the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even if Berlin and Rome were not assuming more concrete and binding obligations to each other , the ostentatious proclamation to the world of the far-reaching terms of their cooperation in war and peace amounts in itself to a new declaration of policy . The clear fact is that the two Powers have assumed new obligations . If either country becomes involved in war , " the other will immediately rally to his side as an ally and support him with all his military resources on land , at sea and in the air . " This means that the Fascist states pill pursue a common policy in peace and support one another in any war in which either becomes engaged . Such an agreement goes quite as far as the Anglo-French alliance in the military sense and much farther in the political and economic fields . It is more far-reaching than the pre-war Triple Alliance , which bound the contracting parties only in a defensive war . It is possible that the secret clauses said to supplement the accord contain reservations which weaken or limit the published pledges . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreements of the past , is that they are as likely as not to say more rather than less than they mean . When threat is the instrument of national policy , nations incline to put their worst foot forward . There is no doubt that Germany and Italy announce this pact of " permanent political collaboration " and " absolute military cooperation " for the purpose of impressing the democratic Powers as well as the neighboring states with the spectacle of their combined might . They are replying to the policy of re . sistance to aggression and trying to neutralize the effect of the expected military agreement of Britain , France and Russia . Since their action is calculated to overcome British reluctance to accept the terms of the Soviet Government , they must be pretty certain that . this agreement is about to be consummated . It would he foolish , however , not to take the alliance at its face value . From now on , all other governments are bound to proceed on the assumption that Rome and Berlin will act as one Power . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wishful thinking . It does not necessarily mean that war is nearer . On the contrary , the military pact is softened by peaceful words , even by peaceful gestures , such as partial demobilization in Italy , and an announcement of the early withdrawal of Italian . legionaries in Spain ; if these gestures mean anything , they mean that the dictators have now reached the limit in demonstrating their strength . It remains to be seen how much farther the forces on the other side can go in a counterdemonstration.                     