@@702045

txt Members of the American Federation of Labor 's executive council , arriving here today for tomorrow 's " trial " of the twelve dissident unions associated with the Committee for Industrial Organization , were unable to indicate the outcome of the momentous meeting , but hoped that some formula might be devised to work , out an amicable arrangement that would satisfy both the craft and the industrial union groups . Among the " middle of the road " labor groups hope was rising that the entire dispute might be referred to the next convention of the federation " without prejudice " for a complete investigation of the situation that resulted in the formation of the C. I. 0 . under the leadership of John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers of America . That the present need of organized labor as well as unorganized labor is for a " united front " will be stressed before the council tomorrow by Henry K. Ohl , president of the Wisconsin Federation of Labor , who will present the " formula " devised by his organization . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the craft unions , two of the industrial unions , three representatives of State Federations of Labor , three representatives of city central bodies and two representatives of " Federal " labor unions , the latter attached directly Ito the A. F. of L. instead of to national unions . This committee would investigate the situation and report to the 1937 convention . In the meantime the C. I. 0 . would confine its drive to the rubber and steel industries . The situation tonight was still a deadlock . Mr. Lewis and the C. I. 0 . members have not receded from their stand which is that the executive council has no right under the constitution to suspend an affiliated union . The C. I. 0 . members will not appear at the meeting , and if the trial goes on it will be conducted in their absence . John P. Frey , president of the Metal Trades Department , who preferred the original charges , will be prepared to act as " prosecutor " in the unprecedented action . Mr. Frey , who charges the C. I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rebellion " in the A. F. of L. , is prepared to add to his charges another accusation against the C. I. 0 . It is based on a recent statement by Philip Murray , chairman of the steel workers organizing committee . This additional count In Mr. Frey 's indictment alleges that the steel organizing campaign conducted under the auspices of the C. I. 0 . and the steel workers union is about to invade the " jurisdiction " of other unions by enrolling . Many Oppose Suspension Those who believe that the council will find some way to avoid the drastic action of suspending 1,250 , - 000 members of the A. F. of L. base their confidence on the lapse of time since the meeting three weeks ago when the council decided to furnish formal charges and to give the unions cited time in which to reply . In the intervening weeks many local unions , central labor bodies and State Federations of Labor , as well as individuals , have written or telegraphed to President William Green asking that the suspension plan be abandoned . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the social welfare sections of the Catholic , Protestant and Jewish denominations , also expressed an urgent plea for an amicable adjustment without splitting the labor movement . li Whether the council will suspend the twelve unions rests not only on the public opinion of " rank and file " unionists , who have expressed their views , but on the council 's internal political situation . One of the key men in the council is W. L. Hutcheson , president of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners , second largest union in the federation , with 300,000 members . Mr. Hutcheson , who headed Herbert Hoover 's labor division in the 1932 campaign , is one of the " diehard " members who insist that Mr. Lewis and his miners ' union be ousted from the federation . Control 3,000 Votes Out of some 30,000 votes in the federation convention the carpenters control 3,000 . The unions have one vote for each 100 members at the annual convention . The Lewis group already lays claims to some 40 per cent , or about 12,500 votes . Absence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring the voting strength of craft and industrial unions groups closer toward a fifty-fifty affair . In such an event both sides would attempt to make dickers with smaller groups " on the fence , " and the result would be a gamble by the craft union group on whether it would be able to continue its half century mastery over the federation 's machinery . If the situation worked out toward this consummation , with the industrial union side winning the majority vote , it is regarded here as certain that virtually the entire personnel of the council from President Green down would be d'cleaned out " by the victors . To offset such a possibility the craft union " die-hard " groups have been insisting that the 1,250,000 members in the twelve C. I. 0 . groups be- suspended before the next convention , for then these members would be unable to cast their votes on the proposal that will be made to revoke their charters . Kept out of the convention by action of the council , which is dominated by the craft unions , and charters revoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice in the affairs of the federation . Their recourse then would be to desert the C. I. 0 . to fight for reinstatement in the courts , or to accept the situation and build up a i4Val labor movement founded on the principle of industrial . organization in the mass-production industries .                     