@@703669

txt Nazism was denounced in vigorous terms by spokesmen for organized labor tonight , who called for vigorous measures to meet the conditions existing in Germany . Speaking from Washington over a coast-to-coast network of the Columbia Broadcasting System , William Green , president of the American Federation of Labor , announced that he had by letter today called upon all affiliates of the federation to redouble their efforts to make fully effective a boycott against German goods and services as a protest against Nazi persecutions . Matthew Woll , a vice president of the American Federation of Labor , speaking from Syracuse , N. Y. , on the same program , called for a " moral ring around Germany . " It was another step in his drive for a national organization for relief of the oppressed and for a permanent fight to defeat autocratic principles . Calls Nazism Savagery Charging that Nazism is " savagery , " Mr. Woll said that every hour he was receiving letters , telegrams and telephone calls " expressing unity against this terror . " " We must help today 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build a moral ring around Germany until hideous and murderous dictatorship gives way to a complete restoration of freedom , civilization and decency . " Mr. Green declared that , in view of " a ferocity which recognizes no limitations , " labor must make its position known through collective action . Economic pressure from the outside world , he asserted , would induce Chancellor Hitler " to change his ways . " " Hitler , " he said , " already is feeling the pinch of economic distress . His announced intention of seizing all Jewish property in Germany is evidence of this . " He pledged the A. F. of L. to " any practical plan for the release of refugees from Hitler 's wrath . " Mr. Green 's boycott appeal was sent to all national and international unions , State Federations of Labor , central labor unions and directly affiliated local unions . " Labor can not remain silent or passive , " he said in his letter . " It must meet the situation which has arisen in Germany in a strong and effective way . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Excerpts From Green Address Excerpts from Mr. Green 's speech follow : " One of the first acts of the Hit- ler regime when it came into power was the arrest and imprisonment of German labor leaders . This was followed by the suppression and dissolution of the German trade unions in a campaign of brutality and ruthlessness that matched Hitler 's attacks on the Jews . " The American Federation of Labor recognized immediately that this Nazi move was the beginning of a reign of terror that spelled the end of ? all freedom in Germany . We knew it would result in enforced labor and virtual slavery for the German workers . We knew that a government ruthless enough to wipe out the rights of labor would not hesitate to trample upon the rights of all races , creeds , religions and beliefs . ' For a strong , free ? and independent organized labor movement is the greatest protection any country can have for the protection of its freedom and civil liberties . " Press dispatches from abroad show the atrocities against German ' Jews have now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor can not remain silent or passive . We must make our position known , not only through individual and collective protests , but through collective action . " With this in mind , I have today called upon every organization , affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and every man and woman in the labor movement , as I have never appealed to them before , to redouble their vigilance in the boycott of German goods and German service . I now address the same appeal to all my listeners . Such action can speak louder than words . " Refuse to buy German goods or to use German service until the persecution of Jews in Germany is terminated and they are accorded their rights as human beings . " Hitler already is feeling the pinch of economic distress . His announced intention of seizing all Jewish property in Germany is evidence of this . If anything can impress upon Hitler the tragic folly of his course and induce him to change his ways , it is economic pressure from the outside world . " We must always remember @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and deliberate in his savagery. * * * " It is significant that President Roosevelt has recalled our Ambassador from Berlin for consultation here . It is encouraging that the President has discarded the niceties of diplomatic usages and frankly stated his personal shock that such things as are happening in Germany could take place , in these supposedly civilized days . " By so doing the President has expressed the feeling of all our people of whatever faith in every walk of life . We know that Hitler has attacked not only the Jews but Catholics , Protestants , organized labor and every individual , religion or group that stands in his way . No one is safe in Germany today . " Therefore , I pledge the support , of the American Federation of Labor to any practical plan for the release of refugees from Hitler 's Wrath . This must be done not as charity but in the name of humanity . "                     