@@700222

txt The wheels of industry and business were stopped for a full hour throughout Germany today and rail and street-car traffic everywhere halted for a minute  --  a " minute of silence " ? ordained to , put Germany 's millions of workers of " the brow and the fist " into an appropriately solemn and receptive mood for hearing Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's concluding election appeal . The minute 's pause and the fortyfive-minute speech by the Chancellor that followed were pre-eminent1 ly dedicated to the working men and women of Germany . It was a tribute to labor , rendered under the slogan " Honor and Equality . " In a setting replete with all the trappings and trimmings of which the highly imaginative Nazi propaganda organization is capable , Herr Hitler , standing on a huge dynamo in the Siemens industrial plant in northwest Berlin , formally concluded his cyclonic campaign for the unanimous vote of the German people Sunday . Just as the election will be a " Hitler election , " the campaign preceding it has also been of his personal making . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , and descend upon the venerable President von ' Hindenburg , who will make one of his rare , short radio appeals to the German people at 7 P. M. Today 's demonstration was rbserved by labor throughout the Reich with a response doing honor to the preparations for it by Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels , the resourceful Minister of Propaganda . Chancellor Hitler was whisked out to the big Siemens plant shortly before 1 P. M. , where 9,000 workers in their working clothes howled a welcome at him . He reached the plant promptly at 1 , when the signal for the official " minute of silence " was sounded by factory sirens and church bells . It brought every street car in Germany to , a halt and marked the beginning of an hour 's shutdown of the banks , shops and public offices . The order was observed rigidly , ( even to the extent that streets in the heart of Berlin were deserted by their usual noon-hour crowds . Everywhere the people remained indoors , gathering around the loudspeakers to receive the Chancellor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working masses . It was carried over a nation-wide radio hook-up into every industrial plant , shop , schoolroom and public and semi-public building in Germany Dwelling on the familiar slogan , " Honor , peace and equality , " Chancellor Hitler began by telling of his emergence from the humble ranks of the workers . It.entitled him , he said , to talk freely , frankly and intimately with other workers . Insists Upon Equality . There were references to the Reich 's foreign policy , as when the Chancellor declared in concluding : " We are ready to take part in any conference and cooperate in - any international agreement  --  but only if equal rights are accorded us . In my private life I have never pushed myself into upper social circles that did not want me or did not regard me as an equal . In such a case I should have no use for them  --  and the German nation has quite as much strength of character . " We are not taking any interest anywhere in the capacity of bootblacks , of a second-rate nation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see us again at any international conference ! " Herr Hitler probably never had the benefit of a more cleverly conceived setting for a political speech than that provided by Dr. Goebbels in one of the huge assembling plants of the Siemens dynamo works . His rostrum was a dynamo resting on a truck and affixed were all the appurtenances required for broadcasting his speech throughout Germany and across its borders . A delegation of the company 's officials , headed by its president , Karl Friedrich von Siemens , met the Chancellor at the gates of the plant . They conducted him into the hall , where the 9,000 assembled workers gave him the Hitler salute and a lusty cheer . Prior to his arrival Dr. Goebbels regaled the crowd with an oratorical prelude largely devoted to eulogizing the unification of the German people . Predicts Splendid Future . " A miracle has happened  --  Germany has awakened  --  she has found herself again and will relive in greater splendor than ever , " Dr. Goebbels told the army of Siemens workers . Then he introduced Chancellor Hitler , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal to German labor . In the very opening of the speech and again later the Chancellor stressed that he himself had come from the common people ; that he was still of and with them and understood and could speak with authority for them . But he claimed this following with unusual emphasis on himself ? it was not " the movement " but his own ideas and aspirations that he impressed upon his hearers . It was as the supreme and autocratic leader that he addressed the German nation . He made it clear that , in his opinion , holding out for achieving an international status of equality for Germany was not a mere matter of sentiment but essential for the country 's economic reconstruction . " I should be a liar were I to hold out a promise of economic betterment to the German people without at the same time insisting that equality among the nations be at last accorded to this people , " he said . What militated against Germany 's just claim to equality , Herr Hitler declared , was the pernicious notion abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an error analogous to that of the class struggle that he had set himself the task of stamping out in Germany . " Moreover , international discord is being propagated by certain welldefined special interests , " he contined . " The international clique is at home everywhere and nowhere ? persons now living in Berlin , tomorrow in Prague , and the day after in Paris or London , without roots anywhere , have egged on one nation against another . The trouble-makers are these international gypsies . " Deprecates Theories . The Chancellor deprecated mere theories . " What is the use of them in dealing with unemployment ? " he asked . " Would these millions be any happier if I proclaimed new theories ? They want work and bread . " Herr Hitler was similarly scornful of the intelligentsia . " It was not the intellectuals , the educated classes , that heartened me to tackle this gigantic task ? it was the German worker and peasant , as I knew them , " he asserted . " And these I also knew from the beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intellectual workers would join us spontaneously . " The Chancellor disavowed any personal ambition . " Do I need official honors ? " he exclaimed . " My title of recognition is the reputation I have made for myself out of my own strength . " He claimed personal credit for the reported reduction of the unemployed in Germany from 6,200,000 when he took office to 3,700,000 now , disregarding tae incidence of seasons . " For nine months that is some performance , " he said . " Am I to keep on restoring work and bread to the German people ? I can do so , but only if I am to keep on I can only do so if Germany enjoys tranquillity and peace , which it can do only on the basis of an international status of equality . " Reiterates Will to Peace . With the utmost emphasis Herr Hitler reiterated his will to peace . " Can any one really credit me with the madness of wanting another war ? " he asked . " I do not know how many of the foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! I know what war is . But of those who now lead the agitation against Germany and traduce her , there is not one who has ever heard the whistle of a bullet . " In the nine months of my government I have not executed a single measure calculated to affront a single foreign statesman or foreign nation . " The German people have but one desire  --  to obtain salvation after their own fashion . We are not interfering in the affairs of others ? let them not mix in ours . " But my sincerity is called in question . What , I ask , must I do in order to be believed ? " At all events , the Chancellor declared , " at such a juncture " one must be adamant and not yield an inch of one 's right . He scornfully turned against those who would belittle the issue of national honor . " If they ask , ' What is this national honor ? ' I answer , ' My workers , in this case it means equality of rights , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand up for one 's vital interests . ' " If the world intends to continue to issue dictates it will not get my signature . And if the world should say , ' We are forced to take this course because we can not trust you , ' then I answer , ' When has the German ' people ever broken its word ? ' ' Kept Word Too Faithfully . ' " Ajas , it has all too often kept its word too stubbornly and faithfully . If in the World War we had not so doggedly stuck by our allies , perhaps Germany would have fared better . " Although he chose a factory for his platform and repeatedly referred to the German workmen as his intimate audience on this day , Chancellor Hitler was of course addressing the whole nation . A very large part of the nation was listening to his final appeal , in homes as well as at innumerable public and semi-public loud-speakers , provided on an unprecedented scale for this occasion . " Against - the machinations of the international clique I oppose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hence this last call for action on Nov. 12. " the Chancellor declared . " For ages the outside world could count on finding allies in Germany itself . First , there were the traitors who coldly betrayed their people , then mutually warring parties and philosophies . Now I may assure our opponents that they have no more allies in Germany . " For centuries Germany sought its destiny in disunion . I think that we shall now try our luck with union , that we shall try to weld an indissoluble and united community . " I have no interest in intellectuals or in the bourgeois or proletariat . My sole concern is with the whole German people  --  and this people I wish to exhibit before the whole world on ' Nov. 12 as it really is . Let the world then realize that what I have said here is the utterance-not merely of one man , but the entire people support it . "                     