@@702345

txt After reaching great heights in his praise of Franklin D. Roosevelt " the most gallant crusader of Jef. f er so nian d e mocracy that this I land ever has known : ' P o stmaster Genera , James A. Farley tonight pulled out the tremolo stops when in the course of a speech before members of the electoral college , he referred to those " sadly misguided Democrats " who wandered off the reservation in the last campaign . The electoral college gathering is a unique occasion , suggested originally by Mr. Roosevelt before his first inauguration . Most of the 531 members of the college , who theoretically elect the president by their votes at the mandate ' of the people . were present . Usually they never see each other , their votes being fors warded . to Washington in the shape of affidavits ' from the various states . Even Republicans Applaud . ' ? , They whooped and yelled their appreciation of Mr. ? Farley 's ? oration. 523 - of the , 531 votes having been Democratic , by . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lonely Little group of Republicans present , applauded , so benevolent was Big Jim in his utterance of good will:toward all . The boss of the Democratic party grinned meaningly. and put a throb in his voice as- he , came , late in his speech , to a , paragraph which none doubted referred to the " walks " taken last summer by , such . prominent Jeffersonians as Alfred E. Smith , John W. Davis , Bainbridge ' Colby , and many others . ' " We shall go ahead with charity for all and with malice toward none , " declared Big Jim . " The majority was too tremendous to justity any bitterness on Our part toward those who sought to turn us back to black reaction . Their punishment is in their own humiliation . " No Hates to Cherish . " " We have no hates to cherish . We have no enemies to punish . We have no grievances to redress . And no man or element of good will and honest intent need fear the next administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the wanderers of the night who wish to come back home . " That ' got them . The electors , who had wined and dined in sumptuous fashion , put on a demonstration that could be heard throughout the May flower hotel . The postmaster general spoke seriously of the responsibilities which the Democratic party has incurred by its victory . He expressed a hope that " petty obstructive opposition " to the Roosevelt administration would cease . Recognizes Responsibilities . " The victory is so great that the responsibilities it carries are all the greater , and ' these responsibilities , while to the party , are to a greater extent to the country , " he said . " We must not forget that there have been times in our history when a political party has won a sweep- I ing victory only to be overwhelmingly swept from power in the next ' election . " But that invariably has been duel to the fact that in its jubilation it has overlooked its , solemn responsibilities . That , 1 pledge you , we shall not do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority to sow the seed of dissension within our ranks . Pledges " No Divisions . " " They hope to restore government to privilege by marching to future victory through our divided columns . And the answer is ? there will be no divided columns . " There is not a man in America with a knowledge of politics ' who does not know that the American people are demanding that our forces shall continue to follow the enlightened leadership of vision that is Roosevelt 's . Wherever he goes we follow ; we know the voice of but one commander . " And so it is with a feeling of solemnity that we dedicate ourselves , on the eve of the new administration , to proving ourselves worthy of-the brilliant leadership that is ours and of the awe-inspiring confidence of ? the nation . "                     