@@697360

txt Praise for Health Department . 7o the Editor of The New York Times : In the Weekly Bulletin of the New York City Department of Health , Dr. Wynne shows that the July hot spells were not unusually fatal to the crowded population of the city . There was not a very marked increase in its death-rate . As a matter of fact , New York City was fortunate , and that good fortune is due very largely to the educational campaign carried on by the health authorities and the care enforced in sanitation and in food infection . In the list of larger cities of the United States , more than seventy in number , the average death-rate of July this year reached its peak in the last week of the month , and the average was approximately 1.5 per 1,000 of population greater than that of 1929 . Based on a population of 125 , - 000,000 one may easily reckon the number of lives the weather of the hottest July of record cost . The high mortality lay chiefly in a zone between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the few northwesterly winds of the Summer months . The latter boundary is somewhat vague , but it is discernible . All this , however , goes to show that its Health Department is the most important factor in any large and crowded community . Its value is measured in terms of the salvage of human life . JACQUES W. REDWAY . Mount Vernon , N. Y. , Aug. 29 , 1930 A MATTER FOR THE PUBLIC . Judges Should Not Sit in Judgment Over Judiciary . To the Editor of The New York Times : There is much scandal about our judges . Within a few months one magistrate was removed , another resigned , another judge was sent to prison and still another abdicated . The Appellate Division of the Su-1 preme Court , upon the suggestion of the Governor of the State , has designated a former judge of the Court of Appeals to investigate our inferior Courts  --  a power at least doubtful ; the Ideal District Attorney has been supplanted by the Attorney General upon the Governor 's direction , and the United States Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the State 's concern . Yet there is public dissatisfaction with these agencies as an effective medium for a full and impartial investigation and exposure of a system which strikes at the very foundation of our judicial structure . It was long ago said that if the judgeship is bought , justice is sold . The feeling is not unjustified that if venal influence has secured the office , it may likewise influence judicial action . Unfortunately , under our system of political parties , with one of them strongly dominant , a nomination is practically an election . The public has a right to suspect that if magistracies are sold , higher judicial office is not without price . That suspicion in the public mind helps to explain away the mystery surrounding the elevation to judicial office of obscure , inexperienced and unfit incumbents . Recent developments enforce the rumor that the ways and byways to elevation to the bench may be other than mere fitness or service to a political party . These suspicions and rumors are undermining a necessary respect for our courts . They do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have come to their office by merit and right . A general suspicion casts a cloud upon all as a class . It is as important that these jurists be cleared as that the guilty be exposed and punished . Their exoneration , and the punishment of the offenders will not solve the problem . The door will remain ajar for repetition . An effective remedy can come only by recasting our system for the selection of judges . As I have previously pointed out , a candidate for judicial office should be required to submit evidence of fitness for his advancement , by proof of his experience and learning , attested through specially conducted Examinations . Men so qualified and trained in the traditions of the law will be less likely to pay for the job . For the present the problem is to restore public confidence . Since it is the judge who is suspected , he should not sit in judgment . The public is aroused . It suspects , and it only should direct the investigation . Civic organizations and public-spirited citizens should cooperate , raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unattached to the political parties and search . They will find and their verdict will be accented by the HARRY A. GORDON . New York , Sept. 4 , 1930 . CLEANING UP WASHINGTON . Somewhat Cynical Suggestion Is Evoked by the Recent Fire . To the Editor of The b. - eto York Times : Last Saturday afternoon one of the plaster war buildings in Washington burned up . There should be such a fire every Saturday afternoon at the same time with the same actual damage . This time it was the records and documents of the Federal Trade Commisision , said to be " priceless . " Also the reels of official motion pictures of historical or technical value . The Important investigations whose records were destroyed concerned public utilities , price bases , retail prices , chain stores , cottonseed and peanuts . If any one can show me anything of the slightest value ever reported by the Federal Trade Commission , I will give him a dollar . The report on the cost of a loaf of bread , three volumes , was requested by Senate Resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Feb. 16 , 1924 , and the final volume was ordered printed May 2 , 1928 . It took four years and over a thousand pages to tell the Senate ( if any one ever read it ) that the cost of a loaf of bread had nothing to do with the cost of wheat or flour . The chain store investigation was undertaken two years ago on resolution of Senator Brookhart . It has been " accelerated " during the past few months by the addition of some thirty employes giving attention to that inquiry . The commission hopes to complete the report by March 3 , 1931 , with later supplements . How stale their statistics and conclusions will be can be inferred from the report on the loaf of bread . I learn with regret that the papers in this investigation were not all destroyed on Saturday . JOSEPH D. HOLMES . New York , Sept. 3 , 1930 . A Refreshing Incident . To the Editor of The New York Times : Last Saturday a boy delivered a package of photographs which he said he had found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man to whom I had sent the photographs the night before telephoned and said he had lost them . During the telephone conversation the boy disappeared without giving his name and without getting a reward . He evidently had expected nothing . Somehow I should like to meet this boy . His act was a refreshing incident . NAROTH HEDIN . New York , Aug. 19 , 1930 . Advantage With the Police . To the Editor of The New York Times : It 's about time that a good many of New York 's policemen stopped taking advantage of the uniform in harassing motorists and subjecting them to ejaculations that amount to insults . This is especially noticeable in the Bronx , where policemen stop cars apparently for no reason at all . My word , how the freedom of the citizen is becoming less and less ! SYDNEY KRAVETT . New York , Aug. 27 , 1930 ,                     