@@702294

txt Worshipers from many lands thronged the ancient Church of - the Nativity and the adjoining St. Catherine church early today in a joyous celebration of Christ 's birth here . While the hells of ? the town , six miles south of Jerusalem , rang out their Christmas message , hundreds pushed into St. Catherine 's to find rows of nuns saying their rosaries . In the crowd come to honor their Savior were government officials and their wives , camel drivers , water carriers , townspeople , and British soldiers , many of whom were rushed to Palestine to quell the violence growing out of the Arab strike against Jewish immigration : Soldiers Guard Worshipers . Among the worshipers were Lieut. - Gen. John Dill , commander of the British forces in Palestine , and his star who were seated in the front row of the church guarded by - soldiers bearing rifles . It was warm and starry and thousands congregated around the church where numerous armed police and soldiers stood guard among the throng , The mass began at midnight and continued for an hour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the image of the Christ child from the high altar and led a procession through the Church of the Nativity , down into the grotto which since the second century has been considered the actual place of Jesus ' birth . Bells Chime . The bells chimed again as the robed ecclesiastic placed the image in a. manger where it is to lie until Epiphany , Jan. 6 , the day several of the eastern churches send representatives to the church to celebrate their Christmas . Many of the worshipers remained in Bethlehem to see the dawn come over the hills across which the three wise men traveled , guided by a star , to present the infant Jesus with gold and frankincense and myrrh . The early morning mass dimmed only slightly the ceremony in the I Church of the Nativity yesterday , when the patriarch : journeyed. from Jerusalem at the head of a procession I to- pray here . Yesterday 's Ceremony . A dense throng stood in reverent silence in the courtyard . as . the churchman , wearing a magenta robe , entered the little Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of St. Catherine . Brown clad Franciscans , who ' are among the guardians of the Palestine shrines ; received the atriarch. , The men who guard the church of the Nativity day and night never worship there . Instead , they go to a nearby mosque . All are Moslems , appointed by the government on the theory that to , select a guard of one of the Christian faiths would cause jealousies among the others who share the guardianship ? Of the place of Jesus ' birth .                     