@@700892

txt A - strike of service and elevator employes affecting every comfnercial building and apartment house in Manhattan appeared to be unavoidable last night with the breakup of negotiations between the Building Service Employes International Union and a committee of the Real Estate Board of New York . In a telegram addressed to Mayor LaGuardia and Police Commissioner Valentine in behalf of the board , Lawrence B. Cummings declared that the city was " on the brink " of a serious labor disturbance . At the same time James J. Bambrick , president of the union , sent a telegram to the Mayor informing him of the failure of the negotiations and declaring that the union " reserved the right to act accordingly . " Each side blamed the other . Strike Plans Secret . Continuing to maintain secrecy as to the union 's strike plans , Mr. Bambrick would not say where the strike would be called first . It was expected , however , that the walkout would affect the area between Fourteenth and Twenty-seventh Streets , from river to river , and would then be extended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial district is also being considered . The first move , it was believed , will be directed by the union against sixty buildings in the garment district that have thus far failed to comply with the strike settlement brought about by the Regional Labor Bbard in that area . The strike in the garment district may be declared tomorrow . Building owners and managers are known to have made preparations for a strike and , according to the union , some 5,000 " strikebreakers " have been brought into the city to take the places of regular employes . The union claims a membership of 45.000 . Police Guard Buildings . ? Many buildings in the garment and financial districts have been under police guard for several days . Apartment houses have also made strike preparations . In many instances furniture has been removed from the lobbies and employes have been ordered to shed their uniforms and don civilian clothes as a protection against picketing . In a statement last night , Mr. Cummings said that at yesterday 's abortive conference the representatives of the employers offered to submit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Borough President of Brooklyn , be invited to adjudicate the controversy as to wages , hours and working conditions . The employers were willing to agree , Mr. Cummings said , that " they would not discriminate against any present or future employe or applicant for employment by reason of ac-1 tivity or non-activity , membership or non-membership in any union . " " This offer was rejected by the union , " Mr. Cummings said . " That rejection terminated the long discussion and the hope for peace . The present leadership of the union demands a closed shop as a condition of peace . The union has consistently refused even to discuss wages , hours and working conditions until the closed shop is accepted . " According to Mr. Cummings , less than 20 per cent of the employes involved are now members of the union . Assailing the attitude of the employers as " reactionary , " Mr. Barnbrick charged that they had refused to heed any of the union 's demands . " They can not see the logic of a partnership with their employes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in line with logic and yet they would not budge . " Ben Golden , chief examiner of the Regional Labor Board , who has tried for several days to bring about a settlement , expressed disappointment , but declared himself ready to intervene again . He is expected to confer with Mayor LaGuardia today .                     