@@699756

txt As most Australians seldom see an aboriginal , the native problem rarely enters the thought of the average citizen of the Commonwealth . During the past few months , however , the Australian press has often carried items dealing with the blackfellow with the result that Australians are beginning to realize that the aboriginal is a big problem in the interior of the continent . Most of the remaining 8000 natives of Australia have come in contact with the white man . The transition from the wild life of the black to conditions of white existence has told heavily on the natives . The white man has done little to make the road to civilization less harrowing to the native . In fact . for a long time whites regarded the blackfellows as pests . The history of Australia abounds with instances of mistreatment of natives . At the beginning of the settlement of the Commonwealth , missionaries were almost alone in their efforts to make life easier for the natives . Various religious groups established missions for the purpose of teaching the fundamentals of Christianity to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock owners discovered that the blackfellow could be developed into a good cattleman . With the introduction of horses the aborigine proved to be skillful in horsobrenking . Finding a place in the new life natives drifted to the stations . Today in Queensland native stockmen get as high as ? 2 a week for their services . Wages for blacks , however , vary . Usually stations provide natives with food and clothes , and also give sustenance to the dependents of the natives . At the present time , 80 per cent of the aboriginal laborers are absorbed by cattle stations , Others arc in domestic service in towns . Some work with teamsters , the cutters and buffalo hunters . Still others work with trepang fishers . A few and employment in tracking and many work as laborers . The Commonwealth and State Governments shore in responsibility for the natives . States with aboriginals have a protector for tho natives . The Commonwealth Government maintains a chief protector of aboriginals at its headquarters at Port Darwin . Country policemen ale also country protectors of the natives . Authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good work . Cases of mishandling situations by the police have been rare . Natives Mostly in North Today the greatest number of natives is in northern Australia . Less than 3500 aborigines exist outside that region . Consequently , the native problem now is confined to that section . The general attitude outback toward the aboriginal is that he is an inferior and bound to disappear . Many settlers express the opinion that the passing of the blacks will be a good thing . There is much controversy at present among interested people in Australia over the future of the native . Besides those who feel that the disappearance of the native will be a good thing , others , notably Mt . J. Huston Edgar in his report to the Aboriginals ' Friends Association , feel that in general the problem is unsolvable . Some propose an aborigines state where natives could live under self-government . Others claim that as the aboriginal has proved to be a good cattleman all black fellows should be placed on stations set aside for them . Those supporting this idea grant that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ head . Yet as there would only be work for 20 blacks at the most on each station , this program would give employment only to the few . Approve Reservation Polley The Commonwealth Government has set aside in the interior , reservations for blacks . In these lands blackfellows do what they like , living as far as possible in the mills e state . This policy is pretty generally approved by the Australian public The difficulty in this situation is that the black will not encroach upon land that it not his by tradition and so only those tribes whose traditional land is that of tha reservation will hunt on the reservations . Then there is the further trouble of keeping the blacks in and the whites out of the reservations . An active police patrol is needed . The continual drift of the blacks from the wilds to the stations shows also that the blacks desire to come into civilization . The large number of half-castes has become a matter of concern in northern Australia , The Administration at Port Darwin is endeavoring to meet the problem by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a surplus of girls in half-caste children , Darwin authorities propose marrying surplus girls to whites . The policy of Darwin authorities Is to attempt the elevation of the half-castes to the level of whites , obtaining finally amalgamation of the two peoples . The authorities are now attempting to segregate half-castes in honies in Darwin , Pine Creek , and Alice Springs . Under Use recent Labor Government , regulations decreed that one half-caste should be employed to every six aboriginals on stations . It was further stipulated that half-castes should receive 39s. ed. per week . The purpose of these regulations was directed largely against big station owners . The regulations have been mostly disregarded ! Natives Find a Friend The Aboriginals ' Friends Association has done great work for the aborigines through its representative In Alice Springs , Mr. E. E. Kramer , who ventures to parts little traversed by white men to tender aid to the blackfellow . He has obtained the confidence of the native and is hailed wherever he goes . Dr. Orenfell Price of Adelaide University states that in 1030-31 the Government voted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or 3s. lid . per head. ? In the same year the Government deficit on the Northern Territory and its railway was ? 8,700,000 or ? 150 for all people 14 North and Central Australia . As Dr. Price says , " Surely , the people of Australia who can waste ? 150 per annum on every inhabitant of a poor cattle country can afford to cast the dispossessed aboriginal something more than a boner In 1028 Mr. J. W. Bleakley rec. rommen6id to the Commonwealth Clover leant a definite scale of wages for permanent workers , ac-1 cording to value of services of blacks , be adopted . Ile also suggested that wages be paid in goods rather than in money , as the aboriginal with money was not at present capable of spending wisely . He further proposed a deduction of a percentage of the native 's earnings for compulsory savings and asked that permanent employees be given better living conditions                     