@@703830

txt France and Britain were making a supreme effort today to restore peace to Spain and clear the way for their formal recognition on Monday of the Spanish Nationalist regime . Premier Edouard Daladier , who informed the French Chamber of Deputies yesterday of his intention to recognize insurgent Gen. Franco and won a vote of confidence on that proposal , notified the Spanish Republican Government that France was abandoning it . Diplomatic sources said the French Government , in this final message to Madrid , urged the Government of Premier Juan Negrin to give up its " losing " battle . Well-informed diplomatic quarters expected quick Government collapse . Their belief apparently bas based in part on reports that Gen. Jose Miaja , Commander-in-Chief in Government Spain , had requested a French visa . Advices from Madrid said General Miaja had . given , up his dominant role in the defense forces and possibly had been superseded as commander . Questioned on Reprisals The British Government was cooperating actively in the campaign to end the civil war that has devastated Spain and has been a nightmare for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that , although France and Britain imposed no conditions on General Franco in exchange for their recognition , Britain inquired at Burgos , the Franco Capital , concerning the possibilities of reprisals against the Republican side of the war . General Franco 's reply , described as " satisfactory , " was relayed to the Madrid Government as another argument for surrender . Several signs on the Spanish horizon were interpreted in diplomatic quarters as indicating the conflict was nearing an end . Dr. Negrin 's Cabinet met last night in Madrid . It was announced that the Ministers heard from the Premier an " imposing military and diplomaticreport . " Some French newspapers reported Dr. Negrin 's Cabinet was planning to quit Spain by plane on Monday , leaving to Gen. J. Miaja , military commander in the Madrid-ValenciaAlicante zone , the job of negotiating an armistice with General Franco . Spanish sources said Manuel Azana . President of the Spanish Republic who has been living at the Spanish Embassy here since the Na tionalist conquest of Catalonia , would resign either simultaneously with or before British-French recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement or by a simple withdrawal from the Embassy . In either case he would drop all participation in the government . Consultations In Paris Diego Martinez Barrio , President of the Spanish Cm tes who also was in Paris and who would normally succeed Senor Azana , was understood to have declined the office . Julio Alvarez del Vayo , Dr. Negrin 's Foreign Minister , remained in seclusion here with many other self-exiled former leaders of the Republic , despite his announced intention to go to Madrid after having failed to persuade Senor Azafia to return to the Republican one-fourth of Spain . Since Sefior Del Vayo had made no further contacts with Senor Azafia or the French Foreign Ministry , his presence here was regarded as another indication of the collapse of the Negrin Government . The Spanish battlefronts were as quiet as though an armistice already had been declared . Not even an air raid was reported . The only troop action all week was a parade before General Franco in Barcelona . General Franco apparently was awaiting Republican surrender which would permit a broad amnesty for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation . No Hurry on Offensive Spanish sources said General Franco would be in no hurry to launch a final offensive  --  risking losses among his own men and destruction of cities he counts as his own  --  so long as there was a possibility victory could be achieved without further fighting . The French Government proceeded methodically in its preparation to establish diplomatic relations with Burgos  --  intent on recognition even though present efforts should fail to bring peace .                     