@@703736

txt On the Wet Side Dr. Reisner 's Arguments Are Used Against Him I read , with interest , the article com ? memorating the fifth anniversary of repeal in TEE NEW YORK Times Maga. - zine.i.of Dec. 4 and the Rev. Dr. Christian F. Reisner 's comment in minec. tion therewith . I was struck by Dr. Reisner 's lack of careful thought , especially when considered in the light of the more reasonable assertions of Mrs. Sheppard . In my opinion , most of the conclusions in Dr. Reisner 's letter are the usual emotional " dry " arguments . For example : 1 . An increase in beer and wine drinking , it is contended , indicates greater " liquor consumption . " Dr. Reisner believes that wine and beer drinking " easily leads to whisky drinking . " Countries where wine or beer is the national beverage have been found to be inhabited by exceedingly temperate people . Wine or beer drinkers are not usually liquor drinkers . Thus an increase of wine or beer consumption might also show a decrease in liquor consumption @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the increase , as shown by tax-paid withdrawal of distilled spirits . Withdrawals and consumption are not the same thing . As a matter of fact , liquor consumption for 1938 was 4.74 per cent less than in 1987 . Figures recently released seem to show that there is a " leveling off in the consumption of alcoholic beverages to a point which it is generally agreed is about two-thirds of what It was before prohibition . " Even dry interests have admitted this to be true , but they minimize these obvious statistics by saying that the public is tired of strong drink . A rather thin explanation . 8 . It is said that automobile accidents rose since repeal as compared to prohibition years ; that a decrease in liquor consumption carried with it a decrease in automobile fatalities . Every time an automobile whizzes down a country road and a crash occurs , if the driver has bad as much as one glass of beer , the accident will be ascribed to intoxication . The explanation of drunkenness is an easy one and is used by every slovenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the source of these statistics may be , their use in the hands of interested parties is awe-inspiring to behold . The Business Men 's Research Foundation of Chicago shows that as liquor consumption rose and fell so did fatalities from automobile accidents . E. S. T. Lund , a statistician , of the University of Tennessee examined these statistics and substituted gasoline for liquor consumption and produced identical results  --  that the sale of gasoline was the cause of the fatalities . Statistics Not Infallible Returning to Dr. Reisner 's letter , " The number of deaths from auto accidents jumped an average of 26,000 a year during the last decade of prohibition to 40,300 in 1937 . " The " last decade of prohibition " is the period between 1923 and 1933 . Is it feasible to compare an average taken from those years with 1937 without showing the increased use of the automobile and number of drivers ? A good deal of the drunken driving statistics are worthless . Drunken driving was said to be the cause of most accidents between 3 A. M. and 5 A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But recently the Police Department of New York City decided to keep the traffic lights burning all night and accidents dropped almost to zero during those hours . Dr. Reisner quotes Travelers Insurance statistics to prove that drunken driving is on the Increase . Yet I recall that the Wets also used the Travelers Insurance statistics to show a decrease . Dr. Reisner also quotes figures from the Keeley Institute to prove an increase in alcoholism . I have seen records from Bellevue Hospital that show that after Christmas , 1937 , a comparison of people treated for alcoholism shows that 50 per cent fewer were treated than in 1936 . It is my opinion that a person with no axe to grind would say that neither the Keeley- nor the Bellevue statistics tell the whole story . Those who seek confirmatory data to bolster a preconceived belief merely find consolation in either set of these figures and conclusions . Zeal in Enforcement 4 . That the government in 1936 arrested 26,000 bootleggers , and in August , 1938 , 106 people were indicted , and in December two more " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid enforcement by a government zealously seeking to increase much needed tax payments ? The figures of bribery , arrests , murder and corruption during prohibition were , there is no doubt , much higher . Consequently , little value can be attached to that assertion . 5 . Repeal did not do away with the bootlegger . It is not denied , however , that repeal decreased bootlegging ; at least , it permitted the legally constituted government to share in the proceeds of the traffic in alcoholic beverages . This temperance problem requires more perspective than most of its proponents seem willing to give it . Drys still cling to a mirage that prohibition by legislative fiat is the key to temperance . They refuse to work within the framework of the present system of liquor control . They seek a short cut to temperance by a return to national prohibition , regardless of the merits . Liquor control , with all its faults , is a step in the right direction . Let us not without thought move back the clock to prohibition . ? JACOB J. GLASSER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bar Association , New York , New Jersey , Connecticut . New York , Dec. 26 , 1938 . Starving Spaniards Fund Seen as Anti-Peace Move To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was surprised to read that President Roosevelt had appealed for half a million dollars to feed starving Spaniards . Charity begins at home and thousands of our citizens are now being fed by the government . We are also smothered by an unpayable debt . By sending this money to Spain we should be giving them renewed strength to continue the wholesale murder going on at present in this unnecessary war . If the , Spaniards would stop this killing and use their strength . and time in the raising of food they would be a more worthy object of our charity . A. A. ANDERSON . New York , Dec. 30 , 1938 . United Democracy Considerable Merit Is Seen in Proposal of Leon Blunt To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The French Socialist , Leon Blum , proposes a coalition of the United States , Russia , Great Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the totalitarian powers to subjugate the world . For some time I have been hoping that an American statesman would suggest this , for it seemed the natural and obvious preventive . However , depending on slogans and oceans , and confounded by international treaties , their rents and their patches , we rarely try to simplify world relations . Record statements of American officialdom made to be ignored are soporific for a people so irritated about domestic matters that their possible plight as a conquered people seems neither immediate nor distressing . Inventions are constricting the oceans and isolation is about as protective against foreign encroachments as the Constitution is against governmental . Both are limp under the assaults of changing ' ' times . Coalition Needed As no man can go it alone , again no nation can . Japan , Germany and Italy have neared world domination by pooling strength , and no one nation can stop them before the goal . Invective , gestures and unsanctioned notes only intensify their enthusiasm . Their success to them mocks democracy as a world factor and the scoreboard vindicates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy can concentrate its strength in an emergency and give it the valuable inspiration of free men . Democracies have also proven that they can most formidably combine . Is it time for democracies to combine and concentrate ? Japan owns half of China , Italy has Ethiopia and is clamoring for more , and Germany has Austria and the Sudeten , and is ready to bite again . The land goes first and then the sea . America of course is damaged by these land seizures but may not sense the conquest until the seas are controlled . Closing the ports of China , closes to a great extent the sea . Presidential Authority Leon Blum 's plan is entitled . to consideration . It matters little to us what Russia 's philosophy really is or Mr. Blum 's . We are concerned with Russia 's manpower , its resources , and its munitions . These are the things that count in a world where force is the only workable philosophy . Democracy can only concentrate . here in one way : concentrate our power to with thother ntattihone ittth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vary as to his domestic policies . Nobody doubts his patriotism or his pragmatism . He has declared against the dictators . What he says , he attempts . His personality is positive and has not been as yet actually felt in world affairs . We can not keep up the farce a making faces at the totalitarians without the penalty that ineffective mischief always attracts . Congress should guarantee Roosevelt authority coupled with dea dlirecuon to set in real association with the other threatened nations . Losriso M. BLACK . Washington , Dec. 27 , 1938 . Government Waste Mr. Wallace 's Theories Are Again Disputed I am flattered by Secretary Wallace 's letter to THE TIMES in answer to mine published Dec. 18 . I would like to agree with him , as I have the greatest confidence in his honesty and his desire to inaugurate a constructive policy for the ? betterment of the farmers . However , I disagree entirely with his policies . He is tackling an immensely complicated subject . His destruction of six million pigs and millions of bushels of grain to raise the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ms regulation of the acreage to be planted in cotton , wheat and other agricultural products has had disastrous results already . His purchases of surplus farm products , especially cotton , had loaded the government ' . up with some twelve million bales of cotton , if I read the news correctly . His potato-control measure was outrageous . All of which has been described in the press ad nauseam . Instincts Ignored We are all born with a possessive and an acquisitive instinct , the former being very much in evidence in young children . The acquisitive instinct develops later when young people begin to realize the importance of acquiring possessions and laying aside something for a rainy day . Mr. Wallace 's policies ignore these instincts . He proposes that the government regulate what each farmer shall plant and reap , and attempts to fix prices at which their products shall be sold . In my judgment , this wo n't work . It is true that a considerable number of farmers have been seduced from their independent position by hand-outs from the public treasury to induce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the long run it will fail . I lived the early part of my life on a farm and know the problems of the farmer . I have relatives in Kansas who follow this profession and with whom I keep in rather constant touch . What they want is to be let alone . Private Means Favored I revert to my statement that government agencies can not do anything economically . Everything they do is cursed by political influences . The men put in charge of these operations are selected politically and are , with rare exceptions , incompetent to perform their duties because of lack of training . Private enterprise spends its own money and operates with a trained organization , but in government operations there is not the same incentive to be efficient and economical . The personnel is controlled politically and there is no check on what they spend . I believe it can be demonstrated , mathematically , that private enterprise could save from 25 to 33 per cent on any project carried on by the government . Of course , the government is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the millions upon millions which could be saved if it were possible to switch to private agencies . PAUL STARRETT . Greenwich , Conn. , Dec. 29 , 1938 . Incentive Taxation To THE Etorroe or THE NEW Yorns TIMES : Your editorial of Dec. 18 states that there is no such thing as " incentive taxation . " You are quite right that the incentive would arise out of the remittance of tax rather than from the imposition of tax . However , is there not a plan which would amount actually to an incentive tax  --  incentive to citizens to strive toward their own and the public weal ? To those in search of an incentive tax , I recommend study of the effect of early gradual abolishment of tax upon personal property and upon realty improvements . An incidental effect to be fondly cherished would be the incentive for hordes of governmental attaches to return to private enterprise . The theory is , of course , that the public revenue would be derived from the natural resources , which in natural philosophy belong primarily to the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creating wealth through their own effort . W. D. STOWE . Scranton , Pa. , Dec. 30 , 1938 . Man 's Inhumanity Difficulty Found in Reconciling Aspects of Human Nature To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TnetES : All who read the thrilling account of the rescue of eighteen men and two women from the sinking Norwegian freighter Smaragd during a driving storm and heavy seas by the seamen of the American freighter Schodack must have been proud to claim membership in the human family at its best . In your same issue , however , that of Dec. 24 , there is plenty of evidence of man 's inhumanity to man in other parts of the world , not on the high seas . The recent articles in Tan Times by Mr. Callender testify in a graphic way to the persistent cruelty practiced by a strong-armed group in authority on a helpless , defenseless minority in Germany . The mind can hardly accept the picture of Germany which the daily press has been unfolding for almost six years . It is so difficult to reconcile the two aspects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , friendly , orderly , neat and beautifully wholesome , and that which is so brutal , cruel , inhuman and unreasonable . One wonders whether those to whore the latter characteristics apply are genetically so constituted that they can not help themselves , While every nation must be permitted to decide its own form of government just so long as it remains a purely domestic affair , human beings everywhere must voice their opposition and their abhorrence to racial and religious persecution everywhere . How can we accept any situation which tears husband , son and brother away from the family circle ? by brute force and removes him to a concentration camp . How can we sit idly by and learn of law-abiding people , attacked and beaten in their homes , their businesses destroyed and looted , their professional work ruined , simply because they did not choose their antecedents wisely according to the prevailing demented philosophy ? The only effective weapon against all that nazism means is the outraged pub- lic opinion of mankind . Man has not struggled through the ages to achieve those immortal documents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , freedom of assembly , freedom of worship and the sanctity of the human spirit only to see all this precious heritage submerged beneath a new wave of blind bigotry and . savage barbarism . M. P. HORWOOD . Cambridge , Mass. , Dec. 28 , 1938 . Business Is Criticized What Might Be Clean Contest Viewed as Cut-Throat Game Your editorial " Wages and Profits " projects once more the consideratiop that in this day of economic and social instability the fault is not in capitalism but in ill-directed capitalism . A card game played on the square can add much to enjoyment of life , but let a card shark intrude himself and what happens ? Business instead of being a beneficial card game has become a thing of extensive social torment . Must business be a cut-throat game ? Are ? economic and social stability impossible ? The man who says so is worse than a defeatist . Foresight Needed Will communism become a necessity in order to take care of mass production ? And why would communism not become infested with nests of " haves " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed ? Where is our constitution of industry ? Have we no industrial Jefferson ? Can not our corporation executives see farther than do card sharks ? We take for granted that we are social animals . We are social animals so long as we are amenable to reason . Reason chooses endurable social and economic limitations for all . What are those limitations ? Some are too rigid ; others just a bit too elastic . You would object to having some half-dozen men owning or controlling nearly all the land of New York State . But why should half a dozen corporations ( see Senator Borah ) control nation-wide prices ? Dictating Wealth We dictate what shall be the portion of an individual on relief . Why not dictate how much wealth an individual may amass ? If his abilities can use more , he can borrow that more . It is almost an instinct in us to want returns on our money and on our labor . Is watered stock a necessity thereto ? Is that the only card-shark game that is putting our economic structure out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to think that the ordinary man does not signify . He would have only Rolls-Royces and no Fords . But mass production is here to stay , and mass production is cancerous unless there be mass consumption . Yet the political and industrial Chamberlains ca n't see it . The use of brains is indicated . ROBERTSON IlarrEtaws . Bolton , Ont. , Dec. 28 , 1938 . WPA Fingerprints To THE EDITOR or THE NEW YORK Twee : A fingerprint order issued by Colonel Somervell is so broad in its scope . that if carried out more than 80,000 WPA workers will be fingerprinted . Already some 6,000 workers , including teachers , recreation workers , psychologists and clerks . have been fingerprinted . Ostensibly promulgated " to prevent sex crimes , " this move can be viewed only as an attempt to discredit and humiliate WPA employes by undermining the faith of the public in the WPA personnel . A most dangerous precedent is being established . Compulsory fingerprinting provides the basis for a labor black list , Makes it easy to control and intimidate workers . subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for frame-up and blackmail : The New York State Legislature in 1937 went on record against the mass fingerprinting of civilian workers. , WILLIAM LEVNER , Executive Secretary , WPA . Teachers ' Union . New York , Dec. 30 , 1938.                     