@@700504

txt Charging that the use of the army to carry the air mail was unfair to both the airlines whose contracts were canceled and the personnel of the Army Air Corps , Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh declined last night in a telegram to Secretary of War Dern to serve on the committee named to study the army 's operation of the air mail . The aviator had been requested to join Orville Wright , Clarence Chamberlin and five army officers in the investigation . Mr. Chamberlin accepted , but Mr. Wright declined on grounds of ill health . Colonel Lindbergh , in his message , asserted that the Army Air Corps had " neither equipment designed for the purpose nor adequate time for training in a new field . " LINDBERGH'S -- MESSAGE . Colonel Lindbergh 's telegram was given out at the office of his attorney , Colonel Henry Breckenridge . It read : March 14 , 1934 . Hon. George H. Dern , Secretary of War , War Department , Washington , D. C. I greatly appreciate the honor of your request that I become a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in relation to national defense . I would , of course , be glad to contribute in any way that I can to the maintenance of an adequate national defense . However , according to the announcement by the War Department , this committee is to study and report upon performance by the Army Air Corps in its mission to carry the air mail as directed by executive order . I believe that the use of the Army Air Corps to carry the air mail was unwarranted and contrary to American principles . This action was unjust to the airlines whose contracts were canceled without trial . It was unfair to the personnel of the Army Air Corps , who had neither equipment designed for the purpose nor adequate time for training in a new field . It has unnecessarily greatly damaged all American aviation . I do not feel that I can serve on a committee whose function is to assist in following out an executive order to the army to take over the commercial air mail system of the United States . CHARLES A. LINDBERGH . Colonel Lindbergh 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since he conferred on the air mail situation with Secretary Dern in Washington Saturday , and it was assumed when Secretary Dern announced appointment of the committee Tuesday that the Colonel had consented to serve . The object of the committee , as announced by Secretary Dern , was to study and report on the army 's operation of the air mail and " the adequacy and efficiency of its technical flying equipment and training for such a mission . " Dern Asks ReconsiderationBs ' The , ssoctatted Pres. WASHINGTON , Thursday , March 15 . ? Secretary Dern disclosed early today that he had declined to accept as final the refusal of Colonel Lindbergh to serve on the Army Air Corps Survey Committee and that he had telegraphed the flier asking that he reconsider . The Secretary said Colonel Lindbergh apparently was under a misconception that the committee 's work would be confined only to army air mail matters . Addressed to Colonel Lindbergh at Englewood , N. J. , Mr. Dern 's telegram said : " Your telegram indicates a rots- , conception of purposes of committee on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a comprehensive study of army aviation in which carrying i air mail will figure only incidentally as a lesson in determining the efficiency or shortcomings of army air corps , regarding which the pub- I lie is bewildered so far as national defense is concer : . ed . I am sure your counsel would be very valuable . "                     