@@702492

txt The increasing concern of the American Government over the possible effects of Europe 's race for armaments on the United States were again sharply revealed here yesterday by testimony of Cordell Hull , secretary of state , delivered before the House Appropriations Committee . More concretely than ever before Mr. Hull gave voice to the feeling in official quarters here that Europe should take steps immediately to save its own house from destruction . While he threw no light on the extent to which the United States might co-operate in such an effort , he told the committee that he had recently urged on a " prominent " European statesman " the fact that the time is more and more propitious for a general movement in the direction of these worthwhile objectives . " This forceful expression of the point of view here in Washington toward Europe 's arms race accords with continuing reports that President Roosevelt has in mind the possibility of throwing America 's prestige into ts- major effort to rescue the world from threatening war and economic catastrophe Presumably Mr. Hull referred to Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British Cabinet He revealed that he had discussed with this " statesman " at great length the results of . the PanAmerican peace conference . He then suggested insistently that Europe should make some such similar effort . " Why , " he told , the committee he said to his uti-named visitor , - cannot you European statesmen at leastattempt this kind of a movement ? Why just sit hopelessly still and float on with a hopelessly unsound economic situation , with a hopelessly disturbed , not to say chaotic . Political situation ? Why not make this effort ? " To the committee . Mr Hull insisted that neutrality legislation now pending in Congress Is no " sure guaranty of keeping us out of war . " Warning that the collapse will come " within a year or so . " .. , he suggested as a tangible alternative his own policy of breaking through tariff barriers by mich activity as his reciprocal trade agreements program , adding : " U and when other nations turn definitely in the direction of this peaceful course and away from armaments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as exchange stability and a truce in armament would be easier to solve . " Munitions Commodities These words of Mr. Hull were delivered some weeks ago at a secret session of the committee and only disclosed yesterday , when the hearings were published as a whole . They fit into the known picture here of the concern which rising prices , due partially to European rearmament. are causing for the safety of the economic position of the United States No secret is being made of the . many factors at work which have an inflationary tendency . These include the unbalanced budget . limitation of production through strikes and through monopolistic practices , and the swiftly rising prices level It is felt that if only the domestic MoutInuect as Pose .4 . Cabana                     