@@699712

txt Decision of the German Nationalists Association in Brunswick to join the National Socialists further reveals the National Socialists ' overwhelming supremacy over their government partners and the impossibility of the Nationalists maintaining unity In their own ranks , regardless of the question of any possibility of obtaining further concessions from the National Socialists . Today 's decision in Brunswick means the practical dissolution of German Nationalists throughout this province , the transfer of allegiance of their four deputies in the Brunswick Landtag , giving the National Socialists all of the 33 mandates . Similar party changes in the municipal and local councils will give Chancellor Hitler 's supporters absolute control in Brunswick . Germany 's conditions demand united leadership , the Brunswick Nationalists ' statement declares , adding that Germany 's serious foreign political situation makes competition between organizations working for the same goal intolerable . The statement further explains the Nationalists ' action as not a transfer to another political party , since the party system can not and should not be revived . It is significant that suddenly into all discussions concerning the necessity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enters as a strong factor . Thus the Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung writes : " There is a ring round Germany which we see drawn tighter and tighter , making cooperation urgent and clear . Momentarily , except for Italy , Germany is isolated . The friendly countries with which we have strong active trade balances allow their importers only such momentary exchange to buy from Germany as Germany buys from them . Regarding foreign politics we are in the dark . Every strong German government must naturally reckon with these limitations which we are convinced can be overcome . To be silent or deny these facts is delusion , not patriotism . " Meanwhile preparations for Germany 's ' great " festival of national labor " indicate that the National Socialists will stage an event on May 1 equal to the best their propaganda talent has already given to Germany . This day , which is to be " symbolic of the expression that the national government does not regard the worker as a second-class human being , but as equal , having equal rights as a citizen , " will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout Germany . The major , demonstrations will probably be in Berlin or at the Tempelhof flying field where Chancellor Hitler will announce the first year 's portion of his four-year plan .                     