@@700735

txt The Interstate Commerce Commission today upheld the right of railroads serving the Port of New York to transport freight by lighter without charge from their rail ends on the New Jersey side of the river to all parts of the harbor . In a ruling which followed a five-year controversy , the commission upheld by 8 to 3 the unity of New York as a ? port and denied the claim of the State of New Jersey to rates on freight from the West below that of its competitors in New York City . The contention of the State of New Jersey and the New Jersey Traffic Advisory Committee that the geographical location of the State with respect to continental United States gave it the right to preferential rates on freight shipments was denied on the ground that the cost of service was not the basis of rates . In every group adjustment , the commission said , some places in the group are more favorably located and require less transportation than others . Something more than a disparity in cost of service was required to merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so , " said the commission , " every group rate Would have to be condensed , with ' the result that the entire rate structure of the country would have to be remade . " New England Rates Changed . Throughout the hearings on the case , the State of New York and trade groups in the city have maintained that the Port of New York historically is a unit and that the Hudson River did not mark off New Jersey from the rest of the port although it separated the two States . The port was built up with New Jersey as a factor , it was con-. tended , and a single basis of rates on freight moving between the entire harbor district and the rest of the country had been an important feature of the growth of the port . New Jersey has maintained that its location warranted its having a lower rate on freight , inasmuch as the lighterage of freight from the railroads on the west side of the river was not necessary to its transfer to and from New Jersey shippers and consignees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge three cents per 100 pounds for lighterage service on the ground that freight rates should be based on service . The commission denied this claim in its ruling written by Commismissioner Meyer , but it compensated New Jersey by extending the limits of the free lighterage zone in the harbor to Newark Bay and eliminating the differentials on freight rates between New Jersey and New England , which are now higher than those between New York and New England . Commissioner submitted a dissenting decision , in which Commissioners Porter and Tate concurred . Variety of Complaints Covered . The Meyer report covered a variety of complaints with which it has dealt since 1930 and which are intertwined in their relation to port competition . They include complaints of the Port of Boston that its rates on freight are prejudicial as compared with those of New York and that storage and transit rules at New York were preferential and thus harmful to Boston 's traffic . The commission 's decision in the Meyer report was summarized as follows : Rates between New England and Northern New Jersey points were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Extra towing charges to and from New Jersey points at the Port of New York were found unduly Port of New York at the same rates was found not unlawful except on traffic to and from New England . Failure to publish separate charges for lighterage , car floatage and trucking at the Port of New York was found not unlawful . Rail-water and rail-water-rail rates between New Jersey and the South and Southwest were found not unlawful . Rates on export , import , coastwise and intercoastal traffic to and from the Port of Boston were found not unlawful . Storage-in-transit rules applicable at the Port of New York were found not unduly prejudicial . Finds Equality Among Carriers . The opinion pointed out that lighterage had been in effect at New York since the start of rail transportation , and car floatage almost as long . They were made necessary by the competition of , the Erie Canal with the railroads . New Jersey demanded a rate differential below New York twentyfive years ajo , the report pointed out , and since the dismissal of that action the lighterage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time that the whole port constituted a single community , " historically , geographically and commercially , " and as such , as compared with rate and terminal groups in other parts of the country , is " reasonably grouped , " the report added . The cost of marine service to different parts of the port district varies , it said , but both the New York and New Jersey sections have prospered by the relationship , which has existed since 1877 . The dissenting report , which was almost as long as the majority report , said that the present grouping of points surrounding New York harbor with respect to rate charges was variable and inconsistent . New Jersey was included where it had the advantage of location , it said , and often excluded when the advantage was to New York . This was particularly true , it added , on rates to and from New England and those via coastwise lines , and from points in the South andiFouthwest . " If there . was ever a case , " ? it added , " where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is for this lighterage service , not only at New York , but at other North Atlantic ports where those services are performed . "                     