@@701922

txt " Disturbances " is no longer the word to describe the situation in Palestine  --  it has now reached a state of actual rebellion directed mostly against the government , with Nablus , Gaza and Tulkarem as the chief hotbeds of trouble . Nevertheless , while the true situation here is most grave and much innocent blood has been shed , extravagant reports should be discredited . For the past three days actual battles have been going on at Nablus , i Gaza and Tulkarem between Arabs and the police and British troops . The fighting and Arab uprisings are now confined mostly to purely Arab towns . There are many wild rumors about the large number of British troops killed at Nablus , but the writer is informed by a most reliable source that only two British soldiers have lost their lives in the Palestine disturbances in the past five weeks . Many , however , have been wounded , a few seriously . It is impossible to ascertain the number of Arab casualties , as the Arabs immediately carry away their dead and wounded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures . More Troops to Arrive In the present serious situation many observers consider the four British-battalions here an entirely inadequate force . It is understood additional troops are arriving from Egypt tomorrow . Telephone sand telegraph wires throughout the country are continually being severed . Egypt-Palestine communications , which had been cut off for forty-eight hours , were restored this evening , but the service was greatly reduced since only one line had been repaired . A stretch of railroad 550 yards long and 650 yards of telephone wire were destroyed near Tulkarem today , but were immediately repaired under military protection . A train passing in that area was fired at , but the only damage was broken window-panes . A Palestine train bound for Egypt was delayed yesterday for more Ithan three hours at Migdal-Gad , the station north of Gaza , for fear Arab mobs at Gaza would carry out their threats to burn the train . Arabs Hide in Hills Troops have been dispatched to Nablus . Gaza and Tulkarem from all parts of the country . Large forces of Arabs are gathered in the hills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ firing on troops and police . Airplanes flying over the mountains have failed to locate the rebels , since rocks and caves provide abundant hiding places . The air force has decided to use anti-aircraft guns in fighting these " brigands , " as the authorities call them . The situation at Nablus is considered somewhat serious . There is a similar situation in and around Tulkarem . The firing of Jewish-owned crops and the uprooting of thousands of trees have be- ' come nightly occurrences . Heavy damage was done to telephone and telegraph lines at Gaza ' yesterday when infuriated Arab I mobs , clashing with troops and police , broke , tore and burned everything in their way . British troops frustrated attempts by Arabs to mine the main Jerusalem-Nablus road near the Arab village of Yetnah . The first mass attack on a Jewish colony took place yesterday at Kfar Tabor , at the foot of Mount Tabor in the Galilee district . A band of hundreds of Bedouins began firing at colonists , but the police , supported by young Jewish farmers , repelled the attackers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massha , have been appealing to the authorities for three weeks for reinforcements of police or troops , since they are constantly threatened by neighboring Bedouins . But the official reply has been that reinforcements are not available . This gave the Bedouins encouragement and so yesterday they staged an organized attack . The greater part of the fields at Massha and Kfar Tabor was burned by the Arabs . Other isolated Jewish settlements are exposed to the same danger . At Ras Amer a British soldier was wounded by Arabs firing from ambush . A rumor that the Arab police at Tulkarem mutinied is groundless . What happened was that during a search for arms by British troops in the Arab village of Quaaqun one Arab policeman was accidentally killed and this caused excitement among other Arab policemen there , all of whom were recruits at the police school in Jerusalem who are used for emergency police work . The Palestine Commandant of Police and the District Superintendent of Police at Tulkarem explained to the recruits that the death of their colleague had been purely accidental . As a precautionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruits against the troops the recruits were disarmed and returned to Jerusalem . There was a demonstration today at Amman , Trans-Jordan , where thousands of Arabs gathered clamoring to proceed to Palestine to aid their Moslem brethren there . The crowds dispersed peacefully after Emir Abdullah 's representative assured them that the Emir was doing his utmost in behalf of the Palestine Arabs . The Arab press here severely criticizes High Commissioner Sir Arthur Grenfell Wauchope 's Empire Day speech at the Levant Fair yesterday in which he praised the Jews ' self-restraint in the present troubles and assured his audience that " no strike and no act of violence will cause the British Government to deflect ope jot from its determination to discharge to the full its obligations under the mandate . " Reports from a usually reliable source indicate that the government has decided to deal severely with the Arabs . But highly placed police officials declare it will be long before there is a return to normal as it is not easy to deal with criminals acting under cover of darkness no matter how big an army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                