@@704118

txt Wheat , traditional13 , strong on threats of war . displayed spectacular weakness on American markets yesterday Liverpool already has hit a loa since the reign of Elizabeth . Traders and oh , erverk blamed ( 1 ) the fact that on duly 1 the supply of the grain was at a record level and ( 2 ) the fact that governments including the United States are operating a ith outright or concealed subsidies which prevent the grain moving into connurnptive channels in the ordinary way . some intimation of why war talk fails to boost prices an , contained in Ottawa dispatches that Great Britain has piled up reserve of cheat which ha ? e taken all storage space at home and now is storing in Canada . Other consuming countries also have been accumulating stocks so they would be under no life or death necessity to buy at once . Bureau of Agricultural Economics said that conditions favor higher domestic prices relati ? e to world prices . CHICAGO - Liquidation by professional grain merchants who fear that the federal wheat loan program may run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Farm Board has resulted in a five cent a bushel price break in the last two sessions of the Chicago Board of Trade The present price level is the lowest since 1938 . Yesterday futures lost from 241 , to 3.4 cents a bushel . That means that the price of wheat has dropped an average of roughly 11 cents since July 1 . The federal program of loan and storage recalls the Farm Board attempt to check falling prices by loaning on wheat and holding it off the market . Instead the huge supplies accumulated were blamed for driving the market lower . The ' basic weakness in wheat , of course , is the fact that the supply for the crop year beginning July 1 is the largest in history . Observers - here maintain , however , that the operations of this and other governments aggravate the situation . Accumulation at Record Pace Wheat in the S. is being accumulated at a record breaking pace . Supplies at terminal elevators are now close to 130,000.000 bushels largest since the tail end of the " Farm Board " accumulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past week were increased by 19 , - 000.000 bushels An increase of similar Lions was recorded a week earlier . These weekly Increases compare with record crop years though the current crop is estimated at fully 205. ? under that of a year ago . Relatively little of the new crop wheat arriving at terminals is offered for sale to commercial interests . It is estimated that 70,3- is being consigned to elevators against which loans from the government are being sought . Yet enough of the grain is offered on the open mar- ket to more than meet immediate commercial needs . Commercial interests are exhibiting no anxiety over the threat that eventually sufficient wheat will be tied up under government loans to create a tight open market situation . Millers and bakers generally are buying to meet immediate needs only . Neither are terminal markets offering growers any special inducements . Getting Higher Rate in Loans Eligible growers are consigning their wheat for government loans because the loan amounts are above the open market level and redemption of the loan is not compulsory . The hope of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon will develop and bring about higher prices , but even that body expressed doubt . Recently experts of the Department of Agriculture were quoted with expressing the opinion that no relief from the prevailing situation is in sight and some officials feared that the problem may even become worse . Such views did not stimulate public sentiment . Much attention is given to the Increase in the world carry-over from its modest dimensions in 1938 . The distribution of carry-over stocks in the exporting countries and their relation to new crop supplies are the real consideration in evaluating the increased world carry-over . Considering individual countries . the Canadian and Argentine positions are presently the most bearish among the major exporters . In May , the government was advised that all the storage facilities in Britain were filled and this would have given great concern to the Canadian wheat board , had it not become apparent that Britain was continuing her buying of Canadian wheat but keeping it in this country . From the fact that in the past 12 months exports of Canadian wheat of about 140,000.000 bushels are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program of setting up a wheat reserve involved at the start the purchase of a greater proportion of Australian and Argentine wheat , which in a crisis would have to be transported over ' greater distances . The latter part of the British program is to buy Canadian wheat and store it at points reasonably close to the British Isles . Wheat has been moving out of Australia at a rapid rate , according to a report to the trade and commerce department by Frederick Palmer , Canadian trade commissioner at Melbourne . He states : " The statistical position of wheat in Australia reveals a satisfactory trend toward a steady elimination of the exportable surplus . Almost two-thirds of the exportable surplus of wheat and flour was shipped in the first six months of the current season and only 48,027.000 bushels remain to be exported in the remaining half of the season " Mr Palmer adds that latest estimate of Australian production is 154,543 000 bushels compared with 187.255,000 bushels last season . While definite statistics regarding the amount of grain storage space existing in Great Britain are not available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commons , it was stated , that the total gram storage accommodation in Great Britain and Eire was approximately 1.500.000 tons , or around 55 000,000 bushels . Inquiries by Broomhall. the international grain trade statistician , has tended to confirm this estimate , and it was indicated , furthermore , that the space available included probably 700.000 private and 800.000 tons for public accommodation . Since then , however , there has probably been some additional construction , but actual figures in that regard are also unavailable . Official estimates on the amount of wheat held in reserve stocks have been withheld , but it is known that port stocks of wheat and flour in the United Kingdom have been increasing sharply . Last available statistics showed that on July 1 . 1939. port stocks , which does not take into consideration supplies at interior points , were 21.240 000 bushels , compared with 12,680. - 000 on July 1 , 1938 . Stocks of corn on July 1 were 5.742,000 bushels against 4 628.000. barley 1,606,000 against 1.541.000 and oats 600.000 against 550,000 bushels on July 1 . 1935. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           