@@699907

txt Another triumph for Chaco civilization is registered in Imitates the Chaco jungle , where Bolivia and Paraguay Messines. have been engaged in mutual slaughter for close to two years . The two nations are small , Bolivia having a population of less than three millions , the other less than a million . But they have pulled themselves up to a level with the leading nations of the world by mastering the full possibilities of trench warfare . Bolivia announces a successful mining operation which literally blew the Paraguayans out of 2,000 meters of trenches , with a loss of perhaps 2,000 dead . This is like-General PLUMER and Messines Ridge in 1917 . But perhaps it is a bit exaggerated to speak of Paraguay and Bolivia as quite up to the level of the leading civilized nations . ' When I they blew up trenches in France they scored several casualties for every meter of trench instead of only one dead per meter , as in the Chaco . Summer-session time has Many come to New York with Summer the reopening of City ColStudents. lege , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York ' University , among others , swing into action . Forecasts for the three municipal institutions indicate an enrollment of more than 10,000 . The two big universities will each account for more than that number . The heavy battalions of Summer-session students from the outside make New York in vacation time almost as busy a place educationally as during the regular college year . The top of a Riverside Drive bus on a Iate afternoon in Summer-session time probably contains as complete a sample of the population of the forty-eight States as can be found anywhere outside of the houses of Congress . 15/Carriages in the Wedlock United States have and been cut down by oneDepression. fifth in three years of depression . - The Census Bureau has just announced that last year there were 7.9 marriages for every 1,000 of the population . In the year 1929 there wefe 10.1 marriages per thousand . The average for the four years 1929-32 would be 8.9 . Incidentally , Germany , where - HITLER has pictured marriage as paralyzed and suicide as fostered by the Iniquities of the Versailles treaty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 8.8 , or almost exactly our own . The decline in marriages is purely a depression phenomenon . Contrary to popular belief , marriage in recent years has been becoming more frequent . The supposed postponement of marriage for economic reasons does not take place . A larger percentage of persons between the ages of 15 and 19 were married in 1930 than in 1890 . , Out of a thousand persons between 20 and 24 years of age , there were 75 more married in 1930 than in 1890 . Three years of depresOne sion have reversed the ? Farm drift from farm to city . It Mystery . is estimated that 2,000,000 persons have left the towns for the country . To this should be added another half million people who would have left the farm if the former trend had persisted . The odd thing is that under the stress of adversity millions of people should turn for relief to those sections of the United States which have been Stir posedly hardest hit ' by the depression . If ' the American farmer is as badly off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the farms of America now shelter and feed 2,000,000 more persons than they did before the depression ? If the American farmer , as a class , is bankrupt , how doss he ' manage to support so many relatives - from town ? .                     