@@700008

txt A federal dictatorship to enable dairymen to " start from scratch " again is Dr. Arthur W. Gilbert 's challenge to the nation=wide milk muddle . On one hand are strike agitators . On the other aye those who claim that chain store competition Is unfair . Still another group Insists that the middleman is taking nil the profits , leaving the farmer without gain . But Dr. Gilbert thinks that all factions share the blame and the Federal Government is the only unit to bring order ' to the situation " We did it during the war ? we can do it again , " the Massachusetk : Commissioner of Agriculture declared , referring to Ills secretaryship of the federal milk mbninistration during that trying period . One Authority Needed Strikes In New York , state control In Connecticut , rugged  --  individualism in Massachusetts , dairy champions made and dropped overnight  --  such conditions , the commissioner insisted , call for one &cognized; authority in the driving seat to get the dairy cart safely over the bumps . " Chaotic conditions , " the commissioner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry has shown its inability to work out of Its dilemma without help . It Is no longer ' newly a question of prices . The en-the bargaining system needs reorganizing . " Chaos reigned more freely In the dairy industry during the war , he said . Federal cooperation set the industry on its feet , where it stayed for 10 years . The problent of milk surplus is the first to deal with , he pointed out . As it Is now , the farmer is paid an much a quart for the milk actually sold . There is always a certain amount left over converted into butter , CilCCSe or other dairy products and sold for what can be obtained for It . On this surplus , the former realizes little . Roughly , there has been a 30 to 90 per cent surplus in the Boston market . This is too large for sound business , the commissioner held . A proper distribution Of the surplus expense to be shouldered equally between consumer and producer is advocated by the commissioner . The commissioner 's main point still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustments should be made " to give the Industry a new birth . " Theoretically , the industry should work itself out of complications ; practically , it is impossible , lie said . The commissioner passed off lightly charges that the middleman is making money while the farmers starve . Undoubtedly this Is true to a certain extent , he said , but it 's only a pawn on the dairy chess boards . At this moment , Director Ralph W. Robart of the Division on the Necessaries of Life , stands prepared to assume a state dictatorship If conditions threaten Massachusetts like those In New York and Connecticut . Assurances that the marketing of milk In Connecticut will proceed without Interruption came today from the rank and file of farmers who gave their sanction to a a new agreement . In Massachusetts , moral suasion is still the most vital weapon . . Bargaining Opposed Mr. Robart stated today that he would do his best to prevent any one commercial group from dictatI lag prices . He has never liked the , present bargaining system in the dairy industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farmer is " better break . " In Dr. Gilbert 's plan , the chain store competition problem would be met by centralized control . Mr. Robert thinks the chain store competition helps to keep prices down , giving the consumer selectivity . Mr. Howard S. Russell of the State Farm Bureau Federation boiled the problem down to this  --  that 25 per cent , of the dairy men controlled the prices . lie pointed to a " clouded area " between the consumer and the producer where the milk dollar appears to shrink visibly . On one point all seem to agree . Where strikes are flaring , they are not representative of the majority of dairymen but are caused by agitators playing on the excitability of the foreign element . In New York , for instance , it was pointed out that where hundreds are striking , thousands are going about their business peaceably and in recent weeks , profitably  --  thanks to the new state control code . Strike Leader 's Milk Refused by Dealers ALBANY , N. Y. , Aug. 15 ( /P ) ? Many fanners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported today that dealers were attempting to " punish " them by refusing to accept their milk shipments . Among these was Mr. W. J. Blair , Chenango County producer , who led the strike in the southern counties . " I 've aready been refused a market for my milk , " Mr. Blair told the milk control board last night , adding that ho formerly delivered to a Sheffield station . " They do n't have to take it In , because I can get an even better market for it . But these dealers  --  they 're Intimidating us as much as they 've been accusing us of intimidating than during the strike . "                     