@@704292

txt Renewed investigation by the La Follette Senate Civil Liberties Committee of farmer-labor relations in this State , including activities of the Associated Farmers of California  --  strongly organized farmer group  --  involves some half a million agricultural laborers on the West Coast , about 100,000 farmers , and consumers not only of the Coast but of the Nation . Three developmgnts are re-ported : 1 . Announcement of the Associated Farmers ' annual State convention to be held this year at Stockton , Dec. 7-8 . This focuses attention on general and specific policies of the organization , which has some 20,000 members , and , although it denies it , has been called " anti-labor. " 2 . Opening of investigating offices of the Civil Liberties Committee here for the second time in two years ; and a statement from Senator La Follette that public hearings will be held on the farm-labor organizing problem soon . ( Probably December. ) 3 . Farmer-worker disputes in several sections of the State where migrant labor , farmer , consumer , and relief problems are closely /elated . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of free speech and assembly and undue interference with the right of labor to organize and bargain collectively " last year in the case of the Associated Farmers . But due to a shortage of funds the investigation was incomplete . Recently the Committee secured S50 , - 000 more to finish its work . The investigation has its roots in the persistent migrant labor problem that has harassed this and other Western States for many years . Foundftion of the problem calling for the investigation lies in part in the harvest season in California which calls for 300,000 harvesters at peak season but only 50.000 farm workers during the winter . Other roots are deep in issue of organizing all types of labor into unions . The jurisdictional struggle between the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations for numerical power in the labor fields has agitated drives to organize farm labor in California and other Western States . In 1932 some of the larger farmer-rancher owners in California began to combat what they claimed was unneeded action to organize farm laborers into unions . The Associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization to ensure farmers freedom to grow , harvest , and transport crops to market without outside interference .                     