@@697232

txt Tornadoes and floods yesterday took a heavy toll of life and property in Arkansas . In the southern part of the State 2,500 people were affected , hundreds of them made homeless , when torrential rains drove creeks out of their banks and inundated thirty square miles , causing $1,000 , - 000 damage in the Smackover oil field . Measles broke out in the refugee camps at Smackover and a typhoid epidemic was feared . The Red Cross was in charge . Tornadoes struck near Elaine , in the eastern part of the State . Seventeen Negroes were killed , eleven of them on one plantation . The injured were estimated at 100 . Fifty Square Miles Flooded . ELDORADO , Ark. , May 18 ( 2P ) . ? A : ood , said to be the worst in South ' , rkansas 's history , late today had : undated an area of fifty square rifles , covering the towns of Kenova , TIriffin and Louann , and was threatming the village of Smackover , of about 1,050 population . Thousands of residents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Cross entered the flood area late today , establishing camps at Sunnyland , overlooking the flooded Smackover Creek area . Many refugees were suffering from exposure . A child was born to a woman refugee floating down a rain-swollen creek on a raft , while another mother and her three babies were swept away in a boat , which later capsized . All were rescued , but the children were in a serious condition . Workers have been unable to reach inland areas and reports of loss of life have not been received . Heavy Damage to Oil Industry . The Red Cross headquarters were established late today at the Smackover City Hall , with Colonel W. C. O'Ferrall , production superintendent of the Standard Oil Company , in charge of relief work . ? Colonel O'Ferrall said the damage to the oil industry in the flooded area has reached $1,000,000 . A company of the Arkansas National Guard , in command of Captain George W. Tillery , left here late today with truckloads of cots and bedding , together with all available nurses , doctors and ambulances . Measles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearing an epidemic of typhoid unless serum could be procured soon . Some of the refugees were brought here to hospitals with incipient cases of pneumonia . SMACKOVER , Ark. , May 18 GIF1. ? Measles broke out in the crowded refugee camps filled with flood sufferers here tonight as doctors and nurses sent out pleas for serum for both that disease and typhoid fever . The camps were being swelled hourly by the added influx of homeless from the inundated area . Red River Also on the Rampage . TEXARKANA , Ark. , May 18 ( M. Northeast Texas and Southwest Arkansas tonight faced the worst flood threat in many years as raging waters of the Red River cut off highway and railroad traffic , swept away highway bridges and forced hundreds of lowland residents to higher ground . Rescue parties were battling the swirling currents in attempts to bring out trapped residents . Levees were reported weakening under the pounding near Fulton . The river was more than two feet above flood stage , and official river bulletins showed a steady and rapid rise . Rainfall for the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the little town of Index the situation was said to be acute . Garland was isolated and no reports were received . Crop losses already are tremendous . while paved highways were being swept away and railroad trestles weakened . Ouachita Above Flood Stage . NEW ORLEANS , May 18 ( 2P ) . ? The Weather Bureau tonight issued the following flood warning : " Third day of heavy rain has caused Ouachita River at Arkadelphia , Ark. , to reach a stage of .16 feet , with a flood stage of 12 feet , and river is expected to pass the 20-foot stage Monday . " With a flood stage of 30 feet at Camden , Ark. , it is predicted river will rise to between 39 and 41 feet between May 21 and 23 . Flood con- , ditions also prevail in Little Missouri , western tributary of the Ouachita . " Hundreds Are Made Homeless . ST . LOUIS , Mo. , May 18 ( it ' ) . ? R. N. Benson , chairman of the American Red Cross chapter at El Dorado , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this afternoon 11 that about 2,500 persons were affect ! esi by the flood near Griffin , Louann land Smackover . He said a refugee camp has been set up and is supply , ing clothing , food and shelter . Mr. Benson told F. A. Winfrey , in charge of division disaster relief work , that the flood came up unexpectedly last night after heavy rains and that it was expected to recede as soon as the rise was local . The Red Cross authorized expenditure of whatever funds are needed to cope with the situation . Levee Breaks in Mississippi . GREENWOOD , Miss. , May 18 ( A ' ) . ? About 2,000 acres of farm land three miles east of Greenwood were flooded today by a break in the levee along Big Sand Creek , which drains sections of Carroll , Montgomery and Webster Counties and empties into the Yazoo River at Greenwood . The break in the levee followed more than forty-eight hours of almost continuous rainfall in the wake of periodical rains since May 8 . During the ten-day period the rainfall here measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has risen about 21 feet , with an additional rise in prospect . Highway travel has been interrupted between Greenwood and Carrollton . Water was reported several inches deep at some places between Greenwood and Grenada . Louisiana Rivers Swollen . SHREVEPORT , La. , May 18 UM ? Violent wind and rain storms , sweeping North Louisiana and near-by Texas points today , crippled communications and washed out highways . Points in the Northwestern part of the State were issuing flood warnings for the Red River valley . Backwaters have spread over several thousand acres of farm land . The maximum overflow was estimated to be two miles wide and seven miles long . The Ouachita River at Monroe has risen seven feet in twenty-four hours and is expected to rise ten feet when the ride at Camden , Ark. , reaches there . Negroes ' Houses Mowed Down . Special to The New York MEMPHIS , Tenn. , May ' 18 . ? At least seventeen Negroes were killed and more than 100 persons - were injured by tornadoes that struck near Elaine , Ark. , twenty miles south of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east #of Memphis , this morning after more than twentyfour hours of storm that brtfught tor- , rential rainfall . The tornadoes took their heavy toll in Arkansas , but at Somerville seven persons were injured . The Arkansas twister struck first at t ' -1 Lambrook plantation , nine 1 ; 3low Elaine , where it mowed down a row of Negro houses and carried away most of the debris , leaving eleven Negroes dead . The plantation is owned by G. B. Lambert of St. Louis . The tornado apparently split at this contact with the earth , and one part hit the Negro section of Elaine , leaving two more dead and many injured , and the other part struck at Wabash , a small community near by , where two more Negroes were killed . One fatality was reported on a farm in the storm 's path . Thirteen Negroes were taken to the Helena Hospital and more than eighty were being cared for in farm houses near the stricken communities and in Elaine . Highways were soon clogged with automobiles stalled by a heavy rain that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elaine experienced much difficulty in getting through . The byroads leading to the stricken communities were practically impassable . Plantation Hardest Hit . The little levee-enclosed plantation of Lambrook felt the greatest fury of the storm . Upward of forty Negroes in their houses were thrown in all directions , some of them landing 100 feet away . Few houses stood against the wind 's fury , most of them being swept away entirely . The dead and injured were placed in wagons which started toward the highway over roads hub deep in mud . Swirling in from the northwest , the storm cut a path 200 yards wide through the business district of Somerville , Tem-i. , at 11:40 o'clock . Loss of life was avoided , it is believed , because most of the citizens had gathered for the morning church service and the church escaped the storm . One woman leaped from a third floor and may not survive . The other victims are not so seriously hurt . The town was in darkness tonight and far a time communication was cut off . Storm in Texas Kills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 2f ' ) . ? Three Negroes were killed by a heavy rain , hail and wind storm which struck Dallas and Ellis Coun , ties last night . Two were killed near Wilmer and the . other near Crandall . Much , crop and property damage was done by the hail . The frame school building at Ovilla was wrecked by the wind and every business house was damaged badly . At De Sota a drug store was wrecked and several other business places damaged . In a path a mile wide between Ovilla. and De Sotw virtnally every residence and farm building was damaged .                     