@@698251

txt Confident that his five-day visit to the United States had been successful , even though he and President Hoover had not signed a single sheet of paper or even fixed a program for the cooperation which is their object , Premier Pierre Laval of France made ready last night to sail for home on the Ile de France early this morning . In his last public appearance of a day filled with sight-seeing and receptions , at a dinner given by the French Chamber of Commerce of New York at the Waldorf-Astoria , the Premier thanked America , from President Hoover down , for its courtesies to him , and told all that he thought was proper for him to say about his negotiations with the President . After the dinner Premier Laval ex pressed a desire to see something of New York by night and with a party of friends went for an automobile ride . He left the car at Broadway and Forty-sixth Street and proceeded on foot along the Times Square sidewalk as far as the Hotel Astor . Mr. Laval displayed great interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sobriquet of the " Great White Way , " while the aftertheatre crowds , just then at their height , were equally interested in him and congregated about him . Reentering his car , he drove about for an hour and then went back to the Waldorf . His daughter , Mlle. Jose Laval , attended a theatrical performance and at its close , with Mayor Walker and a party of friends , went to the Central Park Casino for supper . The party left there about 1 o'clock this morning . Mlle. Laval stopped at the Waldorf long enough to pick up her father , with whom she rode to the French line piers , foot of Fourteenth Street . The Mayor , meanwhile , had driven directly to the piers and greeted M. Laval and his daughter upon their arrival . Since Premier Laval speaks no English and the Mayor no French , Mlle. Laval interpreted their conversation . She smilingly remarked : " I 'm happy to have spent these days in your city  --  it 's such a nice city that five days is n't very much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distinguished visitors at 1:17 A. M. and saw them to their suite . The sailing of the liner , scheduled for midnight , had been put off until 5:30 A. M. The French Premier had declared at the dinner that both countries now understand each other and know what to expect . He had served the cause of peace , ho felt , without sacrificing the fundamental interests of France , and the two governments , by seeking means to restore economic well-being had advanced the caused of international harmony . Two thousand persons crowded the grand ballroom of the Waldorf to cheer M. Laval in farewell , and fully half of them , it seemed , were members of the French colony of New York . TEXT OF LAVAL 'S ADDRESS . M. Laval said : I could not leave the United States without welcoming my compatriots , and I thank the French Chamber of Commerce as well as the central committee of the French societies for having organized this banquet . You have given me an opportunity before I sail for France to express my gratitude to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its head , President Hoover . I have been accorded a most heartfelt welcome and I now know the spontaneity , the thoughtfulness and charm of American hospitality . I thoroughly understand your affection for this country because during my brief stay here I have been profoundly conscious of its power of attraction . I have just completed an important mission . In accepting Presidnt Hoover 's invitation so soon after the meeting in London and Berlin , I have fulfilled one of the most important responsibilities of my position . The duty of statesmen is to neglect no practical method of cooperation for the common good  --  as we declared yesterday in Washington . While respecting their national traditions and laws , they should seek means to protect every home against poverty and our civilization against the dangers to which it is exposed . This is the ideal which guided us during our conversations . We fixed no program ; we drafted no protocol ; we were animated by the mutual desire to examine thoroughly , in the course of a , free and frank discussion , the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been in vain . We have come to know one another better . Our countries are far apart , separated by a vast ocean , Our democracies have not the same constitutional basis . Our political traditions , often differing , suffice to explain certain misunderstandings which from time to time have grown up between us . Henceforth we know where we stand , we know what we want , , we know what we can expect and what may be expected of us . Cooperation between our two countries will thus become closer , since our governments will have a clearer understanding of their respective interests and their common duties . Thus , even if the conversations in Washington had had no other results , they would have fulfilled great hopes . This is the moral benefit of our meeting . But we have accomplished more . By seeking the most constructive methods for rest oring economic , stability and confidence we have done our duty in the cause of international solidarity . You will appreciate , I am sure , that on this occasion I can not comment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I desire first fully to inform the government of my country . But here and now I wish to express my satisfaction with the results . In carrying out this policy of international cooperation  --  of which my visit with M. Briand to Berlin was an important step  --  I am serving , I am sure , the cause of peace without sacrificing the fundamental interests of France . I am highly privileged to speak these words here in New York , in the presence of Marshal Petain , one of our most illustrious soldiers . France is devoted to a peace which must depend on the organization of security . The imposing celebration at Yorktown has revived glorious memories . You have here tonight the descendants of those illustrious warriors who served a great cause and whose names are the common heritage of our two countries . The traditional friendship which unites France and the United States could not be better emphasized . To the American citizens whose presence here . is a token of their unalterably friendly feelings for my country , I express my deepest gratitude . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truest French traditions and who make our country well liked , I , as head of the French Government , desire to extend my congratulations and to assure you of my constant interest . To the Hon. William Castle , whom I am happy to greet before I leave America , I desire to say how greatly I have been touched by the many kindnesses which have been so generously shown me . I hope that he will again assure the Secretary of State , Mr. Stimson , of my sincere friendship , and I beg him to convey to President Hoover , who welcomed me so cordially , my deepest appreciation and the definite assurance that the memory of my visit will endure . Notables trt Gathering . The gathering which swerounded the French Premier was distinguished . Among the Premier 's compatriots were Marshal Henri Petain , the hero of Verdun ; General Count de Chambrun , descendant of Lafayette Rite " a great soldier in his own right ; Ambassador Paul Claude ! , Admiral Descottes-Genon , commander of the French warships Duquesne and Suffren , now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Noted Americans included UnderSecretary of State William R. Castle Jr. , General Pershing and Acting Secretary of War Frederick Payne . Mr. Castle , bididng M. Laval goodbye on behalf of the American Government , spoke in somewhat ( ho same vein as the Premier . " It is well that those who are leaders of the different nations should know each other . " said Mr. Castle . " This is particularly important in times of world stress in order that they may take counsel with each other , understand each other 's aims and ideals , so that there may be wherever possible and expedient common action for the betterment of conditions . " When two men like these ( President Hoover and Premier Laval ) meet and freely speak out what is in their minds in the wish to know each other and to understand each other , we know that good must issue from this conversation . " We must . not look for miracles in the shape of economic or any other panaceas . The world can not he remade in a few hours ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to lest . the world be remade wrong . What can he done , and I believe has been done , is through common sense and courage and good-will  --  which are all three more important 1han miracles -- to search out and to indicate the many ways in which our two nations can cooperate in the restoration of economic strength and the maintenance of peace . " Monsieur Laval , you have been a welcome guest . I hope that you will carry home with you the realization that on the great fundamental issues your country and ours have similar aims and that our ideals of truth and justice coincide . " On behalf of the American Government , I wish you Godspeed . " James G. , chairman of the Foreign Policy Association , , spoke on the political and economic situation , pointing out that the United States and France remained among the few prosperous nations . " Economics and finance can not be divorced from politics , " said Mr. . " The world can not again he prosperous until latent international fears and animosities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ single country . It requires international action , wise and farseeing . No great power can dissociate itself , selfishly or unselfishly , from such an effort at appeasement . Cordial Franco-American understanding is a great . step toward healing a sick world . Jean Tinier , president . of the French Chamber of Commerce , pre . sided .                     