@@699144

txt Using the trowel with which George Washington laid the cornerstone of the Capitol in 1793 , President Hoover today laid the cornerstone og the 000,000 Postoffice Department Building , thereby commemorating the 143d anniversary of a government establishment which he described as " a living service of thousands of skillful and devoted men and women . " Several thousand persons crowded about a flag-draped stand at the corner of the steel framework , lined the curbs on Pennsylvania Avenue and Twelfth Street and were packed on the balustrade of the old Postoffice Building across the way . They cheered the President 's praise of the department , both for its rapid development and for the part its employes have been playing in the effort to solve problems of unemployment . Other speakers were Postmaster General Brown and Senator Smoot , chairman of the Public Buildings Commission . Aids to Employment Noted . The President expressed his per ! sonal appreciation to the postal em1 ployes for the " willingness and zeal " with which they had joined the movement for sharing work in the department " so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be deprived of employment . " " This building is pp.rt of a great national construction program which we have undertaken for the dual purpose of more economical housing of Federal activities and of providing employment for the country , " the President said . " It is a part of the sound policy of speeding the growth of government facilities in times of depression . " The address was broadcast by the National and Columbia radio chains . Transmitters were used to carry it across Twelfth Street to employes in the old postoffice building : Mr. Hoover praised the workers of the postal system who had brought it to such a high state of efficiency . He pointed out that a quarter of a million people are regularly engaged in handling the mail , and that 60,000 more have part time or contract employment with the department . " The esteem and affection in which the pobtal service is held by all our citizens is a deserved tribute to the unfailing fidelity of these efficient and honorable public servants , " he said . The President noted the presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuity and devetopment " of the service . He was John N. Van Zandt , postmaster of Blawenburg , N. J. , for sixty-six years . The ceremony was of especial significance to the people of New York City , where the General Postoffice first began to function , Mr. Hoover observed in extending a greeting to those who were assembled in New York for the occasion , Brown Tells of Department 's Need . Postmaster General Brown explained the need for the building , whose steel had already been put up to three stories . He recounted the the difficulties of the department in the older building , where the quar ters have been outgrown for a number of years . Certain branches have had to be moved to other buildings with the attending difficulties of supervision and control . " This magnificent new building will enable us to concentrate all our activities under one roof , " he said ; " will greatly enhance the comfort of our personnel , lessen our operating costs , increase the efficiency of our bureaus and divisions , and add greatly to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials having business with the department . " Terming the celebration another milestone in the development of the postal service , he continued : " Today , the Postoffice Department supervises the operations of a vast public service which directly reaches every community and every family in the country . It has prompt and dependable connections with all parts of the world . The United States mails move daily by power boat , motor vehicle , railroad , steamship and airplane , providing convenient and economical channels for commerce and trade , as well as expeditious and certain facilities for communication throughout all sections of the land . " The department takes just pride in its history . In celebrating the realization of its new building , it pledges itself once more to a continued improvement of service and a progressive development of postal facilities in keeping with its best traditions . " Smoot Cites Building Program . Senator Smoot traced the growth of the Postoffice Department but , as chairman of the Public Buildings Commission , looked upon the occasion as significant of another step in the development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked the fulfillment of the plans and desires of the founders of the nation for the postal service but it had a present significance in denoting the beginning of " imperatively needed facilities for the work of our most familiar governmental activity . " President Hoover spokd last and then proceeded to lay the cornerstone . Placed in the stone was a copy of the Bible , the Constitution , a medallion of President Hoover , an autographed photograph of Postmaster General Brown and historical data relative to the postal service . In further commemoration of the anniversary , the official name of the Pennsylvania Avenue postal station was changed at 5 P. M. to the Benjamin Franklin station in honor of the first Postmaster General of the United Colonies . The ceremonies at the cornerstone were brief . The invocation was delivered by the Rev. Allen Stockdale. pastor of the First Congregational Church , this city . The benediction was by Mgr . Edward L. Buckey of St. Matthew 's Church . There was a concert by the army band in the court of the present postoffice building . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   