@@703888

txt Final negotiations for the surlender of Madrid to the Spanish Nationalists and for peace in the 32-month-old Spanish civil war were said today to be nearly completed . Some dispatches from both Burgos and Madrid , the Nationalist and Republican Capitals , indicated that a plan for the almost unconditional surrender of Madrid was far advanced . The Nationalist Defense Council , which rules Republican Spain  --  one fourth of Continental Spain  --  met last night in Gen. Jos ? Miaja 's office . The Council considered results of a peace mission which made a secret flight to General Franco 's Capital to arrange the surrender . According to advices reaching the frontier , terms of the surrender were simple . The National Defense Council will remove all mines from fortified and civilian areas , demobilize the Republican Army and publish a declaration recognizing the Nationalist Government as the only legitimate Government in Spain . Safety for Leaders Sought The only thing said to have been asked In return by the Madrid regime was that a handful of its leaders be furnished means of leaving Spain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last night the Nationalist Military Command at Irun , just across the border , said that the peace . negotiations were " close to a final accord . " From various sources within Spain , border observers pieced together this picture of the dramatic final phase of the destructive civil conflict in which General Franco has wrested three fourths of Spain from the Republicans : Preliminary negotiations had been under way some time when in the quiet hours of Thursday morning Republicans shouted across the narrow no-man's-land for two Nationalist agents to fly with a mission to Burgos as a guarantee of their safe arrival . Burgos officials , meanwhile , had been advised of the flight and the military airdrome was surrounded by a heavy cordon of guards . At 10:15 a. in . Thursday the officlais arrived in a green , tri-motored plane , whose huge Republican insigne in red , gold , and violet had been changed to the Nationalist blood-red and gold colors by a strip of linen over the violet . Two-Day Conference At the airport the Republicans were met by high Nationalist police officials who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buildings , There they were joined by Representatives of General Franco , the General Staff and the Civil Administration . After a two-day parley , the Republicans left for Madrid and shortly after time enough had elapsed for their arrival in the Capital , the Defense Council met nn an atmosphere of apparent satisfaction . Major Ageno , Nationalist Military Commander at Irun , said that despite progress of the negotiations , all troops on the Madrid front were being held in readiness until the peace negotiations were concluded . Madrid newspapers , preparing the public for surrender , said that peace was the greatest victory , General Franco had an army of more than 500,000 men along the eastern , central , and southern fronts . A Burgos dispatch said it was believed the general would launch the most powerful drive of the war unless there were a last-minute capitulation by the Madrid Defense Council .                     