@@697306

txt The grand jury reported to Judge Rosaisky In General Sessions yesterday its refusal to return an indictment against William E. Walsh , former chairman of the Board of Standards and Appeals , and John A. McCarthy , Bronx dealer in building materials , on allegations laid before it recently by Assistant District Attorney Hastings , charging bribery and the acceptance of $30,000 by Walsh from McCarthy as a gratuity when Walsh was head of the board . The evidence on which the case was placed before the grand jury was developed in United States District Attorney Tuttle 's investigation of the Walsh regime in the Board of Stand : ards and Appeals . The money , according to Walsh , was lent to him last year by McCarthy without interest . It was understood that in the grand jury investigation Mr. Hastings submitted evidence that some time before the money was , given to Walsh Mcparthy 's firm had obtained a permit from the board for the erection of a building on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx . Jury Fails to Comment . The filing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by no comment from the grand jurors . Attached to the dismissal paper , however , was a list of the eight witnesses who had been examined before the grand jurors by Mr. Hastings . These were Edward V. Barton , chief clerk of the Board of Standards and Appeals ; Raymond H. Allen , who has an office in the brokerage firm of Logan &; Bryan , 42 Broadway , with whom Walsh was reported to have had an account at the time the money was received from McCarthy ; Russel Tilson , cashier for the brokerage firm ; Lowell Wadmond and John A. Wilson , prosecutors on Federal District Attorney Tuttle 's staff ; Pearl Hough and Anna Pollman , stenographers in the Feder* Court Building , and John F. Gallagher , chauffeur for Walsh . There is an indictment pending against Walsh in General Sessions which was 1 ? turned recently on the charge that , while head of the board , he accepted a gratuity in connection with the rental of his apartment at 25 East Eighty-sixth Street . It was alleged that he obtained the apartment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apartments in. the building were paying $4,000 a year . Federal Judge Patterson yesterday postponed until next Friday the hearing on the demurrer , plea in abatement and motion to quash the indictment returned recently by the Federal grand jury against Dr. William F. Doyle , veterinarian , who appeared as representative of many persons applying for permits to the board in recent years . The indictment charges that Dr. Doyle filed false income tax returns in 1927 , 1928 and 1929 . There is another Federal indictment against Dr. Doyle alleging perjury in swearing to the returns of 1927 and 1928 . Samuel Falk and former Judge Alfred J. Talley appeared as counsel for Dr. Doyle yesterday , ready to argue in behalf of their client . Assistant Federal Prosecutor John A. Wilson informed Judge Patterson , however , that Federal Prosecutor Tuttle was desirous of bringing Dr. Doyle to trial as soon as possible on both indictments . He added that the two cases against Doyle would be placed on the Federal Court calendar for next Monday . It was pointed out after Judge Patterson had set next Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Tuttle previously had announced his intention to conduct the prosecution against Dr. Doyle . Should he adhere to this intention , it was added , it was hardly likely the case will be called ofl Monday , as it was not expected , that the case of former County Judge W. Bernard Vause would be finished in the same court until the end of next week . Contrary to expectations , the Kings ' County grand jury did not report its findings yesterday in its investigation of circumstances under which the Board of Standards and Appeals granted permits for gasoline filling stations in Brooklyn .                     