@@699597

txt An imposing array of the elder statesmen in Tammany gathered last night in the conference room at Tammany Hall . with John F. Curry . Tammany leader , presiding . and with the legislative leaders of the party also present . The result of the meeting was expressed in a one-paragraph statement from Mr. Curry , which read as follows : " At the conference held tonight on legislative bills the conferees were a unit that all the members of the Democratic party in the Legislature should stand solidly behind any position taken by Governor Lehman on the so-called beer legislation . " Previous information had been that none of the responsible leaders of the party favored the beer control legislation introduced into the Legislature in behalf of the Conway Liquor Commission , and that Gov , governor Lehman had been persuaded to see that the set-up of the control boards as proposed by that ' body was impractical . The indications , therefore , were that the principles of the Dunnigan bill , setting up an excise commis1 sion of three members appointed by the Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with some of the recommendations of the Conway commission written in where they will not interfere with the principal of a centralized and salaried liquor control board . Smith at the Parley . The elder statesmen who gathered with Mr. Curry last night were headed by.former Governor Alfred E. Smith , and others were Surrogate James A. Foley , Daniel F. Cohalan , Daniel L. Ryan , Jeremiah T. Mahoney and John Godfrey Saxe . Mayor O'Brien was there , as was John J. Dunnigan , majority leader of the State Senate ; Irwin Steingut , minority leader of the Assembly ; Henry G. Schackno , chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee ; Jeremiah F. Twomey , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee ; John T. Dooling , chairman of the Tammany Hall law c nmittee : Corporation Counsel A : thur T. W. Hilly , Thomas F. ndrews and Attorney General John J. Bennett . The meeting had been heralded in advance as one at which the patrunage aspects of the pending legis- ; lation for setting up beer-control machinery in the State would be discussed , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of it . and by spokesmen for it . The personnel of the conference was itself the best indication that patronage had not been discussed . The conference . according to both Mr. Curry and Mr. Steingut before they entered the meeting , was merely the weekly conference on legislative matters between the leaders of the party and the leaders of the Legislature . All pending legislation is discussed at those meetings , they said . The presence of Mr. Smith at the meeting also was remarked on by newspaper men , and they were assured that this , too , was an established custom . " He 's been coming to them for years , " one prominent ! politician said . Regardless of the fact that the Conference last night apparently ' as not concerned with the question of the patronage that will come when beer is legalized , the patronage possibilities of the situation are known to be realized by the party 's leaders . They regard the liquor control board as potentially the most powerful political body in the State by virtue of the authority that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no intentions of turning that patronage over to boards , the members of which would be nominated by various bar , medical and other associations , as provided for in the Conway commission 's legislation . However , the situation has developed so fast that no demands for patronage under the commission that is to be set up have been made by either the Tammany group or the Democratic State Committee . Dunnigan Champions His Plan . A formal defense of the threeman commission proposed under the Dunnigan bill was made by Senator Dunnigan himself in a statement issued yesterday afternoon . Senator Dunnigan said : " Current talk that unless a nonpartisan board is named to issue beverage licenses the beer traffic in this State would be under political control is absurd on its face . Nothing could be further from the intent of my bill and those in charge of conducting the State government . " At the election last November Herbert H. Lehman was given the greatest vote of confidence ever expressed by a free and independent people . He was elected Governor of the State by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my bill , Governor Lehman would appoint the three members of the excise board , and every one knows he will only select the right men for those jobs . There should be no question that the excise board will be made up of high-class , reputable men , who will conduct that department on a high plane . " I am today amending my beer control bill to conform with the Cullen bill , now before Congress . One of the principal amendments would prohibit the sale of beer to minors . I expect my bill to be passed in the Senate next Friday , following the public hearings on all beer measures . The bill is farreaching enough to regulate and control all beverages , if the Eighteenth Amendment is repealed . " The conference last night at Tammany Hall was held up for a half hour or more , while a delegation representing civil employes argued both sides of the question as to whether the civil service eligibility lists should be extended or should be allowed to expire . They presented their arguments to Mr. Steingut and Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economy measures that have prevented vacancies being filled in the civil service have worked an unfairness on those who are still on the list , but whom in normal times would already have been appointed . It was emphasized at the start of the conference that pending legislation , rather than patronage , would be discussed , but there were no denials that " pending legislation " included the beer topic . The conference went on after the statement by Mr. Curry had been handed to newspaper men by . Secretary Raymond J. O'Sullivan of Tammany Hall , but word was sent out that no further statement would be forthcoming .                     