@@697758

txt The 154th session of the Legislature ended early this evening amid order and mutual well wishes , contrasting sharply with the acrimony that had marked most of the proceedings since Jan. 1 . The legislators wound up their activities with a final rush in which they disposed of several hundred bills . The final day was rather tame in view of the turmoil that has marked some of the previous closing sessions . A lot of work was done , but few of the measures taken up were controversial . With all business out of the way , the lawmakers indulged in more than the usual pleasantries and party lines were definitely broken when Democrats and Republicans alike joined in singing , cheering end mutual compliments . The hands of the clock stood at 7:20 o'clock when the Assembly , halting the strains of a band which had played in the closing hours , called it a session with the final rap of the Speaker 's gavel . In the Senate Lieut . Gov . Lehman struck his gavel at 7:35 , after John Knight , Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Judge , had received tribute from his confreres . Hold Partisan Views on Session . If the legislators , in taking their final cues , were stepping over party lines to establish a spirit of good fellowship , they maintained markedly different stands on the value of the 1931 session . The Democratic leaders assailed it as " aimless and drifting " and attacked the Republican State chairman , W. Kingsland Macy , once more for " dictatorship . " The Republican bellwethers hailed the work as constructive and active , and singled out the authoria ; ation for a legislative investigation of New York City as its outstanding accomplishment . Governor Roosevelt had nothing to say about the results achieved . Ho is reserving his opinion for a time , and it is understood that he expects to express his views in a radio talk to be delivered in about ten days . Six major accomplishments can be credited to the session . These are the creation of machinery for State development of the water power resources of the , St. Lawrence ; the resolution for the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City ; favorable action on the reforestation program ; modification of the Baumes laws , and going on record for repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Democratic Losses Heavy . In contrast with these achievements , a large number of important Democratic bills were defeated and the Republican majority , although it clamored for an inquiry into New York City , blocked the passage of a series of measures designed to strike specifically at some of the things brought to light in the investigations already held . The Republican majority also curbed a Democratic move to bring about a revision of the banking laws , particularly with reference to giving thrift accounts in commercial banks the same protection as in savings banks , referring the whole question to a committee for another year of study . The majority also blocked , as usual , Democratic measures for a four-year term for the Governor , stricter public utility regulation , a study of unemployment insurance and labor and social welfare legislation . In the final week the Republicans acted upon reapportionment , both legislative and Congressional . They failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their own ranks . They did , however , put through today the Congressional reapportionment measure on the basis of the 1930 Federal census . They effected this by a resolution instead of a bill , thus avoiding a veto by the Governor , but the Democrats plan a court test of this method . The final day brought action by both houses on two important pieces of legislation . They passed bills placing private water supply companies and inter-city buses under the regulation of the Public Service Commission and the Assembly concurred in the action of the Senate yesterday in giving the committee which is to investigate New York City an additional $250,000 . In all , the Legislature passed about 1,500 bills , with a new high record of 4,310 introduced . In the executive chamber Governor Roosevelt has bean equally busy . He has kept pace with the legislative branch and has acted on at least 450 bills . He has signed 361 and vetoed nearly a hundred . Republicans Issue Statement . Here is the way Senator Knight and Speaker Joseph A. stated the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1931 session was the passage of the resolution providing for an investigation of New York City . This measure was passed despite the obstinate opposition of the Democratic minority and despite every effort of Tammany Hall to avert the inquiry . " We fell that by this action the Legislature has done a great deal for the cause of clean and honest government . " The Republican leaders went on to cite the budget and supplemental appropriations , totaling about $350,000 , - 000 and the largest in State history , and projects of various kinds in addition to the ordinary expenses as indicating accomplishments toward relieving current economic distress . They also took credit for Congressional reapportionment , revision of the Baumes law , rural aid , transit unification and waterpower development , even though they put this last through after a last-minute defeat at the hands of Governor Roosevelt , who compelled them to abandon an effort to change the original program . Censured by Democrats . Irwin Stehigut , Democratic minority leader in the Assembly , took a widely different view and said : " The Legislature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drifted aimlessly until the last week or so and then became feverishly active , rushing through in a few days , with no time for . ; tudy , a group of important bills that should have been seriously consiasred . It was legislation by dictatorship rather than lawmaking by legislators . " True , they have given us a fairly satisfactory waterpower bill , but not as a free-will offering . It was the Governor 's announced determination to take the matter to the people that compelled , the Republicans to renounce their reactionary tactics . Also the people of New York City must thank Mayor Walker , the Transit Commission and the Board of Transportation for the adoption of theAtransit unification bill . " The majority did not want to grant it ? they were forced to accept the city 's suggestions and they did it with a very bad grace . " Mr. Steingut went on to assail the Republicans on the ground that they had blocked many bills to relieve unemployment , increase public utility regulation and had put through an unfair Congressional reapportionment . He charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was designed purely for partisan purposes . Governor Roosevelt right up to the last moment continued to demand the passage of legislation contained in his program . He ended the series with two communications , one urging the enactment of nine bills for stricter public utility regulation , which the Republican majority in the Assembly rejected yesterday . The other found a more favorable response . This message asked the Legislature to give the Public Service Commission supervision of bus and water companies , and both houses passed the measures in amended form . The Governor said that while the bills did not provide for complete and effective control , he recommended their passage . The two bills which were sponsored by Senator Warren T. Thayer of Franklin , Chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Service , was shunted back and forth between the two houses to effect the amendments . The bill putting private water supply companies under public service supervision particularly required quick action . This bill was finally amended so that its provisions did not extend to municipal water supply systems and covered only private companies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of both parties in the Senate , where ft was passed by a vote of 28 to 19 . It was then sent over to the Assembly , where it was amended at the suggestion of representatives ? of the ? Public Service Commission so as to provide that private water supply companies seeking to parallel other private systems would be required to receive Public Service Commission consent . In the Assembly it went through by a vote of 120 to 12 . It then went back to the Senate , almost as the last bill of the session , and was passed by a vote of 28 to 18 . The bill to give the Public Service Commission power to regulate intercity buses had been amended during the night so as to exclude municipal bus systems and systems operating altogether within a municipality . The New York City Administration and other cities had been opposed to the original provision that would have included these . In its amended form , calling for supervision over what amounted to intercity buses alone , it went through without opposition in either house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applying to private water supply systems , a measure to give the Public Service Department $29,800 for administrative expenses to carry out the provisions of the bill was passed without opposition . Investigatory Bills Lost . The Senate passed a bill by Senator Pitcher , one of the series offered by Republicans and Democrats , designed to prevent a recurrence of conditions disclosed in New York City investigations and adding to the grounds for removal of magistrates and other inferior court judges " general unfitness . " When the bill went to the Assembly , however , it was lost in the shuffle and disappeared in the final flood of legislation . In this it followed the course of all the measures introduced to achieve a similar purpose , such as the bills calling for the barring of business activities on the part of judges , the waiving of immunity by public officials in investigations of their official acts and the extension of the Appellate Division 's investigatory power to include all courts below the Supreme Court . As regards unemployment , both houses passed the Cilano-Marcy resolution creating a commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment proposals were lost . Senate and Assembly joined in approving a bill to put savings banks on a taxation parity with commercial banks . This bill reduced the tax on capital and surplus of savings banks from 1 per cent to six-tenths of 1 per cent and the banks would be relieved of about $1,500,000 in taxes . This measure will take effect on July 1 , 1932 , if approved by the Governor . Civil Service Reclassification . A bill sponsored by Republicans to provide for broad reclassification of I civil service employes was passed in both houses after a battle . The bill would create an entirely new set-up of positions in the State civil service and would create a classification director . The Democrats attacked the measure on the ground that the civil service employes themselves were divided as to its justice . The Republican spokesmen contended that the bill would end numerous salary and other inequalities . The two houses also passed the bill giving to Brooklyn five additional city court judges . With this the Legislature had adopted measures which would give New York County @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one , and had also passed a bill to give the Second Judicial District twelve extra Supreme Court justices . Both houses took affirmative action on a bill sponsored by Senator Buckley , Democrat , of New York City , giving the Board of Estimate power to the salaries of city court judges . The life of the Prison Investigation Commission headed by Sam A. Lewisohn was extended and a Senator and an Assemblyman were added to it membership . Both houses acted favorably on a bill by Senator Fearon which would allow former Attorney General Sargent to practice law in the State of New York without going through the routine of taking bar examinations . A bill sponsored by Senator , Democrat , of New York City , to make it a felony to possess a glass pistol with intent to use it for unlawful purposes went through both houses . The Assembly followed the action of the Senate yesterday in passing the Thayer bill to amend the rapid transit act for New York City . This measure was sought for utilization in case the project to carry out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go through . Chiropractors Lose Again . Among the measures lost in the final rush was a bill to license chiropractors . The Senate defeated it , 12 to 30 , after the Assembly had passed it . The Assembly defeated another measure which had been passed previously by the Senate and which would have permitted osteopaths to perform minor surgical operations . A bill introduced by Assemblyman Hayes of Albany , Democrat , which would have prohibited boards of education from questioning applicants for positions as teachers as to their religious affiliations passed the lower house but disappeared in the closing flood in the Senate . A bill by Senator Thayer which would have placed submetering companies under the supervision of the Public Service Commission passed the Senate after the Assembly had adjourned and thus failed .                     