@@699287

txt While President Hoover and his Cabinet struggled today with the problem of reducing expenditures so that heavy additional tax levies would be unnecessary , members of Congress , discussing the situation , expressed hope that such a solution could be found . One point was definitely established , following the meeting of the President and his advisers , namely : that reports that the administration would recommend li program of retrenchment for the fiscal year 1934 to the extent of $500,000,000 were accurate . Decision was deferred on whether a formal recommendation for tax legislation in the short session of Congress also would be necessary . Details of the retrenchment program were withheld , but it is known that the appropriations sought by every department are being carefully analyzed and that a definite plan to bring the budget to a balance in 1934 will be placed before Congress to accept or reject . It is understood also that the difficulties of budget balancing for the current fiscal year are considered virtually insurmountable , even if new taxes are levied which would be effective in the remaining seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude of members of Congress was to withhold a definite statement as to the necessity of new taxes , pending recommendations from the executive branch . Senator Harrison , ranking minor- ity member of the Finance Committee , said that a deficit at the end of the fiscal year 1933 appeared inevitable , but that procedure by Congress must await a definite estimate of how much expenditures would exceed revenues . " The Democratic party is pledged to rigid entrenchment and economies in government operations , " he said . " I hope we can apply the knife and abolish every useless function of the government and effect as large a saving in government expenditures at this session as possible . There are two ways to balance the budget , either through economy or by increasing taxes . I prefer the former . " Senator Harrison , as well as other Democratic legislators , coupled the possible revenue to be obtained from legalizing beer with a budget balancing program . But if more taxes still were necessary , he was not ready to line up with opponents of the general manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Treasury continues to show a deficit and we can find no other source of revenue to tax  --  and I do n't know where we can find such sources  --  then we shall have to go to the sales tax , " he said , Representative Rainey , Democratic floor leader , is listed among those who feel that the first move is up to the executive branch . l4eanwhile the American Federation of Labor , in a statement by William Green , its president , declared its intention " to oppose the enactment of sales-tax legislation during the short session of Congress . " It added that a " strong decIlaration " against such a tax would be adopted at the federation 's convention in Cincinnati next week and that plans would then be made to mobilize all organizations opposed to the sales tax . " Labor views with feelings of deep apprehension the attempt of the advocates of sales-tax legislation to transfer the burden of taxation from the wealth of the nation to the masses of the people , " the statement said . " Labor has borne the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is undergoing continued hardship and suffering . During all this period it has manifested qualities of self-possession and selfrestraint which have challenged the admiration of its many friends . " It i$ inconceivable that Congress would add to the suffering which labor has endured by imposing upon it the additional burden which it would be called upon to bear in case Congress passes sales-tax legislation . Chamber Group for Cost Cuts . In a report made public here today the Chamber of Commerce of the " United States , through a committee on Federal taxation headed by Redfield Proctor of Proctor , Vt. , heldthat proposals to increase the revenues of then government by the adoption of new- or higher taxes should be considered only if based upon substantial reductions in Federal expenditures . " The members of the committee stress first the reduction in Federal expenditures , " Mr. Proctor said . " No taxes designed to bring in additional revenues should be advo'cated except such as may be clearly necessary to secure a balanced budget within a reasonable time . " The proposals of new taxes should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures nor be ' permitted to encourage the addition of new expenditures . There must , however , be clear evidence that the budget will be balanced in the near future . " The committee held that unless it appeared that there would be a deficit in the current year " so great as to threaten national credit , " it might be desirable that legislation providing new taxes " aside from the possible beer tax , " be avoided in the short session of Congress . For " Caution " in Sales Tax Talk . If it was made clear that additonal revenues were necessary , the committee held that a manufacturers ' sales tax should receive consideration and that the subject be approached with caution . " It is not clear that the adoption of a sales tax under present conditions would reduce or eliminate other taxes , " ' the committee stated . " If , however , it becomes necessary to procure new revenues to overcome an insupportable deficit in 1933 , it seems clear from the committee 's discussion that it will propose methods of securing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of safeguards . ' It may even propose such a tax as a desirable permanent modification of our revenue structure . " The committee declared that the personal and corporate income taxes were too high , the additional tax for consblidated returns " indefensible's% and the rates on estates " little short of confiscatory " . " The need for coordination of Federal , State and local taxation also was stressed . Representative Rankin of Mississippi , who was an advocate of " cOntrolled currency expansion " in the last session , said today that be still favored such a program . He would propose expanding the currency from $1,000,000 to $2,000,000 if the inflation bill to pay the soldier bonus was not revived .                     