@@698842

txt With the hearings before the Hofstadter committee at an end , future action on Mayor Walker rested yesterday with Governor Roosevelt . Tammany Hall expects the Mayor to occupy the role of defendant in removal proceedings before the Governor , but believes that those proceedings will not take place until after the National Democratic Convention adjourns . Samuel Seabury , chief counsel to the joint legislative investigation , is expected to file charges against the Mayor as he did against Thomas M. Farley , the Tammany district leader , who was removed from the office of Sheriff of New York County by Mr. Roosevelt . The chief counsel , however , seemed in no hurry to bring the issue of Mr. Walker 's continuance in office to a showdown . It was understood that he would take no action until Governor Roosevelt had an opportunity to act on his own initiative . Observers pointed out that Mr. Seabury may have given the Governor that opportunity by charging on the record that the Mayor had forfeited the right to remain in office by permitting a $43,000 city contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding a $10,000 interest in that company . Delay by Governor Expected . Persons close to Governor Roosevelt , however , expressed the opinion that he would take no action on Mayor Walker until he has received formal charges either from Mr. Seabury or some other responsible individual or organization , and then not until the surcharged political atmosphere surrounding the case has cleared . To act on his own initiative now , the Governor 's advisers have told him , would be to run the risk of being accused of political opportunism . Summary action in the Mayor 's case might be interpreted as unfair , it was said . Even if charges were filed immediately by Mr. Seabury , it was pointed out , there is scarcely time for the Mayor to file an answer before the opening of the convention in Chicago . The political effect of Mayor Walker 's case on Governor Roosevelt 's chances of winning his party 's nomination for President can not be minimized . Failure to act decisively if charges are filed with him might be interpreted as bowing to Tammany Hall , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt upon Mr. Roosevelt 's ability to carry his own State . Mr. Seabury gave no hint of his intention in the matter before he left for Washington and Jefferson College at Washington , Pa. , where he is to receive the degree of Doctor of Laws and deliver a commencement address tomorrow . He said only that he expected to be " very busy " next week . The chief counsel , accompanied by Mrs. Seabury and William B. Northrop , his nephew , left the city by motor , planning to spend the night at Harrisburg , Pa . It was reported that he had received the assurance of certain civic leaders that no action toward the filing of charges with the Governor would be taken in his absence . He expects to return . to the city Monday . Thus far , Mr. Seabury admitted , he had received no request front Governor Roosevelt for transcripts of the evidence relating to the Mayor as it was presented to the Hofstadter committee in the past four weeks . Federal agents attached to the intelligence unit of the Bureau of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income and income tax returns of Dr. William H. Walker , the Mayor 's brother . It was shown at the final hearing of the committee that Dr. Walker , who shared in fees paid by the city to a coterie of doctors for services in compensation cases , banked U32,677 in a little more than four years . Investigations already are under way into the income-tax status of Mayor Walker and Senator John A. Hastings , who , it was revealed , had enjoyed a large income from bus and taxicab companies . The inquiry into Mayor Walker 's tax paymentr centres about his acceptance of $26,535 in bonds from J. A. Sisto when the latter was trying to establish a market for securities of the Parmelee Transportation Company and favored stricter municipal control of taxicabs . Hearings Over Until Fall . While it was generally understood that the committee 's work was finished except for the scheduled hearings next Fall on constructive proposals for remedying defects in the city charter and filing its report with the Legislature which created it , Mr. Seabury reserved the right to ask Samuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a special hearing if important new evidence should come to light . Such an eventuality , however , is regarded as unlikely . This was indicated at the close of Wednesday 's asked the chief counsel if he wished to present any further evidence . " Not at this time , " Mr. Seabury replied . " and if your Honors are about to take a recess subject to the call of the chair , I would like to express my own personal appreciation of the courtesy extended to me by a majority of the committee and also would like very sincerely to express my own  --  not only appreciation  --  but admiration for the manner in which these proceedings have been presided over  --  the patience , the deliberation and the wisdom that has been shown by the distinguished Senator that we have been honored by having preside over these deliberations . " " Thank you , " Judge Seabury , " replied Chairman Hofstadter . " We appreciate your very difficult and arduous labors . " Records Being Packed Up . To all appearances the headquarters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday but there was noticeable among the stenographers and accountants an air of uncertainty regarding the security of their jobs . Several members of the staff were engaged in sorting records and having them packed to return to the city departments and private persons from whom they had been subpoenaed . In compliance with Governor Roosevelt 's request for further investigative , Sheriff John E. Sheehy announced that he would send the Governor as soon as possible a more detailed report on the financial dealings of Under Sheriff Peter Curran , who was unable to explain his bank accounts when called upon to do so before the committee . In his original report to the Governor , the Sheriff who succeeded Mr. Parley , in that office gave the Under Sheriff a clean . bill of health for the period since Curran took office . The GOvernor , however , was notsatisfied . He asked that Sheriff Sheehy carry hearing when-lBenator Hofstadter his investigation back to 1025x                     