@@701789

txt Flood-beleaguered residents of Western Massachusetts sent out frantic calls for help tonight as raging waters , whipped up by a steady southwest storm , ravaged New England for the - second time in a week . The rain would continue until late tomorrow , Weather Bureau officials d said . The known dead in the week 's period stood at sixteen , while property damage mounted into millions of dollars . Two persons were missing . Late tonight a message received at the office of Adjt . Gen. William I. Rose here announced that the huge dam at Vernon , Vt. , had gone out . State police and other officials immediately broadcast a warning to towns and cities in the Connecticut Valley below the dam . Later , Superintendent Harry Ostron , at the Vernon Dam , said that it was still holding , though at both the Vernon and the New Hampshire sides the river was threatening to cut through . Gangs of men worked steadily to stop the breach , throwing sandbags into the holes . Frank D , Comerford , president of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employes at the dam about midnight and that the engineer told him holes in the river bank at the sides of the dam had been plugged and the river had not risen in the last hour . " The engineer said he thought the worst of the trouble was over , " added Mr. Comerford . Pittsfield Calls for Help Meanwhile Pittsfield called for all possible assistance . There the Pill electric dam was reported going out , and State police said that both the Plunkett dam at Pittsfield and the Eaton Crane and Pike dams both were going out . National Guardsmen . were on duty at Pittsfield . The Greenfield company of the National Guard was called out for service there , while three companies were on duty at Holyoke . Governor James M. Curley , accompanied by a number of State officails , reached Springfield shortly before midnight to aid in directing relief work . The rainstorm deluged the New England area during the day and night , and mountain snows , softened by continued unseasonably warm temperatures , poured thousands of tons of water into raging rivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submerged highways and railroad trackage , swept bridges before them and cut I lines of power , light and telephonic communication . Worcester , Mass .. battled tonight to retain its electric lights and power . Three fire companies were rushed to electric light stations with their pumpers . The stations were flooded when the Leesville Dam went out . Worcester has a population of nearly 200,000 exceeded in the State only by Boston . The deaths in New England today included : Elizabeth , 7 , and Donald Rattee , 5 , drowned when they fell from a footbridge over a stream near Hancock , Vt . Mrs. Hiram S. Drrry of Williamstown , Vt , fell dead as she watched flood waters race down a hillside from a bursting dam near her home . Harold L. Smith , 42 , father of twelve children , drowned at Windham , Vt. , while attempting to divert rising waters of a brook from flooding the basement of the lumber mill where he worked . Harry R. Willard , railroad freight agent , swept to death at Leominster , Mass. , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water collapsed into the Nashua River . At Springfield , Mass. , the Connecticut River continued to rise at the rate of a foot an hour . City Declares an Emergency At Westfield , Mass. , on the West ' field River , a Connecticut tributary , Mayor Raymond H. Cowing declared a state of public emergency and mobilized all available man-power to buttress menaced dikes and rescue marooned families . Several hundred refugees crowded the American Legion Building and three churches ; police commandeered every available boat , and fifty near-by CCC workers were pressed into service for relief duty . The river , higher even than during the disastrous floods of 1927 , which cost more than eighty lives in New England , isolated Westfield from all approaches but one . In Northwestern Massachusetts the Hoosac River brought terror to two communities along its banks , Adams and North Adams . National Guardsmen were called out at both points . Small bridges were carried away at Adams and the municipal water supply was threatened . One of the principal gas mains was broken , hampering the light and fuel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to North Adams upon orders of the National Guard . All main line westward movement on the lines of both the Boston &; Albany and the Boston &; Maine Railroad was suspended . Hundreds of passengers were temporarily stranded in Springfield 's Union Station . Late today State police reported that three.bridges , , including a New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad span , had been swept away by the Connecticut at Montague , and that the debris had piled against a fourth bridge , that of the Boston &; Maine Railroad , just below Montague at East Deerfield . At Turners Falls on the Connecticut the river had reached a stage of 185,000 cubic feet a second , i compared with 172,000 feet in 1927 . At Fitchburg , in North Central 1Massachusetts , the National Guard was called out as the Nashua River overflowed - and conditions were described as the worst since 1850 . A break in the water main feeding the Fitchburg Hospital was restored by an emergency crew from the State Department of Public Health , but the hospital was using its own lighting system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city . Cooperating with National Guardsmen , CCC workers , police and firemen toiled strenuously to salvage property in the path of the river and rescue marooned families . All factories near the river closed . The Prince River , a tributary of the Ware River , swept away the Conners Pond bridge on the State highway between Barre and Petersham . Three dams on the Prince River and one on the Ware River in that vicinity were threatened . A small power house on the Prince River was shifted about a foot by the flood , Barre Plains was under water , with cellars of homes and stores flooded , largely from waters of Cleveland Brook , which became a raging torrent and piled up behind a blockade of sand and dirt that was washed against the county bridge . Residents appealed to county authorities to dynamite the bridge in the hope of opening up the brook channel . At the Barre Wool Combing Company workmen dynamited floating ice that threatened a fifty-foot footbridge . Railroad tracks were under water at Barre Plains . At Brimfield , Mass. , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flooded toward Fiskdale . Seventy-five residents in the path of the water fled from their homes . Landslides covered railroad tracks1 in several spots between Greenfield and Fitchburg and train service was suspended early In the afternoon . Practically every highway between Fitchburg and NorthAdams was impassable . Tonight the bursting of the retaining walls of the Plunkett Reservoir at Hinsdale , Mass. , threw fresh torrents of water into the already flooded Housatonic , which eventually flows southward through Pittsfield . At Williamstown , Mass. , roads connecting Williams College with the town centre were washed out . The Miller River in Central Massachusetts suddenly rose beyond the high levels of ' last week and , at Orange , flooded highways and threatened damage to the Reed textile plant , which suffered severe loss last week . Water rose two feet above the highway between Orange and Athol , close to the Orange business center . Traffic was rerouted over back roads , but the rising water likewise menaced them . The water reached the Boston &; Maine Railroad tracks in several places . Serious flood conditions prevailed at Hinsdale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kenne , N. H. , to Greenfield , Mass. , through Warwick , Mass . But in Warwick , Gale Brook increased to five times its normal size , washed sections out of the highway and overflowed three bridges . Two Vermont communities , Johnson and Worcester , were cut off from telephone communication with the outside world . The New England Telephone and Telegraph Company announced that it was unable to reach the central offices in either community and . that they " apparently had been flooded out . " Johnson is an incorporated village of 659 population situated on a tributary of the Lamoille River . Worcester is a town of 470 population with a trading center on a tributary of the Winooski River . Twenty-five families fled their homes at St. Johnsbury as a ninemile ice jam swept down the Passumpsic River , burying highways and rail lines with ice and water . Telegraph poles were down and two feet of water ran in dwellings . Farmers in boats directed swimming cattle to safety . To the south , at White River Junction , Vt. , the Connecticut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at White River was in a precarious condition . The grammar school was flooded . The bridge over the Connecticut also was in danger , with the water only two feet away and rising rapidly . The railroad bridge was loaded with coal cars to hold it . At Hartford , Vt. , the water was five feet over the falls .                     