@@699414

txt Radio City 's 8,200-seat Error Music . Hall is to become and a film theatre and the Amends . 3,700-seat Boxy film theatre is to go laver to the legitimate . The promoters of the whole enterprise are to be congratulated . on the swift and resolute manner in which they faced the realities . It is a strategic retreat which would have done credit to LENIN himself . New York City has known before this of theatre buildings too big for the kind of entertainment they were intended to house . Before we go on being hard with SAMUEL L. ROTHAFEL and his backers for planning a monster vaudeville house in which the performers are dwarfed , and before we describe the whole incident as so thoroughly characteristic of the pre-1929 age of elephantiasis and vulgarity , we might recall what happened almost twentyfive years ago when New York 's leading citizens set out to make the beginnings of a national theatre . They began by erecting for this New Theatre a. palace on Central Park West so many times too big that it virtually killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's New residential districts is York probably subject to Noises , seasonal fluctuations . Letters have recently appeared in Tan TIMES complaining of radios permitted to operate after midnight and noisy parties continuing to all hours . The fact that such letters were written during the holiday season may itself be a mitigation . Respectable radio owners who would never think of interfering 1 with their neighbor 's nightly rest I do think that Christmas and New I Year 's are exceptions . Broadcasts from across the Atlantic that are to be picked up before breakfast time in New York and broadcasts from the Coast that may come in long after midnight are permissible on festal days . One difficulty about the neighbor 's radio in a New York apartment is not that it interferes with a person 's sleep , but that it interferes with his own radio . Manhattan builders are not known for the thickness of their walls between 5B and 5C , and the wireless waves from next door have no trouble at all coming through . Oddly enough , this intrusion is most trying when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own . " AL " SMITH or the Notre Dame team or LILT PONS may come at you from half a dozen different directions while you are listening to them on your own radio . It is very trying . When a Tammany dieThe trict leader dies penniless Other and leaves his family unSide. provided for it is an iteml in the life of the city which should not escape notice . The incident , in all fairness , should have its place with other data that enter into the general picture of Tammany and the government of New York . A few cases of honorable poverty among the men who rule over us , Assembly district by Assembly district , would go far to undo the impression built up by the long parade of Tammany district leaders trying to explain to investigating committees how they happen to be in possession of large amounts of wealth . Cuban politics conIron tinue to furnish the Hand reading public , with a in Cuba . peculiarly sinister type of news . The world today has no lack of violence and tragedy , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under way and the consequences no man can quite foresee . In the Chaco jungle the senseless and prolonged slaughter goes on between Paraguayans and Bolivians . In any number of countries there is unrest , sometimes breaking out into conflict , and most of the time calling forth repression , and even cruel repression . In more than one country the government firing squads are at work . But it is only in Cuba , apparently , that assassination figures as a weapon employed by the authorities against their opponents . The latest incident at Havana concerns a young student arrested in connection with the assassination of the President of the Cuban Senate last September . Soon after his arrest he was picked up in the street with a bullet wound in his head and died in the hospital . The official explanation is that the hapless young man tried to escape from a police car and was shot down . It is the familiar ley de fuga , horrible enough when used in exceptional cases during actual civil war , but revolting when it becomes routine procedure employed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man 's doom was regarded as a foregone conclusion . This is shown by his mother 's frantic appeal to our diplomatic authorities for intercession . Ambassador GUGGENHEIM received from President MACHADO 'S Secretary of State the promise that the young student would receive a fair trial . He was killed a few hours later . It must be because the Presidency takes such heavy toll of its incumbents that the American people find it hard to find any one willing to run for President . DE VALERA 'S difficulty is that he can not secede from the British Commonwealth without seceding from Ulster , and he has set his heart on a united Ireland . Colonel LAWRENCE 'S translation of the Odyssey is said to be selling very well . It opens the way for a headline : World 's Best Sailor Best ZellsiNg                     