@@703517

txt A Fed-. eral anti-trust staff large enough to prosecute all violations instead of a few was advocated by Thurman Arnold , Assistant Attorney General , in a radio address here last night . The Government , Mr. Arnold declared , has always been " about ready to enforce the anti-trust laws " but has never had an adequate organization adequate to do the job . Referring to the 90 attorneys in his Anti-Trust Division , he said , " you ca n't police a country as large as America with a corporal 's guard . " The Assistant Attorney General 's speech coincided with the return to Washington of Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney ( D ) of Wyoming , Chairman of the Special Monopoly In , vestigating Committee . Reviewing progress made by the Committee thus far , Mr. O'Mahoney commended the spirit of co-operation encountered among business leaders and pointed to a growing realization that the investigation is to be a factual examination and not a " goat-hunting " expedition . Facts , Not Victims " It is becoming clear , " said the Senator , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the way to do it would be through a grand jury session and not by means of legislative inquiry . We are looking for-facts and not for victims . " Senator O'Mahoney said his Committee probably would not decide when to start public hearings until the end of September , when preliminary reports now being prepared by the Labor , Commerce , and Justice Departments and by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Trade Commission will be in hand . During the Roosevelt Administration , attorneys in the Justice Department 's Anti-Trust Division have been increased from 15 to 90 , Mr. Arnold pointed out , but even with such an organization , the Department must select the cases to be-prosecuted , on the basis of importance , while " the vast mine-rim offenders are permitted to go their way unmolested . " Failure to provide adequate antitrust enforcement , Mr. Arnold held , is " gradually changing this country-into an industrial autocracy . Changes Urged " It is my conviction , " he added , " that we are being forced to abandon our former policy of easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great industrial empires to adapt their price policies ? so that they can dis- tribute the goods which they are capable of making and so they can employ labor and run their plants at capacity . " No Government group that I know of desires to break up efficient mass production , " he said . We only desire to condemn combinations going beyond efficient mass production which have become instruments arbitrarily affixing inflexible prices or exercising coercive Power . " Prices and Buying Power Dividing the economic structure into two worlds , one a world of organized industry and the other a world of small , unorganized business farmers , laborers , and consumers . Mr. Arnold said that the Government is " stepping into the breech today to provide the second or competitive world with more purchasing power . " Spending money on relief , to aid home owners , in new construction to raise wages and to maintain farm prices are the methods employed , he said . " But this can never succeed , " he held , " if the world of organized industry maintains and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government supplies temporary purchasing power .                     