@@698058

txt Mayor Walker of New York arrived aboard the liner Bremen at Bremerhaven this morning at 11. o'clock and was welcomed by representatives of the Senate of this old Hanseatic city . The dignified Senators put so much tradition into the reception program that the smile temporarily died on Mayor Walker 's sun-tanned face , and after a cheerful crossing , which he regarded as a good omen for his vacation , he was somewhat surprised to find himself again in the midst of an official ceremony on this side of the ocean . Having listened to numerous addresses of welcome , however , he replied with one of his graceful speeches . The city fathers-of Bremen would probably have complied with Mayor Walker 's desire to desist from a formal reception had they not been present anyway as the gigantic new North Lock was inaugurated by the Bremen , which , cheered by large crowds , passed through the huge structure . The Mayor and his suite took the opportunity to inspect this new pride of the city of Bremen . Welcomed by Schmeling . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world 's heavyweight champion , who happened to be in Bremerhaven to meet his manager , Joe Jacobs . The champion said he was sorry there would be no bout during the two days the Mayor expects to stay in Berlin , as it might have provided a pleasant variation in his program of inspecting street cleaning departments . Mayor Walker , . who has been announced in German papers as " the world 's best-dressed Mayor , " wore a light brown coat , light trousers , white shoes and a colored soft shirt . He was not feeling very well and complained of headache , although he asserted that the trip had been splendid and none of his party had been seasick . The Mayor said he would depart for Berlin tomorrow , accepting the invitation of the Bremen Senate to spend the rest of the day in the city . A luncheon was given in his honor at the old City Hall . In a brief address over the radio he greeted the German people , saying he had not forgotten the reception given him on his last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his party , saw the cathedral , visited one of the largest hospitals and motored to the plant of the street cleaning department , where he inspected the sanitary facilities . Leaves Dinner Early . After a rest at his hotel , he accepted the invitation of Dr. Heineken , president of the North German Lloyd , to a dinner given in his honor , which was attended by prominent industrialists and members of shipping circles . He left early . Mayor Walker expects to stay in Berlin , where he will arrive tomorrow afternoon , for two or three days . There will be no official receptions and nothing is known at the City Hall there yet as to whether the Mayor of New York will call upon Berlin 's Chief Executive . Mayor Walker will then proceed to karlsbad , as the cure in Nauheim , where he originally planned to go , is felt to be too strenuous . Dr. William Schroeder , his physician , has agreed to deliver an address before scientific societies Friday . The Mayor of Heidelberg has invited Mayor - Walker to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Heidelberg . " Wo n't Discuss Running Again . BREMEN , Aug. 10 ( H ) . ? Mayor Walker declined seriously to discuss whether or not he would run again when he was interviewed on the liner Bremen by English reporters today . They misinterpreted his remarks , he said tonight , when they quoted him as saying he would not be a candidate . " Well , are you going to run again ? " he was asked . " I am running for my health now and not for office , " he replied . " I am not discussing politics on this trip . " After luncheon today at the old City Hall the Mayor and his party were escorted through the structure , which was built in 1412 . In the cellar is a rathskeller , leased by the Senate to a private operator . which contains many examples of early woodcarving and many paintings . One painting was of a donkey seated at a table with other animals . " There 's the Democratic emblem , " remarked Mayor Walker . " They get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party were guests of President Heineken of the North German Lloyd at the administration office . " I am glad to be here , " said the Mayor . ' " I trust that it will not be long before the German . people are restored to the happiness they enjoyed in the past . " . Dr. Heineken thanked Mayor Walker for the cooperation his company had received in getting piers in New York sufficiently large to handle big liners . The Mayor , who leaves tomorrow for Berlin , has arranged to broadcast to America there . Asked to Go to Faris . Several requests asking Mayor Walker to stop in Paris for the unveiling of the memorial tablet to New York City 's World War dead were transmitted to the Mayor yesterday by Major William F. Deegan , - Tenement House Commissioner , who will go to Paris for the ceremony in the American Legion Memorial Building there . The late Colonel Michael Friedsam , president of B. Altman &; Co. , gave the tablet to the Legion and at the time of the gift requested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unveiling . , Since Mayor Walker sailed for Germany Major Deegan has received numerous requests from officials high in the Legion/tasking that the Mayor attend the unveiling . Ralph T. O'Neil , national commander of the organization ; Edward J. Neary , State commander , and the five county commanders in the city have joined in asking that the Mayor be present . The directors of the Legion in Paris also cabled an invitation , leaving the , Mayor free to select any date for the event between Aug. 25 and Sept. 5 . Capt . William J. Pedrick , president of the Fifth Avenue Association , and John S. Burke , Colonel Friedsana 's successor as head of B. Altman &; Co. , also requested the Mayor 's presence . His plans do not include a : visit to Paris , though they may be changed with his physician 's assent .                     