@@702403

txt Attorney General Homer Stifle Cummings made t h e first of a series cf broadcasts tonight designed to rally the country t o the support of President Roosevelt 's project to pack the Supreme court with a mojority of New Dealers . The President himself will go on the air eventually in one of his " fireside chats " if he deems it necessary to allay the popular revulsion to his scheme to manipulate Supreme court decisions in favor of the New Deal . In the meantime the legislation will be delayed in the hope that a change in popular sentiment will give the President the support of a majority of the senate in which the result apparently will be close . Attorney General Cummings advanced two major reasons for the President 's proposal that for every federal judge over 70 who fails to retire an additional judge shall be appointed . His Two Reasons . These are : 1 . New blood should be injected into the judiciary in order that the constitution shall be construed in keeping with the changing needs produced by new complexities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - in the federal courts is largely due to the inability of aged and infirm judges to perform their share of the work . The attorney general also argued that the work of the courts has been burdened by the issuance of injunctions from which there should be a direct appeal to the Supreme court . Mr. Cummings contended that the people gave the President an overwhelming mandate to carry out the New Deal and that the only feasible means of doing so is to appoint justices to the Supreme court who will obey the mandate . Not a Dan , but a ChanneL " The constitution , " he said , " is not a dam erected to check the flow of the life of our people . It is a channel through which that life flows , directing , guiding , facilitating it , but at no point endeavoring to stop it . That the freedom of our people to direct their own destiny has been hampered , especially of late , by judicial action is scarcely open to debate . These limitations upon congressional power have brought into challenge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our people . ? " To confess that our institutions are not capable of serving our needs implies an admission we should be reluctant to make . Questions of vast significance are moving to their solution . The problems of America are insistent . We are a nation . Our people think as a nation . They act upon a nation-wide front . Industry World-Wide . ' Industry has long since spread its arms beyond the boundaries of a single state  --  indeed . beyond the seas . Labor marches on the parade ground of a continent . It is idle to say that agriculture is a local matter , or a question for the farmers alone . They know that nature has decreed it otherwise . The winds and the ' dust and the drouth and the floods do not heed state lines . They have unmistak. able jurisdictions of their own . 1 trust it may not be deemed indelicate if I borrow the quaint phrase of Mr. Justice Holmes and suggest that some of our judges ' need education in the obvious . ' " The attorney general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges over 70 are less Competent and Charles Evans Hughes comments on the reluctance of aged judges to retire . He cited the proposal of the then attorney general , now Associate Justice James C. , to appoint another judge whenever one was unwilling to retire at 70 . The Result of " History . " " Despite the manifest need of these reforms , despite the comprehensive and reasonable nature of these proposals , despite the long history which brought them forth , despite the eminent judges and statesmen who have either expressed views or actually proposed measures of substantially the same character , the President is now the storm center of a virulent attack , " said Mr. Cummings . ' The technique of the last political campaign has been revived . We are solemnly assured that the courts are to be made mere appendages to the executive office , that the judges to be appointed can not he trusted to sup . pert the constitution , and that the tragedies of despotism await only the adoption of the President 's recommendations . " Yet , no serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to any part of the plan , except its application to certain members of the Supreme court . Why a Special Exemption . " Why the Supreme court should he granted a special exemption from the plan , no one has been able to explain . If there were no judges on that court of retirement age there would be no substantial objection from any responsible quarter . What then is the real objection ? It is simply this : Those who wish to preserve the status quo want to retain on the bench judges who may be relied upon to veto progressive measures . "                     