@@697379

txt Week-end mercantile reviews were notably optimistic , describing broadening demand in distributing channels , and a strengthening balance between production and consumption . However , stocks were under the immediate influence of technical conditions in the market , and the leaders broke to new lows on reaction in Saturday 's abbreviated session Short covering brought good recoveries before the close . Renewal of aggressive operations for the decline on part of bearish professionals was encouraged by the lack of support shown in Friday 's late trading . This situation created the belief that the general list was open to further declines after its extensive advance from last month 's lows . Heavy - selling. based on this theory , was directed against Steel . American Can , General Electric , Westinghouse , Radio , Consolidated Gas , and other recent favorites on the upside . Pressure of this character forced substantial recessions from their recent higns in the issues affected . Unsettlement was increased by large offerings of Baltimore &; Ohio , which were accompanied by reports questioning the Safety of the present $7 dividend rate . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular quarterly payment of $1.75 a share will be authorized at next Wednesday 's meeting . ? ? ? A slightly firmer tone cropped out during the second hour on buying by interests feeling that reactionary tendencies at this time were a normal technical development , and that nothing had happened to destroy indications that the maid trend was upward . While the list continued highly irregular , the somewhat steadier action of pivotal shares was followed by resumption of buying activities in individual issues . Bethlehem displayed noteworthy strength , rising to a new high on the movement in face of U. S. Steel 's uncertain behavior . Americas Water Works stood out in the utility department , while Standard of New Jersey led a moderate recovery in the oil shares on betterment of the gasoline price structure in California . ? ? ? Day-to-day traders were manifestly disappointed over the failure of the main body of stocks to turn upward in Friday 's late trading . Since the drought setback was checked on August 12 , industrials used in the Dow-Jones averages have foreshadowed the successive phases of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the'Dow theory of averages point out that the industrial compilatica rallied from 217.24 on August 12 to 245.09 on September 10 , and that of this 28-point upswing the final two sessions of the past four weeks have contributed slightly more than 20 points . Hence , the failure of the market to follow precedent in this respect Friday was bearishly interpreted in speculative quarters , and in , duced renewal of professional operations for the decline . However , the aggregate reactions of Thursday and Friday amounted to only 3.91 points . In view of the extensive gains that preceded it , this setback clearly was not beyond the proportions called for on technical grounds . If support should appear in the next Sew days without further important recessions , it would indicate that the main body of stocks was merely passing through a period of correction , and that the groundwork had been prepared for additional progress on the autumn advance . Bearish professionals argue that the slight improvement that has occurred in general business has already been measured by the upturn in stock prices from ' the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the industrial revival are already apparent in the recent decline in steel production from the levels prevailing at the end of August . But steel experts attribute this falling off to the influence of Labor Day holiday conditions , and anticipate improvement in productive operations in forthcoming statistics . ? ? ? Meanwhile , bullish interests believe that the most significant indication of the market 's immediate outlook is the fact that the downward trend line in effect since last September was definitely broken by the recent recovery in the , Dow-Jones industrial average to above the best levels reached on rallies in July and August . This performance is taken as assurance that the principal industrials established a definite bottom by breaking to 211.84 in June , and 217.24 in August , and that support will be encountered well ' above these figures on any reactions that may develop . Moreover , the fact that renewed uncertainties have appeared in the steel trade and commodity markets does not obscure the testimony given by accepted barometers that a real turn for the better has taken place in the trade situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business indicators were pointing sharply downward . Now , however , August steel output and recent car loading figures have shown more than seasonal improvement . In addition , conditions in merchandising lines have scored noteworthy improvement , ' and the managements of leading companies like Radio Corp. , Woolworth and Atwater Kent have testified that the outlook for the final four months of 1930 is extremely promising . While sup important lines as copper buying and automobile manufacturing as yet have given no grounds for encourageznfat , statistical condition in the motors industry has been slowly gathering strength . l ! dotor makers have consistently followed a policy of lightening the stocks of cars in dealers ' hands , and now are in the best position in years to speed up output should an expansion in retail demand be foreseen . Executives of the principal copper producing companies feel no pessimism over the August figures on metal stocks , claiming that they are a natural reflection of stagnant business during the month . Meanwhile , building activities are showing impressive resistance to seasonal factors making for curtailment , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a substantial pick-up in demand eventually will be seen . While the recovery in business will undoubtedly be gradual , and characterized by confusing uncertainties , the fact remains that all indices that have pointed to revival in the past are now existent . As the stock market is usually some months ahead of trade , observers experienced in conditions following the nation 's historic depressions think there is a good chance that Wall Street will be the outstanding bright spot of the country during the winter months . ? ? ? Of course , considerable speculation has been going on as to how far the current recovery may be expected to go . Authorities who were eminently correct in calling the turn last month predict that the upswing will proceed until early November before any prolonged setbacks are seen . At any rate , it is felt that the recovery over the last four weeks has been handled in intelligent fashion , reflecting the guiding hand of interests determined not to Mow the ma --  ? ? to be weakened by speculative excesses . , while , trading activity has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to shrink on recessions . It is contendcd that this dullness on reactions is a sign of basic strength , illustrating the absence of weakened accounts . Consequently , it is believed that speculative theory points to gradually ascending prices , with the extent of the gains exceeding intervening setbacks . While a number of resistance levels are indicated on the chart mapped out by the movement of industrials used in the DowJones averages , the first serious one lies in the level between 255 and 258 . Bullish interests are hopeful that the coming weeks will see a determined assault on this objective . ? ? ? From sources close to the company it is learned that the production of Grigsby-Grunow is now on a basis of 2,500 sets per day and sales from-the field indicate a greater demand on the part of dealers : ' It is expected that production will increase October 1 . The company is now employing 5,400 men . As is usual in the radio industry , it is expected that results for the last six months of the year will be exceedingly satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the ' Majestic Household Utilities Corp. , which is reducing overhead charges in a very substantial way which should be reflected favorably in Grigsby 's earnings .                     