@@699189

txt br . Abraham Flexner , director of the new Institute for Advanced Study , announced yesterday that Professor Albert Einstein , discoverer of the theory of relativity and widely regarded as the greatest scientific figure since Sir Isaac Newton , has accepted a life appointment as head of the institute 's School of Mathematics . Dr. Flexner also said that the institute would open next Autumn and that it would be situated at or near Princeton , N. , J. Professor Einstein has been appointed Professor of Mathematical and Theoretical Physics . He will occupy a home in Princeton with Mrs. Einstein , will be in residence at the institute annually from Oct. 1 to April 15 , beginning next Autumn , and will make n yearly visit to Germany . Professor Einstein will devote all his time to the institute , and his trips abroad will be vacation periods for rest and meditation at his Summer home outside of Berlin . Whether he will become an American citizen is not known , although it is considered doubtful , since he has never given up his Swiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has not decided where ho will spend this Winter , but will use the time before assuming his duties at the institute to complete his work on the unified field theory , seeking to close the gap left by his early theory of relativity and solve the mystery of the nature of space , a task with which he has been occupied for several years . He may do some of this work during the coming Winter at Mount Wilson , Pasadena , Cal. , which he visited last Winter . Veblen Also Appointed . Dr. Einstein will be accompanied here by his assistant , Dr. Walter Mayer of Berlin , who has been appointed Associate in Mathematics at the new institute . Dr. Mayer has been Professor Einstein 's assistant for several years , and came to the United States with him last year . He is a mathematician who gave up his post at the University of Vienna to work with Professor Einstein . Announcement was made also of the appointment of Professor Oswald Veblen , generally recognized as one of the leading American mathematicians and until now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the institute 's School of Mathematics . Professor Veblen already has assumed his new duties and during the coming year will assist Dr. Flexner in preparing for the opening of the institute . Professor Veblen has been at1 Princeton since 1905 , first as pre-1 ceptor in mathematics and later as Professor of Mathematics . He has occupied recently the Henry Burchard Fine chair in mathematics . During the past two years he has been visiting Professor of Mathematics at Oxford and Gottingen . He recently returned from Gottingen . He is a native of Decorah , Iowa , and holds A. B. degrees from the University of Iowa and Harvard , Ph . D. degrees from the University of Chicago and the University of Oslo and the degree of Doctor of Science from Oxford . Before going to Princeton lie was an associate in mathematics at the University of Chicago , from 1903 to 1905 . His assistant at the institute will be Dr. J. L. Vanderslice , a young Princeton graduate student , who has been Professor Veblen 's assistant at Princeton . Temporary Quarters at Princeton . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grant of $5,000,000 from Louis Bamberger and Mrs. Felix Fuld , former owners of the L. Barnberger &; Co. department store in Newark , N. J. , will be housed temporarily in Fine Hall , the graduate mathematics building at Princeton ; later on other schools will be added to the School of Mathematics , and it is expected that the institute will occupy permanent buildings of its own in the vicinity of Princeton . The location of the institute at Princeton , and in Fine Hall in particular , is especially appropriate . Professor Einstein 's first visit to the United States was to Princeton , because of the work-being done there in mathematics and astronomy . Even then he was attracted by its quiet and peaceful nature as a place for the work of a scholar . Fine Hall was dedicated only a year ago , and its very structure , both in exterior and interior , pays tribute to Einstein as a scientist . Among the mathematical formulae used as decorative motifs in the stainedglass window designs of the redbrick and limestone Gothic building are the Einstein equations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common room , is engraved in German a statement by Einstein : " God is clever , but not dishonest . " The building was erected as a memorial to the late Professor Henry Burchard Fine , formerly dean of the Department of Science and organizer of the Department of Mathematics at Princeton . It stands at the lower end of the campus , adjoining Palmer Physical Laboratory , in the group of graduate school buildngs . Modern to the nth degree , it provides studies for members of the teaching staff and for graduate students , large lecture halls and seminar room and a library occupying the entire third floor . It has been decided to open the institute in temporary quarters , instead of erecting new buildings for the purpose , partly because of a desire to begin simply and slowly , waiting until the most eminent teachers are available to head each school , and partly because of a definite policy to spend the money which the institute has available " for men rather than buildings . " " A Scholar 's Paradise . " The institute will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based upon ideas designed to make it " a scholar 's paradise , " although it is hoped that eventually it will set an example that will be followed by the establishment of similar institutions in various parts of the country , just as the establishment of Johns Hopkins Medical School has led to the spread of first-rate medical schools throughout the United States in the past half-century . It will concentrate its aim exclusively upon quality in the selection of its teachers and students and in the nature of its work in scholarship and research . There will be no emphasis upon mere numbers , either in teachers or students or courses . It will consist of a small number of scholars , teachers , research workers and students , who will devote themselves to the really fundamental things under a regime of the most severe intellectual pattern . The institute , it is hoped , will accomplish certain definite things in setting a new trend in higher education in America . It will remunerate its staff and faculty so well that it is expected to establish beyond question the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much greater results may be obtained when teachers are freed from the distraction and worry of seeking additional remuneration from labors outside of the university . It is also hoped that it will establish a new line of thought toward the placing of more emphasis upon the individual among university graduates . It is expected that the institute will attract students of an independent turn of mind , who will go out from the institute after completing their work there as distinct individuals rather than as standardized products of a university professional school . In order to further this aim of individualism , the institute will remain entirely separate from any conventional university or college conception and from the distractions of " collegiate " life in America . Thus , a statement issued yesterday at Dr. Flexner 's office made it clear that while the institute will occupy temporary space in a Princeton building , it will not be a part of Princeton University . Economics School Projected . " The institute will consist of a series of schools , the first of which ' will be the School of Mathematics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Economics and History , " said the statement . " * ? * The institute will be in every respect a separate organization , and while it will cultivate cooperative and friendly relations with members of the Princeton faculty , it is hoped that equally cordial relations may be established with all similar groups throughout the country . " No definite site for a permanent location has yet been selected , nor have any steps been taken in'respect to buildings . The students admitted will be few in numbers and will be limited to persons who give promise of unusual development in their respective subjects . " The institute 's plans were announced following a meeting of its Board of Trustees at the Uptown Club yesterday afternoon . Alanson B. Houghton , former Ambassador to Great Britain , presided . The other trustees are Mr. Bamberger , Mrs. Fuld , Dr. Flexner , who was formerly director of the division of medical education of the General Education Board ; Frank Aydelotte , president of Swarthmore College ; Edgar S. Bamberger , nephew of the founders ; Dr. Alexis Carrel of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John R. Hardin , president of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company of Newark ; Herbert H. Lehman , Lieutenant Governor of New York ; Samuel D. Leidesdorf of New York . Herbert H. Maass of New York , Dr. Florence R. Sabin of the Rockefeller Institute ; Percy S. Straus of New York , and Dr. Lewis H. Weed , dean of the Medical School of Johns Hopkins University . All the trustees were present except Lieut . Gov . Lehman . Dr. Flexner , who has spent the two years since the institute was established in preparatory investigations and conferences here and abroad , read a report to the trustees supplementing his remarks at the organization meeting in 1930 on the purposes and scope of the institute . It is understood that the institute under Dr. Flexner 's leadership will carry out the ideas with which he startled the American educational world in 1930 , when his book , " Universities , American , English and German , " was published , and the ideas that have characterized the progress of medical education in this country . His book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect to research and scholarship , and he plans that the institute shall occupy a new and hitherto unoccupied field in higher education in America ? " the prosecution of research in subjects of fundamental importance and the training of men to become investigators and teachers in higher institutions of learning . " The institute will be exclusively a post-graduate university , entirely separated from the " collegiate " activities of existing American higher education and completely divorced from the " vocational " courses of American universities which Dr. Flexner criticized so severely in his book . It will be devoted to scholarship and research in the spirit of pure science , without outside distractions . Dr. Flexner intends to establish various schools in the institute , one by one , beginning with the School of Mathematics , as men of real eminence in their fields become available to head these schools . In each case the school will be headed by men as prominent in their field as Einstein and Veblen in mathematics , or the school will not be established , it has been made clear . Each school will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together with a number of assistants or students of promise . It is intended that there shall be a constant flow of young scholars and scientists to and from the institute , each remaining a year or a few years and then making way for others while they themselves find permanent positions in other American institutions of higher learning . It is likely that between now and next Autumn , when the School of Mathematics will open , Dr. Flexner will add a few other outstanding mathematicians to the faculty . When the School of Mathematics opens the students will be limited to a few persons to be selected personally by Professors Einstein and Veblen and by any other professors who may have been added to the staff in the meantime . Wide Latitude in Method . It is understood that ten students is the largest number that any one has suggested for any professor to work with ; and if a professor feels that he can work better with as few as five or six , or even only two or three , it will be left to his judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself whether to work with seminars or groups or to work with each student individually . If Professor Einstein or any other professor in the institute prefers not to give lectures or any other formal means of instruction to his students , but rather to let them simply work alongside him and learn as best they can by their own efts , he will have complete freedom to do so . Students will be selected on the basis of their aptitude for the work rather than the possession of formal college degrees . It is expected , of course , that most of the students will enter with Ph . D. degrees or their equivalent but the lack of a formal college training will not bar any student who otherwise is quai1 ified to work with the professors in the institute . The entire staff of professors and assistants will be on the full-time basis of employment . Salaries , retiring allowances , pensions and aid in the education of children will be on such a scale that every member of the staff will be able and will be expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Flexner 's theory has been that the scholarship of many American professors has been undermined because of the necessity to seek outside work for the sake of the remuneration it entails . He has decided to set an example by doing for the general field of university work what the Rockefeller Institute has done successfully in the field of medicine  --  that is , remove its workers absolutely from all distraction due to the need of earning money . Just what the scale of salaries will be has not been made public ; but it is understood that the institute 's solution of the salary problem , together with its other efforts to keep its faculty free from distracting influences , so favorably impressed Professor Einstein that he remarked : " This is Heaven ! " Dr. Flexner hopes that the institute will be the forerunner of many American institutions doing the kind of graduate work now done at Oxford and Cambridge in England , the University of Paris and some provincial universities in France , and in nearly thirty universities in Germany . Will Have Its Temporary Quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institute will be shorter than the present American college year . Dr. Flexner believes that six months is long enough , that competent students can receive in that time all the stimulus they need to carry them over the next six months , and that this restriction in time will save the teachers from exhausting their minds with too protracted routine . He believes that persons engaged in research often do their best work during their " vacations , " so that these periods should be prolonged , and also that this will give them the highly valuable opportunity to travel and come in contact with their fellow workers in this country and abroad . The Practical Importance . Dr. Flexner has anticipated that he will be asked why the institute has chosen mathematics as its first effort , that some will suggest that the institute is abandoning the world and its ills in order to embark upon a subject of purely theoretical importance . " Quite the contrary , " he says in a statement prepared for the trustees . " Mathematics is perhaps the most fundamental of all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishing need at no time ask of itself what of practical importance can be expected of this or that person , this or that subject , this or that investigation . The history of civilization proves abundantly that sound scientific work does not only gratify human curiosity but almost invariably leads to unexpected results . ? * * " Over a hundred years have passed away since Faraday at the Royal Institution in London began to play with electricity . He had absolutely no idea that his investigations would have any practical consequences or any theoretical consequences beyond the satisfaction of his curiosity , and yet everything that we do today with electricity is more or less closely dependent upon the unfettered investigations which Faraday was fortunately in position to make . " It is as true today as it was when Goethe closed his eyes in death that what the world needs is ' more light ' ? more light to illuminate what is obscure , more light to enable us to reorganize our intellectual and social and political lives . No one is wise enough to tell the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the race will not in the future be different from what it has been in the past , and an institute which enables men of superior wisdom and capacity to indulge their curiosity and to promote understanding will in due course produce consequences of which neither they nor we now dream . " No Bias in Race , Creed or Sex . When Mr. Bamberger and Mrs. Fuld founded the institute they laid down the principle that " in the appointments to the staff and faculty as well as in the admission of workers and students no account shall be taken , directly or indirectly , of race , religion or sex . " " We feel strongly , " they added , " that the spirit characteristic of America at its noblest  --  above all  --  the pursuit of higher learning  --  can not admit of any conditions as to personnel other than those designed to promote the objects for which this institution is established and particularly with no regard whatever to accidents of race , creed or sex . " They also announced that scholarships and fellowships would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without financial means to pursue advanced studies. -                     