@@700214

txt Havana stepped off in a resolute march back to order and calm today after two of the worst days in the city 's history in which Col. Fulgenclo Batista 's loyal soldiers put down a revolution that for a time shook the foundation of the present regime . The casualty list totaled approximately 150 killed and uncounted wounded  --  reminders of the strife in which rebel troops and oppositionist civilian groups sought to restore former Provisional President de Cespedes to power , Among the fatalities was the picturesque veteran rebel of the hills , Juan Bias Hernandez , who was killed in his first engagement within the city . And , among the wounded , was at least one woman who with several others entered the Atares Castle with the rebels shortly before dawn yesterday , a few hours before Colonel Batista 's loyal troops opened the devastating attack which resulted in the surrender of some 1500 revolters in what was regarded as a decisive blow at the revolutionary cause . The defeated insurgents were lodged in Principe and Cabanas fortress . They faced court-martial . Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets from which they were driven yesterday by gunfire . Activity in other lines of business was hesitatingly resumed . Government authorities were confident that they had ' the situation well in hand , and it appeared that no foreign intervention was contemplated . The U. S. S. Wyoming steamed toward Havana . but she was expected to remain outside the harbor on her arrival early Saturday . Refugee Fliers Reach Tampa TAMPA , Fla. , Nov. 10 ( i1I ? Two Cuban fliers , who were rescued at sea while attempting to fly to this country after participating in the revolt against the Grau San Martin Government , were here today and immigrittion officials said they probably would be allowed to remain in the United States as political refugees . The fliers , Lieut . Aristides de A guero and Roman Hernandez , came here from Baco Grande where they were brought by the steamer Western Sword following the sea rescue .                     