@@700791

txt A plan for releasing at once all or part of the $25,000,000 tentatively allotted to New York City for slum clearance and construction of low-cost housing was offered to Mayor LaGuardia today by Secretary Ickes in a letter . Dwight L. Hoopingarner , representing the PWA Administrator , delivered the letter to Mayor LaGuardia in New York this morning , and reported by telephone that the Mayor was personally in favor of accepting the proposition and would take it up with the Board of Estimate this week . The plan proposes that the government will acquire the land and lease it to the Housing Authority with option to purchase ; make a grant of 30 per cent of the cost of la ' - or and materials , and a loan at 4 per cent , amortizable in fortyfive years . The city would provide various parcels of city owned property , schools , parks , streets , sewers , lighting and other services ; cash to cover minimum administration costs of the Housing Authority , and tax exemptions on the improvements in addition to the land . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would exercise joint supervision and coitrol . Mr. Ickes states , however , that " the release of the $25,000,000 , in whole or in part , is conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory action by the Housing Authority . " " I believe these proposals pave the way toward a successful lowcost housing program for New York City . " Mr. Ickes said , In making his letter public . " We have received generous cooperation from New York authorities in approaching the highly difficult problems of housing , and I believe we are now ready to go ahead with definite action on a carefully considered basic plan . " Mr. Hoopingarner has privately reported to Secretary Ickes that Tenement House Commissioner Post has done fine work in laying the ground for one of the biggest slum clearance projects this country has yet seen . The government is understood to have agreed to the Williamsburg area and the Red Hook section as desirable sites . Mr. Post , on behalf of the New York Authority , has already obtained many options in these districts . That acceptance of these sites is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " alternative areas will be appraised to determine the best sites available in order to keep costs and rents to a minimum . " Before Mr. Hoopingarner went to New York , there had been frequent difficulties between Mr. Past and Secretary Ickes , the latter declaring that New York wanted to handle the whole affair , but have the government put up the money . Mayor Agrees to Conditions . Mayor LaGuardia said last night that the Board of Estimate and the Sinking Fund Commission probably would ratify the agreement between the city and the PWA at their meetings on Friday . The Mayor met Mr. Hoopingarner at noon and agreed with him on the conditions laid down by the PWA to govern allottment of a $25,000 , - 000 housing loan to the city . The rt.quirement for tax exemption would be fulfilled automatically when the Federal Government acquired the sites , the Mayor said . Federal property here is exempt from local taxation . Options already obtained by the city on certain parcels have been obtained in the name of the Federal Government , making the transfer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tenement House Commissioner , who heads the Municipal Housing Authority , said he expected no difficulty in complying with the Federal Government 's terms . He expected the flow of PWA money to start very soon , since the sole remaining formality for the city is adoption of the housing agreement by the Board of Estimate and the Sinking Fund Commission . " Sol far as we are concerned , we are delighted and ready to fall in line , " Mr. Post said . " It looks now as if we might proceed to get results . " He pointed out that the stipulation that the Federal Government purchase the land was in line with the work already done by the Housing Authority here , and that options he had taken on 64 per cent of the sixteen blocks in a proposed development in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn were in the name of the United States Government . ? TEXT OF THE ICKES LETTER . Secretary Ickes ' letter reads as follows ' : Hon. Fiorello LaGuardia , Mayor of the City of New York , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have given careful consideration to the subject of some basic plan according to which we can reasonably expect to . secure the right kind of slum clearance and low-cost housing in New York City and which would be equitable to both the- city and the Federal Governmeht . Such a plan obviously must meet the twofold requirement of producing lowcost housing that is socially desirable and at the same time economically sound . To , this end I have had made , as you know , a comprehensive survey of the entire New York City housing situation . Based upon recommendations made as a result of such survey , I present for your consideration a plan that would enable us to proceed with the construction of housing of this character immediately and in a manner satisfactory-to all parties concerned . The underlying , conditions are , of course , subject to each particular project being approved by the Public Works Administration and to the condition that joint supervision of each project by the New York City Housing Authority and the Federal Government be provided for in a manner satisfactory to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York City area would be released in part for worthy projects in accordance with the following conditions : 1 . The Federal Government will acquire the land necessary for the project and permit its use by the Housing Authority for a consideration based upon the cost of the land , through a long-term lease with option to purchase on the part of the Authority . A loan and grant ( of 30 per cent of the cost of labor and materials ) will be made to the Housing Authority to cover the cost of improvements , the loan to be evidenced by marketable first mortgage bonds . 4% Maximum Rate on Loan . 2 . Amortization on the loan may extend over a period of forty-five years from the date of the loan , payments starting approximately one year after . completion of project . 3 . Interest on the loan will be at a rate not to exceed 4 per cent per annum. 4 . The City of New York , through its Housing Authority or otherwise , will put in various assets as equity , or compensating factors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the area of each project such as lots , old school sites , &c:; ( b ) Streets and sewers and their maintenance . ( c ) Smaller areas ( probably under three blocks on each project ) derived from closing certain streets . ( d ) Maintenance of adequate schools and park areas adjacent to or near each housing development . ( e ) Other normal utilities such as street lighting , street cleaning and snow removal , fire protection , &c.?also; perhaps an adjustment on the water tax . ( f ) Cash at least sufficient to cover minimum administrative costs of the Housing Authority . The above will be supplemented by the further compensating factor of tax exemptions on the improvements in addition to the land . 5 . The Public Works Administration and the Housing Authority will exercise joint supervision and control of all matters , so that all details in connection with each project will be in all respects satisfactory to the Public Works Administration . The expenses of such supervision and control will be carried by the particular project . 6 . The release of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon prompt and satisfactory action by the Housing Authority . This letter is , of course , a state . ment of the general principles upon which we should work out the details of specific projects , and it may be that some departure from the above will be necessary in particular instances . However , I think that it presents a workable plan in general and trust that the suggestions as outlined above are agreeable to you . If you can give me a letter to that effect I believe we shall be able to proceed without delay . Sincerely yours , HAROLD L. ICKES , Administrator .                     