@@703836

txt The possibility of new peace negotiations with the Congress of Industrial Organizations will bring no relaxation in the American Federation of Labor 's campaign far revision . Act , the National Labor Relations ct , it was learned last night . Even if President Roosevelt 's plea for unity in the ranks of labor leads to a complete healing of the breach between the two groups , the A. F. of L. will continue to press for adoption of amendments intended to guarantee " fair arid equitable administration " of the labor law , members of its high command declared . While charges that the National Labor Relations Board was prejudiced in favor of the C. I. 0 . were a major element in the federation 's original decision to seek a more rigid definition of Ihe board 's power , the A. F. of L. leaders feel that the changes they have proposed are desirable in any case as stabilizing factors in employer-employe relations . New Amendment Proposed Under the amendments introduced by Senator Walsh at the request of the federation , the NLRB would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among their workers ; NLRB decisions in all types , of cases would be made reviewable in the courts ; and affidavits of prejudice could be filed by any interested party against trial examiners considered unfair . Another amendment , not yet presented to Congress , would effect a complete reorganization of the board and increase its personnel from three members to five . William Green , president of the A. F. of L. who responded to President Roosevelt 's peace request on Saturday by appointing a three-man committee to confer with the C. I. 0. , had no new comment to make on the situation yesterday . He talked over the telephone with Matthew Woll , a member of the negotiating committee , and returned to Washington on a late train . In addition to Mr. Woll , the committee consists of Harry C. Bates of the Bricklayers Union and Daniel J. Tobin of the Teamsters Union . All three are vice presidents of the federation . Lewis 's Reaction Is Awaited Officers of the federation here waited with interest for John L. Lewis 's reaction to the Roosevelt appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was evident that negotiations would be fruitless if the C. I. 0 . chief insisted that all C. I. 0 . unions be admitted to the A. F. of L. before the question of overlapping jurisdictions was settled . It was this insistence on the part of Mr. Lewis that blocked moves for unity in December , 1937 , according to Mr. Green and other leaders of the federation . The A. F. of L. contends that a settlement that failed to delimit clearly the jurisdiction of all unions would serve solely to transfer into the federation the " dualism " that caused the split three years ago . Mr. Green made it clear , in announcing his acceptance of the President 's invitation , that his organization would not compromise on the issue of " dual unionism . " A. F. L. ASKS A NEW GOAL Vigorous Program Is Urged to Expand Private Industry Special to Tarn NEW YORK Timm WASHINGTON , Feb. 26 . ? The American Federation of Labor in its monthly survey of business , published today , called for " A New Objective . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the statements of Secretaries Morgenthau and Hopkins and President Roosevelt 's invitation to the rival labor groups to make peace . The survey outlined its " new objective " in its first paragraphs : " The American nation needs a vigorous program on all fronts to expand production by private industry . Such a program is urgent ; if we want to replace government spending by private investment , put the unemployed to work in private industry instead of WPA and prevent a business recession in 1940 , accounting must be taken at once . " It will take time and coordinated effort to change from government spending to private initiative ; we have barely enough time to accomplish it before the present government spending program loses its force . It is disheartening , therefore , to see so little recognition of this urgency in circles where action can be taken . " In the last few years we have passed through a period of rapid evolution , amounting to a peaceful revolution . It is time now to follow the reform program with a new objective  --  industrial expansion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years great progress has been made in setting up the controls and agencies for orderly conduct of business in a democracy in the interest of all citizens . Gains by Labor Recalled " ( 1 ) Trade unions and trade associations have been organized . By assuring workers the right to organize in trade unions , we now have an orderly way of handling labor relations by collective bargaining ; of seeing that workers receive their rights and their share Times Wide World Matthew Woll , vice president , Photo-Engravers Union , above at left ; Daniel J. Tobin , president , Teamsters Union , above at right , and Harry C. Bates , president , Bricklayers Union , below , who have been named by William Green to negotiate for an agreement with the C. I. 0 . as a means of ending the strife between the two labor organizations . of the wealth created by joint enterprise , and that buying power keeps pace with producing power . Trade unions and trade associations make it possible for labor and business to be represented in the policy-forming councils of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been recognized . " ( 3 ) Social security for old age has been started and provision made for dependent children , the blind and other handicapped persons . " ( 4 ) Regulations have put more order into the investment markets and made it possible gradually to do away with abuses by which income and control were diverted to the hands of a few wealthy persons and administered without regard for the interests of the public . " ( 5 ) Farm income has been raised and an effort made toward crop contral. " ( 6 ) Reciprocal trade treaties have increased our trade with neighbor nations and helped to lift employment in our own industries . " ( 7 ) National wage minimums and hour maximums have been set up . " ( 8 ) In housing , better financing facilities have encouraged home building and a low-cost housing program has been started . "                     