@@697133

txt The declare . tion by the American delegation of its willingness to consider a consul . tative pact , without participating in any security arrangement among the other nations represented in the Lon. don Naval Arms Conference , hall turned all attention to the ? coming negotiations between England and France . Foreign Minister Briand of Francs arrived in London tonight and will begin conversations with the English in an interview with Foreign Secre ? tary Henderson tomorrow morning . In the afternoon the heads of thili five delegations will meet in St0 James 's Palace to review the situar tion . It is the American view that , in ? asmuch as we will not consider s , consultative pact until after the French demands for security have been satisfied , the next move is up to the other powers . Indeed , the Americans regard the matter as one essentially between England and France . Mediterranean Discussion Denied . It is being asked what England will do ? It is evident that any con ? sultative pact in which America ; joins must follow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many reports today that Pre . mier had agreed to give England 's guarantee to a mutual aa ? sistance pact for the Mediterranean , but in the face of strong official denials that . any such decision had been reached these reports must bd largely discounted . Something to which more impore tance may be attached is the report that M. Briand will suggest that the Mediterranean nations enter into a hard . and fast arbitration treaty having its origin in Article XI of the covenant of the League of NB .. tions . England , of course , would be one of the parties to this treaty , This would amount perhaps in its development to a part of the Geneva protocol of 1924 , in the making of which Mr. cooperated largely , but which later was rejected by the British Parliament . It is quite apparent that the importance the English will see in such an are rangement may depend a great deal on how much France will reduce her naval program in exchange for it . It will be recalled that for the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the un ? certainty of the American position must force her to pause in any plan for League sanctions . She has often asked for American participation in counsels in time of crisis and the question arises whether the new ! American position affords in any de ? gree the assurance which Britain has sought . British Cabinet Divided . It may take some days for the British position to develop . Premier has found strong oppo4 sition In the Cabinet to any security pact promising eventual military or ! naval action . On the other band the French have made it plain that in exchange for a simple consultative pact and nothing more they would not greatly reduce their naval pro ? gram . Apparently an effort will be made by Premier to find some ? thing half-way between with the hope that it will prove enticing to the French . While there would always remain in the background the basic idea of sanctions , it is believed in some quarters that a Mediterranean arbitration pledge with a common guarantee by all participants might appeal to the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be too difficult to get past the British Cabinet and Parliament . It is believed M. Briand comes back to London with an open mind . While he has suggestions to make he is willing to hear all other proposals . He smiled when he returned to the Carlton Hotel this evening and repeated that he had always refused to believe the five nations here , all of which had pledged never to war again , could not work out among themselves something to reinforce the existing machinery for the maintenance of peace . In his speech before the French Senate yesterday , he also said as much . It is believed generally that the American delegation 's statement as to its stand on consultative pacts was the result of Secretary Stimson 's talks with Mr. , and that justifies the assumption that the British Prime Minister has something to propose . Meanwhile the Americans will wait to see what happens . Italians Refuse to Change . In judging the situation , one must bear in mind that although the new American position , plus M. Briand 's return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better face on the conference , wertheless even if a political arrangement is made which would reduce the French figures to a point which the British hold would justify retaining the Rapidan figures , there would remain the issue of the Italian demand for parity with France . The Italians insist tonight their position has not changed . Whether a political arrangement would ease the French opposition to the Italian demand may be subject to speculation but experienced observers doubt very much that such a result would follow . - There has been going on all day in London a debate as to whether the American delegation has changed its position regarding a consultative pact . The confusion arose over the wording of the American statement last night , which , instead of plainly stating that we were willing to do something to save the conference , as ome of the debaters today argued at it should have done , refrained rom announcing our intentions until the last paragraph . In many quarters today it is argued that of course the American delegation changed its position , and the only mystery about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement . On March 11 Mr. Stimson invited a dozen correspondents to tea in his apartment at the Hotel Ritz and explained that while America had no fear of agreeing to consult with other powers when war threatened , yet , since it appeared France was asking this in return for a cut in her tonnage , the American delegates judged this to be no occasion to enter such a pact . In support of the decision of the American delegation , which Mr. Stimson emphasized was unanimous , he told of the demand for naval cooperation which Ambassador Cambon of France made on Sir Edward Grey on the first day of the World War as England 's moral obligation under the entente cordiale . Mr. Stimson said America was not willing to be placed in that position and therefore opposed the signing of such a pact at this conference . The French showed a marked lack of appreciation of the American solicitude for them which made the United States unwilling to buy a cut in France 's naval program with a treaty which might not yield the expected military aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In assuming their new position . the ! Americans are responding to the I French reaction to the first position . Now they say that when it has been entirely understood that America enters into no promise to give military aid , and when French security has been assured by some one else , and when French reductions have been thereby obtained , they will consider a consultative pact . The American position as it stood this afternoon may be described as follows : America has made her position clear . She has no objection to a consultative pact as such . America agreed to consultation in Article XXI of the Washington treaty , in the four-power Pacific pact and in eighteen other treaties . But it was the American delegates ' position that they would not put forward a consultative pact as a substitute for the security France was asking , since it might create what the French might regard as a commitment to help her in time of stress . As long as France sought a consultative pact in return for cutting her naval program , America could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remains what it was when the matter was first suggested , the position remains as it was stated on March 11 . But if that situation should change , then the American position might be considered changed and the American delegates could approach with open minds any suggestion for a consultative pact . This means that if France 's demand for security were satisfied by some arrangement in which America had no part , and if France 's agreement to reduce her tonnage were obtained in return for the security arrangement made by other nations , then the conditions which led to the Americans taking the position they held on March 11 would be changed . Then there would be no longer any chance of American adhesion to a consultative pact being misunderstood and America could start to revise her position in the light of new developments . There is no chance of the United States making any commitment involving directly or indirectly any promise to lend military or naval aid . There can be no consultative pact with America so long as there is any danger of any such expectation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be open for consideration of a consultative pact for other reasons . It is not America 's affair who guarantees French security . It may be England ; it may be an arrangement among France , Italy and England ' or some other arrangement . But if all that is settled and any one suggests a consultative pact , then the American delegates will consider it . Consultation Long Discussed . Secretary Stimson has discussed the relative merits of a consultative pact with Premier Tardieu three times , with M. Briand four times and several times with Premier . Ambassador Morrow and other members of the American delegation have discussed the matter a number of times with members of other delegations . Twice Mr. Stimson discussed with M. Tardieu the question of what importance the French would attach , to a consultative pact and received the reply that the French would attach no great importance to a simple consultative pact unless it led to something more important like a security pact . The French have not made any formal request for a consultative pact nor will they do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington and elsewhere that consideration of a consultative pact has not entered into the negotiations at London are not correct . come the Franco-Italian deadlock . Whether it is likely to be successful rests with M. Briand , Premier Tardieu and France . It was clear that the pledge with which the United States and Great Britain propose to placate France would not guarantee security . Secre. tary Stimson and Prime Ministez made this definite to each other in a conference held at the House of Commons this afternoon . It was understood that Mr. informed the head of the American delegation that there had been no change whatever in British opposition to " entangling military alliances " on the Continent , outlined in his recent radio address to America . Secretary Stimson , after seeing Prime Minister , dictated a long report to President Hoover . The London dailies printed considerable comment on the consultative pact idea today and the early edition of tomorrow 's Daily Herald , organ of the Labor party , attributes the development to the Americans . It says that it " understands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real father , is virtually as follows : " America would join in a general consultative pact provided that Great Britain first joined with France and Italy in an agreement applying only to the Mediterranean , and to which Spain and other Mediterranean powers would be invited to adhere . That France will , in return for increased security so provided , make such cuts in her naval figures as to allow reduction in the Anglo-American figures agreed upon last Summer on the banks of the Rapidan . Furthermore , France and Italy can then compose their quarrel over the latter 's claim of parity with the former . " The heads of the delegations will meet at St. James 's at 4 P. M. tomorrow to fix the time of next week 's plenary session . M. Briand is likely to see Prime Minister and Secretary Stimson privately to discuss the exact nature of the contemplated proposals . Initiator of Idea Not Revealed . LONDON , March 26 ** sudden re-emergence of the political aspects of disarmament has created a new sensation in the five-power conference , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consultative agreement were initiated remains a mystery . The American delegation says the move came from the British and the British intimate that it came from the Americans , but , whatever its source , a new effort of far-reaching significance is being made to over-1                     