@@700288

txt The National Industrial Recovery Act , so far as it attempts to control local i industry , was held unconstitutional 1 by Federal District Judge Alexander Akerman today in refusing to issue an injunction requiring a cleaning and dyeing operator to keep his prices up to those fixed by the code for this territory . The judge ruled that the act itself might have valid standing in mat1 ters of interstate commerce and perhaps as a restricted emergency measure , but that the Federal Constitution gave the National Government no authority to " invade the ? reserve power of the States " in regulation or control of a local industry in an emergency . Three operators in the business in St. Petersburg , complaining against Samuel Bazemore , a competitor , alleged that he refused to lift his price to the code level , that i he was taking an unfair advantage and that he was bringing the Bluei Eagle into disrepute . Congress Power Questioned . The court refused an injunction on these three grounds : That no cause of action within the jurisdiction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court had no right to interfere with local business and that , while the Recovery Act gave the court power to prevent code violations , action to enforce code provisions must be brought by the Federal District Attorney and not by an individual member of an industry . In his opinion Judge Akerman said : " If the operation of a local cleaning and dyeing establishment , or what is commonly known as a pressing club , is to be construed as coming within the purview of the act of Congress commonly known as the National Industrial Recovery Act , then I am bound to hold that Congress had no power under the Constitution to enact the National Industrial Recovery Act . " I do not mean to hold that the National Industrial Recovery Act in its entirety is without constitutional authority , but merely to hold that if it is to be construed as authorizing title regulation of a local pressing club , then there is no au- thority in the Constitution for enactment of the same . " Maintaining Constitution . Declaring " pernicious " the doctrine that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally in war and in peace , " might be suspended during any great exigencies 1 of government , Judge Akerman added : " I am not unmindful that Congress at its recent session found not only the United States but the whole world to be in a deplorable condition , nor do I criticize the noble motive prompting Congress and the President to attempt to relieve this condition . " But I can not conceive of any emergency , especially in the time of peace , which would authorize Congress to ignore the Constitution and exact measures tending to regulate purely local business within the several States . " Explaining the basis for his ruling , Judge Akerman said : " If the validity of- an act of the Legislature of one of the States is drawn in question , every presumption is in favor of the act of the Legislature , and before the same can be held invalid there must be some clear provision of the Constitution of the State or of the United States prohibiting the act of the Legislature . " On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in question , the court , before sustaining such act , is bound to discover in the Constitution of the United States either an expressed or implied grant of authority to Congress to enact such legislation . " " No Authority in Constitution . " Then , holding that " there is no authority in the Constitution " for the " regulation of a local pressing club , " he continued : " Section 1 of the National Industrial Recovery Act attempts to justify the enactment of the same upon two theories : One is to remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce and the other is in the time of an emergency to provide for the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for the purpose of cooperative action among trade groups . " It is conceded by counsel for complainants that neither the complainants nor the defendant are engaged in interstate commerce , and without such concession , it would require a stretch of imagination beyond the power of this court to conceive that a local industry engaged in the pressing , cleaning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So if the code for this industry is to be justified under the Constitution it must be upon the ground that an emergency exists which would justify Congress in attempting to regulate a purely intrastate business and I can find no authority in the Constitution which authorizes the national government in any emergency to depart from its constitutional function and invade the reserve power of the States . "                     