@@699578

txt All New York banks which are members of the Federal Reserve System filed applications with the , Federal Reserve Bank of New York yesterday for permission to reopen I immediately with full banking ? Savings banks and other State banking institutions which are not Federal Reserve members are submitting applications to the State Banking Board for authority to reopen . The general opinion in banking circles last night was that there would be a general reopening of the New York banks at the regular hour on Monday morning . Mortimer N. Buckner , president of the New York Clearing House Association , after a series of conferences of the Clearing House Committee , said last night that the twenty-one New York City banks which are members of the clearing house would not open until Monday , but that they would conduct the same emergency operations today as during the last few days . State Banks Await Word . Joseph A , Broderick , State Superintendent of Banks . and other members of the State Banking Board expressed themselves as highly optimistic over the prospects of the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business on Monday . When the banks reopen , according to the latest instructions received at the Federal Reserve Bank here from the Treasury Department , all banking facilities will be provided except for such restrictions as may be imposed by Secretary of the Treasury Woodin for Federal Reserve Bank members or by the State authorities for State institutions . The only limitations to normal banking operations , as far as is known , will be the embargo on paying out gold or gold certificates , and the restriction of foreign exchange dealings . Yesterday the New York banks generally extended the bansting facilities for essential purposes permitted them by Secretary Woodin s regulations . Savings banks began to accept funds for safe-keeping , on the understanding that any or all of these funds could be withdrawn even during the banking holiday , and continued to permit small withdrawals against old deposits . Commercial banks and trust com- panies enlarged their operations , both in receiving new deposits of cash and of checks , the latter to be Credited to depositors as soon as government regulations permitted , and in supplying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ More currency was available for payrolls than on previous days of the banking holiday , and considerable payroll money is expected to be available today . A canvass of some of the large employers of the city showed that they were able to meet their heavy week-end payrolls either in full or in part , although many employers necessarily paid only partly in cash . Under instructions from Secretary Woodin , the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will advance currency today , not only to member banks . but also to corporations , firms and individuals on notes secured by government obligations , for the purpose of meeting payrolls and other essential needs of carrying on business . Under these conditions , and with new currency available in the form of Federal Reserve banknotes , member banks of the Federal Reserve will have ample funds on hand for payroll and other emergency purposes today , and for meeting normal demands of business , when they reopen in full on Monday . The leading , commercial banks and trust companies of the city are ready to open on a moment 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said last night . They lost no time in seeking permission to open , but their officials said that they doubted whether the Federal Reserve Bank could complete the mechanical details of receiving applications , transmitting them to Washington and re-transmitting the licenses here , in time to permit a resumption of normal business today . Most bankers said that , In any event , it . would be better to wait until a large number of banks could reopen at once rather than to allow the banks to open one by one . The clearing house bankers continued to confer throughout the day , their work consisting chiefly of advising their members on the latest instructions from Washington , and of the interpretations to be put upon them . Early in the afternoon the clearing house instructed all member banks of the Federal Reserve in its group to transmit letters of application for permission to reopen to the Reserve Bank and to await separate notification . As the clearing house interpreted the President 's executive order , each bank was required to act on its own behalf and not as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Bank the names of the banks applying were transmitted by wire to Washington to be submitted to Treasury officials and the Federal Reserve authorities . Although no definite information on the subject was obtained , it was the prevailing view in the banking community that the local Reserve . Bank authorities . by reason of their intimate knowledge of the banks in their district , would be asked by Washington to pass judgment on the applications , although the final decision would rest with the Federal authorities . Mr. Buckner revealed that ten experts from the staff of the clearing house had been sent to Washington to aid in the task of checking the position of banks applying for permission to reopen and also to assist in the examination of banks seeking membership in the Federal ' Reserve System . As had been the case for several days , the banking community was almost entirely dependent upon the newspapers and the financial news tickers for information on developments in Washington yesterday . Members of the clearing house group , going back and forth between their conference and their offices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities had taken from the group of newspaper reporters waiting in the foyer of the clearing house building at 77 Cedar Street . It was next to impossible , therefore , . for the bankers to issue any definite statement of their plans . Everything . depended on Washington , they agreed . " We are all ready to open , " ? George W. Davison , chairman of the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company and of the clearing - house committee , said , following , the ... noontime break-up of the conference , and others of , the group agreed with him . No clearings were made by - the clearing house yesterday , for the reason that only a small volume of ' transactions had accumulated . With the ' reopening of the Federal Reserve Bank today for : full business , however , it is - expected that daily clearings will be resumed , including transactions that have teen piling up in the Reserve Bank since last Friday . Applications ofmember banks throughout the State-outside of New York City and from those sections of New Jersey and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , poured in upon the Federal Reserve Bank here after - the mode of procedure for reopening became known . ?                     