@@699521

txt The League of Nations announced today that Colombia , in invoking Article XV of the covenant against Peru , had requested an urgent meeting of the Council . The Council will meet Monday afternoon to hear both parties and accomplish at least the preliminaries that Article XV requires . This is the first time any American republic has formally asked the League to intervene to keep peace in the hemisphere covered by the Monroe Doctrine . The League 's action in the Chaco dispute was initiated by Aristide Briand while he was President of the Council in 1928 , and neither Bolivia nor Paraguay has yet invoked the covenant . The League 's action in the Leticia dispute has been based on communications from both parties . Both , however , had carefully refrained hitherto from promising the right of full jurisdiction to the League by invoking a special article of the covenant . Colombia 's move , which forces the League to intervene in a region where the United States claims a special position and to intervene on precisely the same basis as in Manchuria , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest here . Indications of Washington 's attitude are eagerly awaited , but in view of the fact that Secretary Stimson has already consulted over Leticia with European powers , and with Japan under the peace pact , no friction between the peace forces seems to be expected . Embargo on Peru Foreseen . One of those who have been influential in determining the strategy in the three wars now before it for settlement expressed the opinion tonight that the League , even if it desired , could hardly avoid inviting the three American non-members of the League  --  the United States , Brail and Ecuador ? to consult with it on this conflict . He also believed the League probably would be led very soon into recommending either successively or simultaneously that all diplomats be withdrawn from Peru and an arms embargo against her be established if she continued to refuse to withdraw from Leticia . He declined to comment on the effect of such : precedents on the Far Eastern conflict , though he admitted a pertinent question was whether the League could possibly apply simultaneously two different rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not appear to expect difficulty from Japan 's presence in the Council , holding that Japan had already by her silence approved the Council 's decisive action in authorizing Colombia to restore her sovereignty in Leticia and warning Peru to keep hands off . Ecuador was the first country to call the League 's attention formally to the Leticia dispute , her purpose being to announce her direct interest in it . The Council 's committee on LatinAmerican wars , comp6sed of Sean Lester of the Irish Free State , chairman ; Salvador de Madariaga of Spain , and Jose Matos of Guatemala , met this evening and decided to recommend that the Council , after hearing the parties , refer the question back to the committee for it to consider the situation thus created . Meanwhile the first paragraph of Article XV requires the Secretary General of the League to " make all necessary arrangements for a full investigation and consideration " of the dispute . Under this provision an international committee composed of diplomats near Leticia may be rushed to the spot , as a Shanghai consular committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Shanghai . Charges ' Flagrant Violation . ' Colombia invoked the covenant in a 500-word letter , dated . from Paris yesterda-* and signed by her special envoy , Ednardo Santos . He says Colombia has already submitted documents proving " flagrant violation by Peruvian forces , with the explicit support of the Lima Government , of treaties and pacts in force , especially the frontier treaty of 1922 , the covenant of the League of Nations and the BriandKellogg Pact . " That is his only reference to the peace pact . He stresses that Peru did not obey the Council 's injunction to refrain from interfering with Colombia in the restoration of her sovereignity , but has intensified her interference , frustrated Brazil 's mediation and has lately committed " acts of aggression " at Tarapaca , leading to Colombia 's rupturing relations with Peru . The letter concluded : " Having regard to the foregoing facts , I have the honor under instruction of my government to request you to summon a meeting of the Council urgently in virtue of Article XV of the covenant for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated by the Council in a situation set up by aggression , of which Colombia is a victim , and by the violation of plain , solemn treaties , of restoring as is demanded by the unalterable principle of the observance of International agreements the status quo ante of Sept. 3 , 1932 , and deciding the extent and nature of reparations to which the republic of Colombia is entitled . " Since Article XV deals with disputes " likely to lead to rupture , " Colombia 's action in invoking it after relations have already been ruptured creates a situation as odd as the one in the Far East , where a year of disguised war since China invoked the same article has not yet led to such a rupture . Colombia 's is the third invocation of Article XV , the other one being by Britain against Persia in the recent oil dispute , which is now well on the way to settlement . Peru Gives Her Side . The Foreign Minister of Peru , answering the League 's request yesterday for inforamtion as to how her troops happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cabled today : " I hasten to transmit the information asked showing that Tarapaca , like Leticia , belongs to the same territorial zone against the unjustified cession of which to Colombia the Department of Loreto protested and decided to recover it , occupying it on its own account . " Tarapaca was not , therefore , a military post , properly so called , but a place which has always belonged to Peru , as is shown by its name , given in 1897 , and which passed under the power of Colombia scarcely two years ago , after which period it has again been occupied by Peruvians as a result of a spontaneous movement of national reintegration . " Colombia has informed the League that President Sanchez Cerro of Peru , in a message to the military commandant at Loreto , swore on his honor as a soldier that Peru would keep Leticia in the face of any opposition , " be it what it may . "                     