@@697423

txt The overhead expense for the office at 120 Broadway of Charles V. Bob , missing promoter , was more than $1,000,000 annually , according to Watson Washburn , in charge of the State Bureau of Securities , who described the cost as " ridiculously high . " Bob 's schemes are said to have cost millions to the public . The Assistant Attorney General made this announcement after continuing for another day his investigation of the activities of ? Metal and Mining Shares , Inc. , an investment trust controlled by Bob , the Rainbow Luminous Products , Inc. , and other concerns in which Bob was interested . During the day no further news of the whereabouts of the missing promoter or of his " righthand man , " Frederick C. Russell , who disappeared in Chicago ten days ago , was received . Mr. Washburn declared that apparently very few small investors held stock in the investment trust . The bulk of the money involved in what he described as Bob 's stock manipulations appears to have been provided by wealthy men , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Newfoundland and Prince Edward Island were stockholders , the records seized by the Attorney General 's office indicate . Data on Use of Mails Ready . While Mr. Washburn continued his investigation , Acting United States Attorney Robert E. Manley was informed by Deputy Assistant Attorney General Henry B. Staples , who has been assigned to the case by Mr. Washburn , that he would turn over to Federal officials tomorrow data collected by his office , tending to show misuse of the mails by the Bob enterprises . At the same time , Mr. Washburn promised a sweeping investigation into every phase of Bob 's stock activities and said that any additional information of a criminal nature which he might uncover would be turned over to District Attorney Crain , who has already assigned an assistant , Thomas Kane , to prepare the criminal phases of the case for presentation to the grand jury with a view to indicting the two missing men for filing false information and perjury . In the course of the Attorney General 's investigation , during which Mr. Staples hopes to get an injunction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that Mrs. Bob and some of the employes of the missing promoter and aviation enthusiast will be called to testify . Mrs. Bob , according to Mr. Staples , has already acknowledged her willingness to appear before him if he sees fit to call her . One of the angles which Mr. Washburn has uncovered in his investigation of the wide spread interests of Bob concerns the capitalist 's contract with an Insull firm , the Federal Electric Company , Inc. , of Chicago , whereby in the Fall of 1929 Bob and George L. Johnson , president of Metal and Mining Shares , Inc. , agreed to buy the sign business of the Federal Electric Company for $7,000,000 . This transaction was to include the transfer to Bob of two-thirds of the stock of the Claude Neon Federal Company , operating in mid-Western States and controlled by the Federal company , and options , unmatured sign contracts and patent rights . This agreement was opposed by Claude Neon Lights , Inc. , acting through William T. P. Hollingsworth and Robert L. Kester Jr. , president and vice pres- ident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest of Hollingsworth and Hester on criminal charges preferred by Bob . After dragging through the courts the charges were dismissed and a $1 , - 000,000 damage suit filed by Bob against Hollingsworth was also dismissed . New Concern Was Planned . In this deal Rainbow Luminous Products , Inc. , and the interests bought from the Federal Electric Company were to be merged under a corporation devised by Bob , known as the Federal Neon System . According to Mr. Washburn , Bob purchased the rights of the Federal Electric Company by putting up as security $3,500,000 of the stock of his various promotions . One block of this stock represented $1,500,000 of Mr. Bob 's holdings in the Westward Ho Hotel in Phoenix , Ariz. , according to the Attorney General 's office . These securities , Mr. Washburn said , had little , if any market value , and the Federal Electric Company , which Mr. Washburn described as the " Chicago licensee , " demanded a secondary guarantee for the amount . To comply with the company 's wishes , Bob , according to the Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his investment trust , which bad hitherto included reliable and well diversified stocks in its portfolio , guarantee the additionally required $3,500,000 . This guarantee , Mr. Washburn said , as far as he knows , has never been demanded , and he is anxious to ascertain whether or not that obligation is still outstanding against the investment trust . The Rainbow Luminous Products Corporation may be saved by its present officers and board of directors , Mr. Washburn said yesterday . The directors have just retained former State Senator George F. Thompson as counsel , and Mr. Thompaon , as well as R. R. Machlett , president of the corporation , have expressed confidence in the concern 's solvency . One of the few complaints against the Bob enterprises lodged with the Bureau of Securities was made yesterday by a Wall Street broker who purchased 1,000 shares of Metal and Mining Shares , Inc. , stock , Mr. Washburn revealed .                     