@@704308

txt Imperial Headquarters announced today that combined units of the Japanese Army and Navy had landed near Pakhoi , where they attacked Chinese forces . Pakhoi is on the South China coast , about 300 miles southwest of Canton and less than 100 miles from French IndoChina . The Japanese campaign in South China has been virtually at a standstill since the fall of Canton Oct. 21 , 1938 . Simultaneously the Foreign Office issued a statement saying that " in connection with the operations just undertaken the Japanese Government will adhere strictly to the policy hitherto pursued toward third powers . " Pakhoi is also about 300 miles southwest of the British Crown colony of Hong Kong . " Major Landing " Made HONG KONG , Wednesday , Nov. 15 ( UP ) ? It was announced officially here today that Japanese forces had effected a " major landing " near Pakhoi , on the coast in extreme South China . Reports from Macao said the landing was effected at 9 A. M. The announcement said : " Japanese naval forces cooperated with large land forces and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Worried Over U. S. Stand By HUGH BYAS Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . TOKYO , Wednesday , Nov. 15 ? The reactions of Japan 's educated classes to United States Ambassador Joseph C. Grew 's speech are now beginning to appear in channels other than the daily press and they are basically pessimistic . The speech shook the Japanese into realizing that America 's opposition to Japan 's plans for a " New Order " in East Asia goes deep , and they are pessimistic because they know the strength of the Japanese forces behind the continental policy . This , perhaps unconsciously , is revealed by an editorial in the Oriental Economist , a liberal organ that is not given to war hysterias . The Ambassador 's speech warning Japan of the United States attitude represented virtually no progress toward improvement in JapaneseAmerican relations , in the Oriental Economist 's view . It quotes Mr. Grew 's statement that American opinion is strongly opposed to some of the things the Japanese Army is doing in China , infringing on America 's established rights . The Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it wanted was a practical suggestion for improving Japanese-American relations on constructive bases . " It seems obvious to non-Japanese observers that Mr. Grew was making a highly practical suggestion that Japan 's armed forces should cease actions that assailed American rights . When that suggestion is not found practical by a moderate Japanese business organ the pessimism is understandable . It reflects disappointment at America 's obdurate refusal to accept the New Order at the face value Japanese declarations have given it and the conviction that the policy can not now be changed . Admiral Ryozo Nakamura , retired , in a pamphlet being circulated privately says he believes the antagonism between America and Japan is deep-rooted and dangerous and may even result in war , but not until after the European war is over . Admiral Nakamura proclaims himself pro-American but of a different stripe from others . American sympathy for the underdog , Chinese propaganda , Jewish influence and British intrigues , he declares , are unimportant secondary causes of America 's hostility to Japan . " Its fundamental causes , " he asserts , " are racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are added the belief that American interests are suffering from Japan 's policy in China and the idea that Japan constitutes a menace to the United States . " The Admiral declares that apprehension of what may happen now in Japanese-American relations does not exist , but that it will exist after the war in Europe is over . He believes the American Navy is not strong enough to challenge Japan , whose naval strength is not affected by the " China incident , " and observes that the United States has not completed its outpost bases , where work that has just begun will take many months to finish . His advice to the Japanese , in view of the dangers that he says are to be expected after the European war , is : " If Japan wishes to avoid a clash and maintain American friendship we should crush Chiang Kai-shek and restore peace in China quickly : then after consolidating our own ground we may approach America . " Routine consultations are stated to be the reason for a visit to Tokyo by Lieut . Gen. Yoshijiro Umezu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . General Umezu arrived from Hsinking yesterday and will report to Emperor Hirohito today . Afterward he will see his military and political chiefs . As General Umezu carried out the Nomonhan truce with Soviet Russia , his visit is being keenly watched , but informed circles are disposed to accept the assurance that it is concerned with routine business only . Would Settle With Russia TOKYO , Wednesday , Nov. 15 ( UP ) ? Japan is ready to settle " pending questions " with Soviet Russia , a Foreign Office spokesman said today , but he dismissed as unfounded reported " American anxiety " about a possible Russo-Japanese nonaggression agreement . " Our policy is open and aboveboard , " the spokesman said . " We are anxious to settle pending questions and we hope that Russia reciprocates our desire in all sincerity . " " It is only natural that this country should cultivate friendship with a neighboring power . This is the policy of the Good Neighbor . " The first session of the RussoJapanese commission that will seek to delimit the border between Russia 's Outer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Chita , Siberia , at the end of next month , it is understood . Moscow has informed Tokyo , it is said , that the Soviet delegation will be headed by General Bogandoff of the Soviet Far East Army and the Outer Mongol Vice Premier , Mr. Jamsarun . After agreeing on the agenda at Chita , sessions of the commission probably will be moved to Harbin , Manchukuo . See United States Pledged TOKYO , Nov. 14 ** belief was prevalent in official Japanese circles today that in reducing garrisons in North China , Britain and France previously had obtained a United States pledge to protect the Allies ' Chinese interests with American troops . Japanese newspapers welcomed the British action as a step toward " recognition of realities in China , " but they criticized placing any " watchdog " responsibility on the United States . Britain and France notified Japan yesterday they would leave only enough troops to " preserve order . " The numbers involved were not stated State Department officials in Washington said the United States did not contemplate similar withdrawals . Tientsin Blockade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The Japanese blockade of the British and French concessions here , imposed last June , will remain unaffected by the recent decision of Britain and France to withdraw most of their troops from North China , a Japanese Army spokesman said today .                     