@@699004

txt The United States Government 's desire to bar discuss sions of debts and tariffs from the agenda of the proposed economic conference is universally regretted in France . The general conclusion is Ithat any discussion of the world 's economic situation which is so limited in scope must be sterile in results . The apparent unwillingness If the United States to abandon its highl protective tariff is viewed as a serious obstacle to negotiation of the Franco-American ' commercial treaty for which the American Ambassador , Mr. Walter E. Edge , has just made-definite proposals to the French Prime Minister , M. Edouard Herriot . France would like to see the scope of the economic conference kept as wide as possible but does not approve of Senator Borah 's proposal that disarmament be discussed there , since disarmament is n't primarily an economic question but rather a political one , which the Geneva Disarmament Conference is better qualified to consider than any other assembly . Change in Sentiment The economic conference is no longer the bogey which it originally appeared to France to be . From viewing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the point where something approaching enthusiasm can be felt for the gathering . At the bottom of this change of attitude is the French determination to adhere , and the French desire that other nations should adhere , to the gold standard . IL will be remembered that one of the most definite results , perhaps the most tangible result , of the visit of M. Pierre Laval , then Prime Minister , to Washington last November was the agreement reached with President Hoover that France and the United States would both continue on the gold standard . France was extremely gratified with this agreement , and has consistently opposed any tendency to break away from what it considers to be the world 's financial and monetary anchor in a stormy sea . Controlled Currency Opposed At first it was felt that the economic conference , which will deal principally with monetary questions , was being planned primarily to promote the adoption of some form of controlled or regulated currency with an international circulation . Certain statements emanating from England tended to foster this opinion . Before long French newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drag Fiance off the gold standard . i These suspicions have now been allayed , chiefly as a result of the findings of the League , of Nations gold committee and the resolution recently adopted by the board of directors of the Bank for Interne ; tional Settlements at Basel . Both i these documents are considered to provide irrefutable justification for maintenance of the gold standard                     