@@698499

txt Two hundred and thirty-two men and women , representing nearly sixty nations with different traditions , different cultures and different creeds at all ends of the earth , sat facing the presidential tribune when Arthur Henderson this afternoon opened the proceedings of the first world conference on disarmament . The gathering represented , Mr. Henderson said , 1,700,000,000 people . They were there with the common object of trying to find one more way of assuring the desire of their people to live peacefully without the tragedy land the fear of war between them . There was neither pomp nor ceremony at the opening of this conference . In this the first session was in strong contrast with that other two years ago in Westminster when King George of England read from the throne the address of welcome to the delegates of the naval powers in a hall which was as old , almost , as English history . Opening Devoid of the Dramatic . There was nothing dramatic today as at that Washington conference eleven years ago , when the United States tried with great gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swing it by that example toward disarmament . There was nothing of that mixture of curiosity , cynicism and sentiment which there was when , thirty-five years ago , Czar Nicholas of Russia summoned the first Hague conference . This Meeting today was as bare of any emotion , any display and any picturesqueness as a Genevese Calvinistic meeting . It was as devoid of all distinction of appearance and form as any Methodist Church gathering . This first session was held in the great Genevese election hall where the annual assemblies of the League have been held for some years past . It might have been an ordinary assembly meeting , but for this exception , that in the middle of the hall , just in front of the row of seats occupied by the French delegation , was the delegation of the United States , headed by Ambassador Hugh S. Gibson and Senator Claude A. Swanson . On the right , at the back of the hall in the last row . sat Maxim Litvinoff and the other representatives of Soviet Russia . These two great absentees from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this League undertaking . Among the assemblage were five women , from the United States , Canada , England , Uruguay and Poland . In the galleries the women far outnumbered the men spectators , and they sat patiently through the hour-long speech which Mr. Henderson made , sitting in the presidential chair . Previous Peace Efforts Linked . This introductory speech had been long debated . It was felt that it was essential that , right at the start of the conference , its connection should be distinctly linked with everything that had gone before  --  with the League covenant , with the KelloggBriand pact , with the Locarno treaty , with the attempted protocol of Geneva and with the long preparatory work done here during so many years . This was all a part of a whole , all a part of a League work in which even non-members of the League have been active assistants . There was something in this long recital which was more significant than any fact . The day had been full of extraneous excitement . Before noon it had become known that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , actually had been postponed for two hours because of the necessity of holding a League Council meeting to deal with the Sino-Japanese situation . Perhaps it was in contrast to the dramatic atmosphere of the Council meeting that the opening of the disarmament conference seemed so dull . Some of those who mingled with the delegations sought to interpret the two meetings as the one dealing with fact and the other with theory . Others saw in the Shanghai incidents a new and almost approp.riate warning to the delegates of the dangers to which they were still subject . Alludes to Far Eastern Troubles . Mr. Henderson could not refrain from mention of " the tragic fact of this situation of extreme gravity on the eve of this conference . " He declared it imperative that all signatories of the League covenant and the Briand-Kellogg pact should make it their business to insure strict observance of these two great safeguards against violence and war . With that reference , the conference moved on from consideration of detail to that of the principle involved . Its object . Mr. Henderson said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to arrive at a program of practical proposals speedily and to secure a substantial reduction and limitation of all national armaments ; second , to determine that no armaments may be maintained outside the scope of that treaty by which all nations represented here are to make the achievement of universal disarmament their common aim : third . to insure the continuity of the advance toward our ultimate goal without detracting in any way from the fullest measure of success for our immediate effort by planning and holding similar conferences at reasonably short intervals of time . " That is a heavy program for any body of men and women to undertake at any time , but especially at a time like this , with conditions in the Far East regarded by many even here as far more significant of human nature and human progress than this less exciting assembly of sixty nations , all bound by their past undertakings , by demands of their people and by common consent , to seek other ways of settling their dif- I ferences . It was as part of a great scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henderson tried to present to this conference . He put the question , " Have we all genuinely renounced war as an instrument of national policy ? " Committees were appointed to examine the delegates ' credentials , to draw up rules and to examine the petitions which have been submitted to the conference . Saturday was set apart by the president as the day for a public session for the reception of all these private petitions and their presentors that the committee deems to be worthy of the attention of the conference .                     