@@704101

txt Money matters threatened today to impose the first strain upon the Anglo-Polish alliance since the British Government gave its historic guarantees to Warsaw three and a half months ago . A stormy interview took place at the Foreign Office this afternoon between Colonel Adam Koc and Ambassador Edward Raczynski on the Polish side and Viscount Halifax , the Foreign Secretary , and Sir Frederick Leith-Ross , economic adviser to the government , representing Britain . From all accounts it was not exactly a brotherly occasion . The Poles are said to have protested bitterly against the British idea of tying strings to the ? 5,000 , - 000 cash loan that will be part of the financial help given by Britain to arm Poland 's legions against aggression . Unless the British Cabinet decides tomorrow to meet the Polish wishes there may be sonic unpleasantness for a time between the governments of the two allies . Loan Separate From Credits The cash loan in question was intended to be entirely separate from export credits granted to Poland out of the war chest of ? 60,000,000 unanimously approved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's allies in Eastern Europe and elsewhere . The sum of ? 5,000,000 in cash already has been approved by the British Cabinet , while the French have agreed to advance 600,000,000 francs in cash . The Poles , however , want the Anglo-French cash to be in gold and they want complete freedom to spend it when and where they like . After all , the Poles argue , the objective of Britain and France ought to be the speedy rearmament of Poland regardless of method . If machine tools , for example , can be bought more cheaply and quickly in the United States than elsewhere , the Poles see no reason why Britain or France should object . The British , on the other hand , insist that the money should be handed over in sterling and they demand tight control over its expenditure . Moreover , Sir John Simon , Chancellor of Exchequer . and Sir Frederick Leith-Ross , who has been standing at his side during the Anglo-Polish financial negotiations , want it spent in this country as far as possible , regardless of the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply materials for Britain 's unprecedented rearmament effort . There seems to have been no deep-dyed political motive in all this , and neither Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain nor Lord Halifax appears to have had much to do with determining the British attitude toward the loan . But last night Count Raczynski hurried to Lord Halifax in an effort to break down the British Treasury 's stubbornness , and today 's interview at the Foreign Office was the sequel . It would seem to be a matter for Cabinet decision tomorrow , when the Ministers will hear full reports of the Anglo-Polish discussions . Certainly there is no desire outside the Treasury to disappoint Poland at the present time . Major Gen. Sir Edmund Ironside , British Inspector General of Overseas Forces , had long talks today with the highest Polish Army authorities in Warsaw in an effort to coordinate the fighting policies of the two countries . Moreover , the two governments appear to be wholly in accord over wider political problems such as Danzig . Government quarters here appeared anxious today to repudiate reports from Berlin suggesting that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danzig into Germany . Polish statements refuting such rumors were approved here in the light of Mr. Chamberlain 's specific statement of last week that clearly recognized the vital importance of Danzig in the maintenance of Polish independence . Gloomy Reports Elsewhere Apart from the Anglo-Polish difficulties , the Ministers will find scant encouragement tomorrow in reports from British negotiators in Tokyo and Moscow . In Tokyo the British are playing for time , but the anti-British atmosphere is so bad that there is a real fear here of an " incident " in Japanese-occupied parts of China that might make negotiations impossible . As for the Anglo-French-Soviet negotiations in Moscow , the latest reports from the British Ambassador , Sir William Seeds , show no appreciable progress in the search for an alliance . There are three main points of disagreement . The first is how " indirect aggression " is to be defined so that there will be no misunderstanding if any of the three powers needs to help a neighboring State against " direct or indirect aggression . " The second is which States shall be recognized as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three powers , and the third is how a military agreement shall be incorporated into a political agreement . The first difficulty remains the worst , for the Russian conception of " indirect aggression " includes any internal change in the form of government of the Baltic States or any change of foreign policy in the direction of an aggressor . The British , on the other hand , feel they can not interfere in the internal affairs of smaller States , no matter how necessary it is to win Russia as an ally . It remains to be seen how long the negotiators in Moscow can keep up this seemingly endless quest . Optimism Voiced on Danzig LONDON , July 18 ( 113 ) . ? Expressions of optimism about Danzig came from many parts of Europe today , and informed observers here expressed the belief that moves toward negotiations on the future of the Free City on the Baltic would be made soon . Whether the first overtures would come from Germany , Poland , Britain or some neutral quarter was not indicated . Official denials in London , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally accepted . The optimism was reflected in rising prices On the London Stock Exchange , while the price of wheat , a prime war commodity , fell to the lowest recorded price since 1522 , about 50 cents a bushel . Some sources suggested that Berlin and Rome had inspired the optimistic reports to create the " clearer atmosphere " specified by Prime Minister Chamberlain last week as a condition for discussing " possible improvements " in the Free City 's status . Three-Power War Board Expected Wireless to THE NEW YORK Times . WARSAW , Poland , July 18 . ? The official Anglo-Polish staff talks began here today between Major Gen. Sir Edmund Ironside of Britain and Marshal Edward Smigly-Rydz of Poland . The first conference was at noon and lasted about an hour . It was followed by another this evening after a dinner in honor of the British guests given by Marshal Smigly-Rydz and attended by Cabinet members and high army commanders . Tomorrow the talks will continue in Marshal Smigly-Rydz 's presence between the British General and Polish officers . It is understood that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a joint wartime command and , particularly , coordination of the defense plans of both countries with those of the French General Staff . It is regarded as probable that after the present discussions a special permanent committee composed of representatives of the British , French and Polish General Staffs will be set up to meet in Paris . This committee would assemble information and distribute it to the three army commands as found necessary . It is believed that Turkey and Rumania would be invited to send special representatives to this committee . The official press , commenting on General Ironside 's visit , say London , Paris and Warsaw are now preparing a force that will be in a position to combat victoriously any German aggression . WHEAT RESERVE DEMANDED Price Slump Spurs Agitation for British Buying of War Supply LIVERPOOL , England , July 18 ( .71 ' ) . ? The price slump in wheat today gave a new impetus to agitation for the government to purchase a large war reserve of the grain in an effort to relieve the glutted markets . John Maynard Keynes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the accumulation of war reserves in four categories of Britain 's vital imports . Under the terms of the Keynes plan , Britain could at present prices buy about 234,000,000 bushels of wheat , thereby considerably relieving the market of its oversupply . However , experts pointed out , the British Isles have storage facilities for only about one-quarter of such an amount of grain . Thus far there has been no official indication of whether the government intends making wheat reserve purchases . Authoritative sources said a start might be made " fairly soon . "                     