@@699704

txt - BOSTON , April ** most interesting speculation respecting any public man in New England pertains to the future of James M. Curley , Mayor of Boston . His refusal of the post of Ambassador to Poland is still a topic of general conversation . Nobody knows what did happen , but the Mayor became overnight a national figure once more . All the home folk wonder if he will continue to be a national figure . Surely the President consulted him in advance of the presentation of his name to the Senate for confirmation . Surely the President must have made the usual inquiries at Warsawsehether Mr. Curley would be person grata . Did or did not the Mayor indicate his willingness to accept the appointment ? There is general agreement here that he would have performed the duties of the embassy with success and perhaps with distinction . Doubtless it would have entailed a heavy charge upon his private purse . The Mayor is not a linguist , but then , many of America 's most useful foreign Ministers have known only English . Nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his best , and as a platform speaker he ranks with almost anybody in this country . Mayor 's Position in Doubt . Today the Mayor is the target of a rapid-fire of interrogation points . Has he quarreled with the President ? Their formal relations are quite proper . The Mayor is " eternally grateful " and all that . It goes without saying that he did not get what he wanted . There is good warrant for saying that he aspired to a Cabinet post , then to an assistant secretaryship , and finally that he was willing to go to Rome . Now he has made it necessary for the State Department to apologize to Warsaw . He has placed the President in an embarrassing position . He considered it expedient to motor to Providence and there to entrain for Washington to see personally the Postmaster General and the President for reasons which one may surmise with some degree of probability . Anyhow , the President and the Mayor seem to evaluate the latter 's campaign services differently . The Mayor failed to send a Roosevelt delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remembered that the attempt was made at the behest of the candidate and against the advice of his intimate counselors . As a campaign orator the Mayor did good service after the nomination , although in States on the far side of the country . Mr. Curley 's third four-year term as Mayor will expire in January . No other Mayor has such a record . He is not eligible under the charter for another consecutive term . What then of his future ? If Governor Ely does the expected thing and refrains from running for a third term that field will be open next year , and Mayer Curley would like to be Governor . The Walsh-Ely machine is in the ascendant however , and : the going would be very hard . Relations between the Hill and the Hall have not been any too good these two years . The Mayor 's ' backers declare the situation enhances his prestige , but few others endorse that opinion . What of the remaining eight months of the term ? The makings exist for several lively altercations . The biggest difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and business leaders has to do with salary and wage cuts . The Mayor has financed the enormous public welfare charges of the past two years in part from " voluntary " contributions by city employes . Several business associations , including the Chamber of Commerce , have insisted for months that salary cuts must be made . Banks Demand Economy . Can the city be financed during the months that yawn between the time of the exhaustion of the free cash with which the Treasury be . gins the year and the time when the tax payments begin to come in unless these cuts are made ? The ordinary course is to borrow on short-term notes . A few weeks ago the banks made advances , but they let the Mayor come to them instead of responding to invitations for bids . A short time ago the Mayor was faced with the necessity of going without further loans or of acceding to the demands of the banks for salary reductions . He announced his " reluctant " acceptance of their terms . Meantime , the Legislature passed a bill giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under city control , as in the School Department , where the expenditures amount to almost a third of the total . Thus the way seemed clear for wage cuts and bank loans . In refusing Warsaw the Mayor affirmed his wish to continue to serve the city , and intimated that Boston needs an Executive of his familiarity with its every problem . That is true . If Mayor Curley undertakes a complete job of renovation he could render such a service as nobody else could match . But right now there is anxiety in business . circles lest the expected salary slashes be not forthcoming . The city will need $20,000,000 to carry on until October . The Mayor announced his intention to " confer " with the bankers . If terms shall not be arranged , how will the city be financed ? It looks like an impasse . The Mayor has once hinted at a possible bond issue . He has always emphasized strongly the high credit of the city . Right now also the Legislature is likely to adopt a bill for an investigation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of the wellknown twain , economy and efficiency . The Joint Committee on Rules reports " ought to pass . " At the same time this committee reported adversely on the petition for an investigation of the city 's expenditures of late years . The opinion of the informed public is that the worth of any administration depends on the administrator , and that a revamping of the charter will not help much to curb that tendency toward extravagance which often has been charged against the present Executive . Whatever may come . it seems certain that Mayor Curley will bear watching . He never has manifested a submissive disposition , and so far in his career he has refused to stay down for any length of time . But Would Have Hard Battle With Machine if Ely Decides Not to Run Again .                     