@@702894

txt Owing to necessities of an international character , many thousands of soldiers of the Italian regular army are being sent to Libya , the Italian North African possession bordering on Tunisia to the west and Egypt on the east . It Is estimated that there are already some 35,000 Italian troops in Libya , and there are rumors that Italy intends to have an as my , 80,000 strong these in the near future ready for any emergency that may arise In the present disturbed Mediten anean situation . Total Force of 100,000 Italy , mum cover , has some 20,000 native soldiers . and this brings the total future Italian garrison in Libya to 100,000 men . Official explanation of these military movements is that Italy decided last Apia to ( cum a Libyan army corps and she now is carrying out plans prepared seven months ago . There is talk also of formation of a second army to serve in Libya . But evidently there Al e other potent seasons for le-enfoicements of the Libyan garrison , which now almost , equals that maintained there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these hoops may be used against Egypt must be ruled out after the reassuring statement of Italy 's intentions toward her eastern neighbor was issued a few days ago , this hug army in Libya can be used lot two purposes , according to well-informed opinion in this country . It can either be a veiled threat to the adjoining French colony of Tunisia , designed to discourage Fiance from opening the Pyrenean frontier to war material for the Valencia Government , or Libyan forces may be used to le-enrolee eventually the Italian " volunteers " now fighting on Franco 's side , Italians No Alarmists The presence of such huge Italian knees in Libya eventually arc bound to widen the serious differences that unfortunately continue to exist between Italy and Fiance as well as between Italy and Britain , and it is therefore essential that if peace m the Mednettanean is to be maintained the Spanish problem ne tackled without further delay . It is , however , lutes eating to note that Italian quintets do not take an alas mist view of the situation . Since hoopships are continually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were being sent to Spain . Official ( matters indignantly deny these rumors and emphasize that hoopships me all going to their declared destination , namely , Libya . Inquiries in well informed Fascist quartets appear to confirm the accuracy of this Italian explanation . Time Is , however , no doubt that Italy will reverse her present policy the day that Fiance opens the Pyrenean frontier .                     