@@698231

txt Seated before a microphone in the commandant 's quarters of Fortress Monroe , the time-old guardian of Hampton Roads , President Hoover tonight broadcast an appeal to the nation for private funds with which to care for human needs growing out of the crisis of unemployment . The President landed from the battleship Arkansas , which is carrying him to Yorktown , where he speaks tomorrow at the sesquicentennial celebration , especially to deliver his radio address . The President 's broadcast officially opened the country-wide appeal of many community chests , coordinat ? ing their efforts under the direction of the Gifford committee . Mr. Hoover is depending on the efforts of in. dividual communities to preclude the appropriation of relief funds by Con. gress . In his address he insisted that tit ( present crisis is only " a passing in ? cident in our national life , " but add . ed : " We must meet the consequences in unemployment , which arise from it , with that completeness of effort and that courage and spirit for which citizenship in this nation always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bearing Fruit . Efforts that were being made for a solution of the general business depression were producing results , the President declared . All immigration had been stopped , measures had been adopted to stimulate credit , employers had spread work in order to take care of the maximum number of workers , and municipalities , counties , States and the Federal Government were expanding their public works and doing their part . " Yet , beyond all this , there Is a margin of relief which must be provided for by voluntary action , " he continued . " Through these agencies Americans must meet the demands of national conscience that there be no hunger or cold among our people . " He indicated the possibility of misery for helpless people unless community appeals were successful . " I would that I possessed the art of words to fix the real issue with which the troubled world is faced in the mind and heart of every American man and woman , " he said . " We are faced with the primary question of human relations , which reaches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this great complex , which we call American life is builded and can alone survive upon the translation into individual action of that fundamental philosophy announced by the Saviour nineteen centuries ago . Part of our national suffering today is from failure to observe these primary yet inexorable laws of human rela- tionship . Modern society can not survive with the defense of Cain , ' Am I my brother 's keeper ? ' " No one with a spark of human sympathy can contemplate unmoved the possibilities of suffering that can crush many of our unfortunate fellow-Americans if we fail them . " The formula he gave to preclude these possibilities , the one he has adhered to from the start , was " mutual self-help . " That formula , with its attributes of voluntary giving and responsibility of local government , was of " infinite importance to the future of America . " The President appealed likewise to sheer patriotism . The success and character of nations were to be judged by the ideals and spirit of their people . Thanksgiving Day Appeal . Appealing to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued : " In a little over a month we shall celebrate our time-honored festival of thanksgiving . I appeal to the American people to make Nov. 26 next the outstanding Thanksgiving Day in the history of the United States ; that we may say on that day that America has again demonstrated her ideals ; that we have each of us contributed our full part ; that we , in each of our communities , have given full assurance against hunger and cold among our people ; that upon this Thanksgiving Day we have removed the fear of the forthcoming Winter from the hearts of all who are suffering and in distress  --  that we are our brother 's keeper . " Referring to the Yorktown celebration , the President applied its significance to the ordeal now confrOnting.the country , saying : am on my way to participate in the commemoration of the victory of Yorktown . It is a name which brings a glow of pride to every American . It recalls the final victory of our people after years of sacrifice and privation . This nation passed through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he had completed his speech the President returned to the Arkansas , which weighed anchor immediately and headed for the York River . He spent a good part of his day on deck , enjoying the ideal weather , which sailors on the Arkansas said had been " turned on for the Chief . " He attended church services in the morning , accompanied to the improvised chapel by Mrs. Hoover and the entire official party . Cheered by Crowd on Landing . FORTRESS MONROE , Va . ( IP. ? In making his country-wide appeal for community aid for the unemployed tonight President Hoover spoke from the huge , red brick , white-pillared residence here of Brigadier General Stanley D. Embick , commandant of the post . Brought ashore in a small boat from the battleship Arkansas , the Chief Executive , with Mrs. Hoover , two secretaries and military and naval aides , went straightway to the study on the second floor front of the Embick home . There , standing before a microphone , and nearly visible to the crowd outside through a lighted window , he delivered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a crowd surrounding the wharf . Flashlights blinked in the darkness as he and Mrs. Hoover appeared . A red-coated band of legionsires from Portsmouth , Va. , ' preceded him the few blocks to the Embick home . The President was in the commandant 's residence about twenty-five minutes . President Reaches Yorktown . YORKTOWN , Va. , Oct. 18 ( 20 . ? President Hoover arrived tonight at the mouth of the York River aboard the battleship Arkansas .                     