@@704047

txt Judd Dewey , who succeeded Louis D. Brandeis as sponsor of savings bank life insurance in Massachusetts , defended the system today before the Federal Monopoly Committee , against attacks of repre. sentatives of the Association of Life Insurance Presidents . The Association , representing insurance companies with assets Of approximately $25,000,000,000 , was revealed yesterday to . have stlecessfully fought the extension of the Massachusetts systems in 9 or 10 other states . The Association charges that the original system , now copied in part in New York , represented a state subsidy operating in competition with private business . The Massachusetts system was enacted in 1907 , testified Mr. Judd , who is now Deputy Commissidner of the system . Twenty-six savings banks now write the insurance with 155,431 policies worth $154,788,376 in force . There was a gain of insurance in force between 1937 and 1938 of $15,000.000 . Large Share of Increase Only four old-line insurance companies wrote more insurance in Massachusetts in 1938 than did the savings banks , it was testified . Also , no private company gained as much insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 45 per cent of the total net increase in insurance in force in 1938 , Mr. Dewey testified , but the bank business still amounts to only 3.163 per cent of all life insurance in force in the State . The purpose of the Brandeis system is to make life insurance available to workers who could not otherwise afford it . Committee members smiled as Mr. Dewey paid a proud tribute to public-spirited New Englanders serving unpaid on savings banks directorates , who make them " the safest in the world , " he said . Mr. Dewey categorically denied that the state had ever subsidized ravings bank life insurance  --  a charge made by the private companies . On the contrary , he said , the system has returned the entire state appropriation amounting to $492,000 . The law prohibits the banks born employing solicitors , he explained , and limits the mdi viduars insurance to 51,000 per bank . Many industrialists encourage factory workers to take out the insurance , he said . Lobbying in Georgia An extraordinary story of lobbying in the State Legislature of Georgia in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal Monopoly Committee as a sample which committee investigators implied was characteristic of the companies ' watchfulness in the 47 other states of the union . Entertainment for members of the Legislature , their wives and daughters ; employment of a newspaper reporter for $100 with access to the floor to report Legislative gossip on insurance legislation ; mobilization of wealthy policy holders to defeat re-election of legislators , and the enlistment of the financial pressure of a bank to force withdrawal of a particular bill by a member who was obligated to the bank , were all disclosed . Nor was this all , for in the most unusual of personal letters written into the record today was one from Lewis A. Irons , the Georgia Deputy Insurance Commissioner , addressed to Robert L. Cooney , the inspector of agencies of the New York Life Insurance Company at Atlanta , Ga. , who was the chieftain shown to have mobilized the lobby battle for all the insurance companies in the State . Details of Letter Mr. Irons ' letter dated Dec. 1 , 1934 , explained that a member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days before and complained that he was unable to put through certain business because he was unable to pay his occupation tax as an insurance agent . Mr. Irons wrote to Mr. Cooney intimating " that under all the circumstances you might feel that it would be a good ' investment ' for the company to meet this expense , at least for the time being , in view of the fact that Mr Dobbins is again scheduled , I understand , for the chairmanship of the insurance committee and his good-will might be worth keeping . " Mr. Irons asked Mr. Cooney to " destroy this letter when you have its contents in mind . " It was in this unsavory activity of State lobbying that the monopoly committee delved today in following up the story of legislative activity declared by other agents to be carried on intensively in all 48 states by the Association of Life Insurance Presidents , of New York , in behalf of the insurance companies of the country , which now have cash assets of some $27,000,000,000 . Prior to the introduction of the Georgia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Cooney , an elderly , white-haired , colorful individual , was put on the stand as his confidential correspondence was read dealing with years of experience in keeping legislation adverse to life insurance companies off the statute books . The letters brought frequent outbursts of ironic laughter from the audience and occasional indignant comments from Senator Joseph O'Mahoney ( D ) of Wyoming , Chairman of the Committee . who pointed out the national implications of the conditions revealed . Brought Challenge One of the letters addressed to W. H. Pierson , Second Vice-President of the New York Life Insurance Company which recommended employment of Judge E. M. Davis , a member of the Legislature , as a counsel in at , insurance suit on the ground that " we are going to need him in the Legislature " brought prompt challenge from Mr. O'Mahoney . " That 's true of the whole national industrial system today , " he cried ? " to hire lawyers for influence rather than their work in a particular case . Its being done all over the country . " Earlier in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legislature was read into the record , Mr. 0111ahoney declared : " The significant thing is that the Association of Life Insurance Presidents at New York should go to the Legislature in Florida and operate a very effective lobby there This is a national business . Would it not be better for the policy holders if we had one national system to handle what is obviously a national business . " Legislation in Florida , he said affected the policy holder in New York , and yet regulation was divided up among the 48 states . lie asked whether federal regulation would not be superior . National Business " You have clearly presented a national business with effects on the whole economy , and with no effective supervision in the public interest , " he said . Facts , dates , places and names of the powerful insurance lobby in Florida and Georgia were read into the record indicating what may develop into local scandals in those areas . One brief exchange illustrates the hard-handed meth ods employed in quashing adverse legislation . Writing to Charles F. Creswell , statistician of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1933 regarding ? ? Senate Bill No. 21 , " Mr. Cooney declared : " The easiest way to handle the bill is to kill it . I think that has been done . Tne First National Bank of Valdosta , Ga , is the financial backer of the Hen . Nelson , who introduced the bill . I hand you a copy of a telegram that was sent to Senator Nelson yesterday by the bank , at the instance of one of our agents , Ex-Senator E. E. Dekle , to wit . I have an idea that the bill will now be withdratt n. - The telegram follows : " Hon. H. W. Nelson . Scna:e Chamber , Atlanta , Ga . " We belies e passage of Sc -. ale bill txt enty-one detrinientai to business interests of Georgia you v. ill not urge its passage ( Signed ) First National Valdosta , Ga. , ( By ) Jas . Y. Mitch . President .                     