@@700639

txt Complete agreement on the Stock Exchange Regulation Bill was reached by conferees today after a long and bitter controversy . Formal signing of the conference report was deferred until Tuesday . Under its terms , which Senate and House are expected to accept promptly , stock market regulation will be concentrated in a new agency to be known as the " Securities and Exchange Commission , " consisting of five members to be appointed by the President . This provision was a part of the Senate bill . The House conferees agreed to surrender not only their contention for administration by the Federal Trade Commission , but also to accept the Senate provision transferring supervision of the Securities Act of 1933 to the new agency . The Securities Act is modified to a minor extent by the compromise bill . The conferees agreed to the House limitation on marginal trading , which would put control of credit for this type of market operations in the hands of the Federal Reserve Board , but under the additional stipulation that marginal traders be required to carry 45 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve Board would have discretion to raise or lower this marginal requirement should circumstances warrant . The penalty provisions were modified by the conferees to differentiate between violations of the law and violations of regulations made by the commission under authority of the act . For unintentional violations of any regulation the compromise bill provides that there shall be no prison sentence , but a fine not to exceed $10,000 ; but for willful violation of regulations or infractions of the act itself the prison sentence of not to exceed two years or a fine of not more than $10,000 or both are retained . President Roosevelt , who advocated the Federal Trade Commission as the agent for administration , is understood to have acceded to the new commission to speed Congress 's adjournment . The conferees agreed that the act should become operative July 1 with regard to the registration of securities and Oct. 1 with regard to marginal requirements . The Reserve Board must set before Oct. 1 the amount of margin required . It was decided that all marginal accounts now in existence might operate without regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Jan , 1 , 1939 , as the House bill had stipulated . Stocks bought on existing accounts would be subject to the new requirements . Members of the new commission will receive salaries of $10,000 a year . One member will be appointed for a year , one for two years , one for three , one for four and one for five years , so as to provide constant change in the membership of the body . Successive appointments are to be for five years each . It was reported that Chairman James M. Landis of the Federal Trade Commission might be transferred to head the new commission and that Ferdinand Pecora , who conducted the stock market investigation , might also be a member . Conferees praised the terms of the agreement . Chairman Fletcher of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee said that " all the modifications were liberalizing . " Chairman Rayburn of the House committee expressed his belief that the measure would be approved . - Mr. Pecora thought that it was " a very happy compromise . " " I think that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil practices shown to have existed in the past , " he added . " Under its terms there is made available to investors more complete and reliable data with regard to the value of securities than hitherto have been obtained by them . It will thereby give greater eonfiidence to the investors . " The power given to the Federal Reserve Board over margins puts in the hands of the board a brake which will enable it to check undue or excessive speculation and gives it a firmer control over the use of bank credits for stock market transactions . " Among the outstanding evils which can be curbed by the wise use of the powers conferred by the act upon both the commission and the Federal Reserve Board is the inflation of security prices which has always attended excessive speculation . " The bill spells the end of the manipulator , jiggler and pool opertor . " No Harm to Brokers Says Fecora . Mr. Pecora held that the legislation would do no injury to brokers and dealers , and that they would in fact end by blessing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon brokers , dealers and corporations having listed securities are in my opinion entirely reasonable and readily workable , " he said . " They should experience no difficulty in adjusting themselves to these restrictions and requirements . " I repeat what I have maintained since this legislation was formulated , namely that within a year of its initiation , Stock Exchanges and their members will give it their blessing just as banks bestowed their blessing upon the Federal Reserve Act , which they originally opposed . " Mr. Pecora explained that upon the original purchase of a security under the bill as it now stood " the customer can not receive credit amounting to more than 55 per cent of the purchase price . " " Power is given to the Federal Reserve Board to increase or lower the amount of credit that may be required within its own discretion , " he said . " The amount of margin set is merely an indication of what Congress thinks the amount of margin should be . " He added that the Federal Reserve Board might require a differing amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing withl penalties states : " Any person who willfully violates any provisions of this title or any rule or regulation thereunder , the violation of which is made unlawful or the observance of which is enjoined under the terms of this title , or any person who willfully ' and knowingly makes , or causes to be made , any statement in any application , report or document re quired to be filed under this title or any rule or regulation thereunder which statement was false or misleading with respect to any material fact , shall , upon conviction , be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than two years , or both , except that when such person is an Exchange a fine not exceeding $500,000 may be imposed ; but no person shall be subject to imprisonment udder this section for the violation of any rule or regulation where he shall prove that he had no knowledge of such rules or regulation . "                     