@@698061

txt Colonel and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh took off from a lagoon near the shore here at 6:53 P. M. local time ( 12:53 A. M. , Tuesday , New York Daylight Saving Time ) on their 532-mile hop southwest to Nome , their last stopping - place on this continent on their flight to Tokyo . . Cloudy weather here earlier in the day cleared somewhat and a storm which had been lashing Nome for two days was reported to have subsided . A last-minute weather report'from Nome , with observations at 3 P. M. , local time , said the weather was clear with a sixteen-mile-an-hour west wind . During the last twelve hours .18 inch of rain had fallen , but the skies had cleared there tonight . ? Shifting winds of the Arctic closed leads in the ice pack just as it seemed the supply ships , with food and other necessaries for another year , would reach here . The Bay Chimo and the Patterson had threaded their way through the floes to within thirty-five miles of the Point when they were forced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove the ice back on the Arctic shore . An hour after the plane left , Mrs. Lindbergh radioed that everything was " Okeh " aboard . Natives Line Shores . Nearly the entire population of this settlement , eight whites and several hundred Eskimos , were on the shore when the plane lifted from the water . More than two hours earlier Lindbergh had climbed aboard and started to warm up his motor , but his final tests were not quite satisfactory , and he delayed to check the motor again . Although unable to replenish his gasoline supplies here , Colonel Lindbergh said he had enough gasoline left after arriving here Saturday on the flight from Aklavik to reach Nome without difficulty . His course will take him near Cape Beaufort , across the peninsula from which the Kukpuk River runs to the sea , across Kotzebue Sound and over the Seward Peninsula to Nome . Pictures Air Routes Over Arctic . Speaking last night to the eight white residents and several hundred Eskimos in the little schoolhouse , Colonel Lindbergh gave a picture of the part the Arctic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that he believed that the route he was now following would prove the shortest from New York to Japan and China . " As the years pass and this new science of flying progresses , there ' seems little doubt that the air routes from the important cities ' of the world will pass through the Arctic , " he said . " The point has now been reached where I believe the airplane will be the most used method for transporting light materials . " He predicted that before many years Point Barrow and Northern Alaska would have air mail for light packages , saying it was less expen- sive to transport them by plane than by dog team , especially if the time factor was considered . The Eskimos cheered loudly as he concluded . The'younger ones , speaking such good English that it won his compliments , understood his speech , but it was translated for their elders by an interpreter . The Lindberghs attended ' church yesterday and were deeply moved by hearing the Eskimos sing and pray in their own tongue . Afterward the couple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in furs and wrapped in robes , they . sped for an hour over the tundra drawn by twenty-one of the best and fastest dogs of the settlement . The Lindberghs then visited the Signal Corps radio station where Mrs. Lindbergh sent greetings to the Coast Guard cutter Northland , then anchored at Wainwright , ninety miles southwest . The cutter returned greetings and thanks to Mrs. Lindbergh . The Colonel seemed proud of his wife 's ability as a radio operator . TOKYO , Aug. 10 ( P ) . ? The volcano Asama , near Karuizawa , where Colonel and Mrs. Lindbergh will stay a few days as the guest of Ambassador W. Cameron Forbes , began erupting at 10:10 A. M. today and again at 12:25 P. M. Great quantities of ashes mixed with small stones were falling in the vicinity of Asama , which is about ten miles from Karuizawa . The Forbes residence offers an unobstructed view of the volcano .                     