@@701872

txt After a fivehour conference at the Foreign Office which must have been one of the saddest of his career , Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden spoke to his constituents at Leamington tonight as if the whole seven months ' conflict between Italy and the League of Nations were already a matter of history . Insisting that " we have nothing to reproach ourselves with , nothing to apologize for " Mr. Eden implied that the Ethiopian crisis had better be regarded as a closed chapter and that Britain and other League powers should make a new start . " Whatever the lessons of the past seven months , " he said , " we must be prepared to learn them and profit by them in a spirit of realism , keeping steadily before us what remains the constant purpose of British foreign policy  --  the maintenance of peace . " The young Foreign Secretary spoke with great poise and restraint considering the stunning blow which his policy had just received . He had been the driving spirit behind sanctions and his government had pledged again and again that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except one " within the framework of the League . " Relying on the assurances of its own advisers in Ethiopia , the British Government had convinced itself that the Emperor was capable of resistance until the end of the rainy season in spite of the shatter , ing military successes of Italy in recent weeks . Now even that hope has been blasted . Eden Rushes to London The Ethiopian Government apparently no longer exists and Mr. ' Eden and his colleagues are preparing to orient themselves to the new situation before the Council meeting on May 11 . What will Britain do now ? Mr. Eden rushed to London , interrupt ' ing a week-end holiday , and spent most of the day at the Foreign Of , fice trying to answer the question , hut without reaching any solution . One of those with him at the conference was Sir Robert Vansittart , permanent head of the Foreign Office , who was one of the originators of the ill-fated Hoare-Laval plan of last December . The only decision reached was to keep in the closest touch with Paris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forcing a settlement now " within the framework of the League " even by indemnity and the long continuance of sanctions . Hence there is a growing belief in London that sanctions will be lifted soon , although not on British initiative and that the way ' will be cleared for a sweeping set ' tlement of Anglo-Italian differences later in the year . In the meantime Britain can be expected to push ahead on negotiations with Germany and also to speed up rearmament which is becoming more dominant as a factor in British policy . League Reforms Talk Grows The collapse of Ethiopia and the flight of the Emperor will , of course , increase the talk of reforming the League which already has come from so many British Government spokesmen in recent weeks . Some scapegoat for this defeat will have to be found and from all indications it will be the alleged faulty machinery of the League . Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin suggested only a fortnight ago that reform of the League would be necessary in the coining months as a result of its failure to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least indulged in no recrimination in his speech tonight . He echoed his chief , Mr. Baldwin , however , in defending British rearmament and complaining of the League 's weakened authority . " I tell you frankly I do not like spending money on armaments , " said Mr. Eden . " I do not think a panoply of armaments alluring . I believe there are more attractive ways of spending money , yet I yield to nobody today in my conviction that rapid re-equipment of our three fighting services is absolutely imperative . " In a world in which all nations have been rearming , in which the authority of the League is neither universal nor unchallenged , it is not an aid to peace for this country to be unduly weak and it may even become an incentive for strife . " While , therefore , we must and shall seek every opportunity to welcome disarmament by international agreement , it is impossible to ignore the events passing in other lands . To do so would be to invite disaster . Refers to African Events Then very guardedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Many of you tonight . like myself , have your thoughts in Africa , " he said . " I have only one observation to make about the events of the last seven months in connection with that dispute . " We had an obligation  --  a signed covenant obligation  --  to play our part . We have sought to play that part to the full , and so far as we have done this have nothing to reproach ourselves with , nothing to apologize for . We have played our part not on behalf of any imperial interests , nor for any selfish motives , but because as members of the League and signatories of the covenant we had an obligation which we shared with all other members of the League . " At this point Mr. Eden spoke of learning lessons " in the spirit of realism " which many of his hearers thought meant the end of a chapter in British diplomacy . The press supplements what little news it has received from Ethiopia with speculation as to the future . The Sunday Times will say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event . Haile Selassie Praised " One lesson of the Ethiopian tragedy stares us in the face , " the paper will say . " It is that the League of Nations must set its house in order . Plainly we can not rely on it as it is not organized to discharge its prime duty to prevent or end war among its members . " The Sunday Dispatch , which has been strongly pro-Italian , will publish an editorial headed " A Patriot King , " declaring that wherever the Negus may seek refuge he will be welcomed as an honored guest . " There is no part of the British realm where harborage will not be afforded him as a friendly sanctuary given to such defeated patriots of the past . A gallant warrior , skillful statesman , a patriot worthy to rank with the greatest in history , he has made a stand against modern arms which has been an epic of heroism and endurance . That his rule ended in military disaster does not diminish the essential personal greatness of the man . " In The Observer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Moral , " will state that there must be ? a fundamental change in the whole conduct of Britain 's affairs as touching the issues of peace and war . " The business of the British people , according to their true character and tradition , is to base themselves not on a grandiose policy with a mediocre defense but on a moderate policy with a mighty defense . " He gives four points for constructive British policy . First , working in every practical way to preserve peace ; second , achieving a sane settlement with Italy ; third , a longterm understanding between Britain , France and Germany , and , fourth , reconstruction of the League of Nations on a broader basis with a more simple and compact covenant and equipped with the authority that nothing but a strong majority of great powers can supply .                     