@@704210

txt An address made in this city a few days ago by Mr. Adolf A. Berle Jr . suggests that the kind of legislative innovations for which the Administration has been responsible may not be over , or even in abeyance , because of the outbreak of European war . Mr. Berle himself talks as one who hopes they have only begun . In this speech he does not advocate any minor reform but boldly challenges the whole concept of private initiative itself . Let us examine for a moment he says the idea of private initiative . Let us try to take it apart and see what it is . I , myself , in a good deal of reading on the subject , have yet to see any one who tried to define it , let alone analyze it . And after Mr. Berle 's own analysis he arrives at the blunt conclusion that " ' private initiative ' is a meaningless phrase , used principally in politics and without other significance . " Now this conclusion , if true , would be rather startling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at it . He arrives at it first by claiming that private initiative could hardly exist without the help of special privileges from the Government . " If you were to take a list of the so-called private operations which were conducted without any Government privilege , you would discover that only the merest fraction of American business endeavored to exist without asking the Government to help . " But if we inquire into what Mr. Berle means by Government " privilege " and " help , " we find that his use of these words is rather peculiar . Thus he declares that the foundation of the work of a private bank " is a privilege which only the Government can give it  --  the privilege of creating money by writing up deposits against loans . " This belief that private banks have some mystic and monopolistic " money creating " power conferred on them by Government is a familiar and oft-repeated one ; but it is without foundation . Any individual or firm with resources has the same sort of power , if he or it makes loans or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons designated by him to draw on the credit over a period of time instead of immediately . It is clear that Mr. Berle regards as a " Government privilege " or " help " any action that the Government does not actually prohibit . This is much as if your right to raise your arm were considered a " special Government privilege " because there was no law to forbid it . Mr. Berle 's other point is that private industry depends on Government subsidies of various sorts . Thus he declares that the growth of the automobile industry is dependent on " a great deal of money " that the Government has spent on roads . Mr. Berle 's analysis , strangely , ends at that point . Why did n't it occur to him to ask where the Government gets the money that it spends on roads ? He would have had to answer , from taxation e. , from private industry , and mainly from the automobile industry itself . In trying to show how private industry is dependent on Government , why did Mr. Berle fail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Government has no " subsidy " to give to any group or any section of industry that it must not first take from another . The truth is that Government and industry are mutually dependent : production can not take place except in a framework of law and order ; but this framework in turn is dependent for support on the proceeds of production . Mr. Berle 's speech unfortunately begs the chief questions that it starts out to discuss .                     