@@699664

txt Only emergency railroad legislation , intended to effect economies , will be attempted by the administration in the special session of Congress , it was virtually agreed tonight at a White House conference . Those attending were Secretaries Roper and Woodin , Interstate Commerce Commissioner Joseph B. Eastman , Professor W. W. Splawn and Budget Director Lewis W. Douglas . They discussed with President Roosevelt the railroad bills prepared for him by a special corn ' mittee . Secretary Roper , who has acted as chairman of the committee which made the survey of the carriers and formulated drafts of the bills , issued this statement at the close of the conference at 11:40 P. M. : " We have been engaged in considering drafts of railroad legislation and nothing but drafts tonight . We hope to bring these drafts into concrete and consolidated form for the action of the President by the latter part of the week . " Mr. Roper said that the legislation was based on the idea of a chief coordinator and fifteen regional assistants who would be authorized to bring about economies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptable to the President , he said , would inelude repeal of the recapture clause . 1 Opposition Is Considered . Asked if anything was done about railroad consolidations , Mr. Roper replied : " No , we have not reached that subject in our survey . " It was said that the conference 1 considered opposition to any milconsolidation plans at this time developing in Congress among friends of organized labor and conservatives on railroad policy , and that it was realized that such opposition might hamper other major legislation and prolong the session into the Summer . In view of this , it was said to have been deemed advisable for the administration to proceed slowly , step by step , and not undertake im-i mediate and far-reaching changes . It was indicated that after the emergency legislation had been tried out the administration would be better prepared to offer to Congress in January a thoroughgoing reorganization plan , including necessary consolidations . Y. C. C. Inquiry Is Begun . As a basis for the present purpose of bringing about economies and increased earnings , the Inter- ! state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phase of the rali1 problem by sending out a comprehensive questionnaire on carrier ! operations and expenditures . Particular interest was attached to this step , as Commissioner Eastman is prominently mentioned for , the post of chief coordinator , provided in the railroad legislation . The investigation was requested by several organizations of basic producers , which suggested that the I commission require of the carriers a showing as to why freight rates should not be drastically reduced . The first hearing was set for April 24 . Replies to the question-1 naire are to be in April 20 . Emphasizing that the purpose of 1 the hearing is to " elicit facts upon which the proceeding . must be de-1 cided , " the commission said that " argumentative discussion will be out of place at this hearing  --  ques- ; tions of law or policy must be de- , ferred until the time fixed for argu- ' ment before the commission . " Commissioners Aitchison , Porter and Lee will preside . Text of the Questionnaire . The commission 's questionnaire was said to be " merely an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facts developed . " It reads : 1 . Are the present freight rates and charges of respondents reasonable in the aggregate in the country as a whole or in the several territorial rate groups ? Are the present general levels of freight rates and charges on commodities or descriptions of traffic moving in substantial volumes in the country as a whole or in one or more of the designated rate groups reasonable ? 2 . To what extent are respondents realizing adequate earnings and , assuming the continuance of Substantially the present level of rates , what are the prospects for the future ? The answers should be given separately for the various rate groups and should cover a representative period of years . The extent to which the individual Class I railways have earned their fixed charges should be shown for eelected representative years . 3 . Show the volumes of freight and passenger traffic by rate groups in each Of the years 1921-22 , including cars loaded , tons of freight originated , ton-miles and pasenger-miles and ton-miles and passenger-miles and ton-Miles line . Data for 1933 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available in comparison with similar periods in the prior years specified . Effects of Wage Cuts Sought . 4 . To what extent have respondents ' operating expenses been reduced ( or increased , as the case may be ) since Jan. 1 , 1929 ? Explanations of the changes should include the effect of ( a ) furlough or discharge of employes ; ( b ) reductions in salaries and wages or changes in the conditions under which employee work ; ( c ) reductions or economies in service ; ( d ) curtailment of maintenance ; ( e ) changes in costs of fuel , rails and other principal materials used by railways ; ( f ) more efficient operation resulting from improved methods or from the substitution of improved machinery and equipment- ( g ) other changes in conditions affecting the cost of operation . 5 . To what extent have respondents ' taxes and fixed charges been reduced ( or increased , as the case may be ) since Jan. 1 , 1929 ? 6 . What is the present condition of road and equipment ? What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the road and equipment to a satisfactory condition ( a ) . to handle the present volume of traffic , and ( b ) to handle a volume of traffic equal to the average of the period 1927-1931 ? This information should be furnished by rate groups , and may also be furnished by indivual roads . 7 . To what extent can net income be increased by greater economy and efficiency in management , such as less circuitous hauling and further pooling of freight and passenger services ? Data on Rate Changes Sought . 8 . What changes in rates , increases or reductions , of importance have been made since Jan. 1 , 1929 ? Only changes over considerable areas and embracing sufficient traffic to have appreciable revenue effects are desired . Where possible it should be shown whether reductions made were for the purpose of meeting other forms of transportation ( truck or water ) , to meet the competition of ether rail carriers , or for the purpose of stimulating traffic by lowering the level of rail transportation charges . 9 . In order to develop as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and volume of traffic of proposed reductions in rates and charges as a whole , or on particular commodities or descriptions of traffic moving in substantial volume , the following questions should be answered , in each case giving the facts upon Which conclusions or opinions are based and from which the air/Mission may reach its own conclusions : ( a ) If rates as a whole or on particular commodities or descriptions of traffic , either in the country as a whole or " in particular rate groups , are reduced , how much additional tonnage is likely to result therefrom ; to what extent will such tonnage offset the loss in revenue resulting from the rate reduction ; and how will the net revenue be affected ? ( b ) Show the effect of particular rate reductions on prices to purchasers or consumers arid on the volume of consumption , giving concrete examples . ( c ) Shippers or others who proposed reductions on particular commodities should show what general changes In prices on such commoditioes have taken place since Jan. 1 , 1925 . If possible , price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furnished . To what extent has consumption of such commodities responded to changes in price in that period ? If possible , furnish statistic ? of commodity sales from grime competent authority comparable with the price index numbers furnished . 10 . If reductions in rates are found to be warranted , ( a ) should such reductions be Made general and applied to all rates or ( b ) should readjustment be required in the rates on snecified commodities or descriptions of traffic ?                     