@@701636

txt A hostile attitude toward the Franco-British peace proposals was foreshadowed today in a speech delivered by Premier Benito Mussolini at the inauguration of Pontinia , the third town built on what was formerly a desolate waste of the Pontine marshes . The whole tone of this speech was in marked contrast with his recent Chamber of Deputies speech , which caused considerable surprise because of its mildness . Today he reverted to his old truculent style , indicating the Franco-British proposals were not acceptable because Italy refused to send colonists to Africa unless they could live in security under the Italian flag . He again contended Italy was fighting the combined forces of " conservatism , egotism and hypocrisy , " and warned the nation to prepare for a long siege which he said would end with Italian victory . Stresses Italy 's Abilities . Mussolini began by stressing the significance of Pontinia 's inauguration ? at a time when all Italian energies were engaged in war ? as evidence of the Fascist regime 's tenacity , creative genius and organizing skill . Then he continued : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ send into distant , barbarous lands the flower of our people unless we are certain they will be protected by our country 's flag . I wish to tell you , moreover , that the Italian people who wrest from the soil their means of sustenance with strenuous daily toil are capable of holding out against a siege for a very long time , especially when they have the knowledge that right is on their side while wrong is on the side of the Europe whom present events dishonor . " After saying that Italy is fighting for civilization and freedom in Africa he added : " This is a people 's war . It is a war of the poor , of the disinherited. of the proletarians . Against us is ranged a united front of conservatism , of egotism , of hypocrisy . Against this united front we have engaged in a hard battle . We will carry on to the very end . " A nation of 44,000,000 inhabitants . sloes not allow itself to be throttled . With the knowledge of the unanimous support of the Rai- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascist regime will go straight ahead . It can not and does not wish to do otherwise . " We all , from the first to the last , are engaged in a trial that will test the virility of the Italian people . It is a trial from which we will most certainly issue victorious . Some time will be required , but when one is in the middle of a fight it is not time but victory that counts . " Fascist Chiefs Study Plan . The Grand Council of Fascism , after more than three hours ' discussion of the general situation brought about by the Franco-British peace proposals , broke up without taking any final decision and will meet again Friday night . This is entirely in line with forecasts that the council would try to gain time before committing itself in order to have an earlier idea of the reaction in Geneva and Addis Ababa to the proposals . Its decision also probably was greatly influenced by Sir Samuel Hoare 's resignation , the news of which was received in Rome shortly after the Grand Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by telephone . The uncertainty of the French situation , especially over Edouard Herriot 's attitude , also affected the council . Sir Samuel 's resignation shocked Rome . It is considered an undoubted victory for the sanctionist section of the British Cabinet , as personified by Anthony Eden , and is thought to have rendered the situation precarious again . Many persons believe it will result in the Franco-British peace proposals being dropped , either because the British Cabinet will refuse to support them or because they will be rejected by Ethiopia or by the League . Under these circumstances it is deemed impolitic for Italy to . express herself definitely . Those present at the Grand Council meeting tonight included Senatore Guglielmo Marconi , the wireless inventor , and this fact disposes of reports that he is gravely ill.                     