@@701466

txt Mussolini decrees formation of a commission with himself as " Mot tator chairman " to set forth Italy 's attitude toward neutrals and bellig , Brent nations under international war code . Page 2 . LONDON. ? Franco-British split de . velops on action to be taken to stop Ethiopian war ; French press accused of selling out to Mussolini ; concert . tration of British naval power in Mediterranean called " powder keg'l situation . Page 3 . GENEVA. ? League of nations awaits , Mussolini 's answer to peace plane proposal viewed as last chance for . Italy to expand in Ethiopia without recourse to war . Page 2 . Win Barber , Tribune correspon &; ent , is the only American newspaper , man who has received the Ethiopian government 's permission to visit de empire 's military outposts . Here is the first of a series of vivid pen pig : tures of the Ethiopian interior . BY WILL BARBER . ( Chicago Tribune Press Service . ADDIS ABABA , Sept. 19 . ? " I and guaranteed for 140 Italians . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is what a young radio man arid the mayor of Harrar , fingering their , revolvers , told me the night before left Harrar for a 250 mile plunge into Ogaden province toward war fronts to be . The same spirit of hatred for ItaI , fans , of patriotism and courage was shown by every one throughout the long journey in a jouncing , bucking American truck into the very heart of the Ogaden desert . Chieftains Brandish Knives . Somali chieftains flecked back a fold of their white cloaks , exposed short , sharp double-bladed knives and boasted what they intended to do to the Italians . It will be butchers ' business  --  a combination of emascula , tion and scalping ? if the Somalis carry nut their threats . When my Somali escorts took a pot shot at an antelope or a monkey , they wished their prey were an Italian instead . They all want to get on with the war . As the summer rains will be over in ten days , they are almost certain to have their chance. , A field marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like Somalis did . These men are Amharas from the mountains . One of them fought at Adowa , where the Italians were defeated in 1896 . They , talked with iron determination and their eat : ness to die for Ethiopia rather than yield a single inch of their land to Italian invaders . One and all displayed amazing con. , fidence in ultimate victory over the Italians in spite of lack of modern : weapons of war . Each and every one , also holds an awesome conviction that God is on the side of Ethiopia and will not let the oldest Christian nation go down to defeat . Will Fight Against Odds . They will fight and fight against odds . They will trudge hundreds of miles across the baking sands of the Ogaden desert for another go at the Italians if Italy 's tanks and airplanes force them to abandon their strong military outposts . And they will dig as their ancestors died before them. , Such is the spirit of the men hold , ing the Ogaden front . I spent a week in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go there . With the sole exception of the Turkish general , Wahib Pasha6 who whipped the British at the Dar , danelles , I was the last white mart in Ogaden before war starts . Wahib Pasha is down at Gerlogubi now . He is probably responsible for the deep and stout trenches I saw , since the Ethiopians heretofore have scorned warfare from trenches and always arranged for pitched battles in which they rushed on the enemy with sword and spear in hand . What about the country into which Benito Mussolini , devoured by Na. , poleonic ambition , is sending his young Italians ? Wilderness of Scrub . There is a wilderness of thick , , dense , thorny scrub under 15 toot mimosa trees  --  a wilderness where Ilvisibility is limited to 15 yards and in : I the worIA-places to 3.5 or . 20 feet , It Is impossible to advance 10 feet in a straight line through these thorns . Then there is the desert on which lemon yellow grass stretches mile after mile . Here and there is a thorny bush . Everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bite into one 's hand when one touches them , thorns that pierce through the Tether uppers of a man 's shoe . If the Italians pass the Ethiopian outposts , which are established at every water hole from the Juba river up to Jigjiga , they will sweat in the blazing sun for more than the 60 miles they will have to cross the desert in search of water . And when they locate the water holes they will find the Amharas and Somalis there before them ready to do battle . Wind Whips Up Sand . The sun beats down on the scrub and sand and the wind whips out of the west and whips up the sand . The sand blinds a man , fills his nose and throat , and coats his face so thick with pink dust that he looks like an angry monkey . It is difficult country  --  the heat , wind , sand and terrific shortage of water . It is even difficult for the Ethiopians . It will be a living hell for the soft Italians . But it is not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so brutal as the Sudan or Morocco , but then the English and French soldiers did the lighting ? not the Italians . I found Ethiopians preparing feverishly for an early outbreak of hostilities . The attitude of every commander revealed that the attack is expected at any moment . If a sentinel at a far distant fort fired a rifle and there came a rattle of musketry , the Ethiopians would not be surprised . I would have been , because I had come from Addis Ababa , remote from the front , by way of " sissy " Djibouti  - -  a sissy town where no one packs a gun or revolver  --  and through the smiling green province of Harrar , where there were birds and the corn grew tall behind hedges of cactus . Towns Are Fortified . There it is hard to believe that war is only a few days and a few miles away , but to the Ethiopian soldiers holding the line since last December , a sudden descent of Italian airplanes or the onrush of Italian Somali soldiery out of the darkness would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there another perched on a hill ; here a fort and entrenched camp set down in the middle of the desert and yonder small outposts guarded by sentinels . Such preparations were well made , but Ethiopia 's eternal policy of cutting off work to the last minute endangered the country 's safety , for roads are so bad that progress is limited to ten miles an hour in a truck . At many places telephone wires lay twisting on the desert sands . They had been blown down by the wind and unrepaired because the Ethiopians are counting on portable radioes for keeping communications open with the rear and Addis Ababa . Peasant Army Pathetic Looking . There were excellently drilled , smart Somali soldiers and alongside them were men from Ethiopia 's peasant army . They are the rawest of recruits , but who are all ready to die . The Somalis looked businesslike , but about the soldiers of the peasant army there is a pathetic air , for in ' spite of their ancient rifles and ancient scimitars , they looked like the farmers and shepherds they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lexington and Concord must have looked something like that when contrasted with the scarlet swaggering British regulars . There is a curious combination of preparedness a n d unpreparedness , but prevailing over all there is eagerness for battle , hatred for the Italians , and confidence in victory because of a feeling Cod and nature are on their side . Such are my Impressions , but the best way to convey them perhaps is to recount the week 's journey down the Jere and Fafan valleys to Goreihai and back through Daggah , Jigjiga to Harrar  --  the journey took me with . in a few miles , not of the frontier because the Italians pushed that back unofficially last December , but of the front , BUNT TWO GROCERY BANDITS . Pollee were searching last night for two bandits who held us a Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea company store at 549 North u , dzie avenue and took 53g.                     