@@699676

txt The State Liquor Control Board was completed today by Governor Lehman with the appointment of four members to serve under the chairmanship of Edward P. Mulrooney , who immediately called a meeting of the new body here Monday . The board will take over regulation of the 3.2 per cent beer and wine traffic on June 1 . The four new members are : Edward Schoeneck of Syracuse , former Lieutenant Governor and head of the State division of Association Against the Prohibition Amendment . John Sullivan of New York City , president of the State Federation of Labor . Mrs. John S. Sheppard of New York City , chairman of the State division of the Women 's Organization for National Prohibition Reform . James P. B. Duffy of Rochester , lawyer and merchant . Three of the appointees , Chairman Mulrooney and Messrs . Sullivan and Duffy , are Democrats . Mr. Schoeneck is an organization Republican and Mrs. Sheppard was also appointed as of that political faith . Mrs. Sheppard and Mr. Sullivan were members of Governor Lehman 's special commission which I made preparatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been an attorney for brewing interests , Mr. Duffy Is a member of a family which made a malt liquor and Mr. Sullivan was a leader in brewery workers ' unions . Chairman Mulrooney , who was appointed Wednesday , is to serve five years at $12,000 a year . The others are appointed for terms which will run in rotation for from four to one year , at $7,500 . Governor Lehman said that he had not yet decided on their individual periods of service . Recommendations Consulted . The Governor , before making the four appointments , called upon the Stater Bar Association , the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York , the State Medical Society and the State Federation of Labor for recommendations . Mr. Schoeneck and Mrs. Sheppard were recommended by the State Bar Association , Mr. Duffy by the Chamber of Commerce and Mr. Sullivan by the State Federation of Labor . The Governor did not act upon any of the recommendations of the Medical Society , but it was recalled at the Capitol that , under the terms of the new law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two places on the county control boards in their respective counties , the other place being filled by the State board . " I am very well satisfied indeed with the make-up of the board , " Governor Lehman said . " When the Eighteenth Amendment is repealed , the board will have control of liquor as well asi beer . That is one of the reasons why I have been so anxious to have the board set up right . " All the appointments are subject to confirmation by the Senate when the 1931 Legislature convenes . For Branch Headquarters Here . Before leaving for New York City tonight , Chairman 3fulrooney said that organization of the board would be effected at the Monday meeting , and that the next thing to be undertaken would be to determine on office personnel and on regulatory machinery . Until this has been done , Mr. Mulrooney said , there would be no consideration of rules and regulations which the State board is empowered to make under the terms of the control bill , some of these rules having the force and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aside from the central organization , to be honsea in the State Office Building . here , provision will have to be made by the board for an office force at its New York City and Buffalo headquarters . Nine rooms have been reserved for it at the State Office Building in New York City . Chairman Mulrooney said he would be at the New York City headquarters tomorrow , ' pfter Governor Lehman had left for New York this afternoon it was announced that he had approved the Buckley bill providing for an appropriation of $225,000 for the administration of the State 's beer law . Of this amount *25,000 will be allocated to the county boards .                     