@@697819

txt The aftermath here of last week 's congress of the International Chamber of Commerce , which ended yesterday with the adoption of resolutions dealing cautiously with the troublesome and delicate questions of war debts , armaments and tariffs , is an appearance of confusion in the minds of those active in party politics . A Republican spokesman today poured hot shot into the congress for calling for the lowering of tariff barriers , and accused the Democratic leaders of being in alliance with international bankers and foreign manufacturers . The Democrats are sympathetic to the demand of the congress for tariff reform , but are holding aloof from any expression concerning the congress 's attitude toward war debts . As for the Progressive element in . Congress , Senator Shipstead , Farmer-Labor , of Minnesota , is denouncing the congress as an organization of internationalists bent on having the war debts reduced or canceled , while at the same time the past course of Mr. Shipstead and the irregular Republicans of the Senate indicates that they are in sympathy with the hint contained in the resolutions that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overhauled downward . Pressure Put on the Congress . From all appearances , the Hoover Administration lacks sympathy with . the agitation in the international Congress for revision of the war debt settlements . As for the matter of German reparations , which was coupled with war debts in speeches made before the congress by some European delegates , the administration position is that this is not a concern of the United States , and can not properly be dovetailed with . the reparations question . In the face of this situation , however , the administration finds a grain of satisfaction in the action of the congress in virtually calling for armament reduction , not only as a measure of peace but as a contribution to the world 's economic welfare . Disarmament was the only topic touched upon by President Hoover in his address at the opening session . What he had to say was generally construed as a hint to the delegates that it would not be pleasing to the Washington Government if any pronouncements sympathetic to debt reduction or cancellation and lowering of American tariff rates eventuated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the influence of a desire to avoid taking any course in the capital of the United States that would be offensive to the government or the President , was subjected to so much pressure for some sort of a declaration on these subjects that it was impossible to stem the tide . The outcome was that the American committee of the congress drafted , carefully worded resolutions which were designed to soften the fact that any formal references to war debts and tariffs would not be to the administration 's taste . Argument for Cutting Army Costs . One bit of speculation in Washington today , the immediate result of the resolution on disarmament , is that in his week-end conferences with the heads of the War Department and Chairman Wood of the House Committee on Appropriations President Hoover might have proposed that a gesture of good faith an connection with reduction of land armaments should be made by the United States in further cutting its military expenditures . The chief argument against more pruning of the cost of our military establishment is that the Unite ( ' States Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to former President Coolidge , is about the size of a pplice force needed for a country of our population . The Republican National Committee emphasized that the party organization was hostile to tariff reduction by issuing , under its own imprint , a statement by RepresentatIvs O. William Ramseyer of Iowa , a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means , in which in an introduction an attack was made on what was described as " the alliance of Democrats , internationalists and foreigners which seeks to aid the recovery of Europe by pushing America deeper into the depression . " The contention of Representative Ramseyer was that American tariff rates are not as high , or applied to as many commodities , as the rates , imposed on American products by - certain European nations , with Great Britain and France named specifically . Ramseyer Assails Democrats . " The Democratic leaders , " said Representative Ramseyer , " have allied themselves with the foreign manufacturers and international bankers . who were so eloquently represented at the International Chamber of Commerce conference , in attempting to dictate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enrichment of foreigners . " It is not surprising that all the other countries want us to lower our tariff to permit them entry at a low cost to the richest market in the world , but those Americans who subscribe to such movement are either without a true understanding of our national needs or they are devoid of patriotism . " Our agricultural commodities today are selling from 30 to 40 per cent above the world market price . Foreign countries are dissatisfied with this condition . They know that if our tariff protection were removed , American prices would break to their own levels . The Democrats have shown every evidence of desiring to aid in bringing this about . ' On the other hand there has been no agitation on the part of foreign nations , nor on the part of Democrats , to reduce the tariffs of foreign nations . It may be a surprise to a great many people to learn that foreign nations levy duties on merchandise from the United States and have done so for years . And no one has ever heard a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more items duty free than most of our customer nations . Compares Other Nations ' Lines . " For instance , France levies a duty on 80 per cent of our goods , while we levy a duty on 28 per cent of theirs ; England levies a duty of 55 per cent of our merchandise , while we tax 40 per cent of theirs ; Belgium levies a duty on 74 per cent of United States products , while we collect duty on 62 per cent of Belgian products ; Germany collects on 71 per cent of our goods while we tax only 34 per cent of theta . " The Democrats have committed themselves to the foreign-born plan of attempting to pull other nations out of the depression by pushing the United States further in . They have a plan for prosperity , but the joker in it is that it is a scheme for European prosperity to be achieved at the expense of the United States , whereby every American farmer , merchant , industrialist and workingman will be forced to pay the bill . " The Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solving European unemployment  --  which is much worse than ours  --  by throwing American workers out of their jobs In order that the wheels of industry may turn at a faster rate in European countries . " If we reduce our tariff protection the individual American citizen will not only suffer because of the fact that he will receive less , wages , smaller salaries and lower prices for his commodities , but also he will be compelled to pity increased taxes for the reason that the government will receive less tariff revenue and will be compelled to make up the difference in other forms of taxation . " Canada to Enter World Chamber . One important outcome of the congress is that a national Canadian Chamber of Commerce is to be organized . Telling of this course today , Case R. Howard , manager of the foreign trade department of the Canadian Bank of Commerce , New York , said : " It was approved by the Canadian delegates and recommended by the British delegation that the Canadian Manufacturing Association , Canadian Bankers Association , Associated Chamber of Commerce and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the inauguration of the international chamber , a Canadian committee to take its rightful place in all the deliberations of the chamber . " The success of the present meetings in these distressful times and the character of the resolutions passed by the chamber with their helpfulness in solving world problems , had a direct bearing in the decision in favor of the formation of a new Canadian committee . This step will . give Canada direct representation in the chamber , and the Canadian committee will be kept apprised at first hand of all conditions affecting international trade and commerce . "                     