@@699009

txt Senator BonA v. 's speech at Minneapolis last week had the same theme as his previous radio address in Washington which stirred so much interest in Europe . He has got a new subject which perhaps no one else is so well fitted to lay before the American people . Mr. BorzAil can not now be suspected of partisan motives . In his new burst of independence he has turned his back on all our parties . Some ask how he ca.n porsibiy expect to exert political influence . with his hand thus against that of every other man . The answer must 1-3 ! found in the validity and effectiveness of the facts as he presents them . His Western auditors will not stop curiously to inquire how many bridges Senator BonAtt has burned behind him . They will chiefly be concerned to discover whether he is telling them the truth about the connection between war debts and the prices of farm products . It is an idea which has been working its way into the agricultural mind . In a sense Mr. BoRtal had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not long ago The Annalist reprinted some remarkable expresr:ions from Texas farmers , to the effect that American agriculture might find it a very good bargain to give up part or all of the war debts in order to recover its market abroad . In that same line a recent issue of Wallace 's Farmer , published in Iowa , told the farmers that they would have to decide whether they are " more interested in soaking Europe " than in getting a fair price for hogs , " wheat and cattle . " Senator BonAir addressed himself specifically to " the wheat growers of this great Northwest . " What he sought to prove to them is that the prices which they get are ultimately dependent upon European purchases , and that these have been steadily reduced by the confusion and uncertainty and poverty forced upon the nations of Europe by reparations and war debts . He showed also how our foreign commerce , which in 1929 provided a livelihood for 2,400,000 families , has been reduced by more than 50 per cent . Senator BORAH declared that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he affirmed , in a variant of the language which he had already used in Washington , If I could use the debts due the ? United States to effectuate a settle , meat of those war problems which would open the markets of the world ? to the American farmer and to the ? American manufacturer ? in other ? words , if I could purchase the prosperity of the American people by these debts . I would not hesitate to make the purchase . How can the ? ? American farmer get back to pros ' perky until he gets back his markets ? This question will not down . It will become more insistent as the weeks pass . Efforts to keep it entirely out of the coming international economic conference , in which our Government has at last consented to take part , are doomed to failure . Here is a great " interest " Of the United States which it is imposrible to ignore . Senator Bonau is something of an idealist , but in this matter he speaks with a firm grasp of actuality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good stroke of business for this coun : - try . It is solely on this basis that the discussion of the war debts promises to ' bring about a change in the attitude of the American people . As soon as they become convinced that ' it is expedient for them , in the sense that it is demonstrably profitable , to cut down or to remit entirely the war debts , their trading instincts , their shrewdness in perceiving where their own real advantage lies , may be counted upon to do what to necessary .                     