@@704337

txt A communique announcing the establishment of the British - French coordinating committee , issued jointly in Paris 1 and- London today , indicates the Allies ' economic headquarters will function in London , where French missions attached to each ministry will collaborate in all decisions after consultations with their government . There is special satisfaction here because of the choice of Jean Monnet , British economist of French origin , as chairman . Mr. Monnet was born in France and comes from an old French family . He has the full confidence of the French Government , with which he has had contact through League of Nations missions . He was a special representative for France in North America early this year . A few days ago the French Government announced the creation of a special national committee , including all principal Ministers and the Commissioner of National Economy under Premier Edouard Daladier , which will have charge of coordinating all the arrangements within France . This committee will keep directly in touch with the allied committee in London and all economic affairs of the two countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States and Canada will be handled through the London committee , dealing through the Anglo-French missions to be established there . Purvis Gets Post Here Arthur B. Purvis of Montreal has been appointed chief of the Allied mission in the United States , but the selection of the chief for Canada was not announced . It is thought here the appointment will be given to J. F. Bloch-Lain , head of the Anglo-French mission in the United States . During the week-end conferences have been held in Paris with the view to completing arrangements for tightening the Allied blockade . ' Philip B. B. Nichols , secretary of the British Ministry of Economic Warfare , conferred with George Pernot , French Blockade Minister . They agreed on instructions to be sent to French and British consular representatives with the view to coordinating-their activities . A decree published today forbids any foreign payments or payments in foreign currencies without authorization of the French Finance Ministry , beginning Dec. 15 . From that date French representatives abroad must conform strictly to instructions of the Finance Ministry in settling all matters involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will handle all these matters . While the daily communiqu ? s would seem to indicate a prolonged breathing space in military activities there is feverish activity on the economic front . The war in that field is being fought relentlessly and the whole French empire is participating . In a few months French economy , finances , administration and production have been completely transformed from a loose confederation , operating under extremely elastic rules , to a centralized control , capable of meeting competition with the strongest totalitarian regimes in every department of trade , credit , payments and coordination . Communiques in this war appear daily in the Official Journal in the shape of decrees that tell the progress of reorganization undertaken on a sweeping scale . Those decrees alone , relating to financial , administrative and economic reforms , would fill a couple of fat volumes in fine print . It may he said that France today has been totally renovated from the top to the bottom of her economic structure to permit her to face the conditions this economic war has made inevitable . All Classes Accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these economic changes , which in normal times would have been confronted with determined opposition . The result of this wide cooperation has been to facilitate the ease with which the country has accomplished this farreaching change without the dislocation that would have happened had lesser changes been attempted in time of peace . To begin with , Parliament has willingly relinquished most of its prerogatives to the executive branch of the government . The Deputies have met only twice since hostilities were declared and when they reassemble shortly it will be for voting the budget , which remains the last of their democratic privileges . Backed by the whole Parliament , Premier Edouard Daladier will continue to govern by decree and is thus prepared to act with the same rapidity and sureness of decision as the dictatorial regimes . At the outset France adopted a system of exchange control which is being perfected by the National Exchange Office . Then strict supervision of exports and imports and censorship regulations had to be established . The government now supervises all imports and exports to reduce imports so the excess of foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entails a complicated program for the stimulation and maintenance of export industries with government subsidies and aid to increase French shipments abroad . A High Commissioner of National Economy has been appointed to coordinate this work . When war was declared French industry was nearly annihilated . Factories were shut , transportation was interrupted , communications ceased and trade itself was at a standstill . National defense industries were first revived and are still undergoing reorganization . Labor Conditions Are Fixed At the same time French economy came under the law governing the national economy in wartime . Nearly all the big businesses of France became war industries under this measure , including railroads , shipping and agriculture . Then followed a sweeping reorganization of labor conditions by which the government assumed the right to requisition workers , to shift them from place to place , to fix wages , hours and working conditions and to settle labor disputes . Employers and workmen submitted to government control . Three months have passed since this great transformation was begun . The new machine is just getting into action , but in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anything seen by the armies in the field , and by the combination with Britain , which was recently accomplished by the Supreme War Council , the economic weapon may prove more effective than any threat from the air or from magnetio mines .                     