@@700208

txt Prospect of early resumption of disarmament negotiations has been materially enhanced , It is believed here . as result of Mr. Ramsay 's invite. - tion to Germany at the Guildhall banquet last night to present the new proposals to which the German Foreign Minister , Baron Constantin von Neurath , referred in his Berlin speech Monday . " We should like to hear them , " the British Prime Minister told the guests who included practically the whole diplomatic corps in London , and these words were echoed through a microphone far beyond the confines of the dinner table  --  even as far as listening ears in Wilheirostrasse . The scene in the fifteenth-century banqueting hall , with its fluttering candles and stained glass windows , gave the atmosphere of an ancient cathedral to the distinguished gathering . The new Lord Mayor of London , Sheriff Sir Charles Collett , was host . Earlier in the day he had gone to the Law Courts to take the oath of office , traveling in an imposing gilded coach , and accompanied by his chaplain , mace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what are the proposals to which Baron von Neurath referred ? is the question diplomats here are now busy asking themselves . The German Minister ' spoke of an " honest , trustful offer , " in which the problem would be approached from a new angle . Since then Gen. Hermann Goering , Minister of Aviation , has carried a letter on disarmament from Chancellor Adolf Hitler to Premier Benito Mussolini , but indications are that Il Duce did not consider Herr Hitler 's proposals . sufficiently concrete to enable formal negotiations to be reopened . There is reason to believe , however , that an influential section of German official opinion thinks if every country were permitted to build impregnable fortifications along its frontiers it would help to increase a feeling of security and so permit general renunciation of offensive types of arms . Coupled with this would be restriction of air forces to single-seater fighting airplanes which , because of their high speeds and other special qualities , have only a small effective range of action , say 100 miles , thus making them to all intent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far from their base . Polish-French Objections The chief obstacle to such a scheme at the moment is the French-Polish objection to Germany 's fortifying its frontier . As , however , France has now completed a formidable ' chain of fortifications from the Belgian frontier to the Mediterranean it is thought possible that this early attitude may be modified . Mr. in his Guildhall speech made it clear that ff Germany came back to disarmament deliberations she would " address a tribunal of men who want peace and men who.would be able to meet her in every way . " Armaments , he said . " have never yet saved a nation from war nor have they given security to either strong or weak nations ? against attack . " In regard to the United States Mr. referred to President Roosevelt 's recovery policy amid cheers as " one of the boldest and most difficult experiments " any statesman ever had been called on to undertake .                     