@@700233

txt James J. Hoey , Recovery party nominee for Borough President of Manhattan at the recent election , was appointed yesterday by President Roosevelt to be Collector of Internal Revenue for the Second New York District to succeed William Duggan , Republican . The appointment of Mr. Hoey , friend of former Governor Alfred E. Smith and his floor manager at the 1928 Democratic National Convention at Houston , Texas , was announced at the White House only a few hour .. before Mr. Smith made his first call on the President . The selection of Mr. Hoey , which was on recommendation of Postmaster General James A. Farley , Democratic State and National chairman , made it clear that John F. Curry , leader of Tammany , was not to be consulted by the Roosevelt administration on appointments , even those going to residents of Manhattan . Possibility of Alliance Seen . Political observers also saw in the Hoey appointment a possible manoeuvre for a Roosevelt-Smith alliance for the reorganization of Tammany Hall and the displacement of Mr. Curry as leader . Mr. Hoey , a prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Curry and made this evident when he joined with former State Senator Thomas I. Sheridan , Ferdinand Pecora and others to fight Tammany in its own stronghold and assumed leadership in this fight by running for Borough President . Mr. Hoey for years has been a close friend of Mr. Smith . He was one of his leading supporters for the Democratic nomination for President in 1924 and played a particularly effective part in getting delegates for Mr. Smith in 1928 and in bringing about his nomination . At the 1932 Democratic National Convention at Chicago , Mr. Hoey as a member of the Tammany delegation voted for Mr. Smith to the last . He is the first person who was not a F. R. B. C. ( For Roosevelt before the convention ) to receive an important appointment from the present administration . Got Smith Endorsement .. Mr. Hoey was the one candidate running on the independent ticket headed by Joseph V. for Mayor who received Mr. Smith 's endorsement . The former Governor , who endorsed Borough President Samuel Levy , Tammany candidate for re-election before Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a week before election , without withdrawing his approval of the candidacy of Mr. Levy . By Mr. Hoey 's appointment , according to the interpretation here , President Roosevelt indicated clearly that he did not disapprove the fight his friends here made against Tammany and the re-election of Mayor O'Brien . The President , according to this same interpretation , served notice that a continuance of the fight on Mr. Curry 's leadership had his approval . It was regarded here as worthy of notice that , although Mr. Curry has been in Washington for several days , he received no invitation to visit the White House . While the appointment of Mr. Hoey will not result necessarily in a Roosevelt-Smith alliance against Mr. Curry , it indicated clearly that there will be no let-up in ' the war of the Roosevelt faction in this city and State against the present Tammany leadership . Mr. Hoey , a wellto-do man with extensive business interests , never would have consented to accept the appointment , it was said by friends , if he had not believed that by so doing he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inside . Hoey Wo n't Comment . Mr. Hoey , who is a member of the insurance firm of Hoey &; Ellison , 99 William Street , declined to comment on his appointment in advance of official notification , but it was learned definitely that he has agreed to accept the place , which , as the Second District includes the city 's financial section , is the most important revenue collecting post in the country . Mr. Hoey has been in the ance business for thirty years , -s broker , general agent and company official . He is a vice president of the Continental Fire Insurance Company , the Fidelity-Phenix Fire Insurance Company and the American Eagle Fire Insure 2 . Company . He was a member of the Assembly for five years , representing the Fifth Assembly District , of which Mr. Curry is leader . He was Deputy State Superintendent of Insurance for four years and was formerly a member of the executive committee of the Democratic National Committee . He was chairman of the Home Rule Commission , which formulated laws which gave New York City @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local legislation . The new collector is a Past Grand Knight and a former District Deputy of the Knights of Columbus and Past President of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick . He Is a member of the national executive committee of the American Irish Historical Society , a national director of the Boys Club Federation of America , a trustee of the Cardinal Gibbons Institute and a member of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York , the Merchants Association , the New York Athletic Club , the Catholic Centre Association , the Manhattan Club , the Catholic Club , the Elks , the Oakland Golf Club and the National Democratic Club . Mr. Hoey is unmarried . - He lives with his mother and sisters at 135 Central Park West . BACKERS ORGANIZE . Workers Meet Near Tammany Hall to Carry On Recovery Party . Within a few blocks of Tammany Hall , Recovery party workers in the Tenth Assembly District met last night at 202 West Fourteenth Street and organized on a permanent basis . Philip Fleming , who was active in the headquarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons who crowded the room that had been used as a local headquarters that the party would organize so as to build up a permanent group in the New York Democracy . Members were enrolled and committees appointed . Another meeting was called for a week from next Tuesday .                     