@@699440

txt With a grave crisis approaching in the State 's work for unemployment relief , Governor Lehman will apply within a few days to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for Federal aid of $45,000,000 to meet the evergrowing demands . The decision was reached at a conference held this afternoon in the executive chamber by the Governor , legislative leaders and officials of the relief administration . Governor Lehman said after the conference that all the conferees had agreed the step was the only way out . " It has been decided , ' the Governor told newspaper men , " that the Governor is to file an application within a very short time with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation at Washington for Federal aid in the amount of $45,000,000 to help the State meet the ever-growing demands for unemployment relief . All Agreed on Step . " The form of the application , of coufse , . w111,14 subject to the viewe I of the Governor and the legislative leaders to be reached before it is made . We are- all in agreement on the advisability and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go forward within a very few days . " The statement was made in the presence of Senator Dunnigan , Senate leader ; Senator Fearon , leader of the Republican minority , and Speaker of the Republican Assembly , who , nodded their assent , as did those members of the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration who had attended the conferences . These were Harry L. Hopkins , chairman ; John Sullivan , head of the State Federation of Labor ; Charles D. Osborne of Auburn and Walter W. Pettit , its executive director . Homer Folks of the State Charities Aid Society also attended and concurred in the decision , as did Lieut . Gov . Bray . The conferees were in session for several hours . While they discussed some amendments to the unemployment relief statute to promote more effective operation , the , principal topic was the growing demand on the relief administration . 2,000 New Pleas Made Daily . Governor Lehman said officials of the relief administration had told him demands for unemployment relief were constantly growing , not only in New York City but in other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York City there was a daily average of from 1,000 to 1,500 new applications , with the total in the State averaging from 2,000 to 3,000 . He added that the Legislature must appropriate the $15,000,000 remaining from the $30 , - 000,000 bond issue provided by the Legislature last year for unemployment relief . The other $15,000,000 became available automatically when the proposal was ratified by the voters at the general election . Even with the additional $15,000 , - 000 , the Governor said , the temporary relief administration would have funds to keep its work going until only June 1 at best . Lehman Hesitant at First . It is known that Governor Lehman has given grave thought to the many suggestions made since he took office that Federal aid be sought at once to help with the unemployment problem . While hesitant at first , the Governor has now decided that no other course is I open . Governor Lehman , like his predecessor , President-elect Roosevelt , was averse to complying with what at one time was regarded here as a necessary preliminary to the extension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a " pauper 's oath " by States applying for R. F. C. aid . By this time , however , this angle has been clarified in the minds of the Governor and the legislative leaders . As it Is understood here , there will be no necessity for the application to be accompanied by the affidavit stating that the richest State in the Union , with unsurpassed credit facilities , Xs unable to meet its unemployment problem without Federal aid . The belief on Capitol Hill is that Washington itself has taken steps to ease the situation and prepare the way for the State making its application without reflection on its credit . Law Permits Application . It was explained tonight that as far as State laws are concerned there is no obstacle to the State seeking help , inasmuch as the aid would be extended not in the form of a loan , but as an advance on Federal money due in the future to assist highway construction in the State . If the money were to come to the State as a loan , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional and statutory difficulties which scarcely could have been cleared away in time , considering the nature of the emergency . Another matter discussed at the conference today was the demand which has come from some upState cities for a larger proportion of State aid for relief . Under the law , the State contributes 40 per cent and the municipalities 60 per cent of the funds disbursed for local unemployment relief , whether home or work relief . The conferees agreed that with the relief fund as inadequate as it is now to meet the growing demands upon it , it would be futile to discuss any proposal for a larger percentage to be contributed  --  from the State treasury until a grant of Federal money shall ' have opened the way for a more open-handed policy . By W. A. WARN .                     