@@703789

txt Premier Edouard ? Daladier told a cheering Chamber of Deputies tonight that France " will let no one touch her territorial integrity or her colonial empire or her free communications . " Speaking earlier in the day before a meeting of his Radical Socialist followers , M. Daladier declared that France . and Britain had agreed on the " necessary measures " to counter any Italian refusal to withdraw from Spanish territory at the end of the war , The Associated Press reported . " As I have said elsewhere , " he continued , " she will not concede a . single acre or concede a single right . In saying that I am measuring the full gravity of my words and the gravity of the circumstances . " But there are times when for a people who are proud of their freedom there can be no question of measuring sacrifice , when sacrifice is necessary , for the maintenance of their integrity and their honor . " With the hour of peril approaching , " M. Daladier said that there was more even than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France had defended in other times and was ready to defend again in a world that had enlisted under the banner of force . Blum Offers Amendment For a moment it looked as if what M. Daladier wanted would happen and that the House , which had unanimously cheered him , would give him a unanimous vote . But this is a free democracy . Leon Blum , who inaugurated the nonintervention policy in Spain but seems now to regret it , wanted to add an amendment to the motion of confidence , which ? the government had accepted , inviting it to " regulate the application of the non-intervention agreement in the same way as has been done by other signatory States . " In short , to open the Spanish frontier . Despite M. Daladier 's obvious wish for unanimity in the tense I situation and the division of opin- ion in his own party , M. Blum maintained his amendment , which was defeated by a vote of 360 to 234 . Later the motion expressing confidence in the " vigilance of the government to maintain the integrity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " was voted by 374 to 228 . M. Daladier 's speech was , in reality . a reply to Premier Mussolini 's speech a few hours earlier and that noisy demonstration in Rome that accompanied it . He never mentioned Signor Mussolini or the cries of the fascist crowd demanding Tunisia and Corsica . Instead he praised the heroism of the Italian soldiers with whom he had fought side by side in 1915 and he spoke of his liking for the Italian people , among whom he had lived . the whole Spanish issue was shown dramatically when Raymond Laurent , former President of the Municipal Council of Paris , who is a Catholic Rightist , took up the defense of the Spanish Republicans , claiming that the Negrin government was really a government of national union that had welcomed into its ranks both Communists and Catholic Basques . The atrocities of the early days of the war , he said , resulted from the desertion of their posts by the army and the police , who should have kept order and the blame could not be placed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order whereas , he reminded the Chamber , there had been terrible mass executions on the Nationalist Insurgent side , especially after the conquest of the Basque country . This comment , coming from a man who sits on the Right of the Chamber , aroused the enthusiasm of the Left and brought down on the speaker the disapproval of his fellow-Rightists . French-Italian relations , although it had been partly applied by handing over to Italy 2,500 shares in the Jibuti-Addis Ababa Railroad . There was no action on the part of France , M. Bonnet claimed , that could justify these constant changes in the Italian attitude . France was asking nothing , but , he added  --  and this time there was " general applailse ? " France will not tolerate that her empire , built by the blood and labor of her sons , shall be touched ; she will maintain her sovereignty and her territory intact . " M. Bonnet briefly outlined the relations he had had with Eastern European countries , adding that all engagements made in the past were being upheld on all sides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , he asserted , opinion was more and more on the side of the defense of liberty and M. Bonnet 's mention of President Roosevelt as the leader of that opinion got almost the warmest cheer of the day . Turning to the refugee problem M. Bonnet denied the report published in the Communist newspaper here yesterday that he had asked Julio Alvarez del Vayo , Spanish Foreign Minister , to pay for the feeding of Spanish refugees . France already was housing and feeding 11,000 Spanish children and would continue the same humanitarian work , he said . Defends Policy on Spain Defending the policy of non-intervention in Spain , which he had continued , M. Bonnet quoted largely from past speeches of M. Blum and former Foreign Minister Yvon Delbos and replied to Communist criticism of France 's failure to intervene at a time when no country , not even Soviet Russia , had done so officially . It was for the Spaniards , he said , to settle their own affairs . Italy had given the British Government assurance , he went on , that Italian volunteers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in Geneva the British Foreign Secretary , Viscount Halifax , had told him that this assurance had been repeated during his recent visit to Rome . At the same time Lord Halifax has said that the British Government attached as much importance as did that of France to the respect of Spanish independence . In concluding M. Bonnet reminded his critics that diplomatic action always depended in the final analysis on the force behind the government . In September the army had shown its goodwill and since then production had been increased and the civil spirit had reasserted itself . The whole future of the country , he said , depended on its maintenance and its development . During the morning session the passionate division of opinion on Speech Lacked Aggressiveness Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet 's speech on foreign policy did not rouse any enthusiasm in the Chamber . It lacked that aggressiveness that the French like in their foreign . policy . M. Bonnet apparently was too unemotional . The only outburst came  --  and it showed the real interest of the Right , at least  --  when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they want peace , " he said . " But discarding all their old doctrines they claim that that peace can not be obtained unless France intervenes on every battlefield . Look , gentlemen , at the Humariite during the last year , at the various resolutions of the party : Intervention in China , intervention in Spain , intervention in Central Europe , conflict with Germany , conflict with Italy and , so as better to assure victory , daily insults to the British Prime Minister and Secretary for Foreign Affairs . " There was a roar of protest from the Communist benches and an answering roar of approval from the Right . It took more than ten minutes of Edouard Herriot 's most valiant efforts , during which he grabbed his hat twice in a threat to suspend the sitting , before order was restored and the Speaker could continue . M. Bonnet replied to all the divergent speeches of the last two weeks by saying that while everybody agreed on the aim that should be pursued in the preservation of the greatness of France , many different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , he added , had been the gravest and most complex since the World War , with war in the Far East , civil war in Spain , the Czecho-Slovak drama , the demands by Italy in the Mediterranean , the troubles in Central ' Europe and the collapse of the system of collective security in which the nations put their faith . Europe was disorganized , the League of Nations weakened and certain States had developed armaments with extraordinary intensity , M. Bonnet went on , so that little by little the reign of justice was giving place to that of force . It was in that situation , he continued , that the Czecho-Slovak problem arose . But before Munich , M. Bonnet reminded the Chamber , there had been the occupation of the Rhineland , the rearmament of Germany and the annexation of Austria that had not been opposed . Already the twenty-seventh of September , when 5,000,000 men were under arms and every one was living through anxious minutes , was forgotten , M. Bonnet said , and even those who voted approval of the Munich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terrible disaster . To the British Government and people M. Bonnet paid an , exceptionally warm tribute and said that it had been fully agreed that in the event of war all the . forces of Great Britain would be at the disposal of France and , reciprocally , those of France at the disposal of Britain . With Germany , M. Bonnet said , he had sought to improve relations , and sketching what had led up to the agreement he had signed with Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop , he claimed that not a single French interest had been sacrificed and that the agreement was in accord with what every French Foreign Minister since the war had desired . Relations With Italy Cited He then traced in detail the history of French relations with Italy since last March when the Italian Government declared that conversations with France could start immediately after those with Britain . There seemed to be some prospect of success . Then came Premier Mussolini 's Genoa speech , he added , which interrupted all further conversations . Within a few days of the signing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort toward confirmation , decided to reappoint an Ambassador to Rome . M. Bonnet asserted . Both the Italian Premier and his Foreign Minister declared at the time that there were no difficulties in the way of an agreement except the Spanish situation . But there followed an outburst in the Italian Chamber of Deputies on Nov. 30 that was disavowed by the government . Three weeks later , M. Bonnet said , came the denunciation of the 1935 agreement as the basis of                     