@@703812

txt No race enjoys story-telling more than the Irish , and few races have such a plethora of humorous , fantastic , and whimsical folklore material on which to draw for stories as do the Irish . So much in their thoughts is this folklore that in 1930 Eamon de Valera helped to establish the Irish Folklore Institute with the help of Free State funds in order tl at traditional tales might be permanently recorded . Director of this Institute is Prof. James H. Delargy of University College in Dublin who , as dean of story collectors , speaks tonight at Harvard about the sagas of his native land in the first stop of trip which will take him all over the United States . Reluctant to Talk How , most people want to know , is this folklore , traditionally handed down from parent to children by word of mouth , accurately gathered ? The vast majority of it is unwritten and must be obtained first hand from those who know the stories . Those who know the stories best are often reluctant to talk freely of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stranger . This problem Professor Delargy had to meet . " You never do the obvious thing in Ireland , " was his counsel . " You do it in a roundabout fashion . " Practicing his own preaching , Professor Delargy and his staff make every effort to become trusted friends of those to whom they would listen . They disguis ? themselves as fishermen , Irish colleen milkmaids or as a farmer 's son . Once the Irish tongue has been loosened with confidence , enough tales of the glories and fantasies of Ireland pour out of their own accord to delight any appreciative collector of " yarns . " " The Irish are custodians of the oldest culture in Europe , " declared the Professor . " We are taking down with various modern devices stories which go back as far as 1500 B. C. , which touch upon both the 1literary and ? social history of the country . We want the Irish people to get the best out of the past and use it is a beacon for the future . " Literature Preserved Professor Lelargy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several American universities , including Harvard , will describe what Ireland is doing to preserve its native literature as completely as possible and in its own native dialect and vocabulary forms . So heavy has been the demand for tickets to the lecture that the Committee of Harvard Friends of Irish Anthropology , sponsors of the talk , have been forced to change the site of the lecture to New Lecture Hall , one of the largess Harvard auditoriums , where all guests may be accommodated . Seamus ODuilearga ? as the professor is known in Gaelic  --  also has pursued his folklore research in , Sweden , where , as he admitted , the spoke Swedish " with a beautiful Irish accent . "                     