@@697915

txt The Italian Government , according to a statement made last night by a high official at the Foreign Office to mess repiesentatires , considered its dispute with the Vatican over Catholic Action as " closed " as far as Italy AN as concerned . In explanation of this somewhat optimistic statement it was pointed out that the Go ? eminent in a series of measures had accomplished all its aims against Catholic Action and could now v , ith perfect security rest on its present position . In its note in reply to the Pope 's protests the Italian Government said all it had to say about Catholic Action and , although it contained also counter charges , it did not request an answer . At the same time , however , it was admitted diplomatic negotiatiohs between Italy and the Vatican over the interpretation of certain clauses of the Lateran Treaty Concordat will be very long , and that further exchange of notes will be necessary . In fact , a new note from the Vatican is expected to be delivered to the Italian Government today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fascist Government has taken the measure considered necessary to put an end to the political activities of Catholic Action . On the other hand , it is equally clear the Pope does not recognize the right of Italy to dissolve these youth organizations whatever action the Italian police might have taken temporarily as regards their clubs . At the same time Italy is satisfied with the ' Pope 's decision of transferring the control of Catholic Action in various dioceses from local councils to bishops working directly under the Pope 's orders . Most of . the Fascists '  --  discontent with " Catholic Action has been with lay directors , many of whonf:belonged to the PopUlar Party and were ' adversaries of the Fascist regime. , While Italy , for the sake ' of reaching an agreement with the Vatican , will make minor concessions , it will , nevertheless , oppose any direct or indirect interference by the Vatican in Italy 's political affairs and will insist that the leaders of Catholic Action in Italy be Italian subjects , not unfriendly to Fascism . A new note from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No details were given as to its contents , but it is believed to be conciliatory . Diplomatic negotiations are considering to be folloeing their normal course .                     