@@703961

txt Expansion in profits and the removal of obstacles now blocking the profitable employment of capital and labor were outlined here as the essential requirements for full economic recovery by John W. Hanes . Undersecretary of the Treasury , in an address before the Indiana Bankers Association . Mr. Hanes asserted that " it is only by increasing industrial production through the maintenance of conditions under which private enterprise can make reasonable profits that our existing ills may be cured . " It is partially because we have bad small profits during the last decade that we have experienced terrifying idleness of deposits , low production , unemployment , lack of investment in venturesome enterprise and reduced national income , " he declared . Mr. Hanes , who has played a leading role in the Treasury Department 's study of possible tax changes to stimulate business activity , contended in his address here that the existence of subnormal business activity in the face of an abundance of capital demonstrates that " there are obstacles in the way of profitable investments . ' . " There are a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage and willingness to launch out in new enterprises . " ne added . " It is essential that we direct our energies toward every move that will encourage our people to invest in enterprises which will put men track to work . " " The economic history of our country points clearly to the only sound solution for unemployment , for weak capital markets and for unbalanced budgets : that solution is the creation of a healthy , prosperous economy whose maximum powers can be generated only under profitable enterprise . " Mr. Hanes asserted . Higher Incomes : ' History proves further that whenever business profits were substantial , farm and labor Incomes were generally high and government revenues consistently increasing . " he continued . " When the profit system was functioning smoothly , we made lasting gains In security and in the building of what we recognize as our material civilization . " Mr. Hanes laid particular stress on the pronounced shortage of " venturesome capital " as contrasted with the large surplus of " cautious capital . " He pointed out that enterprising capital is essential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financing of fluctuating industries but also as a margin for even the most stable indlistries upon which they can secure senior capital through the issuance of bonds and preferred stock . In reference to federal . expenditures , Mr. Hanes asserted that he favored a balanced federal budget as much as any member of his audience . " I feel that it will be helpful to the country at this time if we can find a convincing way of developing a definite trend in the direction of a balanced budget . " He stressed , however , the important relationship of economic recovery to this objective and asserted that the existence of widespread unemployment , of relief programs and of large public expenditures is a consequence of " idle capital and idle labor existing side by side . " He also said that part of the fiscal difficulties confronting the Treasury are a result of the transfer of many state functions and services to federal control . R. M. Hanes on Cooperation Bankers have cooperated with government rather than attempted to obstruct any legislation , a good deal of which as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first vice president of the American Bankers ' Association and president of the Wachovia Bank &; Trust Co. of Winston-Salem , North Carolina . told the concluding luncheon session . Citing examples to support his contention , Mr. Hanes pointed out that bankers realize most legislation is proposed with a desire to improve banking service . Efforts of the A. B. A. have been directed , he said , " toward helping draw legislation which would be practical and helpful instead of being destructive and punitive . The banking acts of 1933 and 1935 were certainly greatly improved from the first drafts because of the helpful , conscientious collaboration of the A. B. A. representatives . " The first draft of the Barkley bill , drafted by the Securities and Exchange Commission for the regulation of- corporate trustees contained 40 odd points of difference between bankers and the SEC , he declared . " After two years of patient ' cooperative effort , all these points at difference have been ironed out and the bill as it now stands is a workable , practical instrument , whereas in its original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me a perfect example of what can be accomplished by government and business if their representatives will , with open minds and a cooperative attitude . sit down together to draft legislation , " Mr. Hanes continued . Other ' cooperative efforts being carried on by representatives of the A. B. A. include conferences . with both the Treasury and the Wage and Hour Administration . It is believed that changes in the various features of legislation covering both these arms of government will be ma &; which will be beneficial to all banks , he concluded .                     