@@701103

txt A major recovery drive by the Administration overshadowing anything that has heretofore been attempted by the New Deal . will be launched witnin the next ten daysl or two weeks in an effort definitely to " break the back of the depression " , as it was described by high Administration officials . The words of former President Hoover addressed to California Republicans that " we stand on the threshold of a great forward and economic movement " might well describe what the Administration has In mind . They might in fact , one official said , be adopted as n sort of slogan for the new push . Of course , the driving force will be the $1 , - 880,000,000 works relief bill which gives Presi. dent Roosevelt vast authority to start the wheels of Industry moving . With two months to work out details of a program for recovery which will take a considerable slice of the work relief appropriation , some officials in the Treasury seem impatient to get moving , indicating a very definite path has been blazed for action . Final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress this week and is expected to be In the hands of the chief executive for signature before the end of the week . During th. ten weeks the bill has been before Congress , officials in the Treasury , Pubic Works Administration and Federal Emergency Relief Administration have been working on the spending program . The New York relief program will be somewhat different from the old public works Idea in that it will be designed to cover projects which will provide quick employment such as housing , highway construction and grade crossing . The P  --  S'A experience of the past two years which no one denies has been a failure in so far as employment is concerned , will be valuable to the Administration in devising new ways of speedily creating employment . There is expected to be sonic " beating of drums " during the program and campaign . It will amount to more than that with $4,8b0,000,000 rolling steadily out of the Treasury , how . ever . The Treasury not expected to land it necessary to undertake any additional financing during the next three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might include a new borrowing operation . The cast ) balance in the Treasury is in excess of 52,000 , - 000.000 and continuance of the 3100.000.000 weekly discount bill sales leaves the Treasury amply prepared for spending . Two Ullilon on Materials Under the program as tentatively outlined before the committees of Congress by Treasury officials . Including Daniel W. Bell . acting director of the budget , the Administration plans to spend $2,000,000,000 of the work relief money on materials alone . That sum going steadily into heavy industries will have a substantial effect In itself . Officials will guard against arbitrary price increases during the campaign , but probably will take into consideration the likelihood of some advances . There is widespread agreement in New Deal quarters that reform has been given more attention during the past two years than recovery . There is also a general agreement that this oversight , or failure or original recovery moves , must be corrected immediately , for both political and economic reasons . The Securities and Exchange Commission . decidedly a creature of reform policies , has been working well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , PWA. , AAA and FERA insofar as reemployment is concerned , have been dismal failures . The reason might well be , according to observers , that reformists ' schemes have heretofore been given more attention than those designed to stimulate economic activity . While the entire program will be built around government spending , some ballyhoo will be in order to stimulate private spending . The spring campaign of the Federal Housing Administration will be an important part of the drive . It is likely that President Roosevelt himself will launch the drive with a statement in connection with the signing of the work relief bill . At least that is suggested as a possibility by some of those in positi n to know . Bill Little Changed In any event the chief executive should be more than pleased with the final outcome of the Congressional gymnastics with the work relief bill . The bill received more body blows during the journey through Congress probably than any other single piece of legislation demanded by the President . It was floored with amendments in the Senate , sent back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through with no more than a few slight bruises and none the worse for the treatment . In other words , President Roosevelt gets just what he demanded in the middle of January  --  a 54 , - 880,000.000 works relief bill almost without restriction on how it might be spent . The classification of the funds for certain general purposes is nullified by the right given the chief executive to juggle 5800.000,000 for any work relief purposes . The Thomas silver amendement will be left in the conference room when the House and Senate conferees on the bill conclude with their deliberations , unless plans of Administration leaders go awry again . The wage compromise , designed to protect the prevailing wage scales , means little or nothing as a legislative mandate . If there is anything else the Administration dislikes in the bill as it was finally passed by the Senate , the conferees may be able to rub that out too .                     