@@700917

txt The first 100-per cent successful casting of the mightiest astronomical eye ever constructed by man , one of the greatest triumphs of modern ' science , was completed here today in the record time of 6 hours 57 minutes at the Corning Glass Works . The new artificial eye , 200 inches in diameter , nearly seventeen feet , a mammoth and fearsome thing to look at , is fully a million times more powerful as a gatherer of light than the human eye . When it is finally installed in the telescope of the observatory to he erected at Mount Palomar , in California , it will increase twenty-seven times the volume of space now within the range of the 100-inch telescope at Mount Wilson , at present the largest in existence . This means that man will survey " island universes " at distances 900. - 000,000 light years away , fully three times the furthest distance now observable with the 100-inch reflector . And while 75,000,000 nebulae are now within the range of man 's artificial vision , the new titan of the skies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of which is a stellar body of from ten to -a hundred billion individual stars , millions of them greater by thousands of times than our sun . Suggests a Pagan Ritual . The casting in itself was a most colorful spectacle , a bit of pageantry such as only high-powered modern industry could produce , yet suggesting to the imagination an ancient Pagan ritual in the fearful worship of some primitive sun-god . Not the slightest mishap marked the gigantic undertaking , in happy contrast to the first casting which took place March 25 , when a number of the ceramic cores in the bottom of the mold , placed there to make holes in the under side of the disk , to lighten its weight and to serve as forms for the " ribs ' that will hold the giant mirror in place , broke away from the steel moorings that held them and floated to the surface . Only today it was made clear for the first time that , in spite of the mishap , the damage had been fully repaired , so that the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes as the second one cast today . All that needs to be done to the first disk is to , drill holes in the under side at the places where the cores had broken loose and to make it go through a second , much slower , process of annealing , or cooling , in order to reduce the strains it now has as the result of its cooling-time having been reduced from the required ten months to only two months . Thus science now has two 200-inch serviceable telescope mirrors , when only nine months ago even one seemed like a rather impractical dream . There were many who doubted then  --  the feasibility of constructing astronomical instruments of such dimensions , and the scientists at the Corning Glass Works , who had been working for years on the problem , were unwilling to make predictions as to the outcome even today before the casting actually was completed . " We are keeping our fingers crossed , " they would reply in answer to questions , even after the casting was two-thirds completed . The decision to cast a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made soon after the first casting and before it had been fully ascertained what the effect of the mishap might be . Even though the Corning Glass Works scientists had been confident that the damage to the first disk was slight and could be fully repaired , it was decided to cast another 200-inch disk rather than take even the slightest chance with a product of less than 100 per cent perfection . Scientists Are Elated . A number of distinguished scientists from various parts of the country , who had come here today to watch the spectacle that may not be repeated again for a hundred years , if ever , were happy men at the successful realization of a dream that often seemed in the past few years , when failure met various attempts by outstanding research workers , to be as unrealizable as was the completion of the Tower of Babel to the ancients of biblical times . By far the two happiest men among the builders of the modern " Tower of Infinity , " were Dr. G. V. McCauley and Dr. T. C. Hostetter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past five years these two , with their associates , including scientists from the Carnegie Institution and the California Institute of Technology , had worked incessantly to make today 's achievement possible . When the last ladle of white-hot molten boro-silicate glass , made by a secret formula zealously guarded , was poured into the maw of the giant mold , a blindingly dazzling , golden river roaring a hymn of triumph , Drs . McCauley and Hostetter knew that they had won . 400 Pounds in Each Ladle . Whereas it took eleven hours and twenty minutes to cast the first disk last March , the present disk was completed in nearly half the time . It was exactly at 17 minutes past 7 o'clock this morning , when most of the inhabitants of this little town of 15,000 were still asleep . that the first ladle of 400 pounds of the molten liquid was taken out of the mammoth caldron and carried over serpentine overhead trolleys to the giant beehive mold . At fourteen minutes past 2 o'clock this afternoon the 104th and last ladle was fed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for himself the most powerful " ladder of light " with which to conquer space , and time as well , had completed its first and most important step . During these six hours and fiftyseven minutes 60,000 pounds of molten glass , at 2,800 degrees Fahrenheit , were taken out by the crew of five workers , who had been drilled like soldiers for this task , from the " cannibals ' cauldron " and wheeled overhead into the mold . About 40,000 pounds , or twenty tons , of this liquid went into the mold . Not all the molten glass taken out by the ladles was poured in , a good portion of it being left in the ladle and then poured back into the furnace . Glass Overflow Is Trimmed . As each ladle was taken out of the cauldron the overflowing of the white-hot substance turned to a greenish blue around the edges through contact with the cold of the iron ladle 's outside surface . Charles Wilson , the front man of ' the crew , would then trim it neatly with a long iron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water tank and perforated iron ring , would place the ring aroit.pd the rim of the ladle and send sizzling spray down its side . This was done in order to congeal the layer of glass next to the walls of the metal dipper , thus making the ladle lined with an inner coating of congealed glass . The purpose of this was to prevent scales from the iron dipper getting mixed with the glass , and so produce impurities in the mirror . As each ladle of the fluid was poured through the open door of the mold it would slowly wriggle its way down the " streets " formed by the 120 dome-like cores , like a long white serpent in some Chinese legend . More and more streets were filled in the miniature " domed city , " and finally the domes were completely covered with the liquid . This titanic artificial eye tonight is " cooking " at 2,400 degrees Fahrenheit in the giant oven and is the most precious piece of glass in the world . The second disk is different in color than the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turquoise blue . The color of the second is a pure , transparent crystal-clear glass . Neither the formula for the first nor the second disk was divulged . But Dr. Hostetter revealed that a great deal of experience had been gained through the pouring of the first disk that was utilized in the casting today . During the years of research , he said , a point had been reached in the art and science of telescope mirror-casting where no limit existed any longer as to size of mirrors .                     