@@704109

txt It is getting so nowadays that when one is halted on the road by a magnificently appareled officer he does n't know whether he is being invited to sign up for an airplane ride , join a rubberneck-wagon tour , or receive a card of introduction to a traffic magistrate . Latest to complicate the motor-I fist 's day by a sartorial ruse is ' Frank A. ( " Schiaparclli-Patou " ) Goodwin , Registrar of Motor Vehicles , who has put 50 of his examiners out on the road in " day wear " that is nothing short of subdued super-refinement of color harmony . The examiners admit it and now there has arisen some question why the 180 investigators at the Registry rate merely a Registry cap and not the whole fabric symphony of slate-green shirt and harmonizing slate-gray trousers . Just when the public has become slightly accustomed to the prismatic hues of the summer habiliments of their local police , suburban police , State troopers and the scouts of the Metropolitan District Commission  --  not to mention assorted patriotic State-color schemes of adjoining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparel to herald the current drive against faulty brakes and other Improper equipment , particularly in a check up of commercial vehicles . The Registry uniform Is of fine quality gabardine , the shirt brightened with silver buttons bearing the State seal , shoulder straps in self color , patch pockets and on the right shoulder a brassard in the shape of a shield , in dark green with Registry of Motor Vehicles in gold and in the center the blue and white State seal . Visor cap is in the same fabric as the dark gray trousers . The well dressed exami-. ner will wear a black four-in-hand . Edward D. Shea , of Medford , who " modeled " the uniform for the press , is firm that bright red galuses would strike a false note . It all seems to resolve into who gives you a " ticket . " First , there are the hometown police . If suburban , they may be in 0 . D. trousers and white shirts , black ties for summer comfort ; or perhaps in navy blue riding pants I and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in 0 . D. linen suits , with trim of black for shoulder straps and a touch on the pocket flaps . Boston patrolmen ? in case you may not have noticed  --  are out in navy blue trousers , white shirt , black tie , waist belt to take the revolver and a club pocket down the leg . The cap is a snappy 8-point model in the Russian style , I waterproofed . State troopers run resplendently to horizon blue for general effect . They have substituted a " French blue " woolen shirt for the heavier cool weather same color blouse ; continue in the " electric blue " trousers with French blue stripes ; shirt made with shoulder straps to carry a Sabi Browne belt . The law 's color scheme finishes hereabouts with the cadet gray and gold buttons of the Metropolitan District Police . The trousers carry a narrow stripe of black , clicking smartly with the black tie worn with a white shirt . The cap is cadet gray with military visor . They are all great to admire ? at a distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ running board in an attitude of easy grace . Rut 11 you are stopped , remember " silence is golden . " Examiner Shea reports that on raising a hand a short time back , a woman driver pulled up and before he could say a word , broke out with , " Officer , really I Wo n't do it again , but I simply had to turn . " She then volunteered the - Information that several blocks down the street she had made a U-turn . Mr. Shea just now is more concerned about how he slate green shirt will , take grease spots .                     