@@698958

txt With the arrival of Premier Herriot of France this day was spent in Franco-American , Franco-British and Anglo-American talks on the contents of the resolution with which the disarmament conference will sum up its achievements before taking a vacation . Examination of the skeleton draft text drawn up by Eduard Benes of Czechoslovakia as a basis of discussion showed tonight that there was still disagreement on five important points  --  effectives , artillery , tanks , aviation and budgetary reduction ? with the French the chief obstacle on the first three , the British on the last two and the United States really pushing for a strong resolution on the first four points and ready to compromise on the fifth . Points of Agreement Listed Op the other hand , the draft showed agreement on the following points : 1 . Effecting of " substantial reduction in world armaments , which should be applied together to land , sea and air arms through a general convention . " The Americans have dropped the attempt to get the principle of a one-third reduction accepted at this stage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the latest on Jan. 26 and can be convoked sooner on a month 's notice by the steering committee , which will remain in session working out texts . There is no longer danger of an indefinite adjournment . 3 . A naval clause reading : " Regarding President Hoover 's proposals on naval armaments and other proposals relative to naval armaments , the conference invites the powers signatory to the Washington and London naval treaties ? accords which have marked tangible limitations and reduction in naval armaments  --  to take concerted action and report to the general commission if possible before the resumption of its labors on the subjects of new measures of naval reduction which are realizable as part of the general disarmament program . " The remaining naval powers are to do the same , and both groups will keep the steering committee informed of their progress . The phrase whereby the five naval powers shall report if possible before the conference resumes rather weakens the ban in Point 2 on an indefinite adjournment . The Americans are not entirely satisfied with its wording . It may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to agree to a meeting of naval experts of five powers in London and it seems the French ' Foreign Office has accepted this principle , to the disgust of the French Admiralty . The Brit- ish also are still working on the French for a kind of five-power conference , which the Americans oppose . 4 . Extension of the armaments truce expiring Nov. 1 for four months . 5 . Special rules in international law should be drawn up for violations of bans on gas , germ and incendiary warfare , and also of whatever air bombing ban is established . M. Herriot is known to attach great importance to this clause , which is new . 6 . The steering committee will establish a special committee to make proposals for the control of private manufacture of and trade in arms . 7 . It is decided that " reduction in the means of aggression is one of the most essential aims to be achieved . " 8 . The resolution does not prejudice the second phase of the conference in adopting more radical disarmament measures or any political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only protects their position but leaves the Germans free to press their demands for equality . 9 . A preamble . among other things , " cordially salutes the initiative of the President of the United States in formulating concrete proposals tending toward substantial reduction of armaments by forbidding certain methods of warfare , suppressing certain materials and by reductions of variable importance attaining for certain armament : a proportion of one-third , " and says the conference is " unanimously inspired by the general principles which are the basis of President Hoover 's declaration . " The Americans are still trying hard to improve the latter phrase . Other Agreements Recorded . Other agreements are registered in the resolution such as acceptance of the permanent disarmament commission . The resolution is a long document divided into five parts with the texts of the principal points on which agreements are expected not yet written . Progress has been made on tanks . The French , who wanted them limited to seventy tons , now accept twenty-five , while the British have come down from twenty-five to sixteen , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectives . The French are not yet willing to converse with the others during the vacation on the basis of the Hoover effectives plan , but are in a more conciliatory mood tonight after the Americans explained they did not desire to impose a rigid formula or necessarily exclude the Fascist black shirt and Hitler brown shirt forces . The Americans found a wording that satis-fied the French on the latter point , but the Italians opposed it . In regard to aviation Paul Painleve , French Air Minister , who , with M. Herriot , Joseph Paul-Boncour and Rene Massigli met Hugh S. Gibson , 1Norman H. Davis and Senator Claude A. Swanson this morning , insisted on France 's retaining the right to bomb battle zones . The British would also bomb in another zone outside the battle area and the Americans want abolition . The artillery difficulty is caused by the American desire for a low level for mobile guns , excluding coast defenses. and the French opposition to a distinction between fixed and mobile guns and a desire for bigger mobile guns if they are retained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reports that he had to leave at the end of the week , he was willing to remain as long as there was hope for agreement . The talks will continue tomorrow . REES ANALYZES IDLENESS . Thinks 35% of Jobless Are " Unstable " and 25% " Unemployable . " Probably 25 per cent of the unemployed constitute the so-called " unemployable " group and about 35 per cent are composed of " the unstable , or nomadic employe " who likes to shift from one job to another , leaving 40 per cent " who are the backbone of the country and indispensable to industry and the community in which they live , " Colonel Robert I. Rees , assistant vice president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company , said yesterday . Toward the latter group " industry has a full and complete responsibility for maintaining it in employment and the measure of unemployment in that class is the measure in which industry has failed to meet its responsibility , " he declared . He spoke on " Personality in Relation to Social-Economic Change " at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Association for Personality Training at the Russell Sage Foundation , 130 East Twenty-second Street . Regarding unemployment relief next Winter , he suggested that the unemployed be organized and that funds used for " made work " be paid them " to help each other . "                     