@@704213

txt Under pressure of the recent sharp increase in new business . leading makers of machine tools are being forced to extend delivery dates . one large New England firm requiring a full year in advance on certain types of heavy equipment . Although the industry can not yet be said to be operating at 100 ' of potential capacity . night shifts now are common in both New England and the middle west : a number of companies actually are working at peak production There has been some trade discussion of increased prices , **26;502;TOOLONG elements in the . industric der , not such action . justified at the present time .. However , owing to the extended delivery dates on some items , some makers are seeking to protect themselves by quoting on the basis of the price which will be in effect 30 days before actual delivery is made . Whereas domestic tool orders had been lagging in August due to was fears , there is now a definite reaction the other way American tool users have sent in a flood of orders , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late deliveries . Foreign business , long an important factor in the industry , is continuing heavy , with Canada credited with large-scale purchases in recent weeks . This business is a direct outgrowth of the European war and reflects efforts at speedy tooling by Dominion industry to meet armament and other war-stimulated demand Russia . Great Britain . France and Japan continue to purchase tools , and South America is increasing its purchases here as normal European sources are cut off . Shipments from this country have beet hindered somewhat recently by a scarcity of ocean freight space . li'arner Swasey Osn THE WALL . STREEr Jaen ... AL Cleveland Bureau CLEVELAND  --  While Warner &; Swasey Co .. which builds machine tools , has experienced an increase in orders since September 1 , due to foreign and domestic defense programs , there has been a much sharper upturn from domestic manufacturers of peace-time products , according to Charles J. Stilwell , president . These orders have come from electrical equipment , plumbing supply , printing machinery , oil geld equipment , hardware , heating and other industries supplying normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for months had under conSideration plans for purchase of badly needed new machine tool equipment , he said , and the impetus provided by war situation was all that was needed to set these plans in motion . " We have no intention whatever of exploiting this demand pricewise , " Mr. Stilwell said . " We have advised our customers both here and abroad that all machines to be shipped up to and including January of next year will be at present prices , and we have further assured them that any price readjustments which may become necessary after that date will reflect increased costs only . "                     