@@698841

txt A general strike of 19,000 elevator constructors in the United States and Canada against operations of New York elevator manufacturers was threatened yesterday in an ultimatum addressed to the Elevator Manufacturers Association by the International Union of Elevator Constructors . The ultimatum was dispatched by Frank Feeney , president of the union , in a letter to Harry H. Watters , secretary of the manufacturers ' association . The union demanded the cessation of what it characterized as the lockout of its membership in New York City begun by the employers early last month and declared that unless the lockout were submitted to arbitration by June 8 the general strike would be proclaimri forty-eight hours thereafter . About 2,200 elevator constructors , maintenance and service men would be affected in New York , Newark and Jersey City . The alleged lockout and ultimatum are an outgrowth of the dispute affecting nearly all crafts in the building trades in this city , involving the interests of 115,000 building mechanics and helpers . The dispute is awaiting adjustment by the Building Trades Employers Association and the Building Trades Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April 30 , when the Building Trades Council and the Building Trades Employers Association reached an understanding for an agreement based upon a 20 to 30 per cent reduction in wages for the respective crafts entering into the Building Trades Council . Unequal Scale Caused Dispute . On that day , however , the Building Trades Council learned that there was a verbal agreement between the Elevator Manufacturers ' Association and the International Union of Elevator Constructors under which the members of that union were to receive $1.20 a day above the $10 scale offered to other crafts by the Building Trades Employers Association . There ensued a period of negotiation during which the Building Trades Council insisted that the higher scale be applied to all the crafts . On May 17 , however , the council submitted to the demands of the employers ' association and agreed to sign a new agreement excluding the elevator constructors . In the meanwhile , however , the Elevator Manufacturers ' Association abrogated its verbal agreement with the International Union of Elevator Constructors on what the union charged was pressure from the Building Trades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ followed . Some twelve other unions , involving about twenty crafts affiliated with the Building Trades Council , thereupon complicated the situation by refusing to adhere to the agreement approved by the Building Trades Council for virtually the entire building industry . The Building Trades Employers ' Association , in turn , has threatened that unless there is a speedy acceptance of the general agreement by all trades , employers would proceed to fill jobs regardless of union affiliation . Ultimatum of Union . Yesterday 's ultimatum of the International , Union of Elevator Constructors added fuel to the dispute . Mr. Feeney 's letter to Mr. Watters was as follows : " On May 10 our international addressed a letter to YOu relative ha the lockout of our membership in the city of New York , to which we received a reply to the effect that your association would give us definite information within a few days . " We have had several conferences with your association since that time , but have not , up to date , received any definite answer to ours of May 10 ; hence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole subject matter be submittedto arbitration , as specified in our International Standard Agreement , on or before June 8 , 1932 . In the event of this not being acceptable to you , you will accept this as official notice that our membership working for companies operating in New York City will be ordered out On strike within forty-eight ( 48 ) hours ? throughout the United States and Canada  --  after June 8 , 1932 . " Employers ' Group Criticized . In a. supplementary statement Mr. Feeney assailed the Building Trades Employers ' Association for " precipitating an unjustified and unfortunate situation in the building trades industry in Greater New York , a condition which is economically costly and far-reaching in its effects . " Mr. Feeney charged that the Building Trades Employers ' Association was actuated by a desire to " assassinate the building trades organiza tions within the confines of Greater New York " and declared that so fat ; as the elevator constructors were concerned they would resist the employers to the end . He also attacked the Elevator Manufacturers ' Association for consenting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanics . " - Among ; the elevator manufacturing companies involved in the dispute Aire Elevator Company , See Elevator Company and Westinghouse Electric Elevator Company . MOVE FOR GARMENT STRIKE . Union Leaders Pledge Resistance to Piece Work . Preparations for the expected strike in the garment industry moved forward a step yesterday when 1,200 shop chairmen representing locals of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union met in Webster Hall , 119 East Eleventh Street , and heard reports from union officials on the recent abortive negotiations of the union with the employers . The speakers were David Dubinsky , secretary-treasurer of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers ' Union , and Isidore Nagler , manager of the Joint Board . Both declared that the main issues at stake are those of piece work demanded by the employers , and limitation of contractors , the principal demand of the union . Mr. Dubinsky and Mr. Nagler declared that the union never would accept the piece-work demand as made by the Industrial Council of Cloak and Suit Manufacturers , the so-called " inside " employers , and supported by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The union leaders told the shop chairmen to be on guard against any attempt of employers to introduce the piece-work system , now that there is no agreement with the employers , it having expired on Wednesday . Resolutions were adopted at the conclusion of the meeting pledging the union to resist the employers demands . Negotiations may be resumed for a new agreement , but little hope of the Gurney Elevator Company , Otte success was entertained. ,                     