@@702557

txt A girl night-club violinist died in Roosevelt Hospital at 8 o'clock last night nine to eleven hours after she had been beaten with a claw-ham , mer in a third-floor rehearsal studio at 132-6 West Forty-third Street , just east of Times Square . The victim , who had been dragged across the floor and left half-concealed by trailing drapery , was Julia Nussenbaum , 24 years old , of 756 State Street , Bridgeport , Conn. , who had been living temporarily at 439 West 123d Street . Assistant District Attorney Saul Price said after talking to her room-mate . Dorothy Hunkins , that the dead girl was a graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and had made many tours with concert orchestras . Recently she was engaged in night-club work . Shortly before midnight , the police broadcast a five-State alarm for Mischa Ross , 30 , resident of a midtown hotel , who was wanted for questioning in connection with the investigation . Early this morning he was located at Liberty , N. Y. and police said he would return to the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Station also announced that detectives were bringing Zachary Ross , a brother of Mischa , from Newark for additional questioning . Quarrel Reported to Police A little earlier , after conferring with Mr. and Mrs. Charles Schnee , brother-in-law and sister of the dead musician , Deputy Chief Inspector Francis J. Kear said the motive of jealousy had been definitely established . He refused to give details , but it was learned in Bridgeport that Miss Nussenbaum had quarreled with a man several weeks ago and her father quoted him as saying , " You 'll be sorry . " I Aside from the bloodstained hammer , authorities disclosed no concrete evidence pointing to the slayer . The girl died after an operation without reccvering consciousness . Mr. and . Mrs. Schnee were with her at the end . Drawn by the clang of the ambulance and numerous police cars , a throng jammed the scene of the crime all afternoon , and a special detail of patrolmen was required for the crowd concentrated in front ' of the Hotel Woodstock , directly across the street from the studio building . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actress and eccentric dancer , discovered the crime when she came to the studio , which she had engaged from 2 to 4 P. M. Miss Engels found the cream-colored door to Room 306 closed , but not locked . When she opened it she heard heavy breathing and saw the violinist 's black oxfords protruding from the silver-blue rayon drapes at the north wall of the rehearsal room . Miss Engels called a boy on the next floor , and he summoned the ambulance . Later Inspector Michael permitted an inspection of the studio . The room is 25 by 40 feet , with three large windows opening on an areaway to the south . A mirror taller than the average person and about five yards wide panels the east wall . Between two of the windows , at an angle to the wall , stood a rickety upright piano , painted gray , the ivory worn from most of the keys , and . the frame of the keyboard burned by myriad cigarettes . The wooden pane above the pedals was missing so that the strings showed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wreath , with the letter M in the center . The police said that stood for the studio owner , Michael G. Michael , who , besides operating the Michael School of Acrobatics on the fourth floor , rented rehearsal studios to entertainers . In the southwest corner , a small stand with four steps was surmounted by a shiny-rimmed disk like an enormous tambourine . The stand and the disk were used by tap dancers . Along the west wall was a bench , and strewn about the piano were five folding chairs , upholstered in green and black ; four backed wooden chairs , and a pianist 's chair with a skeleton back . From one of the wooden chairs a trail of blood led in front of the piano in a sweeping curve toward the door , then back past the front of a small dressing room door and over to the drapery . Officials believed the assailant had started tugging Miss Nussenbaum out into the hall or into the dressing room , but had changed his mind . The girl 's violin was found near her feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was struck and dragged it with her . It was in an old brown-leather case with a zipper . The instrument itself was wrapped in a flowered scarf . Was Dressed for Street The hammer , which Miss Engel said she saw near the door , had been removed by the police earlier , but a blue felt sailor hat and a black leather handhae , were visible . The hat was stained inside the crown , and Inspector said it ' was likely that the blows had been struck while the girl sat in the chair . The fact that a grayblue Spring coat was worn over the rose-patterned blue dress indicated to the inspector that the girl had either just entered the studio or was preparing to leave when she was attacked . Papers in the handbag enabled investigators to identify the girl . It contained a contract dated April 7 which showed that Miss Nussenbaum and a partner were to appear at the Esquire Club in Toronto , the city 's best-known night club , beginning " April 18 . " The police learned that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back . The typed agreement was signed by Bill Beasley and George Libby , described as booking agents or club officials , and by what appeared to be the names of Tania Lellova. and Maria Montiglo , the performers . It called for $110 weekly for two weeks , with an option on a sixweek renewal . Inquiry in Bridgeport confirmed that Miss Nussenbaum 's stagename was Tania Lelevo . The discrepancy in spelling was laid to the partial illegibility of the signature on the contract . It was learned that Miss Nussenbaum played the . violin , while her associate danced and played the accordion . Says " Man " Visited Studio The police first questioned Paul Kallen , elevator man , whose address was withheld . They quoted him as saying " a man " had gone to studio 306 about a quarter to ten , fifteen minutes before Miss Nussenbaum arrived . He saw " that man " leave along at about 10:15 . No description was made public . Mr. Michael was questioned regarding the studio schedule for the morning . In Bridgeport , it was said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely known as a wellto-do window-cleaning contractor . The family told the police through Bridgeport authorities many details of Miss Nussenbaum 's quarrel with the man being- sought . He was described as having " pestered " her recently . Mr. Nussenbaum said that he had visited thekanan and pointed out that his daughter 's attitude was " her own business , " but that subsequently the man had followed her to Bridgeport and made the threat . At the West Forty-seventh Street station the police checked the man 's name and description with that of a man against whom Miss Nussenbaum complained several weeks ago , alleging he had intercepted her at a bus terminal and taken her violin , which she valued at $700 . The complaint was later dropped .                     