@@699771

txt Mayor Kelly told a radio audience last night that economy in city expenditures and the collection of delinquent taxes from those who are able to pay are goals toward which he Is striving . Speaking over W-G-N , THE CHICAGO TruflONE station , the mayor requested Chicagoans to he patient with his efforts to restore city government to a normal basis . ' rho mayor explained the force and Purpose of two legislative acts dealing with the tax situation  --  the KernerSicarda law and the Graham hills ? and told of other measures which the legislature will be asked to approve . Ile also indicated his intention of keeping city expenditures within a reasonable estimate of revenue . Budgets Must Be Trimmed . " The necessity for retrenchment , " said the mayor , " is greater today than It has ever been . Budgets must be cut to the bone by both the city and the school hoard , regardless of political consequences , for the reason that money can not be spent that will not ho received . " J. realize that I shall lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and school affairs . However , I ask all our citizens to have patience : to feel that I am trying to restore our government to Its normal basis and to cooperate with our administration as much as possible . " It was brought forcibly to his mind after taking office , the mayor said . that the tax collection system In force was outdated and Inadequate fur the emergency confronting public ? Metals . The salaries of city and school employes were in arrears and the situation could be met only by immediate action regardless of the political consequences . New Tax Collecting Laws . " After many conferences with pub ' lic officials , bankers , outstanding cltizens , . and other interested citizens . " Niaycirlrelli:4 ? ContIntied . " I decided that steps must be taken at once to correct the situation by the enactment and enforcement of new tax collecting laws , laws with teeth in them , laws that would no longer permit stubborn taxpayers , who could pay but would n't , to evade the law by divers means . " As a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bills were passed . The first permits the county collector to request appointment of a I county receiver for property on which ' the taxes have been delinquent for a period of six months or more and apply tile Income on taxes . The second requires property owners to deposit 75 per cent of the amount of their ta:c bills before filing tax objections . " The reason why the banks have refused to buy more tax warrants , " the mayor explained , " was because there has been no substantial expects ' Lion that the taxes , against which the warrants were issued , would be paid at all or on time . The Skarda and Graham bills definitely settle that . They convince even the most stubborn taxpayer that he has nothing to gain by holding back any longer . Third Point ill Program . " The third point in my program Is the assessors ' bill now before the legislature . This bill alms to dissolve and abolish the present system of assessor and board of tax appeals and create a new board of assessment and review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of our taxpayers . Instead of two soparate bodies there will be one assessing and reviewing body to handle such matters in complete harmony . " The fourth point Is the amendment prohibiting any horizontal cut after taxes are spread , thereby preventing the depreciation of value in tax warrants . " . Other legislation being sought , the mayor said , would prevent propaganda tending to incite taxpayers to refrain from paying their tax bills , curtail organizations that have profited from keeping many property owners in a state of organized resistance to the legal collection of . taxes ,  --  and an arrangement by which , consolidated tax warrants would be sold by the county treasurer instead of each local igovernment. issuing its ; ownt'warrants.                     