@@704293

txt Conditions reminiscent of the great boom which followed the last war from 1919 to 1920 are already in evidence in the British cotton industry and traders on the Manchester Royal Exchange are becoming anxious as they remember the slump which followed the similar developments 20 years ago Owing to the enormous turnover in coarse yarns and heavy cloth to supply fabrics for the fighting forces and civil defense , demand now exceeds supplies and the sharp upward movement in raw cotton prices during the past few days has resulted in a big wave of buying Increasing difficulty is encountered in obtaining adequate deliveries of certain types of yarn . Since the outbteak of the war , some producers of coarse American counts have been making a clear profit of two pence on each pound of yarn , involving an annual piofit of I:50.000 , which is equal to half the amount of the common share capital of many mills Dissatisfaction also is growing over the failure of the government to control these abnormal conditions . Quotations for many fabrics have advanced 50 , , to 60,47 since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been vitally affected as customers in many foreign outlets " are unable to pay the Lancashire rates . Liverpool Market Strong LIVERPOOL  --  After one of the most active sessions witnessed in some time . the cotton futures market here closed strong . A general buying movement developed in early trading due to scarcity of ocean freight space : there were reports that no freight room at all was available for December shipment At one time the market showed advances of as much as 25 points . However . the extreme highs attracted profit-taking . In afternoon dealings . there was a slight recession as some merchants disputed reports of scarcity of freight space . Later , speculative trade and Bombay interests bid actively for contracts . The decline in the New York sterling price encouraged the speculative buying . Export demand for raw cotton has been in evidence in U. S. spot cotton circles for some time . The fact that cotton cargoes are covered by war risk insurance issued by the British government has led to inquiry for considerable quantities of cotton here , aside from the half-million bales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While there has been no material increase in exports of domestic cotton cloths since the outbreak of war , trade circles state that inquiries are increasing and that a continuation of present conditions abroad will result in the United States being drawn upon as a supplier of cotton textiles . As far as can be ascertained , the only marked increase in textile exports in the past two months has been to Canada Potential increase in cloth exports from this country has been estimated at several hundred thousand square yards above present rate Frank Hillery , president of the Textile Export Association , recently stated that with the con. - tinuation of war conditions . there is reason to believe the United States will increase its export volume of cotton textiles to the 1929 maximum of 564.000 000 square yards , as compared with exports of 319,000.000 square yards in 1933 In a report made public November 1 . the Bureau of Agricultural Economics pointed out t hat world stocks of cotton currently are roughly times as large as world consumption of American cotton in the preceding season . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in a ratio of less than 1 L2 times prior season consumption .                     