@@699424

txt President Hoover today asked Congress for authority for the Executive to declare an arms embargo to areas of conflict , but placed such action contingent upon cooperation of other manufacturing nations This proposal , therefore , is considerably less than what the Department of State was urging as a crowning internabonel achievement of the Hoover Administration . The contingent clause . it seems clear . was inserted after representatives of munitions manufacturing firms protested at the War Department and the White House . Nevertheless , even in restricted form , the proposal will make it possible for the President of the United States to halt arms shipments if others are doing the same This authority had previously been lacking , although it is already possessed by the chief European powers Stimson Plan Went Further What Mr. Henry L. Stimson , Secretary of State . wanted was unlimited right to declare an embaigo. recognizing that to obtain crniplete international agreement against shipment of arms an any given emergency would be a long-drawn-out and well-nigh impossible obstacle . Under the present proposal , apparently arms makers in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in prospect If they could prove that a single important state were standing outside the embargo , apparently they could block the ban in the United States This loophole , however . is far from being sharply defined . The President urges legislation ' conferring upon the President authority in his discretion to limit or forbid shipment of arms for militar , purposes in cases where special undertakings of cooperation can be , e-cured with the principal arms manufacturing nations " Exactly how extensive or binding these " special under t : Ines " need to be is not laid down Whither Congress . if it grants the ntithtti ity. will define this prereginsi:f concretely remains to be seen But in the present form , a President mould clearly have considerable latitude in determining how much of a barrier to his action would be set up Falls Short of Ideals President Hoover himself recognizes that his present proposal falls short of the ideal . He says - While such a measure would not accomplish the whole of the pui pose which the advance thought in the world requires , it would at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States in line with- other nations who are is ruing to make such sacrifices in the prevention of military conflict " This rep ' , tut statement clearly indicates xtent to which President Hooves as bowed to the pressure which has been brought to beaon him directly and indirectly by arms makers during the past weeks . As an alternative to his proposal , President Hoover urged ratification of the 1925 treaty , signed at Geneva , which provides for governmental control and full publicity on alms shipments . The treaty has been ratified already by Great Britain , France , Denmark , China . Netherlands . Spain Poland . Sweden , Venezuela , Liberia , Latvia , Egypt and Australia . According to its original terms , only one more ratification to bring the list to 14 , is required before it goes into effect . But in its ratification . France attached the condition that Belgium , Czechoslovakia , Italy Japan Sweden and the United States , hould ratify before the agreement become operative . Only Si ; erten has done so Therefore the calm powci s must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to ratify the treaty as President Homer urges , in the present session President Hoover declares that ratification of the treaty would contribute to the ends being soueht by the entire world for the prevention and limitation of war , and " earnestly urges that this convention be ratified " Doubtful of Ratification But he continues . " if this is impossible , as seems to be the case , . . . " Why , observers are asking , is this impofsiblel And the answer , clearly indicated to all who have followed hearings on the treaty before the Senate Committee on Foreign RelationsAiles in the opposition of arms manufacturers . However , governing , factors in Congress are the future attitude of arms manufacturers . together with the partisan opposition to any Hoover proposal which has so far dominated the present session It appears that the makers of munitions , hay.ng obtained modifications in the proposal . are withdrawing their opposition to the arms embargo They would naturally continue to oppose the 192.5 treaty . according to available evidence . Thus the sole obstacle to the modified proposal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to determine what form these views will or will not take .                     