@@698767

txt The proposed Sharkey of control act . presented by the State Legislature as a means of solving chaotic conditions within the California oil industry , was rejected by approximately 3 to 1 , incomplete returns showed . The bill , establishing a state control board empowered to limit production to the demand for oil and gasoline . was ? noosed by independent producing companies . Defeat of the Sharkey bill by the California electorate Tuesday leaves the state 's oil industry unchanged . Curtailment of oil production and efforts to balance output with demand will be on the basis of voluntary action . It had been claimed that voluntary curtailment bad worked inequalities , some small interests refusing to cooperate but nevertheless deriving the benefits of the restraint of others . It was to correct this condition that Senator Will R. Sharkey introduced his bill and sponsored it before the California legislature . While this bill was passed by both the legislature and was approved by the Governor , opposition arose which forced it to a referendum vote May 3 . Whereas the Lyon Gas Conservation Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of it upheld by the United States Supreme Court in the fall of 1931 , it was directed to the prevention of gas waste . Oil production as such was not primarily affected . The Sharkey bill prescribed a means of determining the amount of oil necessary to be produced to meet market requirements and to maintain a proper storage reserve , and for allocating this amount among the various fields , and finally among the wells therein , throughout the state . Its supporters maintained that it would have mane conservation possible where voluntary action had to a. considerable extent failed . It remains to be seen whether there will develop any kicking over of the traces so far as erode oil production in the California fields is concerned . It is to be assumed that the major companies will continue to adhere to the present curtailment program , since there would be nothing to gain by unrestrained production and Its chaotic effect on prices .                     