@@699233

txt President Hoover tonight served notice that failure of the disarmament negotiations now in progress among the principal powers would compel the United States to build her navy " to the full strength provided In the Lon-don agreement , equal to that of the most powerful in the world . " The President chose the eve of Navy Day to make his statement , which was looked upon as another attempt on his part to galvanize the negotiations at Geneva into success . Emphasis was placed on the fact that the first duty of the Federal Government under the Constitution was the national defense , but the President expressed the hope that the disarmament movement in the world would spare this country unnecessary expense in discharging this obligation . He said the patience of this country with the disarmament negotiations had " never for a moment " jeopardized the safety of the country , but stated that this government could brook no failure of the movement in the light of the disturbed conditions throughout the world and this necessity of protecting American commerce . THE PRESIDENT 'S STATEMENT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasion of Navy Day to remind the nation that the national defense is the first and most solemn obligation placed upon the Federal Government by the Constitution . Our people have ever been lovers of peace , and they have consistently pursued a policy designed to preserve national rights by peaceful negotiations wherever possible , rather than by resort to arms . This administration has spared no reasonable effort to bring about an agreement of all nations upon a reduction of arms , upon the ratios agreed upon at the London naval conference . Our patience in these negotiations has never for a moment jeopardized the safety of the United States . These efforts are making progress . If these efforts finally fail , we shall be compelled , by reason of the disturbed conditions prevailing throughout the world and the necessity of protecting American commerce , to build our navy to the full strength provided in the London agreement , equal to that of the most powerful in the world . I need scarcely suggest the vast expenditures that would be involved by that necessity , or the blow that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our people . Second Move by the President . Mr. Hoover 's move tonight was his second attempt to save what for a time looked like a hopeless situation . When the Geneva conference , after certain minor successes , seemed early last Summer to be staggering , the President made his proposal for reducing armaments in all categories by about one third . With this proposal before it , the conference took its present recess , and is now studying the Hoover formula , through bureau and committee meetings . In the meantime . Great Britain is advocating a naval reduction program which differs in some important respects from the plan offered by the President . This at present is the subject of conversations in London between Norman H. Davis of New York , member of the American delegation at Geneva , and the ranking British officials . These discussions , however , according to officials , have not got beyond the explanatory stage . Another element is the informal announcement of Japan yesterday that she will submit a naval limitations plan to Geneva . The details of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official advices been received here concerning it . Back of the naval problem stands the fact that President Hoover 's proposal for a reduction of one-third contemplates a substantial cut in European land armies as a prerequisite for throwing open the London and Washington naval treaties for revision . This situation has been complicated by the demand of ' the von Papen Government in Germany for arms equality with the other signatory powers of the Versailles treaty . Detroit Speech Gave a Hint . President Hoover gave an indication in his campaign speech last Saturday night in Detroit that this government had gone as far as it proposed to go in disarmament until other nations had fallen in line . His statement today went even a step further , saying , in effect , that the United States not only would cut no further but ' would build up its arms if other countries did not reduce . Answering a specific proposal of his Democratic opponent , Governor Roosevelt , to reduce national expenditures by $1,000,000,000 annually , the President denied that he could make such a slash in " ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , he would not consent to until other nations had followed the lead of the United States in reducing its war machinery . Navy Day tomorrow will be observed in Washington with the naval establishment at the navy yard . the naval air station and the Naval Observatory participating . At the navy yard " open house " will be held from 8 A. M. to 6 P. M. and an exhibit for visitors has been arranged . The frigate Constitution will be open to visitors throughout the day . Radio Addresses on Program . As a special feature of Navy Day , Secretary Adams and Representative Sol Bloom , associate director of the George Washington Bicentennial Commission , will make addresses over the National Broadcasting Company at 5 P. M. , and over the Columbia Broadcasting System at 11 P. M. , with nation-wide hook-ups . The Marine Band will play at both broadcasts . Navy Day is the anniversary of two historic events connected with the development of the United States sea power . On Oct. 27 in 1775 , the naval force of the Continental Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was born Theodore Roosevelt , who , as President of the United States , was one of the navy 's strongest advocates , and fostered the spirit of a strong navy .                     