@@704366

txt Finland paid its semiannual debt installment to the United States today , amid copious evidences of the fact that it is more beneficial to pay than to default ! For it is being abundantly shown that the small Republic 's scrupulous regard for its obligations is paying dividends far in excess of the legal rate . Hjalmar J. Procope , Finland 's friendly Minister to the United States , called at the Treasury punctually at 11 a. m. and notified Henry Morgenthau , Jr. , Secretary of Treasury , that the debt payment was being made on time . It amounts to $234,693 . Actual transfer of funds took place in New York , when a representative of Finland handed a check to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York . Mr. Procope presented a " symbolic check " to Secretary Morgenthau , in a simple ceremony at the Treasury . The Secretary said , in reply , that he accepted the payment with gratitude and noted that Finland " during dark days as well as fair , has never failed to honor its obligation . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this payment in a suspense account until he can recommend to Congress that this money be used for the benefit of the Finnish people . " You will be pleased to know , Mr. Minister , that scores of contributions have been received from persons wishing to help Finland repay its debt to the United States . Since I have not authority to receive these contributions , I have arranged , with the consent of the donors , for them to be turned over to you . " Already , a Reconstruction Finance Corporation loan to Finland of $10,000,090 has been extended , and more is likely to be available . The sum , which equals 11 per cent of the Finnish national budget , also exceeds the total of Finland 's original debt to the United States . A relief fund , under direction of Herbert Hoover , is growing steadily from private contributions . In short , Finland is receiving many-fold from its original rectitude in meeting debt payments . Realistically , observers agree that there is a great difference between the modest Finnish payment and vast sums which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had they continued to service their war debts . Likewise , the Finnish loan was for post-war reconstruction and not for expenditure in large part during a war in which the United States was an ally . Nevertheless , Finland won golden opinions in the United States which later were transferred into even more tangible assistance . By keeping up its payments , Finland not only affected American public opinion toward itself , but escaped provisions of the Johnson Act , which forbid flotation of loans in the United States by defaulting nations . Actually , this right to borrow in the American market is of little value to Finland at the moment because of uncertainties of its situation . ' , Hence the RFC loan was authorized .                     