@@697599

txt Irons TIMES . WASHINGTON , Feb. 2 . ? Having brought to the attention of the Brazilian Government the telegram from your special service in Buenos Aires published in yesterday 's TIMES , I am now requested by the Brazilian Department of Foreign Affairs to inform you that the news concerning the overthrow of the intervenor of the Brazilian Provisional Government in the State of Plauhy is not altogether accurate . The facts are that the people of the State of Plauhy had repeatedly asked the provisional government to replace the Federal intervenor , whose action was not entirely in conformity with the program of the Brazilian revolution . Another Federal intervenor has been appointed . The voyage of General Tavora to the Northern States of Brazil had been agreed upon some time ago . Its aims are to survey the political situation of the Northern States as a delegate of the provisional government , whose confidence the General fully enjoys . No symptoms exist of any alteration of the public order in the Northern States of Brazil . I trust , my dear sir , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it were addressed to you in the form of a letter . With ? anticipated thanks for your courtesy , I remain , my dear sir , very sincerely yours . S. GURGEL DO AMARAL , Ambassador of Brazil . The Michel Matter . To the Editor of The New York Times : I note that Ms NEW YORK TIMES has had something to say relative Ito the controversy over the appointment of Michel as Federal judge in this State . I am not particularly interested in who is appointed but I am vitally interested that some man with judicial experience be appointed . However , that is not the purpose of this letter . I want to direct your attention to the fact that the lawyers who are endorsing Mr. Michel are not lawyers with very much experience in Federal courts . I further want to direct your attention to the fact that the majority of persons endorsing Mr. Michel seem to be from outside the city of Minneapolis . I have not seen these last two facts mentioned but I think the record sustains the statements . WILLIAM FURST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A Question of Species . To the Editor of The New York Times : I was surprised to learn from a Rawalpindi dispatch to Tag TIMES that the Indian mutiny of 1857 was started as a result of reports of the use of beef fat to grease the native soldiers ' cartridges . I had always heard that the mutiny was a result of rumors that the cartridges were greased with pig fat and the Moslem regiments mutinied as a result . OLIVER J. GINGOLD. 1 New York , Feb. 2 , 1931.                     