@@703809

txt The Official Gazette today reminded all Italian officials that Italy was bound under the Lateran treaty in no wise to interfere with the election of a new PimpThe Gazette said the accord provided especially " that full liberty be guaranteed to Cardinals and that there not be committed on Italian territory acts that in any manner might disturb the gathering of the conclave . " The government 's assurance of full liberty to the conclave recalled the election in 1878 of Leo XIII , the first Pope chosen after the Vatican 's loss of temporal power . At that time Cardinal Manning of England proposed holding the conclave on the Mediterranean island of Malta to avoid contact with the Italian Government . The plan was abandoned when the government indicated it might not permit a Pope so elected to enter Rome . Relations Are Critical Pope Pius 's death occurred at a critical moment in relations between the Holy See and the Fascist government . Death silenced the Pope on the very day before he was expected to give new expression to the " bitter sorrow " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Tomorrow will be the tenth anniversary of the Lateran accord , which ended a bitter , fifty-nineyear quarrel between the church and State and the voluntary imprisonment of the Popes in the Vatican . Pope Pius was to have received all the Archbishops and Bishops of Italy in an audience for which recent church history offers few precedents . Prelates had expected him to voice again his deprecation of fascist discrimination against Jews and baiting of Catholic Action , the lay organization close to his heart . What the Pope intended to say may never be known . The Cardinals in a meeting tomorrow will decide whether to make public the manuscript for the anniversary address . In Vatican circles the Pope 's death was believed to have been hastened by excessive labor on the speech he was to have delivered . Doctors said that every day for a week , with his mind on the planned celebration of his seventeenth coronation anniversary Sunday , Pius had said : " We will do it Sunday ! We will ! " It will remain for his successor to continue the Church-State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government and the royal family were offered today in contrast with the situation at the death of previous Pontiffs luring the " prisoner of the Vatican " period when relations between lie Church and State compelled restraint . King Victor Emmanuel telemaphed Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli , . emporary administrator of the : ihurch : " While the Holy Roman Church is so sadly stricken by the loss of His Holiness , Pope Pius XI , the Queen and I desire to express to your most reverend eminence our profound and mindful condolences . " The King signed his telegram " Your most affectionate cousin , Victor Emmanuel . " Cardinal Pacelli , who ceased to be Papal Secretary of State and became Camerlengo  --  Chamberlain of the Holy Roman Church  --  upon the Pope 's death , ranks as the monarch 's " cousin " as a member of the Order of the Annunziata . Grand Council Pays Tribute Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . ROME , Feb. 10 . ? The Grand Council of Fascism met tonight and , leaving aside all political questions scheduled , expressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tribute to his memory . It then adjourned to Wednesday as a sign of mourning . At the end of the meeting , which lasted a little more than an hour , the following communiqu ? was issued : The Grand Council of Fascism pays respectful homage to the memory of Pope Pius XI , who brought about the conciliation of the church and the Italian State ? a magnificent act that after sixty years of vain attempts solved the Roman question ? by concluding the Lateran Treaty and who established by means of the concordat the collaboration between State and church as a safeguard of the Fascist and Catholic unity of the Italian people . Premier Benito Mussolini sent the following telegram to Cardinal Pacelli : The disappearance of the Pope of the conciliation has thrown not only the church but the whole Italian nation into mourning . Interpreting the sentiments of the Italian people , I send Your Eminence and the Sacred College the heartfelt condolences of the Fascist Government and my own personal ones . Mussolini Is Shocked Signor Mussolini was among the first outside the Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was shocked because , though he had had numerous bitter fights with Pius XI , he respected him and had a soft spot for him in his heart , Pius having been the Pope who on his own initiative and in disagreement with the greater part of his advisers began the negotiations that finally led to the Lateran agreements . Signor Mussolini communicated with the Italian Ambassador accredited to the Holy See , who immediately went to the Vatican to convey condolences in the name of the Italian Government . He was the first diplomat to reach the Vatican on this errand . In all the schools throughout Italy the Pontiff 's death was commemorated . The children learned from their teachers how Pius had brought about conciliation between the church and the State in Italy and how he had called Premier Mussolini " the man of destiny . " All the schools will be closed for the funeral .                     