@@697137

txt LIMITING JUDGMENT . Senators on International . Delegations Viewed as a Handicap . To the Editor of The New York Times : Tus TIMES editorial page a March 30 is so admirably ... informative and suggestive and satisfying that one must thank you warmly , . which I do . It may-be ' this reference will result in enriching- other minds and spirits whose time may have prevented their reading all of your wonderful publication of yesterday . The first article , " Presidential Independence , " seems of peculiarly notable importance at this time . The statement of incidents bearing upon the subject matter is most effective and it may be hoped will have persisting influence . Might it be suitable to make reference to recent Executive appointments which indicate to some minds serious departure from the principle inherent in the independence of the Executive Department of our government ? I refer to the naming of present United States Senators as members of delegations representing the Executive in the discussion of international relations . It is the judgment of some who have deep interest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of necessity , weaken both the independence of the Executive and the . independence of the Senate as a body . This seems to be illustrated in the present instance by the choice of leaders of the two dominant party organizations . The case seems to me too clear to need much argument . Is it not true that Senator Reed and Senator Robinson have weight given to their influence in the naval conference apart from their personal contribution of mind and spirit to the discussions ? They must , of necessity , think of themselves as other than representing the President of the United States . It seems to go without saying that the President had the same thought in selecting them . Therefore , is he not under limitation in reaching his own conclusions as reports come back to him of the varied discussions and the individual judgments of the members , his representatives ? GEORGE FOSTER PEABODY . Saratoga Springs , N. Y. , March 31 , 1930 . ADVICE TO LANDLUBBERS . Being Some Information About Steering and Speed of Ships . To the Editor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monkey-wrench sailors " there arises occasional discussion , such as one recently reported in THE NEW YORK TIMER , concerning the use of expressions like " port your helm " in reference to the steering of ships . Most landsmen and some of the aforementioned kind of sailors seem to think of a ship as turning to the right , when the helm , or steering wheel , is turned to the left , which appears to them as quite an illogical procedure , and they consequently conceive a desire to rectify a matter that seems to them so obviously wrong . But a ship is steered by the stern , not by the bow , and what actually happens when the helm is put to port is that the stern of the ship swings to port , not the bow to starboard . Once this is realized , the whole procedure appears thoroughly logical . Those of us who are experienced in handling boats as yachtsmen  --  under sail , of course  --  understand very well that sometimes , in a ; tight place , he who forgets that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so at his peril . And how much more important that is when applied to the great long ships of today moving through crowded harbors . Much in the tradition of the sea is of a subtler logic than is always at once apparent to us modern-minded folk , and it behooves us to go a little slow before attempting to modernize some of these things in order to make them more " logical . " And while we 're on the subject of nautical expressions , please persuade your writers to eliminate in future the illiteracy into which they so often fall  --  namely , " knots per hour " ? when referring to the speed of a vessel . The origin of this word " knot " is thoroughly understood and perfectly clear and it means " nautical miles per hour . " To speak of " knots per hour " is therefore the same as to say " nautical miles per hour per hour , " and this ? as any physicist will tell you ? is a measure of the rate of acceleration and not of speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1930 . Mr. Marburg 's Correction . To the Editor of The New York Times : I find that the term " five-power pact " was used instead of " fourpower pact " in the letter I sent to you yesterday . THEODORE MARBURG . Baltimore . Md .. April 2. 1930.                     