@@703875

txt Creation of a railroad reorganization court of three judges and . the ** Upon iailroair reorgarfesatiorivran.f is prbp in a new bill to be introduced in the Senate today by Chairman Wheeler of the Senate interstate commerce committee and Senator Truman of Missouri - who joined in sponsoring the measure . ? Under terms of the bill , responsibility for devising sound and constructive reorganization plans for insolvent railroads would rest jointly between the new court and the Interstate Commerce Commission . Before any reorganization plan can be considered by the new court , which will have jurisdiction over both Section 77 proceedings and equity proceedings either now in existence - or contemplated , specific standards must be established within which a particular carrier 's reorganization plan must fit . Would Determine Capitsalrlition Under this requirement , the ICC is directed to determine capitalization. fixed charges . interest-bearing debt , earnings , etc .. which a new or reorganized railroad would be expected to support . When the Commission has determined the capitalization and fixed charges a carrier in process of reorganization would likely be able to support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon such findings of the Commission before the court would give it consideration . Under the bill 10% of any class of stock : or bondholders of a carrier would be permitted to submit a plan of reorganization . The bill sets up flexible provisions by which the court takes over pending reorganization cases . In the event the court 's work is piling up , it may petition the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court for additional help , and the Chief Justice may temporarily assign any federal district judge to the rail court . The bill would make ineligible as trustees any officer or employe of a debtor 's property . but an independent trustee may . with the approval of the court , employ such ineligible persons in a capacity subordinate to the trustee . Provision is made in the new bill for scaling down junior indebtedness of insolvent carriers . The bill contains a lengthy declaration of policy for Congress in dealing with railroad reorganizations which provides that no plan shall be made effective if there is substantial reason to believe : 1 . That there will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature , giving due consideration to probable prospective earnings in the light of past experience and to such changes as may reasonably be expected . 2 . That the new company under such plan will in the reasonably foreseeable future again be insolvent or unable to meet its debts or in need of further reorganization. inadequate Means for Financing 3 . That the plan leaves inadequate means for such future financing as may be necessary and possible , or that the effect of any future financing or the exercise of warrants or other rights will be to create a capital structure not in conformity with the policy and standards fixed by the-proposed law . . 4 . That in the light of the earnings experience at ' the property and of such changes that may reasonably be expected , the expectable future earnings would be insufficient to provide some earnings applicable to . though not necessarily distributable to . every class of securities of the new company , other than options or warrants . 5 . That the total capitalization , fixed charges , amount of fixed interest debt , cumulative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt or cumulative dividend requirements are in excess of the maximum to which the property may safely be subjected consistently with the policy and standards of the act .                     