@@700533

txt The Columbia Yacht Club a limited membership organization whose roster includes many of the city 's leading business men , has been notified by the Park Department that it must give up the Hudson River site at the foot of Eighty-. sixth Street , owned by the city and occupied by its clubhouse and dock . Ousting of the club , whose officers include Dr. John A. Harriss , president of the Broadway Association , commodore ; and John J. Raskob , vice commodore , was undertaken by the department , it became known yesterday , in line with its policy of making park property more widely available to the city 's residents . Other officers of the club are John Wight , secretary ; Charles F. Chapman , rear commodore ; Charles C. Gunther , measurer ; Dr. Jonathan G. Wells , fleet surgeon , and C. Randolph Runyon , fleet captain . Members of the board of trustees are George , Frederick Berg , Oliver Harriman , John M. Emery , Wilson H. Blackwell and Hugh Dalzell . Nominal Fee Paid by Club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city for the use of ' the land . Members had come to regard it as quasi-public because of a-traditional function of welcoming visiting fleets and naval vessels . The Park Department , however , took the sauce attitude toward it as it had taken toward bungalow campers at Orchard Beach , ordered to vacate recently . Park Commissioner Robert Moses said yesterday that the acre of waterfront property occupied by the club for more than sixty years was " one of the most valuable plots of its kind in the city " and was needed by his department in connection with the general improvement of Riverside Park and the made land below it . " We have notified the club it will have to get out , " he said . " They feel very bad about it . We do . too . They have been there a long time ? since long before there were any other buildings in that neighborhood . " But these exclusive privilege things have got to stop . There is no reason why the club should occupy this land for its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moses said no definite date for eviction had been fixed , but he thought the club would be permitted to stay until Sept. 1 . He said it paid the department a nominal yearly rental and that the question of renewal was now coming up . The club 's commodore , Dr. Harriss , could not be reached last night , but Charles Green Smith , its treasurer , said he had been apprised informally of the Park Department 's intentions . " It 's a terrible thing , " he said . " I ca n't quite comprehend it . What we shall do I do n't know , since it is the only space in the entire city available for us . " Mr. Smith said he had not talked to Mr. Moses , but had " dropped in " at the Arsenal Building in Central Park a few days ago at the request of department officials . He said he had talked to W. Earl Andrews , consulting engineer of the Park Department , and had been told the department was opposed to the occupancy as a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he continued . " That was left for further conferences after the situation had been presented to our board of trustees this Thursday . At this moment or ly three or four members of the club know anything about it . It will be a great shock to them . " Club Founded in 1867 . The Columbia Yacht Club was organizes in 1867 and incorporated in 1869 . The present clubhouse , a three-story frame building , was built in 1900 Two earlier clubhouses occupied the site , which was filled in by the club itself . Much of the fill was brought up the river in barges , Mr. Smith said . At first the club was little more than a squatter , but eventually an agreement was made , first with the Dock Department , then with the Park Department , whereby its occupancy was recognized . Since it had improved the property itself . the city demanded only a nominal rental , to which Mr. Smith referred as a license fee . The club has a private bridge which leads from the third floor over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of steps mounting to Riverside Drive . " We entertain every naval vessel , American or foreign , that puts into port , " Mr. Smith explained . " We have a collection of more than 300 letters from captains who attended these important functions . The Prince of Wales and the late King of Belgium sent us their personal ensigns . " One of the largest functions held at the club recently was the dinner given by Rear Admiral Yates Stirling Jr. , commandant of the Third Naval District , in honor of General Italo Balbo and several of his aides of the Italian air armada last July 19 . Mr. Smith did not question the power of the Park Department to oust the club . He appeared to doubt that there existed any legal redress . He thought the club would try to persuade Mr. Moses to reconsider " on moral grounds . "                     