@@700016

txt Officials confidently expect to see the sugar trade agreement approved and put into operation In spite of the sudden withdrawal of domestic beet sugar producers . Agreements will not be put into operation by coercion , It was stated . Rather , operation will come about when domestic heat producers reverse their action and request officials to approve the agreement . A reversal of the stand of the beet sugar producers is expected soon . In an official statement the D , .. , , , a  --  tu-mt of Agriculture stared that it was up to the industry to reach an agreement . not to the department to impose one arbitrarily . Atter the issuance of the official recomusendatffin that nothing further be done with the sugar agreement until the various interests reached an agreement themselves , private negotiations started immediately over the week end . and were being carried on Monday with a view to bringing back the beet sugar groups . One section was reported as already inclined to come back into the fold . Aid for Cuba Sought It was also observed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration to aid Cube . A reduction in the duty on Cuban sugar is expected . It is even possible that the tentative quota of 1.700.000 short tons for Cuban sugar may be raised somewhat . When the beet sugar producers refused to place any limitation on their future expansion of production . it appeared that the sugar agreement had failed . Officals believed that they had no power mider the Agricultural Adjustment Act to impose the sugar agreement on the domestic beet producers if the latter did not willingly join , it was said . Futthermore , it was explained , the Administration bad no desire to coerce such a powerful political group as the doinestic beet producers . Plan Held In Abeyance Meanwhile , pending receipt of a petition from the beet group . the sugar plan , except for Cubs , will be held in abeyance . Regarding Cuba , the plans of the Administration have taken a decided shift in the past two or three weeks . The coming Tariff Commission report as to the necessity for a change in duty on Cuban sugar is expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban raw to 1 cent a pound . Some months ago the Administration decided it would not consider a reduction in the Cuban duty until after conclusion of a quota arrangement . It was appreciated that without a plan to ration imports and shipments for domestic consumption a reduction in the duty on Cuban sugar would result in an increase in takings from the island republic . Duty Reduction Expected Soon The recent disturbances in Cuba , however , have impressed the administration with the necessity for doing something for Cuba and the belief is confidentially expressed that a reduction in the duties sooner or later will be proclaimed The Tariff Commission report has been held on the President 's desk without action , pending the outcome of the sugar hearings . The expectation is that the beet sugar producers will not take the risk of losing part of their market to Cuba and will cheerfully sign . The beet producers ' withdrawal was viewed as a last stand . Though it is fairly sure that President Roosevelt alms to reduce the duty , it is not certain how much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about in the Cuban quota .                     