@@703840

txt Somewhere in the South Atlantic tonight the battle line between theWhite and Black fleets were believed to be forming , marking the approach of the major engagement , as the second week began in the United States Navy 's manoeuvres and its working out of Fleet Problem XX . The combat front probably is within 200 miles to the east of Puerto Rico . President Roosevelt , on the cruiser Houston , was in this area when the ship 's position was last known tentatively . The sea engagement may already have passed the preliminary stages or Rear Admiral Edward C. Kalbfus and Vice Admiral Adolphus Andrews , commanders of the White attacking fleet and the Black defense cordon , respectively , may still be manoeuvring for positions . The Memphis Goes to Sea The flagship Memphis , based here and carrying Rear Admiral Charles A. Blakely , who is commanding the aircraft scouting force , departed for sea this afternoon , heading- eastward . Other ships , moving presumably from points to the west in the Caribbean , were observed far offshore and were also moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumed that the transatlantic " enemy " is moving for the pretended attack . The departure of the Memphis seemed to answer definitely one question and inferentially another . Her departure from her base indicated that the Memphis was not " damaged " in yesterday 's air raid and also that she probably would not be moving except to join the line of battle . How many combat units in the air or on the water were declared by the umpire to have been rendered inoperative for the rest of Problem XX as- a result of yesterday 's air raid remained undetermined today , but a considerable number of marine planes was observed to have been grounded , while only some of the navy patrol planes took wing today . Two small plane patrol tenders , the Sandpiper and the Lapwing , were tied up in the harbor , presumably out of commission for the rest of these games . Attack planes did not appear near today , but defense units that are based here flew out at dawn , continuing the operations to the eastward until midday , with some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon . Culebra 's Status Not /Known Whether the navy base at Culebra , where it is known that Admiral Andrews based part of his defending Black fleet early last week ; suffered in yesterday 's air raid remains a subject of speculation . Culebra was in the area covered by the attacking as well as the defensive aircraft . The number of " casualties " thus far and whether the main operations are being concentrated off Puerto Rico tonight are known only to the chief umpire , Admiral Claude C. Bloch , and to those on board the Houston with President Roosevelt and Admiral William D. Leahy , chief of naval operations . Each craft that is still considered effective , however , is in constant communication with its base by radio and telephone , awaiting tonight 's or tomorrow 's orders or the umpire 's signal to retire to the sidelines . PRESIDENT HONORS STATIA Stops at Dutch Island to Return Compliment Paid to Us in 1776 By FELIX BELAIR Jr . Speciai to THE NEW YORE Taus . MIAMI , Fla. , Feb. 26 . ? President Roosevelt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islands on " an unannounced course " today after having paused yesterday afternoon at Oranjestad , capital of the Netherlands-owned island of St. Eustatius , where in 1776 the American flag was honored for the first time by a foreign nation . Having completed his first week as the principal observer at the navy 's war games designed to test the defenses of the continent from an Atlantic attack , Mr. Roosevelt devoted his week-end to relaxation prior to joining the defending Black fleet again tomorrow morning . Still concealing the exact position of the flagship Houston , Captain D. J. Callaghan , naval aide to the President , sent the following message to temporary White House offices today : " On Saturday afternoon , stopped for two hours at Oranjestad , capital of the Netherlands-owned island of St. Eustatius , popularly known as Statia . Admiral Leahy and other members or the party went ashore at the request of the President to convey the latter 's compliments to the administrator of the island and to see the old fort . " This was the scene of an episode of historic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States ship Andrea Dorea anchored off the town , Captain Robinson went ashore and read the Declaration of Independence to the Dutch Governor . Thereupon a salute to the flag of thirteen stripes was fired by the fort , constituting the first recognition of the flag by a foreign nation . " The President is expected to return to American soil next Thursday , when the Houston is scheduled to dock at some port in South Florida , probably Port Everglades , near Fort Lauderdale . He is due back in Washington on the morning of March 4 to address a joint Congressional session commemorating the first session of the national Legislature .                     