@@699730

txt Kidnappers today lured 10-year-old Margaret , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neil C. , formerly of Detroit , from a school here and disappeared with her in an automobile . The child is the granddaughter of two prominent Detroit men , William R. Kales , head of a large structural steel corporation , and Francis Charles , engineer , banker and industrialist . Three men apparently participated in a carefully planned plot , one described as a large " black " Negro , and the others whites . Only the Negro appeared at the schoolhouse , but the white men , seen previously with the Negro in a blue sedan , are believed to have carried out the preparations . By a fictitious telephone call to the Harwich Center School , where the child was in the fourth grade , the kidnappers obtained her dismissal before the school day ended . Meanwhile , another call was made to the residence , the palatial Summer home of the Kales family , asking that the telephone be disconnected for ten minutes under the pretense that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ready to Make Deal . The child 's father , formerly connected with Detroit structural , airplane and engineering corporations , said tonight there could have been only one motive , ransom . He expressed a willingness to deal with the kidnappers in any way they desired and without police interference . " My only interest is to get my daughter back , " said Mr. . " I have no desire for revenge or to mete out punishment . If ' the kidnappers will only get in touch with me I will try to do what they want me to do . They can get in touch with me openly if they want to . I will keep my mouth shut . " Mrs. , the daughter of Mr. Kales , was overcome with grief at her home while her husband joined State and local police in the investigation . Coast Guards searched the waters off the New England coast for any strange craft upon which the child might be held . The school from which the child was lured is less than a mile from the waterfront @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with dark brown eyes and light-colored bobbed hair . She wore a dark blue coat , brown shoes and stockings and a tan and orange dress . Just after 2:30 P. M. , Miss Ruth Holmes , secretary at the Harwich Centre Grammar School , received a telephone call , purporting to come from Mr. . The caller said he was the girl 's father and he told Miss Holmes he was sending a chauffeur to the school for his daughter and asked that she be dismissed immediately upon the arrival of the car . At about the same time Mr. received a telephone call from a man who said he was a lineman for the telephone company and that he was testing the telephones . He asked Mr. to leave the telephone receiver off for ten minutes . A few minutes later the blue sedan pulled up before the school . Jack Shaughnessey , a 10-year-old pupil , was in the yard . The Negro was at the wheel and as the car stopped he called to the boy and sent him into the school house to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to send the girl out . Boy Saw Abduction . Margaret , or " Peggy , " as she was known to her parents , came out immediately and , as she approached the car , according to young Shaughnessey , she broke out crying . The Negro grabbed her , gruffly told her to " shut up land get in " and pulled her into the car , the boy said . The kidnapper drove away immediately in the direction of Harwich Center , which lies between the school and the highway leading toward the only two roads across 1 the Cape Cod Canal . The canal separates the Cape from the mainland and north of it are the highways leading to Boston and other points in Massachusetts . It was an hour and a quarter before the family telephoned to Chief of Police E. E. Hall of Harwich and an investigation was begun . The child had been expected home on a school bus and was not missed until she failed to appear when the bus passed her home , two miles from the school . Her younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Harwichport Grammar School , only a quarter of a mile from the family home . This school has no telephone , to which fact officials were inclined to attribute the kidnapping of the older child rather than the boy . Chief Hall , launching his investigation , found that some time before the Negro called at the school for the girl he was seen sitting in the back seat of the sedan with two white men in the front seat as it drove up to a gasoline station in Harwich Centre . The men ordered three gallons of gasoline , for which the Negro paid . They then drove away . The telephone calls received at the school and at the home were traced to a general store in South Chatham , farther down Cape Cod toward the point where it swings into the Atlantic . Harwichport is a community In the town of Harwich on the southern side of the Cape , almost directly north of Nantucket and only a few miles from Woods Hole and the Elizabeth Islands . Detroit Asked to Aid Search . Although the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to who had stolen his daughter , local authorities tonight were seeking the whereabouts of a former chauffeur in the employ of the Kales family . They also began an immediate check of all Negro settlements along Cape Cod . At the same time Coast Guard headquarters issued orders that all strange craft seen at sea between Boston and New London be checked and cruisers from Woods Hole , Chatham and Provincetown began patrolling off the Cape . Later in the evening the local authorities communicated by telephone with police in Detroit , seeking any information and advice they might be able to give . Boston police were requested by Mr. to aid by keeping a sharp lookout in that city . It was believed that the time which elapsed between the kidnapping of the child and the time it was discovered was sufficient to have permitted the car to get acros sone of the bridges over Cape Cod and on to one of the net-work of highways which tuts across that section of the State . Mr. and Mrs. have been living in Harwichport for the past two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who are now in New York . Before coming here Mr. and Mrs. had made their home in Detroit , where Mr. formerly was treasurer of the Whitehead and Kales Company , of which the child 's grandfather , William R. Kales , is vice president . Since coming here Neil has been associated with William Lee in the operation of a marine railway and in a boat building establishment . Up to midnight police here said there had been no attempt made by the kidnappers to communicate with the family or to open negotiations for the ransom or return of the child . They said no ransom note or other communication was left when the child was taken .                     