@@702640

txt The administration 's purpose to abolish child labor was voiced today before a joint Congressional committee considering wage and hour legislation by Robert H. Jackson , Assistant Attorney General . The Supreme Court 's invalidation of a similar statute in 1918 , he asserted , was a " perversion of our Constitution " and the time had come to challenge and reargue that decision ... Mr. Jackson appeared as an advocate of the constitutionality of such ! legislation , but his main effort was to establish the lack of any connection between the pending bill and the invalidated National Industrial Recovery Act . They had in common only the purpose of eliminating unfair labor practices , he said . Although the employment of children under 16 in interstate commerce industries was only one of the labor practices which the bill would outlaw , much of Mr. Jackson 's testimony was directed to that point . Denies it Is a Headlong Plunge " In addition to rigid and direct exclusion from the channels of interstate commerce of those products made under conditions deemed oppressive at any time and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , spied-upon labor , or **26;93;TOOLONG labor , there is also included administrative proceedings before an independent board , similar to the Labor Relations Board or the Federal Trade Commission , " he explained . Comparing the functions of the ' proposed board to those of the Interstate Commerce Commission , Mr. Jackson assured the committee that " this bill does not plunge the nation head-long into a rigid and wideSpread policy of regulating wages and hours . " It purposed " to insure decent labor conditions for the submerged ? third of our population .. " Few of the thirty-five members of the Senate and House Labor Committees , it was apparent , possessed even a working familiarity with the bill . It was obvious , too , at the first session of the hearings , that many committeemen must yet be convinced that the measure would avoid the rigidities of the NRA to win their approval . Differentials in wages and prices of finished products based on geographical classifications , which the measure contemplates , and its effects on various trades and industries brought questions from committeemen . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Blue Eagle statute , a bluebird flew in the window of I the hearing room , causing laughter and references to the emblem of NRA . Answering arguments that the child labor prohibition should be enacted separately rather than in company with a ban on other unfair labor practices , Mr. Jackson said the provisions standing alone would be more difficult to sustain As to Collective Bargaining Representative Griswold of Indiana was told by the witness that decisions of the board would take precedence , in theory at least , over agreements on wages and hours collectively bargained between management and labor . He declared it was clear , however , that such agreements would have to be taken into consideration by the board in arriving at a decision , and that an actual conflict - was unthinkable . " It is hard to see how employers rho wish to maintain decent labor standards or those who wish to see a better level of purchasing , power in the mass of - the people , can feel aggrieved at the general purposes of this bill , " Mr. Jackson continued. , " Advancement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the competition of States which tarry , has been the foundation of the employer 's most legitimate objection to labor legislation . He is so far from being injured by this bill , that it may be his chief protection against undermining of his market by methods which his own standards forbid . " Delegation of Power Defended In a separate memorandum filed with the committee , Mr. Jackson defended the measure against possible charges that it might constitute an unwarranted delegation of Congressional authority to the Executive branch . The bill contemplates , he explained , that Congress should write into the statute definite figures to be used as a guide in establishing a point below which wages shall not be cut and a ceiling above which hours should not be stretched . In only two cases in 150. years . of constitutional interpretation have . the courts objected to delegation of Congressional authority ' to the Executive , Mr. Jackson said . Hconnery of the House Labor Cornpointed out that in one  --  the Sche l-t2P- ? c-arattee he said the bill did not con1 ter case , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court was not disturbed so muc curs by employers without conby the range of discretion grante concerning any particular subjedultation with employes as it was by the fact that it could " In other words , ' said Mr. Confind no " adequate definition of theary , " the cats will not have a subject to which the codes were adehance to fix the wages of the mice , dressed . " was done under the NRA codes . " " Unlike the statute in the Schechter case , the proposed bill defines the subject matter to which the administrative agency may address itself , " he continued . Representative Hartley of New Jersey asked whether the measure would apply to chain stores . The answer , the witness said , would depend upon the extent to which the labor practices affected interstate commerce , or to which they were competitive with the flow of other goods in interstate commerce . Mr. Jackson said it was not the intent of the measure to impose restrictions on retail or service trades , largely local in character . In answer to qUestions by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            