@@700700

txt Again word comes from the Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff that there is no possibility of life on other planets with the exception perhaps of Mars ? at any rate , life in any such form as we know it . The evidence gathered by planetary spectrum photographs is that the atmospheres of Saturn and Jupiter consist so largely of deadly gases not found on the earth that even if an earth-born creature could take a Jules Verne-like journey to either of these , the great cold and deadly gases would " snuff out life . " If he carried oxygen for breathing purposes , an explosion would at once dispose of it . The Lowell reporters say that the said atmospheres may be likened to " the interior of a " gassy mine mixed with an exploded " ice factory " and all at a temperature that would make Admiral BYRD 'S Antarctic climate seem temperate . One scientist , letting his imagination play , pictured Jovian oceans of liquid ammonia rolling up their waves on queer chemicals . Of Uranus and Neptune the Arizona astronomers do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these two remoter planets shed compels them to hold that there is no possibility of life on these spacious and distant spheres . And Pluto , the most distant and most recently discovered , is ( like Mercury , the sun 's nearest neighbor ) without atmosphere , being too small and having " too little gravity to hold on to gases . " Venus , on the other hand , has " much atmosphere , " but can support only such life as can exist without water or oxygen and can thrive on the waste product of respiration on earth ? carbon dioxide . This narrows the possibility down to Mars  --  or , to use the language of the scientific report : " Mars is the best bet " for life elsewhere than on this planet . Mars has clouds and water , " but less than on earth . " And the wide range of temperature , from 65 to 70 at midday to below zero by night , suggests an intolerable climate for such a being as man , even if lichens or fungi or " strange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We may thus think of ourselves as the sole living-human inhabitants of our solar system and wonder the more that with such a common inheritance we do not make a better use of It . There may be , as one of our leading astronomers has said , planets circling about other suns , inhabited by intelligent beings of some sort , having had a longer period of evolution and so having advanced mentally and in other ways far beyond the masters of the " new little tenth-rate planet Earth , " this crust whereon we dwell . Whereon our loves and shames are begotten and buried , Our first-slime and our ancestral dust . Peeled of this rind it would still keep its motions in " GOD 'S orrery " undisturbed , but so flayed it would cease to be the most significant creation in all our solar system , and for aught we know the only " oasis of life " in all the universe of universes.                     