@@701209

txt A clear path for auto production , at least for the balance of the 1935 program , appeared yesterday as the likely outcome of the settlement of thec.three-weeks old Clevrolet strike in Toledo which had paralyzed output of plants turning out close to 30% of the total volume of the industry . Further strike outbreaks at this time are considered unlikely in the industry , particularly as the crisis created by the Toledo situation was passed without spreading into the basic Michigan plants where the bulk of automotive labor is employed . A peaceful labor situation would become doubly important to the automobile industry at this particular time , if the Patman soldier bonus bill should be passed over President Roosevelt 's expected veto . Normally automobile production would decline at this season of the year , but distribution of $2,000,000,000 to veterans might give it a sharp unseasonal spurt to keep the companies at a high state of operation . In Toledo , preparations were made yesterday to reopen the Chevrolet transmission plant at 6 a , rn. today and all the 2,340 workers employed prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maintained by the left-wing labor leaders who.hact fought acceptance of the settlement Monday night , were withdrawn during the afternoon . In Cleveland , employes of the Fisher Body plant voted to rescind the strike action taken after the plant was shut down in connection with the Toledo situation . Situation in Other Areas Employes of the Fisher Body and Chevrolet assembly plants at Norwood , Ohio , and Atlanta were still out on strike and represent the only barrier against resumption of near capacity by Chevrolet by Monday next week . Union members at the Buick plant in Flint met last night to consider what action to take in view of the Toledo settlement . This union had previously called a strike for yesterday morning provided the Toledo demands-Were not-met . General Motors met the strike threat in Toledo without retreating on the basic point of its labor position  --  opposition to a closed shop and to the majority rule principle in collect 've bargaining , which is also the universal stand of the automobile industry as a whole . The settlement did not take the form of a contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a memorandum to the plant employes and to the Department of Labor and did not Involve recognition of the union as the sole bargaining agent for all the plant employes . Otherwise , the settlement involved several concessions beyond the original peace terms presented by General Motors at the start of the strike and which were rejected by the employes in a vote by secret ballot last week . These included time and a half for work in excess of 48 hours a week and for work on Sundays and holidays , a right of appeal to plant officials and prompt hearing in case of discharge , and an agreement to attempt to reconcile the seniority rules embodied in the President 's automobile settlement of March , 1934 , with those demanded by the union . Labor Board Still Under Cloud The status of the Automobile Labor Board . which was formed by President Roosevelt as part of the settlement of the threatened 1934 strike and which subsequently has been bitterly attacked by the A. F. of L. , has been left under a cloud by the Toledo settlement . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Board must figure in the strike peace terms were ignored in the final settlement , but the fact that the Board was unable to intervene because of labor opposition in the first important strike which has occurred since it was formed undoubtedly is unfavorable to the Board 's prestige . Furthermore , Toledo advices stated that General Motors and the A. F. of L. had reached an understanding that any subsequent disputes between the two parties would be handled by the Department of Labor . Although settlement of the strike on terms unprejudicial to the basic labor policies of the industry makes any further trouble of important proportions unlikely at this season , it does not follow that the labor situation in the industry has been definitely stabilized . The A. F. of L. , having backed into the recent dispute , Is believed to have emerged with material to work on in attempting to expand its influence upon the great mass of automotive workers . These include the forcing of additional concessions from General Motors beyond its original proposals as well as direct negotiations with the A. F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treat with the local leadership . Furthermore , the strike uncovered a degree of militancy amonk the rank and file workers in Toledo which , while not necessarily typical of automotive plants as a whole , neverthesless threatened to get out of hand of the established A. F. of L. control .                     