@@698078

txt A revolutionary expedition which arrived in Gabe from the United States yesterday is now operating in the mountainous country of Oriente Province in close proximity to extensive United States interests . Coincidentally the Cuban Government has clamped a new and ironclad censorship on both Cuban and foreign correspondents and this , coupled with reports of increased military activity , has caused a widespread feeling here that the government has not established as complete control over the situation as it would have the public believe . There is no proof thus far that the revolutionists have attained any important success or even are operating anywhere in menacing ' force , but sympathizers with the rebellion appear to have revived their hope and the government took occasion today to issue a denial that there'had been any desertion of troops to the rebel cause . The news of the landing of an " expeditionary force " reached Havana yesterday from unimpeachable sources , but censors cut it out of the dispatches American correspondents here sent to their papers . No word of it appeared in any Havana newspaper . Number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not known , but they are reported to have included both American and Cuban Negroes . Revolutionists here assert that they brought seven machine guns and 8,000,000 rounds of ammunition . The expedition evidently is understood to be a part at least of the revolutionary force organized off the New Jersey coast two weeks ago whose operations were interfered with by United States Department of Justice agents . It is commanded by Colonel Rosendo Collazo and Carlos Hevia , who were involved in the New Jersey incident . Colonel Collazo is in New York , according to Cuban rebels here . They said last night that Senor Hevia was in sole command of the expedition of Jibara . Senor Hevia is the son of Colonel Aurelio Hevia , who was Secretary of the Interior under President Menocal and who is now helping Dr. Mendez Penate lead the rebellion in the field in Santa Clara Province . Expedition in Two Schooners . The expedition arrived in two schooners , one flying the German flag and the other the Norwegian , at the town of Jibara , situated on the shore of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easternmost Province of Cuba . The invaders occupied the town without violence .. No Americans live there and the only American property there is the telephone office . Near by , however , is the town of Holguin , a centre of American-owned properties . Among these are the Chaparra mill and plantations , valued at $25,000,000 , belonging to the CubanAmerican Sugar Company , and the Tacajo mill , which also is American I owned . Other properties in this district are controlled by the National City Bank and the Chase National Bank . As far as could be learned today , no damage had been done to any American property , although a number of cane fields have been burned . Police Called Into Field . As to the military situation in other parts of Cuba , there are rumors galore in Havana , but no authenticated information . That the situation in Santa Clara is disquieting to the government was indicated by reports that police had been rushed from Havana to reinforce the troops . Persons here in sympathy with the rebellion see significance in the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his capital , as would be expected if the revolt actually had been suppressed . The intensified censorship which went into effect last night is aimed at the transmission of news both within Cuba and from Cuba to the outside world and at the publication of matter disapproved by the government in Cuban newspapers . All wireless stations except those under government supervision have been ordered closed . This part of the censorship is designed especially to help the government hunt down a revolutionary wireless station whose signals have been heard daily but which officials have been unable to locate . The telegraphs are under rigid supervision and telephone conversations are watched . Milder Censorship Heretofore . Heretofore , since the rebellion started , censors have been stationed in cable and wireless offices and all news sent out of the country has been subject to their blue penciling . This censorship has not been especially severe , although sometimes it has been capricious . Yesterday , however , officials announced that correspondents must take all dispatches . to the Palace for submission to the Chief of Staff of the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban newspapers is even closer and more complicated . The change in the attitude which the announcement of the censorship regulations caused was marked . Notwithstanding persistent rumors that an important conflict was expected or actually under way in Santa Clara , the feeling among many , even of those who are ardent partisans of the rebellion , was that it was all over except desultory guerrilla warfare which might continue for months , but which could hardly have any serious result . But the complete shutting down on news immediately was interpreted as evidence that the government was alarmed . The belief that the rebellion was hopeless sprang from the conviction that it could not succeed without winning over the Army or a considerable portion of it . Today General Alberto Hererra , Chief of Staff of the Army , issued the following statement touching on this : " No attention must be paid to the insidious news that is being given out outside of Cuba by representatives of sympathizers with the revolutionary movement in relation to the armed forces of the republic , which are all in their places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " All divisions and sectors of the armed forces have distinguished themselves for their great loyalty . There has not been one single desertion in any of the sectors or departments of the armed forces of the republic without exception . " Meanwhile , from the rebel side , distributed sub rosa , came an appeal to all Cubans to arm themselves against the Machado Government . refused to confirm reports no civilian cases were being accepted . Indications pointed to government fears of a rising in Havana City soon . Ten armored trucks are kept in front of Police Headquarters at all hours ready.for emergency . Houseto-house search for arms has been stopped , It was learned on good authority , because of authentic reports that Oppositionists have weapons and ammunition stored in many well-barricaded houses . A report from Camp Columbia , the government camp on the outskirts of Havana , said 180 bodies of soldiers are stored there in pine boxes . Army headquarters denied the report . Only six Federal deaths have been announced by headquarters in contrast to sixty-seven revolutionists reported dead . Newspaper men are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move out in the island . cation , and government sources said many rebels had surrendered , among them William Fischer , an American naturalized citizen of Cuba , who led insurgent forces that destroyed property in Santa Clara worth $15,000 . The property was owned by Senator Carlos Machado , brother of the President . Fischer was presented at the provincial palace in Santa Clara and sent on to Havana for confinement in Cabanas Fortress , reports received here said . When the President would return from Santa Carla was unknov9n , although his train remained with steam up . Santa Clara dispatches continued to report scattering skirmishes with rebels and continued concentration of their forces about the south coast town of Trinidad . Troops have been sent into that region in numbers . Still at large of the five principal rebel leaders ? are Colonel Roberto Mendez Penate and Miguel Mariano Gomez , former Mayor of Havana . Major Celestino Balsam , who had been reported killed while leading rebel forces in Pinar del Rio Province , came to the palace this noon and gave himself up . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief of Staff , denied today the rumor he said had been circulating the last two days that the government intended to use private funds deposited in banks for prosecution of the campaign against the rebels . Troops Said to Have Deserted . Unconfirmed reports from Holguin , in Northwest Oriente , said the detachment of soldiers there had revolted . In Havana army headquarters issued a statement that no single trooper had gone over . Hospital authorities in Santa Clara Colonel Hevia a Prisoner . Special Cable to THE Nzw Yoax Tams . HAVANA , Aug. ** Aurelio Hevia , Secretary of the Interior under former President Menocal ; one of his sons and Santiago Iturrajde were captured late this afternoon by rural guards under command of Lieutenant Fabian Martinez , at Colon , Santa Clara Province , it was announced today by General Alberto Herrero , Chief of Staff of the Federal Army . ( Cuban revolutionists in New York said the son with Colonel Hevia was Manuel , and not Carlos , who commands the expedition that landed at Jibara on Monday . Carlos Hevia , son of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senor Hevia is 31 years old , a graduate of the class of 1920 of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis , and is said to have served on a United States battleship during the World War . In recent ' years he has been a Cuban sugar I planter . Colonel Hevia , one of the most important of the revolutionary leaders , I had been reported operating in command of a large band of rebels at Rancho Veloz , on the north coast of Santa Clara Province , where some of the hardest fighting of the rebellion has taken place . It is also reported that Dr. Roberto Mendez Penate is commanding , other rebel forces in that vicinity . The prisoners are now confined at the jail at Colon , but will be brought to Havana in the next few days . Decisive Battle Expected . HAVANA , Aug. 18 UP ) . ? Havana this evening believed  --  with apparent reason  --  that a decisive battle loomed in Cuba 's Eastern province . A revolutionary expedition landed at Jibara last night , it was reported . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of German registry , with 500 men and scores of machine guns aboard . The government , admitting unofficially that the boat landed , believed it had the expeditionaries bottled up . Two hundred soldiers sent from Havana were joined in Santa Clara by 400 men stationed there and kept on eastward . Another report said more expeditionaries landed on the upper Santa Clara coast . Rebels were said to have ditched the FomentoTrinidad train south of Santa Clara . In Havana airtight censorship , both on antra and extra island communication remained . Censorship a Surprise . The censorship came as a distinct surprise to foreign correspondents here , who had believed the rebellion was near an end with the capture of former President Menocal and Colonel Mendieta , its two most important leaders , and their confinement in Cabanas fortress .                     