@@700131

txt The unexpected declaration by Mr. W. G. A Ormsby-Gore , British delegate , which is regarded here as tantamount to a British expression against the treatment accorded to Jews in Germany , electi ' fled-the sixth committee yes-terday While studiously refraining from criticizing the German Government 's internal policy , the British statement nevertheless is the most outspoken diplomatic utterance by a major power on the Jewish question . Mr. Ormsby-Gore was replying to a speech made the previous day by Herr Friedrich von Keller , German delegate , on the Dutch proposals for a special League organization to , deal with Jewish refugees as part of the League 's normal activities in defense of minorities . Herr von Keller had protested against the Jcws being regarded as a minority . They constituted , he said " demographic and social problem , " requiring special treatment . British Situation Cited The British delegate vigorously criticized Herr von Keller 's view and his theory of racial hegemony within political units . He could not accept he said , the German viewpoint that Jews are not a minority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that it is ? nipossible to build a state on a racial basis . Britain itself , he said , consists of English , Scottish and Welsh , living in harmony . The strength of the British Empire , he declared , lies in the complete II eedom and equality it insures to all citizens , irrespective of lace and religion . The German delegate in answer once more reiterated his Government 's view that the Jewish question should not be treated as a minority issue But it is clear that the problem will not be di opped until it is further threshed out Special Organization Proposed The Dutch resolution , under which the subject arose , urges establishment of a special autonomous organization under the auspices and control of the League to give assistance to Jewish German refugees . Fiench , British , Czechoslovak , Polish , Spanish and Danish delegates all spoke in support of the Dutch initiative and a subcommittee is to be set up to study the question in all Its details and make practical suggestions . The German representative refused to accept the chairman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he does not consider the League competent to examin. , this problem .                     