@@699123

txt President Hoover has decided to make only three campaign speeches , two in the mid-West and one in the East , Chairman Everett Sanders of the Republican National Committee announced tonight after a four-hour political conference at the White House . Mr. Sanders and Secretaries Mills and Hurley , who participated in the conference , were informed by Mr. Hoover that he was opposed to a nation-wide speaking tour and that he believed it his duty to remain in Washington . Mr. Hoover thus insisted on adhering to his original plan of making three speeches only , Mr. Sanders said that indications now were that the President 's program would not . be extended , no matter what political developments might appear . j Tonight 's conference began at 8 I o'clock and lasted until nearly mid/ night . Mr. Sanders arrived from Chicago on a late afternoon train , j having been summoned last night . He brought with him the latest reports on political conditions and pointed out to the President and his advisers the sections where the party 's hardest work was needed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House declined to reveal the nature of the reports on conditions , but it is known that party leaders believe the situation unfavorable in some sections . The President 's speaking tour will start in early October , but dates and places have not been arranged , Mr. Sanders said . He did indicate that Mr. Hoover would not go to the Pacific Coast . One of the President 's speeches will probably he made at West . Branch , Iowa , his birthplace , and another may be made in Minneapolis or somewhere in Ohio . The Eastern speech will probably be delivered in New York . " There has been a steady sweep favorable to the Republican cause beginning with the President 's speech of acceptance , " said Mr. Sanders . " This has increased in the vigorous campaign that is under way to bring forcibly to the people of the country the doctrines which he enunciated in that speech . When the educational campaign is effectually accomplished there will be no doubt of the President 's re-election . Mr. Sanders declared the campaign would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry the party 's cause to the electorate . Mills to Cross Country . I Secretary Mills will probably make more than a dozen speeches , speaking first at the Republican State Convention in Detroit on Sept. 29 and twice in Los Angeles , Oct. 3 and 4 ; on the latter date he will address the American Bankers Association . On his return trip across the country he will make a number of speeches in the corn and wheat belt States . Secretaries Stimson , Hurley and Doak will be on the stump most of October . Judson C. Welliver , who was literary secretary to President Harding , and Wright Patterson of Chicago . editor of the Western Newspaper Union , were called into tonight 's conference to tell of their observations in Iowa and other States . Mr. Sanders will return to Chicago headquarters tomorrow and from there the details of the October drive will be announced later . A campaign tour that would last perhaps a month and carry him from coast to coast just before election day had been urged upon the President from some quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I He was quoted as saying that by precedent our Presidents had usually refrained from an aggressive speaking campaign ; that this policy should be followed now , and that the campaign should be conducted largely by other leaders . He told some of his allies that he was willing to make a number of set speeches to present fully the . important phases of his record and his policies . Reports have reached the party 's headquarters that much apathy exists among Republican . voters , that the corn and wheat belt States are in revolt , that Iowa , which was regarded as safely Republican , was shown in a confidential canvass by Republican sources to be manifesting a 3-to-2 tendency in favor of the Democratic ticket . Late canvasses in the industrial sections show that unemployment has caused such discontent as to impair Hoover prospects in strongly Republican States . There have been complaints of lack of financial support , an absence of campaign literature and failure of the Republican National Committee to furnish cam paign speakers in same instances . Some leaders who have read these reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign thus far has con4 sisted chiefly of defensive tactics , and that an offensive warfare with more punch is needed in the next seven weeks to push back the Democratic tide . They had insisted that the cam . paign could be invigorated only by the presence of President Hoover on . the hump . Senator Smoot and some other leaders are expected here this week to discuss the campaign . The political situation in Michigan : will be presented to Mr. Hoover by a score of Republican editors who will be received tomorrow night at the White House for an informal discusi sion of public affairs . The Republican National Commit- , tee will give the visitors a luncheon at noon , and they will be Senator , Vandenberg 's guests at dinner , when : speeches will be made by Secretary Chapin and Major Ferry K. Heath , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury .                     