@@697981

txt Dr. ' Hans Luther , president of the Reichsbank , hurried back to Berlin tonight to report to Chancellor Bruening after his twenty-three-hour visit to Paris devoted to a dramatic appeal to France to save Germany from financial collapse . To Dr. Luther 's earnest and long account of the state of affairs within the Reich Clement Moret , Governor of the Bank of France , and later P. E. Flandin , Minister of Finance , listened with sympathetic interest , but when he had terminated he was politely informed that substantial political guarantees must accompany any very extensive assistance to Germany from France . Barred by the very character of his position from going into this phase of the subject , Dr. Luther had to remain within the financial realm and rely upon Chancellor Bruening to bridge the obvious gap which divides the two questions . It was stated in official circles tonight that the necessity for direct conversations between Premier Laval and Dr. Bruening was more urgent than ever . Tells of Critical Situation . While he did not disguise the critical situation of Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Reichsbank itself . It is carrying a tremendous load , but with the temporary aid already obtained from abroad and promises of further assistance , the head of the German bank of issue said he believed the institution could weather the storm , provided the larger program of assistance for which he is now seeking French support is finally adopted . In general terms , this plan envisages one-year and two-year credits of 2,000,000,000 to 3,000,000,000 marks , depending upon the success with which Dr. Luther and his German associates pursue their negotiations . Of this amount , 1,600,000,000 marks would be obtained from banks of issue , the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Bank for International Settlements . An amount of almost equal size would be sought from private consortiums in large credit centres , and with this Germany would rehabilitate her economic position . The money obtained from the banks of issue and the Federal Reserve Bank would of course be used to maintain the integrity of the mark . To France , whose credit reserves , sometimes known as frozen money , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's demand did not cause the amazement that might have been imagined . From what can be learned of the Moret-Luther conversation , it is revealed that the German financial leader was told that France was not only willing but eager to employ her capital stores for the general rehabilitation of Europe . In particular , M. Moret is understood to have added that France would be pleased to take the leading role in the reconstitution of Germany 's financial and economic position , but only provided that the Reich " orientated itself definitely toward a policy of democracy and pacifism . " It is emphasized in quarters close to the Bank of France and the Minister of Finance that at no moment did the day 's conversations cease to be cordial and free from recrimination . No one in a responsible position , least of all the financial minds , desires to humiliate the great nation which lost the war or to block her legitimate pacific aspirations . Business men who participated in today 's important talks , it is observed here , are too practical not to realize that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept . What France desires , however , and will continue firmly to insist upon is that at a moment when Germany is demanding 2,000,000,000 or 3,000,000 , - 000 marks from France and other creditor nations , she would be illadvised to be engaged in the construction . of a powerful warship , in the organization of what are regarded as warlike demonstrations largely directed against France and in an attempt to form a political union with Austria . Has Three-Hour Conference . Dr. Luther 's day began in the early hours , when he conferred at length with Dr. Leopold von Hoesch , the German Ambassador , and other German advisers . At 10 o'clock he went to the Bank of France and for three hours the heads of the two largest banks of issue on the Continent were deep in conversation . At 1 they adjourned to a hotel , where they were joined by Emile Moreau , former governor of the Bank of France and now chairman of the board of the Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas ; Baron B. Rincard , chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bank of France , and the Marquis de Vogl &; director of the Suez Canal Company , and others . The group had luncheon and chatted until 3 , when Dr. Luther went to the Ministry of Finance to see M. Flandin . After he left the hotel he realized he could not take the North Express for Berlin on which he had reserved a place . The conversation with M. Flandin occupied nearly two hours , and Dr. Luther then rushed back to the German Embassy to confer with his own people and to prepare to leave for home . Shortly after Dr. Luther left M. Flandin departed for the Ministry of the Interior , where he outlined to Premier Laval the results of his interview with the German . The gravity of the situation as admitted by Dr. Luther was admitted in circles close to the government tonight , and in opinion of at least one of the best-known observers of the French press , Jules Sauerwein , the problem may prove to be " the gravest which France has had to face since the var . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " is on the point of becoming bankrupt . This can not be doubted . German banks are obliged to furnish gold coins and cash to their clients and prefer to obtain these moneys from the Reichsbank rather than repatriating money from their stocks of foreign exchange abroad . Sees Us Saving Germany . " The United States Is engaged for 18,000,000,000 marks . England is engaged for much less , but for a sum which is none the less important when the situation of her own banks is considered . It is certain , therefore , that America , seconded by Britain , will try to save Germany . It does not seem possible , however , that enough confidence can be created in the United States to insure the rehabilitation of all Central Europe . " France , through the medium of the Bank of France and private credit establishments , will aid immediately in the re-establishment of the German financial and economic position . But she must have guarantees ? financial guarantees that the withdrawal of capital by the Germans themselves shall be kept within normal limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everywhere . " The semi-official Le Temps , voicing the same feeling with reference to the necessity of guarantees , closes on this note tonight : " However grave the situation may be , the fact remains that there is a great opportunity for the leaders of the Reich to spare the German people new suffering and definitely to lay a . foundation for peace and security and the economic reconstruction of the world . May they not let this opportunity escape them . " In preparation for the reparation conferences in London beginning next Friday , the Council of Ministers at the Elysee Palace today appointed an important group of experts to represent France . They will be joined later by M. Flandin and Andre Francols-Poncet . The list includes M. Escallier , director of the movement of funds at the Ministry of Finance ; R. Coulondre , director of commercial affairs at . the Foreign Office ; Jacques Bizot , a high official in the Finance Ministry , and Frederic Moeneclaey , Inspector of Finances . The delegation will leave next Thursday .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     