@@698882

txt Premier Edouard Herriot returned to Paris this morning and within a few hours got unanimous approval of his actions at Lausanne from his cabinet . The press and the public generally are equally satisfied , for as M. Herriot , who talked freely to newspaper men after the cabinet meeting , emphasized more than once , France has " preserved full liberty for further action without any pledge or commitment . " Moreover , although the Premier barely hinted at it , virtually the entire press points out that the whole matter is now thrown into the lap of Washington . Observers here all agree that the French understand the moratorium will last at least until after the American elections . Besides , there is no doubt as to what Paris intends by placing the intergovernmental debt problem within the framework of universal negotiations , as M. Herriot put it today . Le Temps in an editorial this evening says it means " final regulation with the cooperation of the United States , " which is to say cancellation of the war debts . There is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European front that Secretary Stimson tried so hard to avoid , Leon Blum in his paper this morning says he understands that delegates from the United States will soon be invited to Lausanne . Positions Remain Unchanged . M. Herriot was obviously pleased with the results when he saw the newspaper men . After stating his satisfaction that the European problem had been made universal and that the question of the moratorium was temporarily out of the way , he admitted that the attitude of each country involved remained unaltered . " If by chance the Lausanne conference breaks down , " M. Herriot said , " everyone regains his liberty of action . But if , as we hope , it succeeds , the wording of the old agreements will be inscribed as new treaties . " That means that while the Young Plan and the Versailles Treaty may undergo modifications France will not permit them to be rupudiated or thrown overboard . " We succeeded in avoiding discussions of principles , " he also said , " where opposing national theses would have clashed and from which an immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Premier let out a hint that France intended to play Geneva against Lausanne , asking the Germans to soften their arms stand and their opposition to a Danubian federation in return for French concessions on reparations . M. Herriot 's satisfaction is fully reflected in the press , although the Right newspapers , as expected , took their usual nationalistic stand against any concessions to Germany . The Left and moderate press , however , which really count now , feel that events thus far are as much as could be hoped for . Le Temps , while emphasizing that " national attitudes have maintained their original force and every one rests on his position , " goes on to say that " In the present state of affairs the decision is the least dangerous solution one could hope for , at the same time opening the door wide to a united settlement on the European terrain first and universal later . " Sees Concessions Forced From Us . The Petit Parisien stresses that universal , agreement depends on the participation of the United States , which " will be compelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the governments of the Old World consent if she is faced with a united European front . " Senator Henry B ? renger , writing for the Agence Economique , maintains that the decision fulfills in every way the request of President Hoover on the occasion of Pierre Laval 's trip that the European powers take the initiative regarding intergovernmental debts . Another important financial paper , L'Information , fears that Mr. Hoover will not dare to compromise his chances for the Presidency by accepting the chal- lenge of Lausanne now , but it thinks that if the European front is maintained the United States ultimately will be forced to yield . What comment is obtainable from political circles today confirms the general feeling of relief and satisfacItion , with the expectation that the country generally will welcome what , many are calling " the end of I France 's isolation . " M. Herriot will return to Lausanne tomorrow night .                     