@@698095

txt Official Washington received the Wiggin report from Basle in what must now be called a characteristic way . At first , the plan to help Germany through her financial crisis by extending credits was approved . But it seemed to be regarded as something aloof from the United states , ' except as our Federal Reserve mie-ht join in the proposed banking relief . A day later , however , the Administration seemed to discover that there was more in it than this . The trend of foreign comment was to the effect that the economic aspects of the Wiggin report were distinctly related to future political decisions . It seemed quietly to take for granted that German reparations and the war debts owed to our Treasury have now been everywhere recognized as being inextricably linked together . But the Washington attitude remained cautious . Reports that Secretary STIMSOIsT had been discussing abroad a readjustment of the debts were emphatically denied . That was scarcely necessary , as Mr. STIMSON is naturally more hesitant in such matters than the Administration itself . But our Government view is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Until public ! opinion in this country is " crystallized , " *giothing additional will be proposed or done by Washington . Of course , the Basle report of the bankers was primarily financial . This was . as THE TIMES at once remarked , a great merit . It represented highly expert opinion applied to an extremely difficult problem . But it . should be noted that , at the end , the . report showed that even into the intricate matter of German banking and credits and currency and foreign debts , elements enter other than those hich are strictly economic . ' he bankers/ committee could not deal paith political subjects , but at the same time could not shut its eyes to the fact that there could not be " assurance of " continued and peaceful economic progi ress " unless " mutual confidence " vi  --  ere first established between Germany and the other nations . The thing goes beyond that . The bankers clearly saw that many other countries are " deeply affected . " Indispensable to economic recovery is the placing of " international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoration of " normal investments " and a recovery of confidence throughout the entire world . The very restraint with which all this Cie laid down in the Wiggin report lends weight to it . The bankers properly dieWain ) ability to mend all without the aid of peoples and governments . There is something more important than bank loans and credits , more important even than the now demonstrated willingness of financially strong countries to come to the aid of one in difficulties . The wisest and boldest economic plan can not succeed without the backing of a clear ' national and international sentiment . thus the implied appeal is to take ad ! vantage of the breathing apace fortulately assured by the German moratorium and the suspension of payments on the war debts , in order to frame a larger and conciliatory settlement to be ttearinto effect after the expiration of the ear of grace . This , in truth , is the great task which 4be Wiggin report-could not undertake , but which must be immediately pressed upon the attention of the public and the governmental authoritiel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can not safely be neglected . If embraced successfully , it would mean not only financial rescue for Germany , but a quickening of industry and commerce all over the world , a tremendous impetus given to the cause of disarmament and a peaceful adjustment of all disputes be- , tween nations , with renewed hope in the present resources and the future prospects of our civilization . The work will admittedly be arduous . even gigantic . It is not for the weakling or the timid . But courageous men of large foresight and constructive energy need not despair as they put their hands to it . The world is ripe for such an effort and such an achievement . The time for jealousies and recrimination is past . Financial strength should be joined with illimitable good-will for the purpose of uniting the world in that spirit of helpfulness and confidence without which the soundest and most far-reaching economic planning will fall to the earth .                     