@@702859

txt This should be a dull season in Washington , and is n't . What with politics , wars , and the constant stirrings of assorted New Deal undertakings the customary autumn somnolence of this half-village capital is not in evidence at all Here we have Just had the Republican leaders , under hopeful John D. M. Hamilton , holding conferences to determine whether a whoop-it-up national convention shall be held before the 1938 congressional elections ; we have had Cordell Hull . at the Department of State , making energetic efforts to point the finger of moral indignation at Japanese bombardment of civilian populations in China : and now a new figure has arrived in town . John D. Biggers of Toledo , head of the Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Company , calling himself " liberal Republican , " to undertake one of the most thankless jobs ever offered a business man  --  a voluntary post-card census of the unemployed , which is quite unprecedented for size , methods and tit might as well be said ) for the advance skepticism which it has evoked It is hard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way is important . For example , the wisdom of the moves of the Republican leaders in the next months may well decide whether the party as we have known it turns the corner in its worst crisis Nobody other than Senator Vandenberg has been talking coalition ( Incidentally , more and more our fellow correspondents cite Senator Vandenberg as the prospective Anti-New Deal candidate in 1940 . It is merely speculation , of course , but a good many are saying in conversation  --  what is too early to write for their newspapers  --  that they foresee a direct Vandenberg-Roosevelt contest . Republican Get-Together Likely But to get back to Mr. Hamilton , the conferences here this week have brought the idea of a big Republican , off-year get-together into the realm of possibility . It seems fair to say that the chances are better for it than against it as it stands at present , though final decision must be reserved for the National Committee meeting in November Marty Republicans who have been meeting here wo n't admit it but Mr. Hoover 's advocacy of the scheme has done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Far Eastern situation can only be touched on briefly . Mr. Hull seems to be taking a stronger stand . This is indicated in part by the very clamor of the leading peace associations to Invoke the Neutrality Act . They see in Mr. Hull 's moral censure of Japan the beginning of a repetition of what happened in 1914-1916 which took Ansel Ica into war . There are the old schools of thought at odds here all over again , the isolationists vs. the internationalists , and the prospect is that the debate will met ease lather than decline . One thing is safe to say . Whatever Mt Hull might privately like to do to rests= Japan in the uncleciared Far Eastern war , he will not get out in front of public opinion . And another comparative certainty is that he will not repeat Mr. Stunson 's mistake in the Manchoukuo affair of taking the brunt of world protest without Gteat Britain 's backing . The Iwo countries are likely to follow what Mr. Tyler Dennett terms " concurrent yet separate action . " Census Cards to 31,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This unemployment census ( which he is to supervise ) Is really an extraordinary affair ! It is a huge thing . There are 31,000,000 families in the United States and the postman will bring each one of them a mail card on a given day before next December , and they will fill this out , and lo , the census nil be tabulated and complete Mr. Biggers really thinks this scheme will work . The point about Mr. Biggers is that he is a practical , successful , hard-headed executive , who is a lifelong Republican , and has accepted the job as a sort of moral challenge to American business to show what it can do if the New Deal will only give it a chance . Mr. Biggers wo n't take any pay for his effort , and he has begun by sitting up with Cabinet heads to 2:30 a. ns. formulating his vigorous plans . It is no secret that nobody distrusted the idea of a census more than President Roosevelt himself . He has repeatedly told press conferences that the scheme was unnecessary and impractical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dared the Toledo glass manufacturer to undertake it . Mr. Biggers took the dare . Newspapers which have attacked Mr. Roosevelt up to now for not taking a census have washed their hands of this particular type of mail scheme . Rarely has anybody undertaken a harder Job under less auspicious beginnings . Yet Mr Biggers is going ahead . This column ca n't help but feel an admiration for this attitude and confess a sporting hope in the spectacular venture . In any event , it should be one of the most unusual spectacles Washington has even seen .                     