@@703011

txt Eight leading manufacturers of aircraft in the United States received invitations yesterday from Pan American Airways to submit T bids for planes capable of carrying 100 passengers , with full stateroom , dressing room and dining room accommodations , for a range of 5,000 miles , at a cruising speed of 200 miles an hour . Such aircraft , with a payload of 25,000 pounds , would have ten times the capacity , considering load and range combined , of the present flying boats of the China Clipper class now operating on the Pacific air route . To be known as Yankee Clippers , they would be by far the largest in the world . The invitation , it was disclosed yesterday , took the form of a printed letter addressed to the manufacturers requesting the submission of preliminary bids by March 15 and stipulating that each proposal should be addressed to Charles A. Lindbergh , chairman of Pan American 's technical committee . It was learned that Colonel Lindbergh had spent three days at the offices of the company since his sudden and unheralded return from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the letter . The first draft of the request for bids , it was also learned , was made as long ago as April 10 . The decision to implement its fleet of more than 100 aircraft with larger planes than had ever before been constructed was made by the airline in view of certain important technical advances known to be contemplated in aircraft equipment plans for Imperial Airways of Great Britain , Air France of France and the Deutsche Luft Hansa of Germany . Upon the completion early next year of the 86,000-pound flying boats now under construction for the line by the Boeing Aircraft Company of Seattle , it will have equipment for transatlantic flying capable of maintaining American leadership for a period estimated at from two to three years . After that period , unless this revolutionary step forward in aircraft- design is taken , plans known to be on foreign drawing boards would threaten this supremacy . After specifying the payload capacity , range and speed desired and the passenger accommodations , the invitation to the manufacturers says " crew accommodations should allow for a crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mail , baggage and express , permitting full use of all payload capacity not utilized by passengers . " The invitation was addressed to the Boeing Aircraft Company , Seattle ; Consolidated . Aircraft Corporation , San Diego ; CurtissWright Corporation , Buffalo ; Douglas Aircraft Company , Inc . Santa Monica , Calif. ; Lockheed Inc. , Corporation , Burbank , Calif . ; Glenn L. Martin Company , Baltimore ; North American Aviation . Inc. , Inglewood , Calif. , and Sikorsky Aircraft division , United Aircraft Corporation , Bridgeport , Conn . Bids Up to 12 Craft Asked It invites bids for the " construction and equipment of three , six or twelve aircraft to be designed and made by you , " and contains a provisional option for up to twelve additional craft which prove acceptable . Bidders are asked to submit first a general description , with three-view drawings and such details and detailed drawings on the plane , weights , materials , engines , propellers , performance , delivery and price as may be necessary . Should any of these proposals prove acceptable , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement also accompanied the letter-of invitation , will be asked . In this case the airline offers to pay $35,000 to cover the preliminary work of estimate and bid by the manufacturer , whether or not it finally enters into a contract for construction . No estimate of the cost of the proposed giant planes  --  which naturally will vary as to whether three , six , twelve or even twenty-four should be purchased ? is at present obtainable . But it is believed that this cost would run to at least $1,000,000 each . This is borne out by the fact that the . nine planes ? six flying boats and three substratosphere land planes  --  now being built by the Boeing Company for Pan American , are to cost $6,000,000 . Yankee Clipper ( new plane ) , payload 25,000 pounds , range 5,000 miles . The range indicated for the new aircraft would make possible nonstop flights from New York to any of the capitals of Europe . It would give such flexibility to the operation of the airline that present reciprocal agreements as to landing rights with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer would be of practical necessity , The known plans for large equipment in Great Britain and Europe have spurred the technical committee of the American company to obtain bids at this time for greatly advanced practical longrange transoceanic aircraft at the earliest possible date . Suggestion of Catapults There also is indication in the detail specifications of the possible use of catapults to launch the aircraft desired . Successful catapulting of Diesel-powered flying boats from mother ships for flight between the Azores and New York has been demonstrated for two seasons in experimental service by the Luft Hansa . Aviation experts are known to hold that the catapult principle of take-off could be applied to very much larger aircraft of either land or ocean-going type . Such operation would make the aircraft independent of weather or ice conditions at the point of departure . One of the items in the detailed proposals asked of manufacturers calls for descriptive drawings of " operation of highlight devices and aids to take-off , if any . " Purchase of the new fleet of planes , should any of the bids prove acceptable , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans such as have been suggested for the development of ocean airlines by the Maritime Commission . The detailed specifications in the proposal for bids make it plain that Aircraft of the Yankee Clipper class , equipped with double and single staterooms , hot and cold running water , complete electrical galleys and dining , recreation and lounging quarters providing a high degree of comfort may be expected to make their giant hops at high levels of altitude above the storm area . " Special consideration , " the airline 's letter says , " will be given to designs which incorporate features permitting operation of the planes at 20,000 feet altitude or higher with interior cabin pressures equivalent to 8,000 feet altitude . " This means sealed and supercharged cabins in which the passengers will be independent- of climate and altitude changes . Delivery - of the aircraft , should bids be accepted , is not expected before late la 1840.                     