@@697665

txt MORE SIDEWALKS NEEDED Some of Us Still Walk and Should Be Provided For . To the Editor of The New York Times : A communication in Tact TIMES , " Sidewalks a Menace , " from F. W. Fitzpatrick , complains that concrete sidewalks are dangerously slippery under wet or icy conditions . It is not our province to recommend types of sidewalks , which is an engineering matter , the economic conclusions of which vary with local conditions . We may , however , properly say that there are other types of sidewalks commonly used in New England and other sections which are fully equal to the type to which your correspondent refers and which do provide granular surfaces at economic cost . Also there are cheaper types which well supply demand in cases where high-type county road footways are not economic . The main questions to which we desire to call attention are : In the rush to provide safe and comfortable ways for the automobile the pedestrian has been entirely overlooked until now there are few highways in America on which it is safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are being killed , permanently maimed or less seriously injured , because they still attempt to use their feet . This neglect has reached such a pass that in most States under present laws State highway departments are not even permitted to construct footways alongside State roadways . One prominent exception is New Jersey , where , in 1930 , an adequate law was passed , and there are now pending in several States bills patterned after the New Jersey act . GEORGE C. WARREN , General Chairman , Highway Sidewalks Committee , A. S. M. E. Boston , Mass. , Feb. 27 , 1931 . We Need More Laughter . To the Editor of The New York Times : Your explanation of Mr. Hoover 's failure as a leader in your editorial , " Mr , Hoover 's Methods , " is probably correct . As you say , he has a kindly nature and it is hard to imagine him in the role of Jackson , Roosevelt or Wilson in dealing with insurgent partisans . But did it ever occur to you that Mr. Hoover 's kindly nature would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sense of humor ? You will recall that Taft and Lincoln also had kindly natures and some power of leadership  --  especially Lincoln  --  because they were able to smile or provoke a laugh when situations grew too tense and tragic . Even Mr. Coolidge could cackle when the lines were drawn too tight . But our poor Mr. Hoover never gets up a smile  --  and how the country does yearn for a laugh ! Yes , a big horse laugh . Your article by Julian Harris on " Cornpone Dunkers , " illustrates what I mean . Something to- revive our sense of humor . FRANK 0 . MOORE . Philadelphia , Pa. , March 1 , 1931 . Those Flushing Sidewalks . To the Editor of The New York Times : Let me add my confirmation to the complaint of A. D. D. in THS TIMES of Feb. 27 , regarding the disgraceful condition of Flushing sidewalks . The flagstones are worn and in many places so tilted and irregular that to use them without closely watching one 's steps Is to risk one 's life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pools , or , where the boulevards are higher than the flags , a lengthy lake , so that they are the last places pedestrians choose to walk . If some of the unemployed were engaged to even up the flags with a crowbar great improvement would result . D. N. Flushing , N. Y. , March 2 , 1931.                     