@@701418

txt Italian civilians and some natives began eacuat-1 ing the capital yesterday , in fear of imminent hostilities , as the Italian Legation moved its archives to Jibuti . Food prices soared as there was a rush to lay in supplies . The banks stopped selling , foreign exchange . The capital guard was doubled and the Emperor was asked to allow foreign legations to bring in troops . ROME  --  While Italy was beginning to worry over the possibility of naval intervention by Britain , it was reported that the Italian fleet was about to begin extensive movements in the Mediterranean . Mussolini called a Cabinet meeting for tomorrow on the battlefields of the army 's sham war . LONDON  --  The British aircraft carrier Glorious was dispatched from Gibraltar for Malta and the carrier Courageous received orders to sail for the Suez Canal as preparations for Mediterranean naval manoeuvres were pushed . Diplomatic circles reported that Mussolini might tell the League on Sept. 4 he would call off the war if other powers gave Italy some African colonies . Ethiopian Capital Anxious . By The P @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aug. 26 . ? Ethiopian natives and Italian authorities alike began evacuation of the capital today amid rapid-fire developments indicative of a general belief that hostilities were almost at hand . Prices of the scanty food commodities soared ; the Italian Government began evacuating its citizens and legation archives , and other diplomats acted for protection of their legations in the event of air bombardments . Acting on Premier Benito Mussolini 's orders , the Italian Legation shipped sixty cases of official archives to Jibuti , French Somaliland . It advised the departure of all Italians whose presence was not imperative . Emanuel Ghanothakis , the leading Italian merchant , left for Jibuti . This action was followed immediately by a suggestion from the Belgian Minister , as dean of the diplomatic corps , that Emperor Haile Selassie incorporate the British , French , German and Belgian Legations into a special international zone immune from bombardment . These legations are situated in the same general area of about fifteen square miles . The area does not include the United States Legation , which is on the other side of the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also asked the Emperor to give the foreign legations permission to bring in emergency troops , as the British are doing . It was believed the Emperor would approve this suggestion , provided the incoming ' forces would be of moderate numbers . lState Department officials at Washington said the United States had not considered sending any troops to guard the legation at Addis Ababa . The Emperor increased the Imperial Guard , which protects the city , from 3,000 to 6,000 . The capital police force numbers were raised from 3,000 to 5,000 . Five hundred special detectives were appointed to round up spies and suspicious characters . Arms and munitions were supplied to troops on the outskirts of the capital . Uneasy residents began evacuating the capital , fearing immediate air raids . The populace instituted its evacuation in accordance with verbal orders from the Emperor , without awaiting the suggested deadline of seven days after any formal declaration of war . In view of the possibility of an air raid or a siege , the foreign legations began laying in emergency foodstuffs , an action followed quick- ly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commodity prices resulted . The well-known Indian firm of Mohammed Ali , entrusted with supplying food for British troops stationed here , cornered the sugar market , which rose 33 per cent . A virtual panic was caused among merchants when the National Bank refused to give out foreign currency . The Franco-Ethiopian Railway thereafter declined to accept Ethiopian thalers from passengers , insisting on French francs . The Emperor faced new financial difficulties ; the thaler falling sharply after his American adviser , Everett W. Colson , recommended that the Emperor forbid that foreign money leave the country . The silver thaler , which Was formerly 2.60 to the United States dollar , dropped to 3.20 . Airplane Menace Explained . The Emperor took steps to relieve the anxiety of natives , aroused by Saturday 's blunt instructions outlining precautions against air attacks . He instructed tribal chiefs to explain to the populace that there was no need to fear airplanes abnormally , because anti-aircraft guns had been placed on the hills surrounding the capital . The Emperor also directed authorities to explain to the untutored tribes , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heaven to destroy them , how the ships have power to leave the ground and drop bombs . As a graphic lesson in this respect , the Emperor 's personal plane has flown daily over the capital . Haile Selassie has directed that no Ethiopian employed by Americans and other foreigners shall be liable to military service . He also repeated his warning that any Ethiopian attacking or menacing Italians or other foreigners would be shot . To frustrate any possible attack , four native armed guards accompanied the Italian official courier when he ? departed for Jilmti . Hoping for peace , the Emperor Haile Selassie and the Empress Quizero Menen today began a month of prayer and abstention from meat . The population of the countryside was reported following their sovereign 's example , even the wild warriors whose principal diet is raw meat . As a special example , the Emperor will fast four days longer than his subjects . Special peace services are held in the churches of the countryside , the chimes tolling out daily . Princess Tsahai , 16-year-old daughter of the Emperor , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nurses ' training school . The Princess , educated in England , Switzerland and France , speaks nine languages , including African dialects . She will take the three-year course prescribed for American nurses , together with a group of other Ethiopian girls . The school , established by Dr. Robert Hockman of Wheaton , Ill. , will be conducted under the auspices of the Emperor and Empress , who were assured sufficient money for its maintenance . This is the first time in Ethiopia 's history that trained nursing has been introduced there . In the event of war , the Abouna , or head of the Ethiopian Coptic Church , will send fifty priests from Addis Ababa to the front with one of three historia tabots , or portable altars , in which will be kept the sanctuary of St. Georghi 's Coronation Cathedral . The priests will also carry their holy vestments .                     