@@703784

txt That curious power often sluggardly but again torientialpublic sentiment  --  has proved the greatest force in fighting gangsters , spoils politicians , racketeers , organized violence , and all the rest of their vicious kin , it is the common judgment of pioneers in these civic combats . Out of his experience in convicting Al Capone and other Chicago gangsters . George E. Q. Johnson observes : " Public sentiment Is the biggest thing of all . Its influence can not be overestimated . " Without public opinion you never get very far in an undertaking of this kind , " EffOrt to throw off organized crime and racketeering requires a crystallized Ci is sentiment to support it , which citizens ' bodies and the press can formulate and direct . " It was while Mr. Johnson was United States Attorney here , in the era when local Gm eminent had collapsed so far , as handling the gangsters was concerned , that he got the idea of using the income tax as a weapon against crime , and obtained permission from Washington to expel anent. * @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the high tax officials , to prison . Then with this frail instrument , but the single effective one available , Mr. Johnson reached for Capone , as yet unmolested and seemingly invulnerable , because of his care to hide himself . Yet in recalling Chicago 's riddance of the blatant gangster dignitaries , the former district attorney does not single out the Federal prosecution . " Public sentiment was aroused , " he remarks , " and knew it did n't have to tolerate that sort of thing . " New York 's public has recently had the same awakening in regard to Tammany Hall and its historic misrule of the city , and so , cyclically , have other communities . But none had to strive with such an effrontery of crime as Chicago . What public sentiment did with this imposter the Federal prosector of that period thus says : " The improvement in the gangster and racketeering situation here has been very great . It 's never been entirely put down . The gangster element is still here , and will show its head at any opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its old power . " Chicago destroyed the myth that the gangsters could do as they please and get away with It . " Any city that is dominated by its organized evil , so much so that existence there does not any longer seefn normal , can free Itself . This means , though , digging under . " Whenever a lax prosecutor or a lax polici gives them leeway in a large city , hoodlumism and racketeering show up immediately . Only by constant vigilance can they be kept down . " Nearly always in any criminal activity there is with corrupt politics . " In clean government gangsters and racketeering do not have a chance . Where they appear , they follow a let-down of prosecutor , police , and corrupt politics . " Many of our big cities hale a long , hard fight ahead . " Correction will come through the process of evolution through education . It is encouraging that once an advance is made , if laxness comes again , the situation rarely goes Back to its old level . " The estimate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gordon L. Hostetter , probably the foremost authority on business racketeering , because of his war on the Chicago racketeers . " The State 's attorney of that clay would do nothing , and we could get nowhere with the police or the courts , " said the Executhe Director of the Employers ' Association of Chicago . A Higher Court " But there is a higher court than any of these  --  the court of public opinion  --  and we took our resort to it . " The average man on the street has no idea of what we went through in Chicago in checking racketeering . It was only by the hardest kind of work and an aroused citizenry that Chicago removed its lax and corrupt law enforcement officers and it is only by this method that any city can clean out its rackets and their corollary violence . " What Chicago did and what New York is and has been doing under Thomas E. Dewey , other cities can do if they have the will . " In ten years Chicago has lost its international reputation for crime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big cities so fir as racketeering and labor violence go . " Only by constant vigilance can Chicago or any other City hold Its gangster and l acketeering element to a minimum . " ' From Chicago 's struggle Mr Hostetter added this axiom : " No city can cure an evil by refusing to recognize Its presence . " What the Public can do is likewise hailed by another key campaigner who battled the gangsters hand to hand " Public opinion If properly In- ( mined and moused can perform anything , " he commented , and then with glum honesty tacked on , ' ' but the public is so seldom aroused that spoils politicians think of it as dot-want and disregard it , " Yet the spell of the spollsman is not universal . For example , in scores of the city manager cities , which are for the most pail , of smaller size , gangsterism and racketeering are being held down or killed off altogether , It Is reported by Clarence E. Ridley , executive director of the International City Managers ' Associa-tion , Police Tied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do the sort of a job that they know ought to be done , " noted Mr , Ridley , " All but a very few would do a good job of law enforcement If they had the chance . But they are generally so held back by politics and favoritism that they can not go after organized crime and racketeering as they want to . " When the administration of the police department Is removed from political control and transferred to the responsibility of the chief ad , minIshator , the city manager , Inevitably the result Is a breakdown ! In the alliance between crime , racketeering , and polities . ' The police are then protected , and hoodlumisin and racketeeting urn minimized . " But there is no magic wand to be had to shift the responsibility horn the people , They must be sold on the Idea that decent Government is worth working for , " Good government comes at a price . It Is bought only by the personal set vice of the citizens , and then has to be supported when obtained . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough , A community has to he given a lot of education so that it nuclei stands what city managership means and realizes the need of backing it up . list the citizens have to elect a good council which will pick a good manager . " There are plenty of people in our big cities who are willing to put , their shoulder to the wheel , but they find their local novel nment so complicated and confusing that they do not know where to put their shoulder in . The business of local Govelmnent needs to be simplified , " ( in ' taste ' ism and racketeet lug ate not so deep-tooted that they ca n't be gotten out . No , not at all . "                     