@@701089

txt The British Government sent a note to Berlin today protesting against Germany 's adoption of military conscription and in effect asking whether the contemplated visit of Foreign Secretary Sir John Simon would now be worth while . , An unprecedentedly quick reply gave assurance that Germany still wished Sir John to come . The reply from Sir Eric Phipps , Ambassador to Beflin , to the Foreign Office in London was to the effect that the German Foreign Minister , Baron Constantin von Neurath , had said that the German Government's- conversations with Sir John and Anthony Eden , Lord Privy Seal , could take place within the scope of the Anglo-Erench agreement of Feb. 3 and for the purposes previously agreed upon . Upon receiving the reply , Sir John , in the House of Commons this evening , moved adjournment of the House to gain a parliamentary opportunity publicly to announce the Berlin news . He announced that fie would make the journey to Berlin as planned , and this declaration was received with cheers from all party groups . But Skepticism Persists . Despite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the results that may come from the British negotiations with Chancellor Hitler . To begin with , there is the incongruity in Germany 's assurance that she is willing to talk on the basis of the Anglo-French agreement , because one part of that agreement was to the effect that Germany had no right to modify the military clauses of the Versailles treaty by unilateral action . But she has now done that and knocked the treaty sky high . The most significant passage in the British note indicates that Sir John , when he gets to Berlin , will try to induce Herr Hitler to modify or postpone his new plan to have a conscript army larger than France 's . Referring to the AngloFrench proposal to get a new general agreement in place of the Versailles military restrictions against Germany , today 's British note says : " But this can not be facilitated by putting forward as a decision already arrived at strengths for military effectives greatly exceeding any before suggested  --  strengths , moreover , which , if maintained unaltered , must make more difficult if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Will Ask Hitler to Back Down . The key words in that quotation from the note are " if maintained unaltered . " Sir John is going to ask Herr Hitler to back down on his conscription plan and his unilateral repudiation of the Versailles treaty as a preliminary to getting equality by agreement with the other powers . There is nothing else Sir John can do under the present circumstances . He can not offer Herr Hitler anything because ' the Chancellor has already taken what he wanted , so the position is entirely reversed as between Germany and the former allied powers from what it has been ever since 1919 . On these new terms nobody in the British Government or in Parliament is very confident that Sir John 's mission is going to be successful because nobody thinks for a minute Herr Hitler will back down . If he does not , the British Government will be placed in the awkward dilemma of steering a course between its allegiance to France and its avowed policy of reaching a collective security and disarma- ment agreement including all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French theory that the whole matter should be referred to the League of Nations , but there is a hitch there because of Premier Mussolini 's objection to Geneva , and his insistence that Germany 's latest move be considered by Britain , France and Italy not as members , of the League but as signatories of the Versailles treaty . U. S. May Be Consulted . The United States may be asked to come in on the ground that the military clauses of the Versailles treaty are also part of the separate treaty Germany signed with the United States . George Lansbury , leader of the Opposition , asked in the Commons today whether the I United States would be consulted . Sir John replied that the matter was being considered by the government . Geoffrey Mender of the Liberal Opposition asked whether the British Government had given an undertaking to enter a mutually pro- ; tective arrangement with France ' alone if an agreement including Germany proved impossible . Cap- ' tain Eden replied with some em- I phasis that no such undertaking had been given . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergency meeting of Ministers attended by Prime Minister . Stanley Baldwin , Lord President of the Council ; Sir John Simon . Captain Eden and Sir Robert Vansittart , Permanent UnderSecretary for Foreign Affairs . It was approved this morning by the full Cabinet . Three possible courses were considered : first . abandonment of Sir John 's mission to Ger . ' many as useless ; second , his going as if nothing had happened and without reference to Herr Hitler 's conscription announcement , and ' third , the dispatch of a nate Inquiring whether Herr Hitler was still willing to negotiate on the terms arranged prior to the treaty repudiation . No member of the Cabinet seriously wanted to abandon the trip altogether , but none was willing to ignore Herr Hitler 's latest act of defiance , so the third course was unanimously adopted . News that the Cabinet meeting was being held to consider an international emergency had attracted so large a crowd to Downing Street that police lines were formed to clear the space before the Prime Minister 's house , and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and excitement that are usually associated with a crisis . Believe French Lack Hope . Britain has every reason to believe that France is now ready to quit trying to get any understanding with Germany , although there has been no official co-nmunication to that effect from Paris to London . There is no sort of peace treaty that Germany could sign after acquiring an army larger than the French that would satisfy Paris . The British Government thus has little or no hope that , France will now sign any disarmament convention . Although Whitehall sympathizes with the Quai d'Orsay on this point the British Government can not abruptly drop its own role of peacemaker , because the parEarnenta. ? ? ? Opposition and a large section of British public opinion insist on a continuance of its policy of conciliation . For example , Arthur Henderson 's remarkable faith in the ultimate success of his disarmament conference is unshaken even by Herr Hitler 's latest assault .. ) n all security plans . He said in the lobby of the Commons today that he did not think the Berlin conscription @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least . On the contrary , he thinks that now that Germany has seized her own I military equality she will return to the League sooner than most persons expect . A good many person ; in Britain outside Mr. Henderson 's own Socialist party share his views in this matter . There are so many of them that the government can not afford to ignore them . in this domestic political sense the position of Mr. 's Cabinet would be simplified if Herr Hitler went to even further extremes in his defiance of the other powers than he has already attained . That is considered by no means impossible in London . For example , there would be little surprise for the British Government if Germany announced in the near future that she was going to disregard the treaty provision for a demilitarized zone covering a fiftykilometer strip on the east bank of the Rhine . The conscription announcement is not viewed here as the end of Herr Hitler 's program for attaining completely untrammeled sovereignty but rather as the beginning of a policy of wholesale repudiation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those points when he goes to Berlin next weekend . In a more general way he will ask what the other powers may depend upon as to Germany 's future foreign policy . It has been arranged among the political parties here that there will be a debate on the British protest note in the Commons on Thursday , although it has not yet been decided on what form of motion the discussion is to be held .                     