@@700263

txt At a recent dinner in this city Sir WILLIAM BEVERIDGE , a leader among British economic teachers , referred with some humor to the American attitude toward " economists . " Public resentment against the profession seemed to him to be foreshadowed . As visitor and guest , he refrained diplomatically froth saying what the trouble was ; but most of us probably could guess . Recent events , however , prove that there is plenty of courage and sound thinking left among our economists today , and that they are willing now , as they did not seem to be in 1929 , to come into the open and attack financial illusion , even when cherished in high places . The twelve professors of economics in Western universities who united in a public protest against " tinkering with the monetary unit " and the " radical experimentation " of the hour sounded a timely call . Professor KEMMERER of Princeton has assailed the Washington fallacies cogently and unsparingly . This week 's resignation from the Treasury staff by Professor SPRAGUE of Harvard , with an outspoken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money policies , has added great force to the demonstration . It was inevitable that these protagonists of sound money should at once be assailed by supporters of the Government 's experiment . But the encouraging fact is that the profession is taking its due place . Several organizations have been reprinting for general circulation the remarkable monograph on currency experimentation , written half a century ago by an economic teacher of high public distinction , virtual founder and first president of the Cornell University from whose staff the idea of " dollar manipulation " in its present shape appears to have come . It was in 1876 that ANDREW D. WHITE , combating the depreciated-money doctrines of that period , gave to his readers a compact and thorough description of the fiatmoney experiment in Revolutionary France . He did not in those days have I to fight propaganda for a " devalued dollar " or for a government 's " bear operations " with its own currency , and he could not cite the object-lesson provided by Germany 's post-war currency inflation . But his plain and incontrovertible narrative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in enlightening the American public of 1876 on what that day 's Washington agitation really meant . It has been classic authority on the subject throughout the fifty-seven years since its publication . In one respect , reading Dr. WHITE 'S monograph will bring a curious sense of how historical delusions repeat themselves . The data for his narrative had been compiled before the Civil War . " I am sure , " he wrote in his later introduction , that it never then occurred to him that the French experiment " could ever have any bearing on our own country . " It " never entered into our minds " that " any such folly " as that of eighteenth-century France " could ever find supporters in the United States of the nineteenth . " In 1862 and 1876 he learned how badly he had been mistaken , and lived long enough to add the further introductory remark that currency-depreciation propaganda , in its superficially altered shape of 1896 , none the less pointed logically , if successful , " to issues of paper money practically unlimited . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's " devaluation " school .                     