@@703863

txt How to solve the State 's financial problems was the most important question on Capitol Hill tonight after legislative committees had worked furiously all day to clear their calendars in advance of the taking over of all Assembly legislation by the Rules Committee at the close of business tomorrow . A second development was a statement by Governor Lehman defending the operating costs of State government , in which the Chief Executive declared that the figures supplied by one of the principal critics of government here , the privately operated New York State Bureau of Governmental ? tesearch , showed that the operating costs of State government alone , with local costs excluded , was actually among the lowest anywhere in the country . The per capita operating cost is twenty-fourth on a list of thirty States surveyed , the Governor asserted . One of the chief developments in financial matters during the day was another manifestation of the economy-mindedness of the Legislature , as the Assembly Ways and Means Committee , one of the few committees which will continue in operation after tomorrow , killed ninety-seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State 's general fund . While the major part of this cut was in bills put in by New York City members for individual housing projects in their own districts , introduced primarily for local consumption , a great part of the total included also individual bills which would have committed the State to future activities the leaders feel that it can not stand , in its delicate fiscal condition . Seek $10,000,000 Budget Cut The third development was the disclosure that the Republican leaders , at their conference yesterday , agreed on a cut of at least $10,000 , - 000 in Governor Lehman 's budget , and would attempt to find ways to cut it even more , without impairing State services , or losing too much support on their own side of the House . Chairman Moffat of the Ways and Means Committee submitted to the leaders , in addition to data as to where the budget might be cut , at least eight different tax proposals , of which the sales tax was one . There has been no definite commitment to any tax plan , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislators is sounded out in party conferences . The chances are that the leadership will go in with alternative plans , to forestall the possibility of too much opposition to any single plan . There is no guarantee , right now , that every one of the twenty-six votes the Republicans have in the Senate could be rounded up for any particular plan under discussion . The sales tax is in the lead because of its revenue producing possibilities . Governor Lehman submitted little in the way of " program " legislation this year , but what he did submit did not fare too well in the committees . The public service committee of the Assembly killed his utility bills , but sent two bills for the regulation of submetering companies to the rules committee . The Governor 's bill on fee-charging employment agency regulation was scrapped , but a Republican measure , having the same purpose , the Ostertag Bill , remained alive in the Ways and Means Committee . The Todd outdoor advertising regulating bill went to the Rules committee . while all other outdoor advertising bills were killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. Tracey Stagg , is thought to have a chance of passage . The Governor 's recommendation for additional members of the State police was also killed by the Ways and Means committee . It would have cost $300,000 . Governor Lehman , in defending governmental costs in the State , had reference to a pamphlet issued by the bureau which is run by Abbot Pulliam pf Schenectady . He asserted that the pamphlet , issued at the time of the hearing on the budget , carried the clear implication that operating costs in New York State were higher than elsewhere , despite the fact that the figures covered both State and all local expenditures . " Misleading , " Says Governor " The inference that was naturally drawn from that statement by the average citizen was that there was extravagance and waste in the operation of the State government , " the Governor declared . This misleading statement received wide publicity and undoubtedly fooled many people into believing that the per capita operating cost of the State government was higher than in other States . As a matter of fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and news columns was undoubtedly misled by the statement and bulletins . " Several weeks later , on March 6th , the bureau , possibly realizing that their budget statement had been misleading , issued another bulletin which showed the actual facts with regard to the relative costs of the State government in New York and other States . " That bulletin received little if any publicity or circulation . It has reached the hands of only a few people . In that bulletin it is clearly shown that the operating costs of State government in New York , instead of being among the most costly , is actually among the lowest anywhere in the country . " Chart Shows Six States Lower The Governor then quoted from a chart prepared by the bureau , showing that per capita costs in the State , exclusive of capital outlays , debt service and State aid , are lower than any States except Kentucky , North and South Carolina , Alabama , Tennessee and Georgia . After listing this and other graphs to bear out his contention that the high cost of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " None of the above facts was set forth in the original statement presented by the bureau at the budget hearing on Feb. 22 , and which received wide publicity . It now becomes the duty and responsibility not only of public officials but of private agencies and organizations , including newspapers , to present the true facts to taxpayers of our State . " Among the bills which were killed in the Ways and Means Committee , as part of the economy drive , were these : The bills creating a youth service council or youth advisory council in the executive department . The Davidson compulsory automobile insurance bill . The Crews bill reviving the bonus rights of veterans . The Stephens bill transferring the Westchester parkways to the jurisdiction of the Taconic State Park Commission . A series of bills calling for compulsory inspection of motor vehicles .                     