@@696991

txt Expressing willingness , to cooperate . with the theatre managers ' committee to end ticket speculation , the committee on behalf of the theatre ticket agencies offered to the managers yesterday several suggestions for inclusion in the detailed agreement to be drawn up before the plan goes into effect on March 1 . The managers took the suggestions under advisement . The agents , moreover , proposed putting the program . in operation earlier than March 1 if this could be arranged and said they were " quite willing " to make it effective at once . Here are ? the suggestions made by the brokers : 1 . We willingly subscribe to the plan that all tickets handled by the agencies shall be sold at an advance of not to exceed 75 cents over the boxoffice price . It is only fair to mention that at least 95 per cent of our tickets are sold at the present time at not to exceed 75 cents over the box-office price . 2 . All existing " buys " ? that is. obligations on the part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a limited right of return  --  are ended and abrogated from the day the agreement between managers and agencies becomes effective . Thereafter all tickets allotted to the agencies are to be sent them on consignment , with the right of returning all unsold tickets . Both Sides to Be Bonded. 3 . We agree with the suggestion submitted by the managers ' committee that a separate surety company bond should be furnished by every manager and/or producer for each separate theatre operated by such manager and/or producer , conditionedf for the faithful performance of the obligations of such manager and/or producer under the agreement ; and that a separate surety company bond should be furnished by every ticket broker , conditioned for the faithful performance of the broker 's obligations under the agreement . 4 . The agreement should embody the recommendation of the managers ' committee that no loans or advances In any manner , shape or form should be demanded of or made by any broker to any manager or producer or to any persons i acting in their behalf and/or in any way connected with the man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therein . 5 . The managers to agree that in the allotment of seats there shall be no discrimination against any broker who is party to this agreement . 6 . ? In case of a breach of the contract by any broker , his surety company bond shall be forfeited to the managers ' committee ( which shall be named as the obligee in the several brokers ' bonds ) , and he shall lose his right to any further allotment of seats . In the event of a breach of the contract by any manager or producer , the bond of such manager or producer is forfeited to the brokers ' committee ( which shall be named as the obligee in each manager 's bond ) . In case of any forfeiture as aforesaid. the payment to either committee shall be deemed for the benefit of all the members of the group represented by such committee . Inasmuch as the forfeiture of his allotment automatically puts the broker out of business , while a manager or producer , despite his breach of contract and the forfeiture of his bond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the brokers , it is felt and urged that the bond in tilt case of the individual manager or producer should be in a much larger sum , at least double that fixed in the case of the individual broker . Rebates to Be Prohibited . 7 . ? Rebates in any shape or form , whether by the way of allowances at the time of payment for tickets or on the occasion of periodic adjustment of accounts , or at the end of . stated periods , as well as secret refunds of any kind , by any manager or producer to any broker are absolutely prohibited ; and the giving or accepting of any such refund , rebate , allowance or discount shall be deemed a breach of the contract . 8 . ? It has been announced that at the present time two prominent managers have expressed an unwillingness to join with their fellow managers in the movement . We agree with you that no plan devised can be operated with complete success without the unanimous co-operation of the theatre managers . 9 . ? It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for one year , with a provision for its automatic renewal in case it shall be found to work satisfactorily . This is merely a thought presented for consideration and is not to be deemed a condition imposed by the brokers . It has been further proposed that the new plan to be evidenced by the agreement between our bodies shall become operative on March 1 , or at an . earlier date , if this can be arranged . The brokers are quite willing to make the plan operative at once . Can not Control Investment . Prefacing their suggestions , the brokers declared that under present conditions brokers are not merchants and can not control their investment . Managers , they said , forced bad " buys " on them as the price of continuing good or profitable ones . Bonuses or extra payments , under various guises and in different forms , were exacted ; Federal taxes set an unwise and prohibitive handicap on ticket sales at prices in excess of the statutory advance which was insufficient to allow the broker a fair return . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to function as agents for the managers or producers . In some instances managers compelled brokers to make loans with the understanding that repayment would be made through credit for tickets , thus working an enforced " buy . " Seat locations , it was said , could be changed by the manager at will and allotments could be cut down or denied , " and the ordinary stability which must attend a satisfactory relation of principal and agent has been missing in its entirety . " To crystallize the situation the brokers then made their suggestions . The brokers were represented by Thomas C. Naughton , John A. Sullivan , David Marks and Harry A. Kaufman , and the managers by Arthur Hopkins and Brock Pemberton .                     