@@700542

txt Corporation Counsel Sexton was directed by the council yesterday to draft an assembly bill providing for a rebate to owners of residences and small flat buildings who paid their 1931 taxes in full and consequently are not eligible under existing legislation to participate in the 15 per cent reduction recently ' granted to 318,000 objectors who , joined in a suit against the 1931 building assessments . This order from the council followed passage of a resolution introduced by Ald. John S. Clark 30th . The bill , when completed by Mr. Sexton will be submitted to the general assembly . There are about 120,000 properties of the classes concerned in the proposed legislation which were not represented in the suit heard before Judge Jarecki , but the bill proposed by Ald. Clark would affect only those properties on which 1931 tax bills had been paid in full . Similar 15 per cent rebates to property owners who have already paid 1932 taxes In full also will be made a provision in the measure , To Avoid Discrimination . " This suggested legislation must be enacted Into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has been the main financial support of government will be the victim of unfair discrimination , " Ald. Clark said . Meanwhile , county officials were con. fused as to the method by which revised bills are to be prepared for the 318,000 objectors to whom Judge Jarecki granted the 1931 cut . One public official et tlmated that the work involved In revising the bills will require six months with little hope of collecting any further taxes on the properties involved until it is finished . At the same time he pointed out that if the objecting taxpayers do not pay that portion of their bills not affected by the cut , they will find the reduction granted by Judge Jarecki more than eaten up by penalties which have been running at the rate of 1 per cent a month since last Sep . tember ; Jacobs Talks of Issue . Assessor J. L. Jacobs issued a statement yesterday indicating that it is his belief that the major work of making the changes is the duty of the i Chicago Real Estate board , whose at . torneys handled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present proceedings participated by the assessor is necessary for the public interest , " stated Mr. Jacobs , " the official records of assessments are available , of course , and if some concrete program , lawful in its nature and capable of performance within the bud , ; et limitations of the office is submitted , I shall give it prompt and careful consideration . " Judge Jarecki and Hayden N. Bell , head of the civil law department of the state 's attorney 's office , said that In their opinion Judge Jarecki 's order legally required the assessor to ate the work of making the changes .                     