@@701168

txt Prime Minister has " advised " King George finally to have a " quiet " jubilee . For some weeks past there has been agitation in high places to make the celebration beginning May 6 equal to the famous Imperial festival which in 1597 marked the culmination of Queen Victoria 's 60 years upon the throne . For some time the jubilee cabinet committee flirted with the idea , especially as Neville Chamberlain , chancellor of the exchequer , assured them that so far as he was concerned no stinting would be necessary . None the less it is not without significance that the sum apportioned for celebrating King George 's 25 years on the throne is $250,000 . This Is equal to the sum that the king voluntarily resigned from his civil list when Britain 's internal financial disorder brought about the formation of the present national go V ernm en t . King Net Consulted . When the government first planned the silver jubilee fifteen months ago ? it is said : n well informed circles this was done without first consulting the king @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Kingdons and of Northern Ireland . This followed the Victorian precedent . But there all similitude ended . 31 the halcyon days of Queen Victoria all the lords lieutenant were able to give a 100 per cent ' pro-jubilee answer . In the present case the government is faced with two highly differentiated forms of rePly ? From the southern shires , that live on petty industries , agriculture , ' or the tourist trade , the lords lieutenant replied that their people wanted jubilee , and then some more Jubilee . From the north , the industrial heart of England , there came the response that the people wanted first bread , fuel , clothes , and - then promise of a more decent existence during the rest of the king 's reign . Too Late to Withdraw . The cabinet members found themselves in an awkward position . The press had heard of these doings and finally the king had to be told . He was furious . According to him , the jubilee was a farce , and one which he would have stopped at the very outset @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ise should have been . It was too late to withdraw , though George V. at first went to the length of insisting they should do so . It was only when it was pointed out to him that a withdrawal might be translated abroad as a case either of bankruptcy or diplomatic nerves because of the European situation that the king consented to have a jubilee . With grins good humor George V. suggested to the cabinet that it should spend on the jubilee one of the instalments of $250,000 annually which he had given up from his civil list for three years . Bing Gets Own Way . The king is getting his way . He has forbidden garter king of arms , the duke of Norfolk , and other high ofli ? cers of state of the ceremonial department to have anything to do with the jubilee forced upon him . He has refused to have the peers of the realm in their robes for the presentation of addresses from the houses of parliament . He has refused to robe himself for Use occasion . It was first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ king appear in his crown , with orb and scepter , his consort by his side . The scene in historic Westminster ball was to be filmed and the address and : the sovereign 's reply were to have been broadcast . But George V. said " No . " In the distressed areas of the north , declared the king , they will say that , instead of getting about its business , parliament wastes time and money on medieval mummeries which do no one good , least of all an ailing and ageing king .                     