@@699684

txt Confident of the President 's general approval of the plan to mobilize private industry under the government for expansion under strict hour and wage regulation in the production of articles and materials in normal demand , as a companion measure to the impending public works unemployment relief program , some of his closest executive advisers have prepared a draft of the proposed legislation . Simultaneously a legislative group , committed to the plan , is consulting daily with important capitalists and industrialists preparatory to another drafting . At the request of the House Committee on Labor Secretary Perkins has drafted legislation , on which hearings will begin next Monday , outlining her ideas to regulate production , competition , hours of work and pay , and setting up boards to enforce these restrictions . These ideas may , with the Black bill , be incorporated in the general scheme to stimulate and regulate private industry . They would place tremendous powers in the hands of the Secretary . Advocates Not Discouraged . Publication of the outlines of the idea in THE NEW YORIC TIMES of last Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the East and by editorial criticism . But activities since the publication make it evident that the President 's advisers in the administration and in the Capitol who favor the plan have neither faltered in their advocacy nor been discouraged by any word from the White House . It is significant and interesting also that the project is said to be supported by a number of the most conservative bankers and industrialists in New York City . One suggested way of inducing private industry to expand in the production of articles and materials in normal demand , thereby lessening unemployment , adding to the purchasing power of the people and taking advantage of the market which the public works expenditures will create , is to amend the Reconstruction Finance Corporation act . Under this method private industry would not only be put on a loaning basis for expansion but would be guaranteed against loss , at least in part ( 50 per cent has been suggested ) as a result of expansion . For Allotment and Control . A minimum wage and a maximum work-week would be prescribed by law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control , as under the War Industries Board during the World War . The entire situation would be supervised by a similar board , whose authority and recommendation would be binding on the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in conformity with the amended charter of its organization . As previously stated in these dispatches , " the thought behind the plan is that a public works program , standing by itself , even if $5,000,000,000 is expended upon it , will not sufficiently reduce ' unemployment or make use of the new purchasing power . It is contended that private industry must at the same time be put in a position to absorb the new purchasing power , composed of the billions which the government will be putting in the hands of citizens all over the United States . To do this it must resume manufacture , and that will restore many to private employment in the factories themselves and in the retail establishments which will dis- pose of the products of these factories . This will , in turn , give purchasing power to those privately as well as those governmentally employed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Treasury in various forms of taxation , " rency status . Efforts are also being made to raise the money for the ' government by another than the 1 bond method , though the group ; working on this is keeping the re- ; sults of its exploration strictly to itself . Thus , on . every hand the evidence multiplies that the administration is now definitely committed to the principle that private industry must be mobilized by the government , regulated by a Federal agency un-I der Federal law for a certain period , I and stimulated by moral and per-1 haps financial guarantees to step up from the " depression pace . " A little brother of this idea , spon-1 sored last Summer by the then 1 Speaker Garner when he proposed that the R. F. C. should make loans on any security to private industry and individuals , brought on a bitter argument between Mr. Garner and President Hoover . Mr. Hoover charged that the concept , if made into law , would put the government into " a gigantic pawribroking busiOn the latter point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to the form of the bond issue , one proposal being to print bonds of small denomination that can be used to pay governnent workers on the projects by being placed on a cur- ness .                     