@@704031

txt The possibilities for early . unification of the combined I. R. T.-Manhattan Railway system were considered as having been further enhanced Saturday . when the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals denied petitions by the Interborough interests for a rehearing on disaflirmance of the Manhattan Railway lease . The ruling of the Circuit Court . against which the Interborough reargument petitions were directed , is that I. R. T. under its contracts with the City is obligated to continue operations over the Manhattan Railway elevated lines . The decision leaves to negotiation between the companies and the City , terms for Interborough use of the Manhattan elevated system . The implied confirmation by the appeals court of its original ruling in the case was immediately characterized by representatives of both the City and the Manhattan as effectively clinching their victory . At the same time . the possibilities that the U. S. Supreme Court might consent to review the Circuit Court decision in the case were being discounted . Interborough Debt Ser.lce While denial of the reargument petitions was seen as foreshadowing early unification of the combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some traction observers also interpreted the development as further enshrouding in doubt the prospects for payment of debt service due July 1 on Interborough - first and refunding mortgage bonds . Some legal experts hold that under the Circuit Court decision , payments to Manhattan Railway must come ahead of I.R.T. refunding bonds as a charge on subway earnings . And while no definite terms have yet been arranged for future use by Interborough of the Manhattan lines , it is pointed out that I.R.T. might be held liable for defaults already existing under the Manhattan lease . Indicated earnings of Interborough during the past year or so have fallen short of full debt service requirements on its refunding mortgage bonds , without taking into consideration the company 's possible liabilities under the Manhattan lease . In addition , the company 's cash position is none too strong . Because of lowered earnings and a reduced cash position , it was necessary last January to hold down semi-annual service on I.R.T. refunding 5s to interest payments on the publiclyheld bonds and bonds collateral to the 7% notes , plus the small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in cash . No Motion Made by Receiver No motion was made by the I.R.T. receiver at that time for meeting either interest requirements on bonds already held in the sinking fund or that portion of the sinking fund requirement that may be satisfied through tender of bonds at their face amount . Close followers of the situation now believe that for the time being nothing whatever will be disbursed to bondholders in either the Interborough or the Manhattan unless an early agreement is reached between the companies and the city for sale of the combined system under unification . Legal representatives of both Interborough and Manhattan recently have held intermittent conferences with city representatives relative to the best methods of conveying the properties to the city , If and when an agreement as to price has been arrived at . At the same , it is anticipated that the public hearings on the proposed B.-M.T. plan will be successfully concluded before end of this week , thus leaving the representatives of the city and the Transit Commission free to devote their full time to the I.R.T.-Manhattan aide of the - unification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             