@@703374

txt A $35,000,000 order for 400 military planes has been placed in the United States , the British air ministry announced tonight . This was regarded as a move to supplement Britain 's lagging produc. tion and catch up with Germany and Italy in the European air building race . Two hundred planes were ordered from the Lockheed Aircraft corpora . tion of Burbank , Cal. , for general reconnaissance . An order for a similar number of advanced training planes was placed with North American Aviation , Inc. , of Inglewood , Cal . Urged by British Mission . The purchases were recommended by a British mission , headed by A. H. Self , deputy undersecretary of state for air , which recently visited the United States to seek help in the British air armament race . J. H. Kindelberger , president of North American Aviation , and Carl B. Squier , vice president of the Lockheed corporation , came to Britain with the returning members of the mission . British air officials said the American planes contracted for were needed " in comparatively small quantities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air program . Must Pill Contract in Two Years . The contracts are to be completed within tivo years . The inability of five or six other American firms to assure early delivery was a factor in taacine the contracts The contract with Lockheed is the first military fleet sale by that cor poration and the largest foreign order ever placed with an American air craft company . The plane orderer is a recently developed bombing plant similar in design to the company ' ; all-metal fourteen passenger trans port . With twin 1.000 horsepower motors the plane has a top speed 01 i00 miles per hour with a crew of four . Builds Only Military Planes . The North American Aviation corn many constructs only military aircraft and the training plane contracted for is a low wing , two place ship similar to those used by the United States army . It has a single 400 horse power engine with a top speed of 171 miles per hour . The plane will be equipped for training students in blind flying . One of the chief criticisms of the British air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flying technique . The storm over fears that Britain was lagging behind Germany in airplane production and was obliged to purchase planes in the United States forced Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain to revamp his cabinet last month and name Sir Kingsley Wood to replace Viscount Swinton as air minister . Criticize Swinton Program . Members of parliament had criticized Swinton 's program for " muddling and delays . " The departure of the mission ' to purchase planes in the United States caused public alarm over the results of air production which did not conform with govern . ment assurances . British manufacturers declared their plants could produce more planes , but they could not get orders because of red tape . The attack on government policy was led by Viscount Nuffield , Britain 's largest motor manufacturer , who only a short time ago agreed to turn over one of his factories for the production of airpiane motors . Nuffield had charged the government was putting up another factory at great expense while his was standing idle . Building Behind Schedule . The British air force program was scheduled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiency became apparent and the mission was dispatched to the United States . A reliable authority edlculated early this year that Britain had 1,800 first Line planes ; France , 1,500 ; Germany . 1,500 , and Italy , 1,400 . Britain 's goal is 3,360 first line planes by March , France , too , is reported to be lagging in plane production and also has made suggestions of making purchases in the United States .                     