@@700009

txt With conditions in Havana quieter today , the Navy Department announced tonight that the destroyer Claxton had been ordered to leave Havana and go to the naval base at Guantanamo . Thus , only the destroyer Taylor was left in Havana Harbor . The most critical stage of the Cuban revolution , in the opinion of State Department officials , passed off in relative quiet late last night and early this morning . The avoidance of more widespread mob violence and looting was attributable at least in part , it was believed , to the presence In Havana Harbor of the TJxiited States destroyers . The moral effect of the presence of these two small vessels far outweighed the potential power of the American forces , as there are only about seventy men on each ship . The need for the presence of any ships is virtually at an end , it was said . State Department officials denied any further warships had been requested to proceed to Cuban waters . Denies Richmond Is Going . " Reports indicating that the Richmond is proceeding to Cuba are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Richmond is now en route through the Panama Canal from Balboa to Colon , on the Atlantic side , where she will await whatever orders the Navy Department will issue . " The Richmond is a cruiser and flagship of the Special Service Squadron in the Caribbean . In addition to yi crew of bluejackets , the cruiser carries a marine guard of about seventy men . No question of recognition by the United States of the de Cespedes government arises , Jefferson Caffery , Assistant Secretary of State , said today . After a careful study of the procedure in Cuba , the State i Department decided that the change in personnel of the government had been carried out along thoroughly constitutional lines . The United States takes the position that no change in government has taken place , but merely that new officeholders have taken the governmental positions under the Cuban Con ! stitution . Unofficially , the view is taken here that the de Cespedes govern- went is provisional , and will order new elections next year in accordance with the constitutional reforms recommended to former President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Professor 's proposals include the re-establishment of the post of Vice President , and the anticipated elections will fill this position . The State Department has known of the recommendations for some time , but has treated the Information as confidential . Professor had no official standing when he accepted the commission from President Machado to draw up a program of legislative reform . To avoid any apparent connection between his activities and the mediation work of Ambassador Welles , the State Department thought best to take no official notice of the Columbia expert 's work . Telephone reports from Ambassador Welles during the day indicated that the accession . of Dr. de Cespedes / to the Presidency had been popularly received in Havana . During one conversation , the Ambassador told Mr. Caffery that he could look from his office window In the United States Embassy across to the Presidential palace , where President de Cespedes at that moment was addressing a cheering throng . The inclusion of representatives of all political parties in the Cabinet chosen by President de Cespedes gratified the State Department : It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new government had assumed power , were being redeemed ..                     