@@700486

txt Governor LEHMAN 'S clear and cogent messages to the Legislature have already shaken it out of its dawdling over appropriation and tax bills . He pointedly urged restoring normal exemptions in the emergency income tax . Payment of it is due on April 15 , and speedy action is necessary in order that the proper tax blanks may be prepared with the result of saving taxpayers something like $14,000,000 . The Senate hastened almost unanimously to accept this recommendation by the Governor , and doubtless the Assembly will soon follow suit . But this is only one point in the Governor 's financial program . The whole of it ought to be adopted , as explained by him with the lucidity and force which the State has come to expect from Mr. LEHMAN whenever he gives expression to his views about public finance . The picture which he drew of the way in which the Legislature had been muddling up the questions of expenditure and of revenue was in high colors , but they were truthful . First of all , the lawmakers accepted the Executive Budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it without blotting a line . To his plans for carefully-studied economies in the State Government they offered no objection . But when the time came to take up his tax proposals , it was a different story . They introduced and have sought to pass special appropriation bills figuring out at a total of about $15,000,000 . This was done with the apparent purpose of unbalancing his budget . That would give them the excuse of proceeding with their own pet schemes of taxation , particularly the 2 per cent sales tax , made more sweeping and onerous than any previous measure of that kind . To all this manoeuvring Governor LEHmax stands firmly opposed . He is doubtless well aware of the political log-rolling by the up-State Republicans in order to give the sales tax an air of great popularity . But Mr. LEHMAN is thinking only of an orderly and safe procedure in the matter of restricting taxation to the absolute needs of the State , and keeping the entire financial administration on a sound basis . He is against a swollen revenue , because it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straight to extravagant appropriations . It is for that reason chiefly that he is against the sales tax . His reasoned and unyielding opposition must doom it to defeat . Whatever may be said in behalf of such a device in a time of real emergency , it has no place in Governor LEHMAN 'S financial plans for the current year . It would be a tax doubly grievous because needless . The Governor 's special aptitude in all matters of finance is standing him in good stead , for the benefit of the State . He had worked out a satisfactory program for the current year , and there is no occasion for the Legislature , after adopting his budget , to proceed to bedevil it in one way or another . He has the correct and safe ideas of what ought to be done , and public opinion , rallying to his vigorous leadership , can be counted upon to force the Legislature to see that it is done                     