@@699682

txt After a day of moves and counter-moves during which inflation was also cussed at many conferences , it was understood that the President will make a statement tomorrow that no more gold will be exported for the present . It was said further that the Pres. ident would suggest the adoption of a more liberal credit policy by the Federal Reserve System , and per haps make a reference to proposals for an international treaty dealing with some form of bimetallism . Recently a few shipments of gold have been licensed for exchange purposes under the President 's em ? barge proclamation and there has been much speculation whether . that policy would be continued . The inflationary groups are ex. pected to desist in their pressure on the administration for inflation : of the currency if the policy of more liberal credit facilities and re . striction of gold shipments is car , ried out . Reserve Ouvernors Summoned . In a further move to check Ow forts for " printing-press " inflation and quickly force into circulation the new Federal Reserve Bank notes authorized under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Treasury Department announced today that the gover nors of the twelve Federal Reserv5 Banks had been summoned here for a conference tomorrow . This step was taken as advocates of currency inflation were hammer* ing away at the President in this hope of obtaining radical changes in the country 's monetary system ? including the remonetization o silver . Inflation leaders in the Senate Particularly Senator Thomas of Oklahoma , moved , however , to give the administration a " breathing spell " by temporarily withdrawing amendments to the farm-relief bill designed to force inflation . Senator Thomas explained that his action was in response to a red quest by the White House , and this statement received added signifi canoe late in the day when Press . dent Roosevelt conferred at length with the Oklahoma Senator , whet arrived accompanied by Senator . Byrnes of South Carolina . Both the Senators were uncommunicative after the conference except that Senator Thomas said President Roosevelt probably would issue C statement tomorrow . President Sees Woodin . Secretary Woodin had two cots ferences with the President and abs tended a Cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governors had been , summoned here . It was considered , significant that the Secretary re . iterated opposition to radical steps to tamper with the money system . The Secretary indicated that he favored a controlled inflation as provided for in the emergency banks ing legislation . It is understood that the Federal Reserve Bank govs ernors will discuss such expansion which is under their control , ail they pass upon the eligibility of the collateral offered for the new : money . The announcement that the bang governors would meet here tomora row came immediately after a meets ing of the President 's Cabinet and not long before the conference which the President had with Semi ators Thomas and Byrnes . It is understood that the Cabinet thoroughly explored the situation : that has developed in the Congres. sional drive for bimetalism , and that the dominating opinion was that the administration should res sist any movement in that direction and strive to stimulate-industry and revive commodity prices by a public works program and other constructive steps . The White House denied that the President had a. plan for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his amendment to await the President 's views . It was said that the President was exploring the monetary situation , but had not committed - himself on the remonetization of silver or any radical monetary program . President Looks to Banks . Administration officials insisted that the President favors a sound currency system . He was represented as feeling that the banks had not taken full advantage of the emergency banking act to obtain the new currency and ' expand credit facilities ; that if the banks exercised their rights under the act and made loans more readily to industry , a better economic situation would prevail and the agitation for currency debasement would not be so pronounced . The last weekly statement of the Federal Reserve Board showed that only five Federal Reserve Banks bad issued the new Federal Reserve Bank notes authorized in the emergency banking act and that the total then outstanding was but $19.890,000 . The five banks and the amount put by them in circulation were : Boston , $1,719,000 ; New York , $12 , - 805,000 ; Philadelphia , $4,330,000 ; Cleveland , $997,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory of the framers of the act that large amounts of the new currency would quickly make its appearance . Frozen Deposits Another Topic . Another point to be stressed at the meeting of the Federal Reserve Bank governors is the desirability of releasing as soon as possible some of the deposits tied up in closed banks , which are estimated to be still over $6,000,000,000 . Secretary Woodin recently appointed Waiter J. Cummings of Chicago as a special assistant to concentrate on the task of reorganizing and reopening closed banks and the release of frozen deposits . The administration had been hopeful of better conditions because of the rise in commodity prices , especially wheat and cotton , due to a real demand . Officials pointed out that this development had come not as a result of inflation of the currency but because of the working of economic factors , among them a decrease in the wheat supply . Secretary Woodin said that he had not had a conference with governors of the Federal Reserve Banks and that he had called them together not only to discuss the entire financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under provisions in the emergency banking act . He said that if the banks would make freer use of the additional credit facilities provided , there would be sufficient money for a revival of industry and that no necessity for radical currency meas- the approaching economic conferurea would exist . ence . Senators Are jubilant . The inflation advocates in the Senate were jubilant over  --  the show of strength indicated by the thirtythree votes cast Yesterday for the Wheeler . amendment to the farm bill for the remonetization of silver . Senators Wheeler and Thomas stated that the vote of 33 to 43 actually indicated a preponderance of feeling in favor of currency extension in some manner . In keeping with Senator Wheeler 's action , Senator Long authorized Senator Robinson , Democratic leader , to withdraw his silver-purchase amendment to the farm-relief bill . Senator Wheeler still favors the use of silver to expand the currency because of the favorable effect he believes it would have upon the purchasing power , of silverusing countries . Senator Robinson , the Democratic floor leader , indicated that he has an open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he told newspaper men that " there will be no inflation in the farm bill . " As for future legislation , he declined to commit himself . Speaker Rainey today again reiterated his belief that a silver bill will be passed at the present session . " What form it will take , I do n't know yet , " Mr. Rainey said . " But I will say that whatever remonetization of silver measure is passed , will be the one the administration wants . " Mr. Rainey declared he did not know what the administration was doing , and said he had not been called in by the President . He said he did not expect the plan to be advanced before the conclusion of                     