@@698079

txt President Hoover today received informal assurances that public utilities will expend $600,000,000 for new construction this year , in addition to such other contributions the industry may make in relieving the economic stress . The assurances were transmitted to the President by Paul S. Clapp of New York , managing director of the National Electric Light Association , who said that the public utilities were now running on a stable basis , with earnings reduced by less than 1 per cent and with the production and sale of household electricity actually on the increase . While specifically stating that he did not discuss " guaranteed employment " proposals with President Hoover , Mr. Clapp said that under present circumstances there was no doubt in his mind that the electric light and power companies could undertake an employment guarantee plan " with safety . " - Work on Employment Plan . The public utilities have been counted upon from the start as the one industry in which a guaranteed employment plan might be worked out , and the National Electric Light ' Association , at its convention in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attempt . Mr. Clapp said today that the committee had about reached the conclusion that whatever is done by the utilities must be done by the individual companies on the basis of the local conditions with which each one has to deal . He indicated that the committee expected to complete soon a survey of what the corporate members of the association could do . At present , he said , the payrolls in companies . actually supplying light and power were running about normal , and there was every indication that they would continue to do so . Mr. Clapp recalled that the General Electric Company , in its lamp manufacturing department , had guaranteed to its present payroll at least 60 per cent of normal employment for a year . Statistics showed this department of the company to be about stabilized , he said . Suggesting that the General Electric plan was a possibility with other companies , Mr. Clapp was of the ' opinion that with the fear of loss of jobs removed , employes could safely increase their expenditures and start money circulang anew . Expects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies could be expected to be kept up under present conditions , the President was told by Mr. Clapp . Domestic consumption of electricity throughout the country for the last six months had increased 8% per cent over the similar period of 1930 and 241A over the first six months of 1929 . Mr. Clapp attributed this increase almost entirely to the development of electric refrigeration . The industrial use of electric power decreased 15 per cent in the first six months of this year from the first six months of 1930 , which , it was explained , was much less than the general decline in the manufacturing industry as a whole . The President was reminded by his caller that the public utilities last year committed themselves to a construction program of $800,000,000 , but that the program actually amounted to $915,000,000 . The White House reiterated today that the President does not intend calling an extra session of Congress to deal with unemployment legislation or any other questions . Various reports reached Washington that an extra session was in prospect , and the White House felt called upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plans . The President continued his work today oil the unemployment question in his determination to have a plan of action- ready before the coming of Winter , when , he feels , the problem is likely to beekacute again . Reports received by the President 's Emergency Committee for Employment and made public by Fred C. Croxton , acting chairman , showed little change in the situation . The National Employment Exchange in New York City reported that applications for jobs decreased 13 per cent during the week ended Aug. 12 , while reductions of 21 and 29 per cent , respectively , were shown in requests for workers and the number of placements made by the exchange . The ratio of new applicants for every 100 jobs opening for the week was 1,837 , compared with 1,667 during the preceding week . From Buffalo it was reported that " the unemployment situation remains unchanged , " although steel ingot production during early August was placed at 37 per cent of capacity , as against 41 per cent during July . The New England council at Boston stated that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New England area , and improvement had taken place in the rate of operations of other firms . Some Pick-Up at Philadelphia . A report from the divisional offices of the Department of Commerce at Philadelphia stated that business conditions there were " showing very little change , although employment is picking up in industries producing consumers ' goods , and the seasonal demand for labor is normal . " Generally unchanged conditions were reported from the Pittsburgh district , where a decline in pig iron and steel ingot production was reported for the past week . ? One steel plant was said to have reopened on Aug. 10 , however , giving employment to about 3,000 men . A surplus of clerical and shipyard workers , semi-skilled and unskilled labor was reported from Wilmington , Del. , with the added comment that serious consideration was being given to plans for Winter work and relief campaigns . President Hoover was informed by Secretary Hyde at this morning 's Cabinet meeting that at least three States in the Northwest will need Federal aid during the Winter in recovering from the effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspection trip in the-area . The States most seriously affected were Montana and North and South Dakota . The Secretary estimated that a balance of about $15,000,000 from last year 's drought loans funds is available , and can ? be used in the Northwest .                     