@@701507

txt The present whereabouts of the so-called Balbo medal that was gracefully pinned on Amelia Earhart last May 23 by Dr. Giuseppe Castruccio , then royal Italian consul general to Chicago , is something of a mystery . Miss Earhart , the ranking American woman aviator , who addressed 1,000 women yesterday at a safety meeting in the Stevens hotel , disclosed last night that she no longer has the medal . She has sent it back to Dr. Castruccio , whose government has transferred him to the consulate general in Sao Paulo , Brazil . He is now aboard ship on his way to his new post . . Why They Sent It Back . Further , Miss Earhart and her husband , George Palmer Putnam , book ipublisher , explained why the medal had been returned . They had believed , they said , that it was an official decoration of the royal Italian , or Mussolini , government . There was some evidence , including the speech of Dr. Castruccio and an inscription on the case containing the medal , to support this . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angeles a letter from Dr. Castruccio , in which he stated that he wished " to correct the erro neous impression that the medal giver was an official decoration of his government . " The newspapers , he said , seemed to have misinterpreted the source of the gift . " His Own Gift of Devotion . " Continuing , Dr. Castruccio declared the decoration was his own " gift of personal devotion " and urged that Miss Earhart keep it . In her reply , enclosing the medal , Miss Earhart informed the consul general that she had been laboring under the impression , apparently false , that it was a decoration of the Italian government . She could not , she said , accept it as a token of Dr. Castruccio 's regard . " That ended the matter fo= me , " the aviatrix declared . " I was puzzled . Now I want to forget the whole matter . I am sorry it has been brought up again . " Present Before 2,500 . At the time of the presentation , made in the presence of 2,500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Castruccio was quoted as saying his government was officially recognizing her achievements . Mr. Putnam , who admitted he was " hopping mad , " about the medal business , said that the lether case in which it was presented had the inscription : " Conferred on Amelia Earhart by the Italian government , May 23 , 1935 . " " I wrote to Dr. Castruccio , " said the publisher , " asking him what the inscription meant if he was n't acting for his government . I have had no repiy . " There were several guesses as to why the Italian government may have ordered its consul general to disavow the official nature of the presentation . One was that Fascism is anti-feminist . Another was that Mr. Putnam had made Mussolini angry by Publishing an anti-Fascist book . There Is " No Such Medal . " The Italian embassy in Washington stated last night that there is no " Balbo medal , " and suggested that perhaps the one presented to Miss Earhart was a replica of the special platinum decoration struck by Chicago Italian groups in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balbo . In her talk yesterday Miss Earhart , who spoke at a tea of the women 's safety bureau of the Chicago Motor club , recommended that the automobile driving public adopt safety measures already in force among aviators . Particularly she urged the licensing " There is one air fatality in the United States for 41 million miles of flying , " she declared . " You are safer in a plane than driving 45 or 50 miles an hour on the roads . "                     