@@702680

txt The Republic Steel Corporation indicated in a statement issued tonight that it was opposed to maintaining the " status quo " as to plant operations pending the outcome of the mediation board 's inquiry . The first duty of the board , it declared , should be to investigate the " breakdown of law enforcement and to assist in the restoration of law and order . " To keep the plants closed while the Federal agency was at work would be , according to the corporation , " destructive of the rights of the thousands of workers idle for nearly four weeks who want to go back to their jobs . " John Owens , State C. I. 0 . director in charge of the steel strike in the Mahoning Valley , asserted that the Republic Corporation 's statement was a " defiance " of a governmental agency . The company 's statement was as follows : " Hearings by the Federal Steel Mediation Board appointed by Secretary of Labor Perkins will begin immediately , according to newspaper reports . " It is of the utmost importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mind that thousands of Republic employes now at work in the company 's plants are prevented . by mobs of armed pickets from leaving the plants to go to their families , while many other thousands desiring to work are kept from their jobs by the same force . " In some communities a veritable reign of anarchy exists . Civil authority has broken down completely before the intimidation and terrorism of the C. I. 0 . " First Duty " of the Board " It seems clear that the first duty of the Federal board is to investigate this breakdown of law enforcement and to assist in the restoration of law and order . " Any suggestions that the ' status quo ' of plant operations be maintained during the work of the Federal board is destructive of the rights of the thousands of workers idle for nearly four weeks who want to go back to their jobs . " To maintain the ' status quo ' would place an unwarranted and impossible burden upon these men and their families . The men desiring to work should be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not after additional weeks of involuntary idleness while the investigation is in progress . " This is not a strike in the sense that Republic employes are dissatisfied with their wages or working conditions . No question of wages , hours or collective bargaining is involved . " Fully 23,000 of our employes re . main at work , most of them in beleaguered plants , and many additional thousands desire to return to work immediately . " In two communities , Canton , Ohio , and Monroe . Mich. , votes were taken so that the men might state whether or not they wished to return to their jobs . Overwhelming majorities expressed their wish to return to work immediately . " As a result of the lawless de. : fiance and illegal picketing methods of the C. I. 0. , the fundamental issue in controversy today is whether or not American citizens are to be free to work when and where they choose unmolested . " In this respect , Republic 's policy has not changed since the C. I. 0 . strike nearly four weeks ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be reopened as rapidly as civil authority will give assurance that employes can safely go to and from their jobs . " Statement by C. I. 0 . Leader The statement by Mr. Owens was as follows : " Again we witness a deliberate plea on the part of Republic Steel Corporation for defiance of governmental agencies , in their statement issued in relation to the naming of the Federal Mediation Board . ? " First they violate the Wagner Labor Act in their intimidation of workers before the strike . Now that the real showdown is at hand they become panicky . " We heartily agree with Republic Steel that the first duty of the Federal board is to investigate this breakdown of law enforcement . We are confident that such an investigation will expose Republic Steel in its true light . " It must be remembered that Republic Steel , through its president , Tom Girdler , boasted openly to newspaper men : ' Sure we got guns in our mills . ' " Republic Steel is hoping that some miracle will happen so that they can avoid the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Steel Workers Organizing Committee  --  the same as have more than 160 other steel companies . " Republic Steel and Youngstown Sheet and Tube are whipped . They know it . The mere mention of a government agency scares them . They can not stand the light of an expos ? . But such an expos ? is in the making . Just watch events in Cleveland when the Federal Mediation Board swings into action . " Vandenberg Fears Bias Special to THE Myr Yonic TIMES . WASHINGTON , June 18 . ? Senator Vandenberg declared tonight that the Steel Mediation Board would start its activities with " predilections " in favor of signed labor contracts . " If the controlling issue is ' written contracts ' versus ' verbal contracts ' as between the companies and the C. I. O. , " he asserted , " it would appear that the mediators , like the President who chose them , may have pre-judged the case to ? a damaging degree . " He said that Charles P. Taft 2d , chairman of the board , had not only stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the C. I. 0 . type , but had written , " Fuel is added to the flames by the silly refusal of employers to put such agreements as they may reach in writing . " He quoted Lloyd K. Garrison as follows : " The establishment of satisfactory relations between labor and management depends upon the frank acceptance of collective bargaining and the reduction of these agreements to writing . " Concerning the third member of the board , Assistant Secretary of Labor , Mr. Vandenberg said that he was the " own direct agent " of President Roosevelt , who already had expressed himself in favor of signed contracts . " In other words , " Mr. Vandenberg went on , " these three distinguished mediators , who will unquestionably endeavor to do an equitable job , start under the handicap , not only of a one-sided Presidential opinion respecting the moot issue , but also with one-sided predilections of their own . " This is worth emphasizing only for the purpose of suggesting that the time has come when government must deal with rigid impartiality with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor under ' the Wagner act , but it must equally recognize the authority of every other law in the land and equity of every citizen 's position . " Declaring that he himself believed in written contracts , the Senator added that " the law should bind all signatories with equally effective force . " He proceeded : " From March 12 to June 15 , for example , the contract between General Motors and the United Automobile Workers Union was broken 181 times by interruptions in work in violation of the contract  --  often with the disapproval of union leaders themselves . "                     