@@703982

txt The revaluation of individual morals in a distracted world was the theme of speakers last night at a mass meeting at Madison Square aardpn under the direction of the Citizens Committee for Moral Rearmament . Twelve thousand persons attended the meeting , which marked the close of Moral Rearmament Week , founded by the Oxford Group of Dr. Frank Buchman . Flags , martial music and songs characterized the meeting , held with the aim of helping to bring world peace through the resurgence of love and kindness in men 's hearts . A procession headed by massed flags of the United States and the individual States opened the ceremonies . The first contingent of massed flags was followed by committee delegates from many cities of the United States and by representatives of a contingent of Canadians headed by a Scottish bagpipe and drum corps marching behind banners bearing the shields of the twelve Canadian provinces . Phone Brings European Talks When the procession ended Dr. Buchman , who presided , announced that speakers would be heard by transatlantic telephone from London . Among the speakers was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reformers and political leaders are at their wits ' end . As they look at the world , they are on every side in the presence of failure . Old remedies have broken in their hands ; progress , culture , education ? excellent things as far as they go ? have not secured contentment , morality or righteousness . They have all been found wanting . There is no solution that way . " We must go back to the New Testament . We must go back to the guidance of God  --  first in the individual ; next , in our several nations ; finally , if may be , throughout the world . The trumpet call is for moral and spiritual rearmament . " Sir Cooper Rawson , M. P. , said that " moral rearmament is strengthening the sinews of democracy . " " Moral rearmament provides the self-imposed discipline that makes democracy dynamic , " Sir Cooper went on . " It is democracy 's defense against the enemy within . It is eliminating from public and private affairs hatred , dishonesty and insincerity that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a vital force in the betterment of the world . It is trying to rebuild nations which will have the character to live up to ideals . It means a new spirit in every party leading to a new unity throughout the nation . " Sees Protection for Democracy Sir Lynden Macassey , a leader in the British Parliamentary bar , said that without a dynamic force democracy can sink readily into impotence . The only safe dynamic and pure protection are the principles of moral rearmament , " he added . Louisa Countess of Antrim , a lady-in-waiting to the late Queen Victoria , sent a message of greeting to the mothers of America . " May- not our experience , in motor language , show a green light to those in whose hands the future lies  --  a signal that the road is open to all who are arming themselves morally and spiritually to make the God-controlled world ? " she asked . Dr. Buchman then introduced four young Scotsmen in tartans who brought a message from the youth of Scotland to the youth of America . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Adam Campbell , a mechanic from Edinburgh ; Blythe Ramsey , a Greenock dock worker , and George ' Marjoribanks , an Edinburgh student . Their rich Scottish accents drew laughter and applause . Westerner Represents U. S. The United States members of the Oxford Group movement were represented by George Eastman , former president of the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce , who told of the spiritual advantages he and his employes had received through the movement . He was followed by William F. Carey , Commissioner of Sanitation of New York , who read messages of greeting from prominent persons in public life in this country . John Ramsey , chairman of the Steel Workers Organizing Committee of the Congress of Industrial Organizations in the Bethlehem Steel Corporation , told how the principles of Moral Re-Armament had reshaped his life . Cecil Broadhurst , a film cowboy from Canada who wore a ten-gallon hat , sang a song , the burden of which was that peace will come to the world only when it comes to " you and me . " W. U. ( Bunny ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the uses of moral rearmament in the world of sports and of the contributions that the world of sports can make to the world of Christ . Brig . Gen. C. R. P. Winser of Oxfordshire , England , told the audience that a European military commander had confided in him recently that moral rearmament would insure the peace of the world if given another two years . Miss Judith Anderson , actress , read " The Golden Age , " after which Dr. Buchman called for a moment of silence in memory of the mothers of those assembled at the mass meeting . The meeting was closed with the recitation of The Lord 's Prayer . Governor Sends Message Messages from public officials here included the following from Governor Lehman , which was read at the meeting : " I wish to extend a most cordial welcome to the distinguished visitors from overseas , from Canada , and from all parts of our great nation , who are participating in this significant meeting for moral rearmament . " In these critical times our people must face the future with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consciousness based on a faith in God which can inspire both public and private life . " A program of this nature can bring an answer to the problems of our day and deserves the fullest cooperation of all true Americans . " Mayor La Guardia sent the following message : " Wish you well-deserved success for moral rearmament meeting . A new determination has come to the life of this city as a result of the desire for moral rearmament , for more honest and unselfish relations , a greater readiness to work together for the common good without party prejudices , and a truer faith in the God of us all . " America has taken her rightful place in the leadership of the world . We therefore must make sure that our own house is in order first . I hope that New York may take the lead in this task and become the sounding-board to the nation for moral rearmament . " Secretary of State Cordell Hull was another who sent a welcoming message . In it he said : " Here in the post-war period there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral , political , social and economic . International morality has seldom been at a lower ebb . The time is ripe and the need is urgent for a renewal And restoration of the former high standard of conduct of both individuals and governments . " In a broadcast over Station WABC and the Columbia Broadcasting System at 5:30 P. M. , Mrs. James Roosevelt , the President 's mother , sent a plea for " moral rearmament " to mothers in three continents , North America , South America and Europe . Her message follows : " Twenty years ago we mothers of America sent our sons to fight to make the world safe for democracy . The ghosts of the fear , the greed and the hate which caused that war have come back to haunt us . Only one thing is certain . The mothers of the world want peace . " We must make peace to have it . We must make peace in our homes and with our neighbors . Only by a return to the truths  --  honesty , purity , unselfishness and love ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restore unity to America and sanity to the world . " Such moral rearmament is the price of peace . In this the mothers of America can take the lead . We cradle the future . We must preserve for our children the things we hold most dear  --  our homes , our families , our Christian faith . " It is for us to rear a nation obedient to God , a nation which can build the world of tomorrow on sure foundations . "                     