@@697491

txt Professor HAROLD J. LASKI writes in the December Harper 's on experts in modern life . They have become of immense importance in every field . They are in demand in all professions and callings . Increasingly numerous have they come to be in public affairs . Their place there , their indispensable work , yet their necessary limitations , are the main theme of Professor LASKI 'S article . He shows how far away we have got from the old innocent conception of a democracy , in which one man 's opinion is as good as another 's . Certainly in high matters of state we do not so implicitly trust as we used to do the judgment of the " plain people . " The intense spect:Nzation of our time , the spread of scientific ideas , the extension of research , the need of conducting the public business on the basis of ascertained facts , all have made the expert in Government service a far more familiar figure than he once was . He is more and more called . into the counsels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch of the Government boasts its force of experts . Without them the heads of departments would often be at a loss . So far have we progressed from the naif utterance of President HARDING : " Government is a very simple thing . " He himself lived to find out to his sorrow that it is not . Admitting all this , Professor LASKI warns against the danger of trusting too much to experts in our public life . With their great merits they have certain defects . It is easy for them to become too narrow , too intolerant , too arrogant . In their mastery of a single province they are tempted to believe that they should be of equal authority in all others . Thus while they are often invaluable servants , there is great risk in allowing them to become masters . Particularly do we need to be on our guard against confiding to them tasks which imply not merely the special knowledge which they have , but a broad understanding of human nature , especially of political human nature . This is one reason why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they use and control their experts , instead of being controlled by them in all respects . That might involve being misled into political blunders . It is a peril which is expressed in the saying attributed to Sir WILLIAM HARCOURT : " Political heads of departments are nec " essary , in order to tell the civil service " what the public will not stand . " From American political experience Professor LASKI draws several of his illustrations , but he does not mention President HoovER . Yet the placing of a great expert at the head of the Government of the United States can hardly have been out of the mind of this writer . The experiment has not gone on long enough to warrant passing judgment upon it . Moreover , it has been subjected to too many unexpected disturbances from outside the laboratory to allow it to be considered as a demonstration in pure science . But already enough has developed to reinforce the warning against supposing that an expert in Government must be successful simply because he is an expert . In the very Matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the palitia911 element , the President has  --  plainly suffered from not having made sufficient allowance for the prejudices and perversities , the incalculable choices and likes and dislikes , of men and women in a democracy . These are really factors in government no less than statistics of trade and the returns . from taxation . An expert with a grasp ' comprehensive enough to take them all in would be too much of a miracle to expect in our civic life unless he were to devote himself entirely to a profound understanding of man the political animal . But then he would have to give up being an expert of the specialized kind . So we can not yet take it for granted that the world has marched forward far enough to make it safe in the highest governmental affairs to follow the motto , Experto crede.                     