@@702237

txt Firemen were still struggling valiantly this afternoon with the numerous blazes started in the center of the city by the incendiary bombs dropped last night from Rebel planes . While efforts were being made this morning to take stock of the tremendous damage done and to clear up some of the wreckage caused by the devastating shellfire accompanying the air raids , a now familiar fleet of Insurgent planes twice flew over the city  --  the first time just before 9 o'clock and then again just before noon . But only a few bombs were dropped . It is believed the planes were only inspecting their work of destruction and perhaps making photographs . Sharp fighting was resumed early today in the University City area , on the northwestern outskirts of Madrid , as the Loyalists apparently began an offensive to drive the Rebels back across the Manzanares River , The Associated Press reported . Meanwhile a new air raid set more ' fires in the heart of Madrid . Persons whose homes were badly damaged or wrecked began streaming through the streets at daybreak to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blankets , clothing and baskets of personal belongings . Damage Is Extensive From an upper-story window of the Telephone Building , Europe 's tallest , I could see a building next to the Ministry of Finance in Alcala Street , near the Puerta del Sol , the central square , burning harder than ever . If Madrid had many times the fire-fighting equipment it has , I doubt that it could cope adequately with the fires started last night . The public market just off Montera Street , between the Telephone Building in the Gran Via and the Puerta del Sol , was burned completely during the night , but firemen were able to keep this fire from spreading to a congested area of low buildings bordering the market square . The walls of the palace of the Duke of Alba were still standing this morning , but the interior appeared to have been destroyed . It is believed , however , that most of the art treasures in the palace were removed by the duke 's order just before the civil war began . The items removed are understood to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , part of the family archives and a tapestry that Louis XIV gave to a former Duke of Alba . Communists who have been installed in the palace since the outI break of the revolution worked hard last night removing nearly all the treasures still left in the building . Debris Strewn in Streets The sidewalks and the streets in the Gran Via between the Telephone Building and the Plaza Callao , where tall office buildings stand , were strewn this morning with broken glass , wood and metal splinters , cement coping , bricks and plaster . A bomb hit the sidewalk at one side of the building formerly housing the Madrid-Palance department store . A huge hole was made in the street , exposing the basement of a 10-cent store now housed in that building , one side of which was blown in . All its display windows were shattered . In fact , most of the Gran Via 's display windows were broken and many upper-story windows were shattered , too , including those of Ithe Hotel Gran Via and the Hotel Alfonso . So today , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain , her capital city has become a battleground , but the people 's determination to defend the city to the bitter and terrible end seems firmer than ever . Of course , their nerves were badly shaken by last night 's terrible experiences , but there is no evidence of a disposition to surrender . I was unable to obtain the official count of the dead and wounded this afternoon , but the list , when it appears , will undoubtedly be long . In many buildings where tenants were killed the bodies had not been removed at noon . The shrieks and moans of the wounded as well as the panic-stricken were heard last night long after the planes had departed , adding to the general horror of the event , which hardly could have been surpassed in the World War . Nevertheless , from my position . high in the telephone building I saw women calmly hanging out washing to dry on the rooftops of near-by lower buildings in this war-torn neighborhood . Foreign Battalion lielpg Although the Insurgents captured the Casa de Velasquez , which is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a big uncompleted chemical laboratory building , which will form part of the University City some day , the International Bat- talion , composed of German , French , British , Polish and Russian volunteers , is holding fast in other buildings in University City , preventing the enemy from advancing into the heart of the capiI tal . So far only two bridges over I the Manzanares  --  the Segovia and Franceses spans  --  have been blown up . I saw normal traffic crossing the historic Toledo Bridge . In fact , I there was no sign - of any fighting or war activity today near the river front , and the Puerto de Hierro , leading from the city toward Pardo and Segovia as well as Escorial and Avila , was still in the hands of the government , with normal traffic passing through .                     