@@704088

txt Skilled workers in 11 General Motors Corp . tool and die departments , called out by the United Auto Workers ( CIO ) beginning on July 5 , probably will return to their jobs in time to allow the corporation 's 1940 models to get into production on schedule . This was the tacit expectation of all parties to the three day-three way conference between officials of the corporation , the union and the U. S. Department of Labor yesterday afternoon , following agreement upon the conditions under which the union 's demands would be negotiated Once actual negotiations get under way , it was generally felt , the settling of the strike is likely to come quickly . Demands of the union , it has been agreed . will be threshed out in meetings between plant committees and plant managements in struck plants ? with the plant committees representing only the CIO-UAW members in departments affected . Thus , after its strike had already cost upwards of 7.000 tool and die makers and maintenance and experimental workers more than a week 's pay , the union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have . G. M. Formulated Policy When the old united UAW split into two factions in January , G. M. quickly formulated a policy of recognizing neither faction as a union entitled to speak for all workers in those plants where both factidns had bargaining committees attempting to function . It continued , however . to meet and discuss and settle grievances with plant or bargaining committees in plants or departments where only one committee claimed to represent the workers . In dealing with CIO-UAW plant committees in bargaining conferences relative to tool and die departments , General Motors will be dealing with the only faction which claims to represent the particular workers involved . The AFL-CIO , which claims majority representation in many plants and in some departments of other plants , has not demanded to be allowed to bargain on behalf of tool and die workers , and it has no shop committee in tool and die departments . The CIO-UAW 'S right to represent these highly skilled workers was never questioned . Refused CIO Demands The strike was called when the corporation refused to accept the CIO-UAW'a demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective GM-UA ? . ' l contract , the rights to which both the CIO and AFL claim . GM 's stand was and is. as is emphasized by a corporation statement issued yesterday , that until the courts or the NRLB determine which union Is in fact the UAW which is a party to the contract , it can not properly negotiate any changes in that contract . By bargaining through the plant committeeplant management formula finally agreed upon after three days of conferences , the union and GM in effect agreed to leave the old contract in force without change . This affects production workers only . The union 's demands on wages , seniority , apprentice rules , overtime pay and use of a union label in tool and die departments will be negotiated as grievances and not as amendments to the contract , which does not cover these skilled workers . Further , with the negotiations spread through 11 plants . the union 's request for the use of the union label on all tools and dies used for GM production is almost sure to die a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a talking point than something actually expected to be given reasonable consideration . Under the bargaining formula which had existed for months prior to the strike , the union yesterday started negotiations with the plant committee from GM 's Fisher Body plant No. 23 , meeting with Fisher and GM executives . This plant is the largest tool and die shop in GM. and whatever agreement is reached by its plant committee and management undoubtedly will serve as a general pattern for the settlement of the strike in the 10 other struck plants Proposal Made Early in the series of conferences which started Tuesday . the corporation had suggested that if the union would waive its rights under the present contract , both parties then would be free to negotiate an entirely new contract . This method of ending the impasse which resulted from GM 's adherence to its policy of making no changes in the present contract until legal determination had been made as to which faction was entitled to negotiate the changes and the CIO-UAW 's equally firm demand for an agreement to cover tool and diemakers , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , since any gains which might have been obtained for the union in a new contract almost automatically would have accrued also to the AFL-UAW. the CIO-UAW rejected that proposal* in favor of the always present alternative of conducting negotiations through shop committees . Facts that any settlement which may be made in the Fisher No. 23 discussions will serve as a pattern for the struck other plants was verified by a statement by R. J. Thomas . president of the CIO-UAW , who declared that " when a strike settlement is made , it will cover all strikers in all plants " . Corporation Statement A statement issued by the corporation yesterday afternoon , setting forth the joint views of the conferees , for diplomatic reasons omited direct mention of the fact that the union had agreed to accept the already-existing basis for negotiations . The statement follows : " The negotiations between the officials of the UAW-CIO and officers of General Motors have . during the last three days , dealt with an attempt to find a way out of the strike difficulty in the plants . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and diemakers and maintenance men when the original agreement covering members of the UAW-CIO as well as the UAW-AFL is in dispute and in the courts and before the NLRB , has presented obstacles difficult to overcome . The existing agreement between GM and the UAW is claimed by both factions . This makes it impossible for the corporation to negtotiate any modification of that agreeement as long as both sides claim it . " - Accordingly , we proposed that in order to open the way for negotiations on their demands it was necessary to eliminate the entire agreement as applied to their members . We suggested that the UAW-CIO waive its rights for its members to that agreement . This they declined to do on the premise that it was impractical . " The discussion was then directed to find a solution of the present difficulty within the provisions of the existing agreement and the union officials have agreed to a meeting today with the local plant committee of Fisher No. 23 for consultation on this basis . General Motors officials will be present " Two meetings were held yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international officers and Phillip Murray , vice president of the CIO , on one side , and officials - of the corporation , headed by William S. Knudsen , president , the Fisher No. 23 plant , and the Fisher body division , on the other , with Mr Dewey sitting in on both conferences . The meetings are expected to be continued through the weekend or until an agreement is reached . That they are expected to be held in a cooperative atmosphere is shown by the fact that Mr. Dewey and Mr. Murray both plan to return to their homes for the week-end . Their presence In the conferences are conceded to have had considerable effect upon holding the union 's arguments within reasonable bounds .                     