@@701014

txt Automobile executives are oevoting close attention to two major aspects 01 the labor situation here . coincident with the explosion of belligerent statements from labor leaders following the extension of the auto code on terms favorable to the manufacturers . The first is the wide loss of prestige incurred by the American Federation of Labor as the result of its poor showing in the plant elections conducted by secret ballot under the auspices of the Automobile Labor Board These returns have strengthened the belief of the manufacturers that the labor situation is basically more stabilized than it was a year ago and has supported their confidence that a strike of major proportions rn the automobile plants is unlikely Production Tie-lip Possible The second is the possibility of a tic-up in production as the result of strikes in key parts plants . Requiring a steady flow of essential parts and equipment during its peak production months and with the accumulation of largC advance inventories of these supplies not feasible in most instances , the industry is particularly vulnerable to attacks of this character . Furthermore , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts industry than in the automobile plants . Recent labor developments in Toledo . an important parts making center , arc significant to this connection While the threatened strike at the Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Co. there was settled without interruption of production , Toledo advices state that the success of the Libbey workers in gaining a wage increase was the stimulus for the strike ultimatum issued Sunday by Spicer Manufacturing Coip. workers at the instigation of the Mechanics Educational Society acting in concert with the United Federal Auto Workers ' Union Furthermore , it is feared that an actual strike . at the Spicer plant might spread to other important parts plants in Toledo where the two unions also have large membership . Strike threats also have been made at the Bendix Products Corp . plant in South Bend . A. F. of L. Gets 4% The results of plant elections conducted by the Automobile Labor Board show that out of the 53,771 votes cast so far , just a little more than AC ' ' , designated the American Federation of Labor unions as collective bargaining representative while the combined strength @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , e . So-called company unions accounted for 10 , : o while 76 ' , -c designated no union affiliation . Although the A. F. of L. and the Mechanics Educational Society had requested their members not to participate in the elections , the total vote represented 90 ? -r of the 60.000 workers employed in plants where elections have been held and 94r , - of those working on election days . These results arc interpreted by factory representatives as eliminating the question of union recognition as a major issue in the present labor situation . The question still remains as to the attitude of the three-quarters of the auto workers who apparently are unorganized in the event of pressure for strike action from outside union organizers Many observers believe that the temper of the mass of employes is improved over a year ago . contending that the principal grievances which had accumulated during the depression years have been ironed out and that no broad issues are up for settlement at any plant . Demands are expected and probably will be made from time to time by various groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such questions can be made by the bargaining boards now being set up . Complaints of the speed-up system crop up and will have to be adjusted . In some instances minor wage increases probably will be necessary . First Test Soon An initial test of the attitude of the large mass of employes will be available soon at Lansing where mass meetings are being held in an effort to promote a strike at the Olds Motor Works and the Fisher Body Corp . plants there in sympathy with the 46 sanders who walked out of the Fisher plant during the week . The 2G0 maintenance workers who walked out of the Murray Corp . plant here Thursday afternoon also are attempting to obtain support from other departments . A year ago when the unions were mobilizing forces and moving up their heavy artillery in preparation for their spring offensive on the motor industry . employer : - generally were seized with a case of the jitters The strength of the , A F. of L. was unknown . Union organizers had been active , with no little success . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I which was conducted just prior to the Wash-1 ngton conferences last . March between labor leaders , employers and the President , was claimed j to have added some 20,000 to the A. F. of L. forces here . Whatever the actual number , it dwindled rapidly when union leaders failed of their objective in Washington and the President averted the threatened strike by establishing ! the Automobile Labor Board headed by Dr. ' Wo I man . The A F. of L began limbering up its guns again just before the auto code came up for : extension last month . First , the Federation ' locals officially withdrew from participation in the work and decisions of the Automobile Labor Board Then came announcement of William Green 's contemplated speaking tour of Indus-I trial centers and hnal1y disclosure of plans for on automobil , workerz ; strike . The A. F of L has cut fees in half , to 51.1 for its February membership drive indicating , that intensive efforts again are to be ma ? to strengthen Its forces Aside from the vital question of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether funds would be available to : mance a strike of major proportions DETROIT  --  Mechanics 1,7a , ucational Society has asked for a conference with Packard Motor Co ofh. - tal , to discuss alleged lay-off of men last w ? elc in the die shot , The company has indicate its willingness to discuss the matter and a conference probably will he held today .                     