@@698283

txt The atomic nucleus , the storehouse of the vast energy of the atom , until now practically impenetrable by agencies controllable by science , has at last begun to yield to experiments which bid fair to disclose their inmost nature , it was said last night by Dr. Arthur H. Compton of the University of Chicago , Nobel Prize winner in physics , at a dinner given to scientists and newspaper men by the newly formed American Institute of Physics at the New York Athletic Club . Experiments described by Dr. Compton as " remarkable , " and achieving what had hitherto been regarded by scientists as Impossible , recently have been conducted by German scientists , who have created artificial gamma rays five times more powerful than the gamma rays emitted from radium and approaching in penetrating power the softer kind of cosmic rays . The nucleus of the beryllium atom has been bombarded with alpha particles from the radio-active element polonium , and the element carbon has been produced for the first time , Dr. Compton added . This , he said , is another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alchemists during the Middle Ages . He carefully explained , however , that science was still far from being able to transmute the elements on a commercial scale . New Generator Tested . Dr. Compton 's address was on the occasion of the first public demonstration of the 1,500,000-volt generator developed at Princeton University by Dr. Robert J. Van de Graaff , announced last week . Other generators of the same kind , capable of developing voltages up to 15,000,000 , are to be built at Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and these new high - voltage machines , science hopes , will prove a tool with whicr. to bombard the innermost part of the atom and make it give up its tremendous energy . " At a recent international physics conference at Rome , " Dr. Compton said , " representatives from the various countries discussed together the significance of the recent findings , and it was amazing to find how far into the innermost part of the atom it was possible for them to look . " After describing how physicists during the last thirty years have studied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while science had made great strides in learning about the outer part of the atom . namely , the electrons or negative particles of electricity revolving about the nucleus , heart of the atom known as the proton , very little progress had been made in knowledge of the nature of tke proton . Until recently it was thought , Dr. Compton said , that the gamma rays from radium emanated from the electrons , or . the atom 's outer shell . Now it has been discovered that they really emanate from the nucleus , or the proton , the heart of the atom . " From the nuclei of radioactive atoms , " he continued , " comes an energy a million times as great as that of ordinary chemical combinations . Thus the problem of nuclear structure becomes one of the fundamental problems that must be solved if we are to understand Athe fundamentals of the structure of the world . " Tells of New Discoveries . Among the other recent discoveries told by Dr. Compton was that beta particles given off by radioactivity do not all travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them seem themselves to be precisely identical , and the atoms remaining after the beta particles , or electrons , are ejected , likewise seem to be identical . This is a mystery which caused Niels Bohr to propound a theory that the law of conservation of energy does not apply in this and other cases . " The advances that have recently been made in understanding the nature of the nucleus , " Dr. Compton said , " have come chiefly from three sources  --  studies of radio-active processes , studies of optical spectra : and studies of cosmic rays . " Theoretical studies by Condon and Camow have explained why some nuclei , such as radium , disintegrate much more rapidly than others , such as uranium , and why the alpha rays associated with this more rapid disintegration are ejected at higher speeds . According to this explanation there exists around an atomic nucleus what is called a potential wall , which effectively prevents foreign alpha particles from entering the inner nucleus and also makes it difficult for one of the alpha particles inside the nucleus to escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be formed . " A comparison of the alpha and gamma rays from radium has , also , shown that the light , or gamma , rays that come from radioactive substances are emitted from the alpha particles in the nucleus and not by electrons . This is a surprising discovery , since the visible light emitted by atoms is undoubtedly due to electron motions , and it ' has always been supposed that the same was true of the gamma rays from radioactive materials . " Niels Bohr , that remarkable Danish physicist to whom we owe one of the most fruitful theories of atomic structure , has suggested that perhaps the principle of the conservative of energy , long considered the foundation rock of modern science , is not obeyed when electrons are ejected from atoms . Radical as this suggestion is , Bohr has shown that if it is true it carries with it an interesting explanation of the source of the sun 's power . " Whether or not Bohr 's hypothesis is found to be correct , the fact becomes obvious that in our study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physics of the outer atom or of the things we handle , must be introduced . Gamma Rays Produced by Bothe . " In his study of the cosmic rays Bothe , a German physicist , has performed the remarkable experiment , long considered an impossibility , of producing artificial rays by bombarding beryllium metal with alpha rays . He finds that a type of gamma ray is produced which is very much more penetrating than- the hardest natural gamma ray that has been found . These artificial gamma rays , in fact , come so near to having the same characteristics that cosmic rays are known to have that one may hope , that by a comparison of the two , it may be possible to state definitely whether the Cosmic rays are similar in type to these artificial gamma rays . " Such are the problems occupying the chief attention of theoretical and experimental physicists in . Europe . They are problems involving the innermost part of the tiny atoms . They have gone far enough to show that in this heart of the atom ray is secreted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown that it ' is possible by suitable experiments to release at least a part of this power . " We do not yet know hoer ' the nucleus is built . We feel that we know what its parts are , and we know something regarding the energy  --  or should we say the strength  --  ol the cement with which these parts are bound together . But before we can say that we really understand the nucleus of the atom it would now appear that we mgy have to find some fundamental principles of the physical world which are as yet unknown . " Generator Like Bucket Conveyor . The 1,500,000-volt generator was placed in an alcove of the dining room . In appearance it might be taken for two identical , rather large floor lamps of modernistic desigit , with the copper spheres as the lampshades . A simple lamp cord running to the base ' of each glass standard bears out the Illusion . The action of the apparatus is similar to that of a bucket conveyor carrying water a little at a time up to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tank rises with each new bucketful , so the electrical charge or potential rises as the amount . of- the charge is increased . ? The electrical charge , however , is said to " reside on the surface Instead of inside the container . When the current1for the motors is turned on the belts of the two standards run rapidly up and down , with no more noise than the hum of the motors . After a few seconds a quiet crackling sound is heard , somewhat sharper than the rustling of leaves . This signifies that the potential of the spheres has become so high that they are discharging electricity into the atmosphere by what is known as the " corona " discharge . Dr. Karl T. Compton , president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and chairman of the governing board of the American Institute of Physics , spoke briefly about the newly formed institution , established on Oct. 1 by the American Physical Society , the Optical Society of America , the Acoustical Society of America , and the Society of Rheology , to act " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interests of physics . " " The primary objects of the Institute , " said Dr. Compton , " are threefold : It will devote itself to the problem of making available to the public more and more accurate information concerning the developments in pure and applied physics . To this end it will try to facilitate the close . cooperation between newspapers and scientific institutions . It will also study the problems of scientific journals and will make contacts between presently unrelated groups of physics workers . ' President Hoover commented as follows on being informed of the formation of the Institute : " Organization of the American Institute of Physics Is a sound and promising project , Much of our economic as well as our scientific progress in the future will depend on the , development and application of physics and related sciences . Your plan to coordinate and utilize the scattered facilities and resources should produce important results . I believe it willand wish the new organization success . " Others who commented in ' a similar manner were Secretary of Commerce Lamont , Dr. Michael I. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Eastman Kodak Company and President J. R. Angell of Yale .                     