@@700810

txt LOS ANGELES , Sept. 20 . ? Boiling under a belated hot spell the State and especially the southern end of it shows little of the calm which is supposed to follow the storm and stress of a primary election . Upton Sinclair , author , poet and Democratic nominee for Governor , is taking to the air lanes , while his campaign organization plans ways and means to get his EPIC panacea before the public . EPIC stands for " end poverty in California " and Sinclair insists that is the only issue . While his ways and means are decidedly sketchy and his newspaper support is practically nil , the slogan is popular and his candidacy is serious enough to alarm conservatives throughout the State . Switched on Bond Issue . The political set-up in California is the most curious in history . That Sinclair is willing to cut the corners of his program for an industrial republic in order to retain support of the Democrats seems evident . When Governor Merriamcalled the Legislature in special session to place a $24,000,000 relief bond issue on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " sheer lunacy " and that nowadays " the biggest statesman is the one who can incur the biggest public debt . " Three days later he announced that he favored the issue on the theory that he will have the spending of it . In the meantime a thorough realignment of party allegiance is under way . Long-time Democrats are announcing their intention of voting for the Republican candidate and not a few Liberal Republicans are coming over into the Sinclair column . The Socialists have openly repudiated their erstwhile leader . A second independent Republican candidate polled a fair minority vote at the primary and constitutes a menace as long as he remains in the race . Not that he can be elected but he may take votes away from the regular nominee . Conservative interests are lining up for the battle , which promises to be bitter . It is recognized that , although Sinclair would probably be unable to put his socialized industrial program in operation in the event of his election , the credit of the State would be undermined and California would be in for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many Propositions on Ballot . For the next six weeks , therefore , politics will occupy a relatively more important place than oranges or " moon pitchers . " In addition to the long list of candidates to be voted for the ballot will contain twenty-two propositions , ranging from revision of the State laws to providing for a constitutional convention . Prohibitionists have succeeded in getting a local option proposition before the people and radical changes in the method of selecting judges are proposed . All of these issues , especially that suggesting a complete change in the theory of government , taxation and distribution of wealth , are causing curious convolutions in the minds of the public . Nearly every one is in favor of outlawing poverty , but not nearly every one favors cutting off the cat 's head to cure a flea bite on its tail . Mr. Sinclair will try to sell the slogan at its face value through his industrial " all for each " republic , to be constructed apparently at the expense of big business , capital arid by super-taxation of privately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caliornia 's leftward leanings it seems improbable now that an electorate bo long conservative will be willing to turn the State over for experimental purposes to a leader with only a theory to support his claims .                     