@@701043

txt WASHINGTON , Feb. ** this changed world , where a " liberal " Supreme Court majority comes from New York , PennsylVania and Massachusetts and a " conservative " minority has residence in Utah , Tennessee , Minnesota and Wyoming , it is not surprising to ' find organized labor 's most consistent champion in the person of a Senator from the manufacturing and financial centre of the nation  --  New York . Senator Wagner 's opposition to the President on the most vital section of the work-relief resolution yesterday has nevertheless caused much comment , as also has the criticism of the administration 's labor policy implicit in his new Trades Disputes Bill . Yet neither action seems unusual to a student of Mr. Wagner 's public record since his days in the New York Assembly . An emigrant boy , washing dishes in the Yorkville restaurant where his brother was cook , and growing up among the people , it is natural that the Senator should have come to public affairs with a warm%mass feeling . This sympathy suffused him particularly when , after his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an appalling loss of life . He found in the New York Legislature two other young men as shocked as he , as determined that laws should be passed better protecting labor in its working hours . These three young men drew much upon the ideas and experience of a-young woman , then a factory inspector , in composing statutes to meet the situation . One of Mr. Wagner 's co-workers had grown up , as he did , among the poor . That was Alfred E. Smith . Another had grown up among the rich , but he was as deeply sensitive to the problems of the unfortunate . That was Franklin D. Roosevelt . The young woman inspector was Frances Perkins . Came to Labor 's Aid on the Bench . The result of Mr. Wagner 's prominence in the Triangle fire laws was a series of briefs for organized labor . He represented the employes in the famous Interborough case . When he came to the bench as a Supreme Court Justice , Mr. Wagner issued the first injunction to labor ever sought and granted in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injunction against a shutdown following a labor dispute . Judge Wagner granted the plea , and the higher courts sustained him . His first election to the United States Senate over James W. Wadsworth turned principally on prohibition and suffrage issues , and not on labor problems . But Mr. Wagner was not long in his seat , in ' ' 1928 , when he began agitating for a Federal study of the causes of unemployment so as to devise measures against it . In that early day , when a public works program was unpopular , he was warmly advocating it . The Senator did not get anywhere at the time , and President Hoover successfully opposed his law to coordinate Federal and State unemployment agencies , which had as its objective an accurate unemployment census and a method of sending the idle freely , without regard to local divisions , where work was available . But when this administration took office , Mr. Wagner began at once an effort to link regulated production and purchasing power and relate these to bettering the employment situation . He was a pioneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and from the first he insisted upon a government guarantee of collective bargaining . Then as now the Senator tried to outlaw company unions . Then as now he favored the plan whereby a majority of workers shall bargain.for them all . Then as now he proposed to centre jurisdiction over all labor disputes in a Federal board which would take over powers now in the Department of Labor and the Code Authorities . On these points he has always differed with the thought of the President and this administration . " Bob " Breaks With " Frank " Once More . When the struggle on the prevailing wage amendment to the Work Relief Bill arose , the " Bob " of Albany days found once more that he must break with " Frank . " Organized labor insisted on the amendment ; Mr. Wagner has fought its battles for years . Finding himself in. a position where he must deny to the President or to organized labor his support on what each considered a vital proposal , he traveled with obvious personal unhappiness the path he has consistently trod . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glass made almost a direct appeal yesterday to stand by the President  --  may have been instrumental in smashing the whole relief structure , so essential to his friends among the working classes . In doing it , he probably also ranged himself with a minor-ity of his constituents in a State which depends upon industry for its well-being . But if , as is possible , his mind seeks an analogy in his own background , he may think that , like Luther at Wittenberg , he could not do otherwise .                     