@@698448

txt The government economy program which is likely to be required , together with more and higher taxes , to balance the budget for the fiscal year beginning July I , v. ill be no " kid-glove " job . It may have to be performed with an axe and , in the process , interests both inside and outside the government may be hit . Salary cuts , dropping of some government bureaus , and the pruning of activities of others are some of the measures Congress may be forced to adopt . There have been some recent discussions looking to the possibility of discontinuing the United States Shipping Board and consolidating it . with the Department of Commerce Such wartime agencies as the Alien Property CoqDeclaration of Poli  --  H If " an 1 ed Business %%ants to know la hat to expect of polities . This is the gist of as hat hankers and business men are asking leaders in Congress and its administration . W hat thezi ould like is a declaration of Congressional policy in the form of a resolution covering points : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated amount of the reduction shall he made public shortly ; A definite . formal and unmistakably positive statement of government financial requirements and plans for meeting them is going urged upon leaders in Congress and the administration . Bankers and business men have indicated their opinion that steps to end uncertainty in this respect are essential ; that possession of definite knowledge by the public will have a decided stabilizing effect ' onbond prices and business generally . Under Secretary of the Treasury Mills and Speaker Garner already have made moves in this direction . Their statements are regarded as exceedingly helpful but there is a feeling that they must be reinforced and amplified as to details First of all there must be a. declaration that utmost economy is government appropriations and expenditures will be enforced jointly by administrative and legislative branches ; the amount of reduction to be accomplished should be determined and publicly announced as soon as possible . Amount Should Be Known Second . the amount to be raised by new and increased taxes and the amount of government borrowing necessary over the next six months should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if possible , but the most important thing is to name a definite figure with the assurance that it will not be exceeded . Third , there should be a definite and binding promise , behind the Treasury stand , that the Federal budget will be balanced for the next fiscal year and that there will be no government borrowing after July 1 next ; this should be adhered to regardless of what retrenchment must be necessary . A program covering these points would be more definite than any yet made public . There still exists the fear , although it is probably groundless , that Congress may take action calling for further large unhooked for expenditures and borrowing The thought is that a program should be embodied in a resolution which would be passed as a declaration of Congressional policy . U. S. Should Set Example Common knowledge that considerations of federal , state and municipal financial needs loom as a problem comparable with the banking and railroad situations , is buttressed by many advises reaching here . It is felt that the federal government should take the lead In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The present elements of uncertainty are thr chief disturbing factor , It is felt that the country a credit structure can be adjusted to furnish any reasonable amount that the government may need But there is no present assurance as to what this amount will be . If there could he assurance that a. definite sum of a billion and a half , or preferably a billion , would he the outside limit operations could be adjusted to such a reeinrement . In the present situation there remain .. the lurking fear that anticipated requirementought be raised quite suddenly . Government officials generally appreciate the present situation . The statements of Speaker G inner show that the same is true in informed Congressional circles Last spring there was much talk of postponing tax increases and meeting.the deficit by short term borrowing . Some such sentiment was apparent only a few Week : , ago . There is now recognition that even money for the government can not he had without limit and that recent higher rates with declines in government bonds have reflected this . In banking and other financial quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Information Needed In the country generally there arc indications that further information is needed . A citizen of a large municipality complains to friends in Washington of difficulty of getting bank loans and of the tightness of credit . At the same time this municipality is talking of the need of federal appropriations to help meet its unemployment relief Federal funds for such purpose can come only from government borrowing . Yet the prospect for government borrowing already has tightened money . Additional large amounts can he had only to the detriment of business and with the certainty of further retrenchment and unemployment Meanwhile various ideas of " painless ' governmental borrowings are being proposed to Washington Most common of these is to float bonds to the public after the manner of the lethie-ty Loans . It is urged that such procedure ought serve to bring money out of hoarding for investment in governmental securities . Title avenue can not he said to be closed Preearehties of the success of a public bond ennip , iign along wartime lines must be still further investigated In wartime there was a different psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , government bort awing for the immediate future probably will be in short term issues rather than in long term ones fitted for individual investments .                     