@@702317

txt An enormous , accumulated deficiency of production - was seen today by the Brookings Institution , in its annual report , as a powerful stimulus to further economic recovery and the means of reabsorbing the unemployed , which was set forth as an underlying necessity if standards of living and business are to be improved . " Emerging labor policies " endanger the recovery process , the institution declared , citing as the most important among these the demand for reduction of working hours , " on the mistaken theory that we can thus raise standards of living . " Of the results to be expected from cutting the work week , and the general labor situation the report said : " The sharp rise in costs , unrelated to efficiency , would be certain to result either in rapid rises in industrial prices , with profoundly disturbing effects upon the operation of the economic system as a whole , or the immediate halting of business activity with a consequent increase in unemployment . " The struggle now going on within the ranks of labor over conflicting theories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strengthen the power of labor over industry constitute a serious menace to the continuance of business prosperity . " Numerous favorable factors in the present economic situation were noted , but on the darker side were an unbalanced Federal budget , and what the institution regarded as the possibility of an inflationary movement growing out of the present abundance of idle capital funds . The favorable factors were the need for expansion to make up for accumulated deficiencies in production ; the abundance of lendable I funds ; improvement in the private debt situation ; the trend with respect to wage and price relation1 ships which was " unusually satisfactory ; " a better balance between 1 agriculture and industry ; disappearance of uncertainty on monetary and banking policies ; developments which are laying the founda- 1 I tion for foreign trade expansion ; 1 and reduction of the confusion in respect to governmental policies . 1 The essentials for a consistent program of further recovery were given as follows : " The re-establishment of a balanced Federal budget as a foundation on which to build enduring progress . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of gold and the establishment 1 through international cooperation of a system of stable foreign exchanges . " The extension of the program of 1 reciprocal trade agreements as the most practical means of reducing artificial barriers to commerce and 1 reopening the channels of international trade . " The preservation of the generally favorable ratio of prices and wage rates , in the interest of progressively ' expanding the real purchasing power of workers and creating a demand for added production and employment  --  placing emphasis upon price reductions as a means of carrying the benefits of technological progress to all groups within the nation . " The maintenance , in general , of prevailing hours of labor , as the only means of meeting the production requirements involved in restoring during the next few years the standards of living of the laboring masses and promoting the economic advancement of the nation as a whole . " The elimination of industrial practices and policies  --  private and public  --  which tend to restrict output or to prevent the increase of production efficiency . " Shifting the emphasis in agricultural policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the supplies of raw materials and foodstuffs required by gradually expanding markets . " As to industrial expansion , the " impetus from this direction is largely responsible for the substantial increase of business activity during the course of the year . " " The backlog of requirements in the field of durable goods is so great that we do not need to wait upon the development of any new industries to lead the way forward , " the report went on . " The mere process of making good deferred maintenance and expanding production sufficiently to provide an increased population with the usual types of consumption goods will tax the nation 's productive en . ergies for some time . " The opportunity for a great expansion along clearly defined , established lines has never been greater than it is today . " Increased wage rates since 1933 , with prices of manufactured goods remaining practically stationary , have raised purchasing power and improved the relationship of wages and prices , the report said . Improvement in the balance between agriculture and industry had come about partly through normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the effects of dollar devaluation while raised the prices of staple export commodities , partly through weather conditions and also through the government program of restricting production . On monetary and banking policies , the report said , that " as a result of the business recovery that has occurred and the waning political importance of the groups which had been most insistent on accomplishing revival through money panaceas , there now appears to be little likelihood of further changes in currency policies . " Fears of War a Factor - While trade agreements were laying a foundation for expansion of foreign trade , the international situation offered barriers to increased trade among the nations . Fears of a war , expenses of armaments , and the condition of public finances in other countries were mentioned . Discussing the unfavorable factors in the present situation , the report said it remained to be seen whether political pressure for continuance or expansion of government disbursements would prevent balancing of the Federal budget . " The maintenance of fiscal stability remains a problem of major difficulty , " said the institution . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget is economically possible , but that such a consummation will require resolute action in curtailing wasteful and unnecessary Federal expenditures . " There la undoubtedly a strong disposition now to place the Federal credit upon a secure foundation , but economic , social and political pressures for the continuance or expansion of government disbursements are powerful , and it re-. mains . an open question whether they can be successfully withstood . " If fiscal stability is not achieved , the resulting financial and monetary disorganization and price inflation would in due course completely disrupt the process of constructive economic expansion now under way . " The institution felt that the possibility of a serious breakdown of government finance still existed . " We are still gambling upon a sufficiently rapid growth in national income to permit a balancing of the budget before confidence in the credit of the government wanes , " the report said . " The continued ability of the Treasury to obtain all the funds required at low interest rates has given rise to a false sense of security . We are working on a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present calculations . " The possibility of an inflationary movement " is very real " at present , the report continued . The danger lies , it said , in the field of private enterprise . The existence of superabundant bank reserves and investment funds provides the stimulus to speculative activities and credit and price inflation , it said . But the most direct pressure toward possible inflation seen by the institution was that exerted by factors related to industrial costs and market conditions : " Rapidly rising costs in a time of expanding and buoyant business activity lead to a rising spiral of prices , costs and again prices , " the report said . " An abundance of credit which lenders are desirous of putting to work makes possible , facilitates and encourages such a price inflation . At the present juncture the possibility of such an inflationary movement  --  having temporarily stimulating effects but promoting longerrun instability ? is very real . "                     