@@697089

txt More than a dozen years after the event popular opinion remains justified in thinking of Admiral VON TIRPITZ as primarily responsible for the German U-boat warfare and the policy of ruthlessness which brought the United States to the side of the Allies . In his Memoirs , written soon after the Armistice , the blame is assigned to the political crowd in general and Chancellor BETH MAN NHOLLWEG in particular . When submarine warfare was begun in February , 1915 , it was against the advice of VON TIRPITZ , who thought the move " premature and unhappy . " In the early Winter of 1916 he insisted that the moment had come for unrestricted submarine warfare . When the Government ruled against him he resigned , in March , from the post of Secretary of State for the Navy . When the German Government did embark upon- unrestricted U-boat warfare in 1917 VON TIRPITZ , then a private citizen , thought the hour was " dangerously late . " It would thus appear that submarine warfare was unwise on the two occasions 14 was proclaimed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was overruled . The impression emerges that VON TIRPITZ 'S concern in 1919 was to shift responsibility to others . Responsibility of a different kind attaches to his notable career as the chief builder of the German Navy . Here voN TIRPITZ bulks large in that expansion of German power and ambitions which can not be described as illegitimate , but which nevertheless led to the catastrophe of 1914 . The simple statement of Germany 's right to a place in the sun makes a stronger appeal than the curiously indirect " aims which VON TIRPITZ gives as his own during the decade and a half that Germany girded herself to challenge British power on the sea . Challenge , it would seem , was furthest from his thoughts ; at least , in the sense of war with England . The German fleet was to be an instrument of peace by making an English attack upon German trade " a risky venture . " He never aspired to equal tonnage with England . He would have been quite satisfied with the 3.2 ratio which WINSTON CHURCHILL and LLOYD GEORGE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war . The failure of the Haldane negotiations in 1912 was due to the Chancellor and his associates , who kept VON TIRPITZ in the dark . It was the civilians who made the mischief . The Tirpitz policy of promoting peace by making it *dangerous for England to take liberties with German interests worked so well that in 1914 , as the Admiral sees it , Anglo-German relations were actually better than they had ever been . If war nevertheless came , it was largely the fault of BETHMAN N-HOLLWEG . There is no basic inconsistency between a policy of building battleships for the purpose of being friends with Great Britain and a sudden outburst like ? " So the old pirate " State , England , has . again elm " ceeded in letting Europe tear her " self to pieces . " But , on the whole , that bit of temper does ? not reveal VON TIRPITZ as living and working primarily for peace .                     