@@697900

txt A line of inquiry which may lead to a graft hunt in the Police Department was begun yesterday by the Hofstadter legislative committee . Certain undisclosed records and lists of the personnel of two squads engaged in specialized detective work were requested of Commissioner Mulrooney , who indicated that he would supply them today . Samuel Seabury , counsel , said that the question of whether bank accounts of the policemen would be subpoenaed later would depend entirely on the evidence found in the papers and his subsequent investigation , but he indicated that the procedure of wholesale examinations of bank accounts would not be followed . Irving Ben Cooper , who. with Philip Wager Lowry , is in charge of the investigation of the Police Department , would not disclose the two squads involved , or the nature of the other papers called for . It was indicated that perhaps as many as 200 policemen would be named on the lists . They , it was understood , will be examined in conjunction with other information which has come to the committee from the Appellate Division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the cases of two policemen who are now under grand jury investigation  --  James J. Quinlivan and William M. O'Connor  --  testimony of one witness indicated that they had reaped a rich harvest in extortion from speakeasies . Harry Levey , who said he had served the two policemen as a stool pigeon , declared he collected about $7,500 a month from speakeasies on the upper west side for them . Other forms of police extortion which were hinted at but never elaborated on in the magistrates ' investigation will be gone into again . The personnel of the vice squad , which has about 130 patrolmen on plainclothes duty , was believed to be one of the two lists requested by Mr. Cooper . This squad is especially engaged in the suppression of liquor traffic , gambling and vice . Senator John J. declared yesterday that he would sit as a subcommittee of one in private examinations and take testimony . He said that his decision did not in any way alter his personal opinion that private examinations by subcommittees of one were illegal . ' ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had a job given to me by the Legislature and I shall do that job regardless of the opinion I may hold as to its legality . " Senator did not examine any witnesses yesterday . Assemblyman Louis A. Cuvillier , also of the Democratic minority on the committee , appeared at the offices of the investigation and conferred with Chairman Samuel Hofstadter . He refused to commit himself on the question of whether he also would sit as a committee of one in private hearings . Mr. Cuvillier said that he had had a conference with Morris S. Tremaine , State Controller , and that as a result the bills for expenses of the investigation would be held up pending an opinion from Attorney general John 3 . Bennett as to the legality of the committee . Mr. Hofstadter said that only one bill had been submitted thus far . That was for $4,089 for office furniture for the entire set of offices . Under the established procedure the bill must be signed by Mr. Hofstadter as chairman , Herbert H. Lehman as President of the Senate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hofstadter said he had received no notice from Controller Tremaine as to whether the bill had reached his office as yet or whether it would be held up pending the opinion of the Attorney General . Mr. Hofstadter said that as a matter of form , where a protest against payment of a bill is made the Controller refers it to the Attorney General for an opinion , and in this case the protest was made by Mr. Cuvillier . Mr. Cuvillier 's attack upon the investigation is based upon three points  --  the validity of the first appropriation of $250,000 , which is half the sum that has been set aside for the inquiry ; the power of the committee to hold private hearings with subcommittees of one , and the power of the committee to grant immunity to a witness . Both of the latter clauses are contained in the resolution passed by the Legislature authorizing the investigation . Queens Witnesses Questioned . A number of witnesses were questioned yesterday in connection with the sweeping investigation which has been begun in Queens . None , it was said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued for John J. Halleran , Commissioner of Public Works in Queens , and no request has been made of him to appear for examination , Mr. Seabury said . Mr. Seabury also declared that nothing would be done which could in any way interfere with possible action by Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt on charges against George U. Harvey , Borough President of Queens , which were filed by Fritz Brieger , a former official in Harvey 's administration . William Bowne Parsons , associate counsel , and Harold Melnicker , assistant , continued , however , the task of gathering documents from the official files of the various bureaus in Queens . Meanwhile , Mr. Cooper again examined Chile Mapocha Acuna , former police stool pigeon , whose testimony concerning the activities of the vice squad patrolmen in Manhattan brought wholesale suspensions and several convictions for perjury . Acuna also worked with the police of Brooklyn and it is concerning his activities in that borough that he is now giving Information . Mr. Cooper also examined Harold Cowin , a former secretary of Federal Judge Grover M. Moscowitz of Brooklyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate 's court and was later carried to a higher court . Cowin , it was said , also gave information concerning other cases . The investigation of the Building Department of Manhattan was continued by John R. Davies and J. G. L. Molloy of the legal staff . Mr. Seabury declared that many papers had been requested from the office of Controller W. Berry and that the Controller was giving his cooperation .                     