@@704020

txt Senator Vandenberg of Michigan will take a step next week that will make him at least an entry in the race for the Republican Presidential nomination , it was learned definitely today , though not as an active aspirant at the outset . He is expected to " consent to be drafted " as the State 's favorite son in response to a resolution of Republican State officials and the Republican House delegation from Michigan . Following the presentation to him formally today of the resolution adopted by these two representative groups , Senator Vandenberg said he would reply early next week . He will say that he " will gladly accept the honor , " but has no intention of becoming an aggressive Presidential candidate , since he will seek renomination to the Senate next year . The action today , when the twelve Republican members of the Michigan delegation met and adopted a resolution hailing him as " preeminently qualified to meet the exacting duties of the Presidency in these critical times , " followed adoption of a similar resolution by the Republican officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the delegation , all signed the endorsement in the form of a letter submitting to the Senator the previous " draft resolution " that originated in Michigan . The letter called attention to the earlier resolution of the Governor and other Republican State administrative officials which was addressed to " the Republicans of the United States " and asserted that it was their " united and unanimous belief " that Senator Vandenberg " should be drafted for the next Republican Presidential nomination . " Predict Increasing Support Continuing , the House letter of endorsement said : " In this belief the members of the Michigan Republican delegation in Congress heartily concur . " Our knowledge of you and of your work in the Senate convinces us that you are pre-eminently qualified , by character , ability , experience , industry , knowledge of public affairs and sound and constructive leadership , to meet the exacting duties of the Presidency in these critical times . " We are satisfied that the position taken and the sentiments expressed by the Republican State officials of Michigan represent the views not only of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Republicans throughout the country as well . " The draft resolution , signed by Governor Dickinson , seven other top Republican officials and the Republican members of the Legislature , stated in the beginning that Arthur H. Vandenberg " should be drafted for the next Republican Presidential nomination . " " With great retard for other available Republican leaders , we submit that the next Republican Presidential nominee Should combine long and effective national ex- perience with a proven capacity for effective political leadership , " the resolution added . " The outstanding Republican statesman in Washington during the last six years  --  so recognized from coast to coast  --  has been the senior Senator from Michigan . " He manned the trenches when there were few others on the firing line . He has been the focus of opposition to the present Administration . " Yet he has constructively cooperated in the development of progressive legislation . He knows national problems as do few others . He has the substantial confidence of his colleagues and the country . He is comparatively young in years , yet old in wisdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the American system of government and economics . He is known throughout the land as a rational Republican liberal . " He personifies in his long record and his attitudes the fundamental issue which the Republican party must present to the American people in the next campaign . Aware He Has Declined " The senior Senator from Michigan has declined to be a candidate for the 1940 Presidential nomination . We who are his neighbors know that he means what he says . We shall not ask him to change his high-minded attitude which rates this next Presidential nomination above all ordinary political pursuit . " But we also know that he puts his country ahead of every other consideration  --  whether political or personal  --  and that he would never decline any assignment to patriotic service . " Therefore without his knowledge or consent we assert our faith in him . We express our belief that Michigan will ask his nomination . We take this means of commending him to the good opinions of our fellow-Republicans throughout the nation . " The unanimous action of these representative Republicans in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draftee " is viewed by many Republican Senators and other party leaders here as a most important pre-convention move . In their opinion Senator Vandenberg will not become active unless there is a real call for him from other parts of the country . His Senate colleagues say that the call will be forthcoming and that he will become the choice of other States , and some predict that he will become the nominee . His candidacy , promoted by his homefoiks , is not expected to encounter opposition from the Dewey admirers in Michigan . Some time ago the New York District Attorney , while here , told Mr. Vandenberg 's friends that the delegates from Michigan naturally belonged to the senior Senator . Mr. Dewey was born in Michigan . Harrison E. Spangler , Republican National Committeeman from Iowa , recently said here that Mr. Vandenberg had a large following in Iowa , and might get the delegates if his candidacy developed . Some national Republican leaders expect him to enter the convention with delegates not only from Michigan but Indiana , Illinois , Minnesota , Wisconsin and Iowa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            