@@697743

txt Hostilities between Governor Roosevelt and the Republican majority in the . Legislature over water power were renewed tonight after a truce which has been in force for more than a year . Every one at the Capitol is looking for a stormy finish to the 1931. legislative I session . In a statement made public late in the evening the Governor accused the Republican leaders of the Senate of a deliberate attempt to wreck the State 's water-power program by inserting in the Cornaire bill , which has passed the Assembly , an amendment naming the five members of the Governor 's St. Lawrence Power Development Commission as trustees of the projected State Power Authority . The bill , as drafted by the majority of the Governor 's commission and voted by the Assembly , provided for executive appointment of the Board of Trusteep , who would be charged with financing the State 's power project and bringing it to completion and operation . The Governor asserted that the amendment usurped his authority and was designed to render the bill unacceptable to him and place him in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Says Agreement Had Been Made . In his statement , which came from the Executive Chamber at 10:30 o'clock , the Governor said that the action of Senator John Knight , Republican leader , and his party members of the upper branch in voting the amendment involved violation of an agreement which had ? been reached at a conference held on March 23 . " In view of this clear understanding by the President pro-tern of the Senate tMr . Knight I am forced to . the conclusion that this amendment is deliberately made for the purpose of making certain my veto of the bill and thereby creating an excuse for postponing any action for another , " the Governor said , He added that it was in line with the policy of obstruction pursued by the Republicans for many years with regard to water power legislation , of the sort he and his Democratic predescessors had been advocating . " I am convinced that this action has been dictated by forces which have prevented the development on the St. Lawrence for the last generation , " he asserted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside the Legislature have realized that ' this movement toward the public development is , from their viewpoint , dangerously near to achievement . " Senator Knight , when informed of the Governor 's attitude , said that the Legislature had been fully within its rights in naming the five trustees of the power authority in the bill . He said there were many precedents for such action , and recalled that the members of the Power Commission named in the Senate amendment were men entirely of the Governor 's own selection . He added that their familiarity with the work and the fact that many of the duties with which the commissioners were charged in last year 's legislation creating the commission had not been fully carried out , made them the logical persons to undertake the work with which the power authority is to be charged . Mr. Knight indicated that he was not running away from any responsibility that might be his for going against the Governor 's wishes on the bill . The Governor 's Statement . Governor Roosevelt 's statement on the Senate Republicans ' action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the St. Lawrence power development bill , introduced by Mr. Cornaire and passed by the Assembly in substantially the same form as it was prepared by the St. Lawrence commission , has been suddenly and unexpectedly amended in the Senate in a way which I can not accept . The amendment deliberately strikes out the power of the Governor to appoint the members of the Power Authority . Instead , it substitutes therefor five individuals by name . " On Monday , March 23 , in a conference with the leaders of the Legislature , I specifically and in very definite terms told the President ' pro tern . of the Senate and the Speaker of the Assembly that I could not accept any amendment taking the appointive power away from the Governor and gave my reasons therefor , reasons which were apparently acceptable to the Assembly , as no change of this character was made by that body . " In view of this clear understanding by the President pro tern . of the Senate , I am forced to the conclusion that this amendment is deliberately made for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and thereby creating , an excuse , for postponing any action for ? another year . . " It is In line WIth the long policy of obstruction , stbjectioa and refusal even to consider any legislation which looked tO ' conserving for the people- their rights in this water power , which has marked the attitude of the Republican leaders in the Legislature for many years past , a policy which public opinion forced them to abandon- last year and which this year has made it impossible for them to ? delay in any legitimate way the final step toward the creation of the power authority . Has " Conceited Much . " " I have conceded much in order to get action on power development , . and each concession has been followed by the raising of some new objection . " Last year , after a continued campaign of opposition and delay , the Republican leaders finally consented to my appointment of a commission of five men to study and report plans for developing power on the St. Lawrence . " This bill not only provided that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but further specifically and definitely provided that in the event of a favorable report on a plan by this commission the proposed power authority itself should ' consist of five trustees ' * * to be named by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate . ' " This Winter the report of the investigation commission itself provided that the Power Authority should consist of five trustees to be appointed by the Governor , by and with the advice and consent of the Senate . " The bill as introduced in the Assembly by a Republican legislator provided that the Power Authority should 1 ? e appointed by the Governor in exactly the same way . And finally , the bill as passed by the Assembly , provided exactly the same thing . " And now for the first time , on no revealed recommendation and without any responsible authority to back it up , the Senate has arbitrarily struck this provision from the bill and has amended it by actually naming five . individuals . " The action of the Senate is in direct contravention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report of the commissioners and is directly opposed to the action of the Assembly , which accepted the appointing power of the Governor . . Sees His Rights Challenged . " Furthermore , I want to make it perfectly plain that . this great project for the power development of the SL Lawrence falls very distinctly and definitely with the Executive power . A principle is involved , which I hoped was . settled forever in this State by the Constitutional Convention , that Executive . responsibility must be armed with ' Executive authority . " The Governor lean important and integral part of the whole plan . No contract can be awarded without his approval ; no project , no financing can- even be started until the Governor has approved . ' . ? . " In addition , the Govern* must at all ' times be In close touch/00*m* . pathy with the trustees , facilitating their work in Onlaction with the drawing-up .. of proOseit eontracts but also in ' assisting them their . . relations with . the Federal Gov. eminent , the Canadian Government and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " I am convinced that this action is dictated by forces Which have prevented the development of : . water power on the St. Lawrence for the last generation . T am cenvinCidthat Republican leaders in and Outside.tbe Legislature have realized ' that this movement toward the public develop , . meat of water power is , from their viewpoint , dangerously . near to achievement . " They knew that I would refuse to accept an amendment to the bill taking the power of appointment out and naming the individuals , even if it necessitated a veto . The conclusion is irresistible that this action was taken purely to hamstring , hinder and stop the power delevopment . " I must decline to divest either the present Governor or any future Governor of his executive authority and responsibility toward this great project . I am confident . that sober second thought will persuade the Legislature to restore the bill to the original form of the law of 1930 , to the original form of the report of the commission and to the original form in which it passed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was somewhat mystified over the purpose of the Senate amendment , by which the bill was put in line for final action in the upper branch . Where the idea to name the Power Authority trustees in the bill originated is somewhat of a Mystery too . Some are inclined to give W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State Chairman , credit for the tour de force . Mr .. Knight , who will quit the Senate at the end of the session to take a Federal judgeship , in a statement after the action , defended the course as one dictated by logic , and a desire to expediate consummation of the water power plans . The Power Commission members , who by the amended bill would serve as trustees respectively for terms of five , four , three , two and one years , are : Professor ROBERT MURRAY HAIG . JULIUS HENRY COHEN . SAMUEL L. FULLER . Representative FREDERICK M. DAVENPORT . THOMAS F. CONWAY , former Lieutenant Governor . The successors of all five men would be appointed by the Governor , with the consent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought about acceptance of the amendment almost unnoticed . Democratic legislators are expected to fight the change vigorously when the full bill is up for action . Assembly Republicans Opposed . The Republican majority in the Assembly under the leadership of Speaker , it was learned , is far from being in accord with the action of the Senate majority , and in fact rather resents it as a program of doubtful wisdom from a party viewpoint . It was learned also that Speaker was asked to have the amendment inserted in the water power bill while it was pending in the Assembly and declined to do so . The Cornaire bill was passed in the lower house practically in the form the measure was presented to the Legislature by the majority group on the St. Lawrence Power Development Commission , which is composed of the first four named . Former Lieut . Gov . Conway , who submitted a minority measure , was included by name in the Senate amendment , although the Republicans are not in sympathy with his more radical approach to the power problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if Governor Roosevelt should give assurance that he would appoint his commissioners as trustees of the State Power Authority , created through the bill , he would personally be willing to drop the amendment . Senator Knight 's Statement . Mr. Knight 's statement , explanatory of the amendment , was : " The act of the Legislature last year provided that the Governor 's commission should report a comprehensive plan for the development and operation of water power and present for the approval of the Legislature one or more forms of tentative contracts which the commission deemed practicable for the sale of the power . " No such contracts have been submitted , nor has the commission , so far as its report shows , had such conferences with the National and Canadian Governments as would indicate any attitude on their part for going ahead with the plan proposed . " I - think it is generally conceded that the commission did not perform its full functions because of lack of time . The work the members of the commission did was monumental , considering the time they were engaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year in which the commission failed to complete its work was that it was directed to report plans and contracts to be submitted to the Legislature for ac-1 ceptance , rejection or modification , after which trustees were to be directed to carry out such plans and contracts . " No contracts at all have been submitted and it must be admitted that such work could not have been done in the short space of time during which the commission was at work . To Let Them Complete Task " We feel that the duties authorized , not having been completed , the present members of the commission are the proper ones to go ahead with the work and that they should be the ones to negotiate any contracts . They are properly the men who should do this work , because they have been engaged in this study . " There is no good reason , it seems to me , . why they should not be selected to act as trustees , in view of their familiarity with the subject . They are just the ones who should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the trustees are to carry ? out and effectuate any plan or plans approved by the Legislature . " Strictly , perhaps , the commission might have been continued to do its work as a commission , but this is done ' to avoid delay . " We decided the proper method would be to name them as trustees in the bill , to hasten the development as rapidly as possible . It is necessary that an authority be constituted with power to negotiate with the Federal and Canadian Governments . Those are the first steps that must be taken before any development can be had . ? " It'seems the logical thing that the Legislature Should continue the members of the commission as trustees . "                     