@@698297

txt The Japanese I objectives in Heilungkiang Province , Manchuria , are to disperse or destroy the provincial army , under General Ma Chen-shan , and , uproot the last organized remnant of Marshal Chang Hsueh-Iiang 's Government in Manchuria . The first objective has been attained ; the second apparently will be reached tomorrow . Japanese advance parties entered Tsitsihar unopposed at 8 P. Mr , according to reports just received here , and Chinese guards there submitted to disarming . The Japanese are said to have issued a proclamation stating that they would maintain order and protect peaceful citizens . The casualties in the battle today are roughly estimated at 300 Japanese and 4,000 Chinese . In the fighting in the morning the Japanese lost forty-nine killed and sixty wounded . Chang Ching-hui , Chinese leader , having reached an understanding with the Japanese , left Harbin for Tsitsihar yesterday evening . Arriving at Tsitsihar , he will be installed as chief of the Peace Maintenance Committee , and the Japanese will turn over the administration to him . Chang Hal-peng Joins Japanese . General Chang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the side of the strongest . He pledged the Japanese that his troops would not interfere in yesterday 's fighting , but would guard the Taonan-Anganchl railroad against bandits . General Ma has radioed to Marshal Chang Hsueh-liang and General Chiang Kai-shek imploring them . to appeal to the League of Nations to suspend hostilities . Mukden dispatches give the numbers engaged yesterday as : Chinese15,000 men , twenty-five heavy guns , fifteen light guns ; Japanese-3,500 men , twenty-five guns , aircraft not mentioned . Two Japanese battalions moving from Chengchiatun as reinforcements were compelled to turn back as the Chinese had destroyed an iron bridge at Sanlin , about twenty-five miles north of Chengchiatun . By 1 o'clock this afternoon a Japanese armored train had entered Anganchi and immediately pushed on across the Chinese Eastern Railway . The War Office here announces the Japanese forces will not interfere with the Chinese retreat along the Chinese Eastern Railway , where large numbers of freight cars have been held ? in readiness for several days . General Ma 's whereabouts tonight are unknown . The only troops on which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The War Office tonight states that after fighting on Nov. 4 the Japanese ceased operations , although they could then have destroyed General Ma 's force . The Chinese immediately began to concentrate fresh troops from Harbin , Manchuli , Heilung and other centres , eventually assembling about 26,000 . They displayed much activity and made several attempts to destroy repaired bridges , and it became evident that if the situation were not controlled a battle must occur . The Japanese thereupon , the statement continues , made a reasonable offer for mutual evacuation , but the Chinese accepted with one hand apd refused with the other . Meantime their troops became continually more aggressive . On Tuesday , before Japanese reinforcements could arrive , the Chinese opened an attack on a large scale , to which the Japanese Army has replied with its entire force , the statement says . It repeats that the Japanese troops will not permanently ' . occupy those districts and concludes by announcing that if the Chinese Eastern offers transportation to General Ma 's troops the Japanese will not prevent it . General Ma 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity on the part of the Chinese forces . Yesterday afternoon large bodies of Chinese clashed with Japanese north of Tahsing . Honk ) Free to Defend Himself . 0 The government 's orders against taking the offensive left the commander in the field at liberty to defend himself if attacked . With the two armies in close proximity , amid extreme discomforts , clashes were inevitable . One such clash , occurring immediately after General Ma had given an unsatisfactory reply to the Japanese ultimatum , provided the occasion for a general attack . The Japanese were willing to permit General Ma to disperse his troops peacefully , but when he demurred they were dispersed forcibly . Civilian members of the government might prefer other measures , and Friday 's proposal to General Ma seemed to indicate they had prevailed , but the army utilized its position in the field to enforce its own methods . Japanese newspapers report that General Minami , Minister of War . sought a preliminary understanding with the Cabinet today regarding increasing the forces in Manchuria by one division . The Cabinet is said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation should become worse . The Foreign Office states that the question of sending more troops never has been before the Cabinet , but points out that any increase above the ' treaty strength requires both the Cabinet 's approval and imperial sanction .                     