@@702495

txt An industry-wide wage increase movement developed among leading textile companies yesterday . Pay boosts generally averaged around 10% , and it was predicted that within the next few weeks virtually all mills would have conformed to the trend , affecting well over 1.000. - 000 workers . On the heels of the company announcements , Sidney Hillman , CIO leader charged with organizing the textile industry into a single mass union . made plain that the wage increases would have no effect on his unionization efforts . To emphasize his point , Mr. Hillman formally announced establishment of the TWOC ( Textile Workers ' Organizing Committee ) as the newest branch of the CIO . He added that this committee will have the financial backing of his own union , the powerful Amalgamated Clothing Workers , which has already contributed $500.000 to aid the textile drive . Explains Technique Mr. Hillman said his textile efforts would be characterized by peaceful penetration , educational drive . He added that . possible . he would avoid use of more drastic tactics such as the flying squadron , familiar labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among major mills advancing pay were those of the American Woolen Co. , employing 20,000 workers in 26 mills ; Pacific Mills and Pepperell Manufacturing Co. , both leading cotton fabricators . Commenting on the increases Mr. Hillman said . " I am happy to hear that the entire industry has taken cognizance of the T. W. 0 . C. at this early date and that they can afford to pay more . The industry is currently on a paying basis . The only danger of its going back to chaos is if no organization of labor is formed to co-operate in stabilization . " Southern Attitude " All we are asking for , " he said , " is to make the New Deal a reality in the work shop . The people in the South signified their approval of the New Deal in t he recent election , and we feel that there will be a. very different public attitude in large southern textile centers toward our efforts than at the time of the last cottpn textile strike . " Meanwhile , however , a resolution was introduced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the CIO , to ? ? stay out of South Carolina . " Mr. Hillman expressed the belief that the only effective method for organizing labor in the nationwide textile industry was by CIO methods . " It is impossible to organize any mass production industry under the old methods , " he said . Mass Organization " When I was on the NRA . board , I gave 40% of my time to the textile industry and studied its problems . Only through organization can we remedy the evils that have been habitual with the industry . I have been in conference with nearly every leader in the industry at one time or another . Under the old methods of organizing individual mills or small sections it created competitive situations which sometimes drove mills into bankruptcy and caused migrations from one territory into another . We must give employers a sense of security , guarding them against unfair competition . We believe our record in stabilizing the clothing industry will help us . " Questioned about differentials between northern and southern mills , Mr. Hillman said that the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers . We will see if there is an economic reason for the differences and govern our policies accordingly . " The aim of the T.W.O.C. , Mr. Hillman added , will be to build a substantial , effective and permanent organization for collective bargaining , which will be truly representative of the textile workers of the country " The new labor organization will be on a nationwide scale with six regional directors and eventually about 500 organizers in the field of which 100 are already out The CIO 's United Textile Workers union had a membership of about 90,000 two weeks ago , Mr. Hillman said and is growing rapidly .                     