@@704052

txt The cost of building and equipping the pavilions of fifty-eight foreign nations at the World 's Fair was at least $10,000,000 above expectations , according to ? informal estimates yesterday by some of the foreign commissioners . Most of the additional bill went to labor in the form of overtime pay and wages for men who did nothing while foreign technicians and artists worked , the foreign representatives said . Precise figures on the extent to which actual construction costs exceeded estimates were not available , but the average was put by several commissioners at between 30 and 50 per cent . One envoy at the Fair said that the cost of putting up exhibits in the World of Tomorrow had been as much as 150 per cent higher than preliminary figures and that the total " overcharge " in the international zone would reach $20,000,000 . Efforts to confirm the foreign exhibitors ' figures through private contractors or the Fair corporation were fruitless . One of the largest contracting firms said that data on the extent of overtime pay were being compiled and would be available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints of foreign nations , as set forth last week by Dr. Neil Van Aken , president of the Foreign Government Commissioners Club . Mayor Takes No Action Mayor La Guardia made no move to enter the controversy over labor conditions at the Fair , despite appeals for a full investigation by Supreme Court Justice Salvatore A. Cotillo on Monday and the World 's Fair Joint Board Culinary Committee , representing sixteen local unions of A. F. of L. restaurant workers , on Tuesday . Although some commissioners expressed disappointment at the lacl of action in their behalf by any governmental agency , others were of the opinion that the worst was over as far as difficulties with unions were concerned and that the whole matter ought to be dropped in the interest of international amity . Members of the first group took the position that the foreign exhibitors had come here as guests of the United States and that the Fed- eral or local government should feel an obligation to guard them against " victimization . " The opposing view was that labor rows had been experienced for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks preceding the Fair 's opening April 30 , and that there was no practical advantage in " raking over the dead coals " now . All agreed that the labor problems involved in the maintenance of completed pavilions were insignificant by comparison ' with those that arose while building work was at its peak . A by-product of the discussion of labor questions was a decision on the part with the A. F. of L. The terms of this contract have never been made known , although all construction at the Fair was done under closed shop conditions . Virtually all skilled construction workers in this city are members of the A. F. of L. In computing additional labor costs yesterday , one foreign representative said the disparity between expectations and actual expenditures on some pavilions were so great as to raise the possibility of governmental inquiries abroad . Not all of the increase is the fault of the unions , according to experts on World 's Fair construction . Eagerness to get buildings finished on time led contractors to place rush orders for materials at premium prices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night before the Fair opened , some builders toured the grounds seeking to lure laborers from partly-completed exhibits by promising them wages far above the union scale for regular or overtime work .                     