@@703871

txt Dictatorial powers for the remainder of this year were conferred on Premier Edouard Daladier today by the Chamber of Deputies by a vote of 321 to 264 . Tomorrow it will be the turn of the Senate to vote them , and , if it does as is expected , parliamentary rule will be in effect suspended in France until M. Daladier sees fit to permit its resumption . ( Robert Coulondre , French Ambassador to Berlin , was recalled to Paris for consultation by Premier Daladier , according to The Associated Press . King Carol of Rumania made a personal appeal today to London and Paris for an assurance that he could count on their support in the event of a combined German Hungarian menace to the political and territorial independence of his country . This is proving difficult to answer . Some ? circles declare that there has been no " economic ultimatum " to Rumania and as yet no act of aggression against Rumanian territory . There is , however , little doubt here that the forward sweep of the German forces from Prague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler and Regent Nicholas Horthy presage the probability of such demands backed by force . King Carol certainly seems to fear them . The British Ambassador , Sir Eric Phipps , was in constant communication throughout the day with the Quai d'Orsay and even came to the Chamber of Deputies to consult Premier Daladier in the middle of the debate on the government 's demand for dictatorial powers . Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet had a long conversation with the Rumanian Ambassador , George Tatarescue , who , on leaving the Quai d'Orsay , denied that any " ultimatum " had been received by Bucharest . It is realized by those who have the responsibility of answering King Carol 's appeal that their answer must depend on the force with which they are prepared to back it up . Some quarters believe that French diplomatic action is more likely to be directed soon toward mending the Franco-Italian situation than toward assisting Rumania . It is felt in France that the events of the past week have caused a deep revulsion of opinion in Italy against the Rome-Berlin axis . Especially in Northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the feeling that what justification of the German action in Czecho-Slovakia has been made officially does not correspond either to the truth or to the sentiment of the Italian people . It is argued , therefore , by many persons that the time is ripe for a real bid for a settlement of the Italian question . Protest to Germany A protest against the annexation of Czecho-Slovakia by the Reich was handed today by the French Ambassador in Berlin , Robert Coulondre , to the German Foreign Office . It said , in part : " The Ambassador of France in forms the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Reich of a formal protest raised by the Government of the Republic against measures of which it has been informed by Count von Welczeck German Ambassador to France . " The Government of the Republic considers that in the action directed against Czecho-Slovakia by the Government of the Reich it finds itself in the presence of a flagrant violation of the letter and spirit of the agreement signed at Munich on Sept. 26 , 1938 . " The circumstances in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the CzechoSlovak Republic can not , in the view of the Government of the Republic , establish in law the factual situation registered by that agreement . " The Ambassador of France has the honor to inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Reich that the Government of the Republic can not in these conditions recognize the legitimacy of the new situation created in Czecho-Slovakia by the action of the Reich . " The protest was signed by Georges Bonnet , French Foreign Minister . Objections From Left There was a protest against the decree powers from the Communist and Socialist benches . Some eight or ten Radical Socialists and others also voted against the government 's demand on grounds advanced by the Socialist Deputy , George Monnet , in their name , that political liberty took equal place with territorial integrity in the heritage for which Frenchmen were prepared to fight and that a curtailment of the former was not the best way to assure the defense of the second . Many amendments were moved in an effort to limit the duration and extent of the government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority that varied but never fell below 316. refused to accept any limitation of his powers . He would not promise not to prorogue Parliament , not to dissolve the Communist party and not to suspend the forty-hour or any other law . He did not promise not to apply press censorship or suspend the right of public assembly . He did not say that he would or would not do these things . Just before he made his only short speech in defense of the measure that he had proposed , he had been bitterly attacked by M. Monnet for having done an aboutface in internal politics . " We are talking about peace or war and not about party differences , " one of the government 's supporters interjected . " We fear , " Mr. Monnet continued , " that if we give you these full powers the parliamentary regime will be discredited . " Again the same interrupter interjected , " It is France that is in jeopardy and not the parliamentary regime . " That was the essence of the whole debate . Union Idea Dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of yesterday for a different solution ? for a government of national union . Deputy Louis Mann cut them short , saying that " a Cabinet that includes men of diametrically opposed opinions is condemned to do nothing . Furthermore one does not call on those who have done the harm to repair it . " M. Daladier , sure of his majority No Time for Words He had been reproached by the Socialists with not having protested In his speech yesterday against the destruction of the Czecho-Slovak republic . " You reproach me with not having given expression to my personal emotion , " he replied . " Words , words , always words ! France has protested against the annexation of Czectio-Slovakia and said that she does not bow before this fait accompli . " This is not the time for words and amendments and subamendments and Byzantine quarrels . You are free to follow me or not ; but I am going forward along the road I have chosen . " The Premier indicated that just as soon as he had received the assent of the Senate he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be done at a Cabinet meeting to be held tomorrow evening . " I shall ask for more work , " said the Premier . " I shall ask for heavy financial sacrifices . If we have to face grave perils I prefer to face them with a well-filled treasury . " Election Question Open To a question that had been asked whether he would extend the lifetime of the present Parliament , he answered : " I am not sure that our neighboring country  --  Belgium  --  has been wise to have an election at this moment . But I will make no engagement . It is possible that events may lead us to make a decision . We shall do what we believe in the interest of the country . " He rejected , however , the accusation that he was destroying the liberties of the republic . " I shall defend liberty at the same time that I defend our country , " he said . " It is the force of France in the eyes of the world that she is a soldier of liberty . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wide World RECALLED BY FRANCE Robert Coulondre disquieting than what he had not said . " In the name of the nation 's defense , " he told the Premier , " you may alter the electoral law , prorogue Parliament , perhaps dissolve some political parties and perhaps proscribe the right of assembly . " Jacques Duclos , Communist , took up the list of accusations . " You are going to try to make France march In goose-step , " he declared . With former Premier PierreEtienne FiendIn , whom he accused of being a " disguised Nazi  --  friend of Hitler , " M. Duclos engaged in an angry interchange of personalities while the din rose . What had roused the Communist fury was the reply that M. Daladier made last night to a question in the Finance Committee : " I shall not have to dissolve the Communist party so long as it remains within the framework of republican legality . " Invectives and insults flew back and forth between the two extreme ends of the House , while many Radical Socialists who were elected by Popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier in the afternoon at a party meeting explained his position succinctly . No Unanimity " You want me to extend my majority , " he said , " and to add to my government certain members of other parties so as to spread out responsibility . I should have liked to do so , but you heard their speeches yesterday . That unanimity , which I should like as much as you , is not possible and I am resigned to taking whatever majority I can get without looking at it too closely . " My eyes are fixed only on the frontier and that is why I am asking you to continue to give me your confidence . There are things to be done at once and I only regret that I must wait until tomorrow evening until I can do them . " Nine Radical Socialists voted against the Premier 's demand for special powers and three abstained . Triple Front for Rumania PARIS , March 18 ( T ) , ? While the Chamber of Deputies was voting Premier Edouard Daladier unprecedented dictatorial powers tonight informed quarters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a triple front against German economic pressure on Rumania . In another move to put the nation 's defenses in order the Premier called an emergency Cabinet session for tomorrow , at which members of Parliament said he would ask approval of decrees calling to the colors specialists from a number of military service classes . French sources said meanwhile that King Carol of Rumania had advised Britain and France of his willingness to resist Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's eastward drive if they could provide markets for Rumanian exports , of which Germany now is the greatest purchaser . The Rumanian monarch was said to have asked Paris and London for a reply within forty-eight hours on what support they could give against the Nazi drive . Thereupon the two governments , these sources said , asked Moscow if the Soviet Union would join them in buying from Rumania to block Herr Hitler . Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet conferred in quick succession with the Rumanian Ambassador , former Premier George Tatarescu , British Ambassador Sir Erie Phipps and Jacob Surits , Soviet Ambassador , Ambassador Called Home M. Daladier called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a personal confidential report on what the next Berlin-Rome axis move might be and partly to match Britain 's action of yesterday in calling her Berlin envoy home . He ordered Foreign Minister Bonnet and Foreign Office experts to inform Rumania , Soviet Russia , Yugoslavia and Poland of the French note to Berlin and of his new plan to move as fast as the dictators , both at home and abroad . Sources close to M. Daladier said that the emergency Cabinet session called for tomorrow would decide how far France and Britain could go in supporting Rumania against Hitler 's eastern drive . M. Daladier put experts of all ministries to work on measures that he had planned for months , although he lacked the power to put them into force . Busiest were the defense ministries  --  army , navy and air . They whipped together plans for buying war stocks , a production schedule for war industries and military orders calling additional specialists into the army to control such measures . There was resistance inside France to M. Daladier 's " strong man " program , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confederation of Labor called an extraordinary meeting of its administrative council to fight Premier Daladier 's dictatorship demands . and unconcerned about the elements in its composition , replied shortly and enigmatically . His appeal was confined to a request for personal confidence . " Do you think this is the time to bring up internal political problems ? he asked . " What we are discussing is not a chapter in the life of the Third Republic but whether we are capable of defending that I republic and France . You speak of national unity but you preface your demand by pronouncing a categoric requisitory against the government and myself . " strength of this country into enthusiasm so as to assure not only its own safety but also the peace and liberty of all peoples . " Some lively incidents characterized the debate as accusations of incompetence were hurled , sometimes at the present government , and sometimes at those who preceded it and were seeking , it was alleged , to get back into power . Henri de Kerillis , war aviator and Nationalist of unorthodox opinions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full powers to the " men of Munich " and especially to an Air Minister who was producing less than seventy-one airplanes a month . Retort by La Chambre " That figure is false , " Air Minister Guy La Chambre retorted . " Those who repeat it are seeking to damage their country . " Over the lack of preparedness in civil defense M. de Kerillis also got into trouble . " Since last September enormous progress has been made , " Deputy Jean-Noel Pine111 , one of the municipal councillors of Paris replied . From George Bonnet , however , M. de Kerillis obtained confirmation that on March 11 the government knew of the concentration of German troops on the CzechoSlovak frontier and so informed the British Government . Gaston Bergery came next and he was , as usual , cheered sometimes by the Right and sometimes by the Left as he threw his keen criticisms first in one direction and then another . He defended the government 's action at the time of the Munich agreement , saying that " if we had not done it we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " M. Mann , who is a veteran leader of the Right , promised his group 's support for the government . He declared that during the past six months much progress had been made and that more would have been made if the government had had the powers it was now asking . At the end of the morning session the first vote was taken , on a question of procedure , with a majority for the government of 334 to 258 . Attack by Leftists In the afternoon it was the turn of the Leftist orators to attack the government proposals . Felix Gouin , for the Socialists , announced that what the Premier had said was less                     