@@704277

txt The British navy has doubled its vigilance on the high seas after learning that one or more of Germany 's three powerful pocket battleships are at large on the Atlantic , cooperating with submarines in a campaign of surface warfare against merchantmen , it was disclosed tonight . Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain revealed to the House of Commons today that one of the surface raiders was the Deutschland , 10,000-ton warship , which , he said , sank the British steamship Stonegate . Mr. Chamberlain 's statement tended to confirm reports that the Deutschland captured the American vessel City of Flint , - which picked up the Stonegate 's crew . German Ships Seized By RAYMOND DANIELL Wireless to Tag NEW YORK TIMES . LONDON , Oct. ** it had been generally supposed here that the British fleet from the beginning of the war had swept the seas clear of German shipping , Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain informed the Commons in his weekly review of the war this afternoon that five enemy ships had been captured by blockading squadrons , presumably in recent days . A sixth Nazi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Chamberlain said . Thus , said the Prime Minister , despite the loss of 22,715 tons of British shipping through intensification of the submarine warfare in recent days , Germany had lost nearly 33,000 tons . Mr. Chamberlain did not reveal the time or place where the enemy ships were captured and the Admiralty later refused to amplify his statement , saying it would disclose " too many secret matters . " The ships that Mr. Chamberlain said had been captured by the British blockading squadrons were the Phoebus , 8,863 tons ; Gloria , 5,896 tons ; Bianca , 1,375 tons ; Poseidon , 5,864 tons , and Biscaya , 6,369 , totaling 28,367 tons of enemy shipping in British possession , as compared with 22,715 tons destroyed recently by submarines , which sent five British ships to the bottom . The Gonzenheim , a craft of 4,564 tons , the Prime Minister said , was the one scuttled by her crew . Mr. Chamberlain stated that his estimates of British gains over losses were subject to decision of the prize court that rules in , such matters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the owner of the Phoebus , which was built at Kiel in 1923 and registered under the Panama flag . Lloyd 's listed- another Phoebus of 657 tons as a German ship . There was no listing of a ship named Gloria fitting the Prime Minister 's description . All the other ships mentioned by Mr. Chamberlain , however , were of German registry . Sees " Growing Lawlessness " Mr. Chamberlain commented on the " growing lawlessness " of the German submarine campaign against British shipping , and said it seemed to be a rule now to sink merchantmen without warning . There was a " deplorable loss of life , " he said , in the sinking of the steamship Yorkshire . Many of the victims , he pointed out , were soldiers ' wives and children who were returning from the East . The shelling and sinking of the French ship Bretagne with the loss of fourteen lives , he said , was another " flagrant instance . " Cries of " Hear ! Hear ! " interrupted Mr. Chamberlain when he said : " No words are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of warfare . " The German air attack on a British convoy in the North Sea last Saturday proved more disastrous for the raiders than was at first believed , said British official sources tonight . Simultaneously they claimed that a shelling duel between a lone British merchantman and a submarine ended with the sinking of the U-boat . It is now known , the Air Ministry said , that at least seven out of twelve German aircraft failed to return to their base after the North Sea engagement , and their losses may turn out to have been even greater when fuller information has been received . After the action four airplanes were claimed by the Royal Air Force as having been shot down , three diving into the sea and a fourth alighting on the water . The crew of that craft escaped in a collapsible boat and were picked up the following day . Early View Confirmed British pilots called up to beat off the convoy 's attackers then believed that at least three more German planes would never return home , but hesitated to say so in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stated , was now established , for members of three German crews since have been rescued ? one by a trawler , another by a destroyer far out in the North Sea and a third by a Danish steamer . The story of a long fight between a freighter armed with only one defense gun and a U-boat was told today when the ship arrived at a South Wales port . The freighter accepted battle with the submarine , which seemed to have run out of torpedoes ; answered its fire shell for shell and so successfully withstood the onslaught that the raider had to submerge . It reappeared on the surface nearly three miles away and resumed the battle for an hour and a half until it vanished with the explosion of the final shell of the freighter . The action opened in the afternoon while the ship 's crew was at a hard-earned dinner . Nearing home after a rough crossing the lookout spotted the U-boat on the surface almost under the starboard bow . The submarine conning tower was opened , and mgn on watch could see distinctly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The submarine broke surface so near the ship that , in the words of one officer , " the face of the Johnny in the conning tower was almost recognizable . " Gun Trained on U-Boat Eight shells whisteled harmlessly through the ship 's rigging , and then , with a gun trained almost to a hair 's breath on the U-boat , the Britons opened fire . " Suddenly the men on the U-boat 's deck made a scramble for the conning tower , " the officer continued , " and tumbled inside . The lid was snapped down and the submarine dived . We had fired only a few shells . " The story was taken up by another member of the crew , who said : " For the time being we had scared Jerry , though we knew we had not sunk him . A close watch was kept in the surrounding sea . We had forgotten all about dinner , which was cold by that time , and we were all keyed up . We knew the U-boat would strike again . " She broke surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were going fulls peeda head . She resumed the contest and for every shell she fired we fired one back . The U-boat 's shells either fell short or went too far and whistled up aloft and made us duck . " Our shells . were falling thick around her , and after about au hour and a half a sheet of white foamy water spread wide around the submarine and she vanished . " The Admiralty announced late tonight that the shattered wreck of a German submarine was found during the day on Goodwin Sands , near Deal , England . Salvage work was carried out on the craft most of the day .                     