@@703089

txt A week ago this column recorded the strong leanings of American foreign policy as shaped by Secretary of State Cordell Hull , and encouraged by President Roosevelt , in the direction of more pc1sitive exercise of American-moral and , perhaps ultimately , economic influence , against aggression in the world . It painted out also that an important step In this development was to be the crushing of the Ludlow war refeiendum amendment proposal , if possible . On Monday of this past week the vote was taken on the Ludlow proposal , and administration policy won , But it won by only a narrow majority of 21 votes . Analysis of that vote revealed to a surprising ' degree how synthetic the majority was It is obvious to everyone that If Congress had been left entirely free to make its own choice on the matter the Ludlow proposal would have won at least a clear majority , if perhaps not the twolthirds majority which is necessary before a proposed constitutional amendment can move on to the states for ratification proceedings . This has been a setback @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American emergence from pure isolationism . The meaning of the vote was not lost on the State Department , But what is important today is that , while recognizing that further steps along the bath toward co-operation must be conditioned by the clear implications of the vote , there Is as yet no sign of any disposition to turn hack . Rather , it has served to emphasize the necessity of redoubling the domestic campaign of public education to impress upon the people that there can be no security for the United States in a world of international lawlessness If the Hull program is not'allowed to go on . Two Significant Steps Meanwhile , two forward steps have been taken in the specific application of this more aggressive foreign policy . President - Roosevelt on Tuesday announced a plan for continuing the economic tics between the United States and the Philippines until 1960 instead of ending them in 1990 as provided by the existing Philippine Independence statute , This is the antithesis of the " withdrawal " from the Far East which Is an important part of any isolationist policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington which challenge Japan 's program of " Asia for the Ablatics " and state implicity that American foreign policy does not contemplate any hasty retreat in the face of Japanese aggression . Second , it was announced that three United States cruisers would arrive at Britain 's great eastern naval base at Singapore on Feb. 14 to join In the ceremonies : narking completion of extensive improvements which Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . Washington Bureau have been going on for several yea 's there , a naval base which is one of the two most potentially powerful obstacles to the utimate fulfillment of Japanese militarist ambitions . The other is Pearl Harbor near Honolulu . Behind these external developments , plans go forward for the bigger navy which is assumed in administration quarters to be an Indispensable foundation for a greater American contribution to re-establishment of peace and order in the world . The President 's promised message on naval expansion has been delayed by technical details which have not yet been honed out . Among these Is the size of new battleships . May Mean Larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a special investigation on reports that several other powers are exceeding by wide margins in their , new battleship construction the 35,000-ton limit of the 1936 naval treaty . The report may make a big difference in what the United ptate8 builds . But it was learned definitely that Congress will be asked to vote new naval authorization of extensive proportions which will release naval construction programs from the restraints of the old naval treaties , and expansion will begin this year , ' Immediate reason for this naval perseverance is the increasing evidence of the disposition of the Japanese militarists to close China 's open door if possible . Along with more military successes has gone increasing pressure on Western rights in China . Encroachments on the Independence of the International Settlement at Shanghai become more persistent . There Is a dispositions to try to persuade Britain and the United States to withdraw their ships from the Yangtze River , And the war Is daily being carried nearer the major British sphere of influence around Hong Kong . The State Department strongly suspects that the real showdown on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Panay and the shelling of the British gunboat Ladybird were intended as hints that China is no place for the Western nations and that they had better get out . But Secretary Hull has not the slightest intention of getting out if he can help it , first because it would be one more item of encouragement to aggression . and second , because he believes that the . new world order which he would like to establish can be founded only on respect for law , order and hasty observance . Ho believes that subservience to Japan would be a sure means of deferring Indefinitely achievement of a more stable world , And he still has hopes of this , although more ' and more emphasis Is being laid here On stopping aggression and less and less on the longer-range objective .                     