@@698905

txt The Rev. Dr. Francis P. Duffy , war-time chaplain of the " Fighting Sixty-ninth " Regiment , whom Cardinal ? Hayes once described as " the ideal army chaplain and the ideal parish priest , " died at 5:30 A. M. yesterday in St. Vincent 's Hospital . He had been ill for three months , suffering from colitis and an infection of the liver . He was in his sixty-second year . After the first attack of illness he spent several weeks in the hospital , but recupCrated sufficiently to resume his duties at Holy Cross Roman Catholic Church at 331 West Fortysecond Street , where he was pastor . He returned to St. Vincent 's Hospital June 16 , and from that time on his strength gradually waned . Hundreds of friends of all faiths kept informed about his condition . Unconscious More Than 12 Hours . Father Duffy had been unconscious since 5 o'clock Saturday afternoon . At his bedside as death came with the approach of dawn were his close relatives and two of his ' three assistant priests . They had remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Colonel Alexander E. Anderson of the Sixty-ninth Regiment was there until after 1 A. AL The Rev. William M. Burke , assistant pastor at Holy Cross , had left the bedside only a few minutes before the end , to offer the 6 o'clock mass . The assistants who remained were the Rev. William B. Duffey and the Rev. Joseph J. O'Rouke . The relatives were Hugh Duffy of Staten Island , a brother ; Mrs. Michael Bird , a sister , and several nephews and nieces . The news spread quickly about the city . In the Times Square district , where Father Duffy was perhaps best known and warmly loved by persons of all faiths , expressions of sadness were frequent and sincere . Protestants as well as Catholics climbed the steps of Holy Cross Church to kneel in prayer . His Parishioners Mourn . An unusual hush , broken here and there by suppressed . obbing , followed the announcement , at mass in the church , of the pastor 's passing . " It is my sad duty to announce to you , " Father William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom and mercy has seen fit to take to Himself your beloved pastor and mine . " Father Duffey then stated the time of the Divine Office and of the funeral . " The soul of him who has been your pastor for the last twelve years , " he said , " is now before his Maker . Priests are human , and therefore it is just as fitting that you say prayers for the repose of the soul of your late pastor , as for your own father and mother . " An air of sadness pervaded the Holy Cross parochial school at 332 West Forty-third Street yesterday afternoon when the commencement exercises were held there . Father Duffy was as well beloved by the young as by his adult parishioners . Funeral to Be Wednesday . Father Duffy will have a military burial Wednesday morning . The Most Rev. John J. Dunn , Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of New York , will preside in the sanctuary and give the final absolution . He is in charge in the absence of Cardinal Hayes at the Eucharistic Congress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Agnes 's Church , who was chaplain of the battleship Maine when she was blown up in Havana Harbor , will preach the sermon . Mgr . Thomas George Carroll , Chancellor of the Archdiocese , will be the celebrant of the solemn high mass of requiem . The old " Fighting Sixty-ninth , " with which Father Duffy served on the Mexican border as well as in France , will attend the services in a body with the regimental band . The unit , known also as the " Fighting Irish , " was part of the Forty-second ( Rainbow ) Division under the designation of the 165th Infantry during the World War . Its commander today is Colonel William J. Costigan . Burial will probably be in St. Raymond 's Cemetery in the Bronx , in the Duffy family plot . In the meantime the body of the famous chaplain will rest in the rectory which adjoins the church . The edifice itself will be draped in mourning for thirty days . The Divine Office of the Dead will be chanted at 8 o'clock tomorrow evening in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Once Recommended as Colojiel . General Douglas , Chief of Staff in Washington , who commanded the Rainbow Division in France when Father Duffy was chaplain , revealed yesterday that when the division was in the midst of an offensive he had recommended the priest for command of the 165th Regiment . " Father Duffy 's record In the Forty-second Division was unsurpassed by any one in that great unit , " the General declared . " He was frequently decorated for bravery and general efficiency . " On one occasion I recommended him to be the Colonel of the 165th Infantry . This is one of the few occasions in the history of the American Army when the suggestion was made that a minister of the gospel be converted into the commander of a fighting unit . His death will be mourned by thousands of his comrades-inarms of the old Rainbow . " Father Duffy , the " Fighting Chaplain " of the 165th Infantry , as the old Sixty-ninth New York was known in France , won fame and decorations from his own and the French governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War , and but few clergymen were held in more affectionate regard by persons of all faiths . Father Duffy was born in the Province of Ontario , Canada . on May 2 , 1871 . He was graduated at St. Michael 's College , Toronto , and then came to New York as a teacher at St. Francis Xavier 's College here . He continued iris own studies and was admitted to the Troy Seminary in 1894 . Two years later , in September , 1896 , he was ordained a priest and sent to the Catholic University for a post-graduate course , receiving a degree of D. D. He then went to St. Joseph 's Seminary in Dunwoodie , where he specialized in logic and psychology . He was regarded as an expert in the latter subject . Fordham University gave him the degree of Doctor of Laws in 1919 . In 1912 Cardinal Farley sent Father Duffy to the Bronx as pastor of the newly designated Parish of Our Saviour . Through his efforts the present church was erected at Washington Avenue and 183d Street and made one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's military service dated from the days of the Spanish War in 1898 . He was then a Pqrst Lieutenant and chaplain of the Sixtyninth Infantry , National Guard . He was post chaplain at Montauk Point and was one of the first to welcome Colonel Theodore Roosevelt and the Rough Riders when they returned to Long Island after the Santiago campaign in Cuba . Went With 69th to Mexico . Despite Father Duffy 's duties as a parish priest , he found time to continue his service with the National Guard land when the Sixty-ninth was ordered to the Mexican border in 1916 he went with the regiment . His cheerfulness and wholesome common sense in the face of all difficulties was an important factor in maintaining the high morale of his organization , not only then , but later in France . When the Sixty-ninth was mustered into the Federal service as the 165th Infantry at the time the United States entered the World War , Chaplain Duffy went with it to Camp Mills . The regiment was assigned to the Forty-second , or Rainbow , Division . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the senior chaplain . He established the most cordial relation : : with his fellow-chaplains . Father Duffy was decorated with the American Distinguished Service i Cross by the United States and with the Croix de Guerre by France , for his heroism under fire when his regiment crossed the Ourcq in the face of the determined opposition of the German Guards during the battle which lasted from July 28 to July 31 , 1918 . He also was advanced in rank from a first lieutenant to a major . His citation for the Distinguished Cross read : " Despite constant and severe bombardment with shells and aerial bombs , he continued to circulate in and about two aid stations and hospitals , creating an atmosphere of cheerfulness and confidence by his courageous and inspiring example . " Father Duffy later wrote of his wartime experiences in a book , " The Story of the 165th Infantry . " He explained that although his regiment was predominantly Irish and Catholic , many Protestants and Jews found their way into its ranks , frequently coming with replacement drafts . " Without sticking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he once said , " I tried to be friendly and useful in various ways . I think the spirit manifested in the regiment was a fine tribute to the fundamental tolerance and decency of the American people . Many of the Protestants and Catholics said their prayers , morning and night , for a time , in common . " Father Duffy said there was but little drinking in the regiment while it was in France and that " what little there was did the men a lot of good and but little harm . " After the armistice Father Duffy returned to his church in the Bronx until his promotion to the Holy Cross Church at 237 West Forty-second Street , between Eighth and Ninth Avenues . Honored at 25th Anniversary . In December , 1921 , the twenty-fifth anniversary of Father Duffy 's ordination was observed with a large meeting at the Hippodrome . Cardinal Hayes and other high church dignitaries were lavish in their praise of Father Duffy and his work , both as an army chaplain and as a priest . " Being bumped early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's troubles . " said Father Duffy at the time of his anniversary . " Encouragement is all well enough . But you must dig up something from within the man if he really is to triumph- If I have helped any one to be a-better man , and he loves me for it , that 's my D. S. C. " One of the last special accomplishments of Father Duffy 's life was the establishment of a mass for nightworkers which is held every Sunday and on holy days of obligation at 2:15 A. M. For months he had canrassed the Times Square district and found that not only were there hundreds of Catholics employed by The New York Herald Tribune , THE NEW YORK TIMES and other publications n the vicinity , but that there were as many men and women of his faith engaged in night toil in hotels and restaurants in the district . He arranged that a vote on the time of the mass be taken in the newspaper plants and then he abided by the verdict , which was 2:15 o'clock . Everywhere Father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least his piety , he proved himself " a man 's man " ? among men in all walks of life . He had an abundance of war stories which he enjoyed telling . When he was praised for his world in France he invariably turned off the laudations by remarking " Oh , yes , I won the war , " and changing the subject . When Cardinal Hayes , in 1920 , gave Father Duffy the pastorate of Holy Cross Church , the warrior priest found that with all of the history and prestige of the parish , located in the heart of the metropolis , it was in a bad way financially , virtually all the parishioners having moved away . Dr. Duffy made an appeal to some of his warmest friends of other faiths as well as of his own , and they came to his rescue to the extent that the church today is on a much sounder ' financial basis . Father Duffy was an ardent supporter of the Irish Republic . When Sir Philip Gibbs sought to lecture at Carnegie Hall in February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland , hisses and boos from Sinn Fein adherents in the audience prevented him from continuing . Father Duffy made his way to the stage and asked for fair play and urged that Sir Philip be given a hearing . The meeting was ended without further disorder and Father Duffy later answered the arguments advanced by Sir Philip in detail . During the early years of his priesthood , Father Duffy spent his vacations at the Catholic Summer School of America at Cliff Haven , Lake Champlain . In 1925 he was elected president of the school . During the same year he was chosen president of the Veterans ' Organization of the Rainbow Division . The French Government made him a member of the Legion of Honor in 1920.                     