@@699001

txt A plan for cooperation between the Government and the banking powers to effect a nation-wide business revival , giving a spurt , to manulacturmg and industry generally , and through this means to provide employment on a huge scale , is being worked out here today . The proposal took definite shape at a meeting at the Federal Reserve Bank yesterday between Mr. Owen D. Young , chairman of the committee engaged in spreading the benefits of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation funds , and Mr , Eugene Meyer , governor of the Federal Reserve Board and until recently chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation . Others present were Mr. Walter C. Teagle , president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , and Mr. Floyd L. Carlisle , chair ' , man of the Niagara Hudson Power Corporation . Among the many proposals being discussed the one believed most likely to be adopted Is the formation of a $50,000,000 corporation whose debentures would be sold to the banks , the proceeds to be lent by this newcompany to manufacturers for the purpose of purchasing raw materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of production designed to stimulate industry and give employment to many now idle . Another plan calls for a $30,000,000 pool to operate in wheat , this body to be headed by Mr. Arthur W. Outten of Chicago , prominent grain operator , and elimination of the Government , through the Federal Farm Board , as a heavy seller of wheat . This latter would be aewmplished by purchasing the Farm Board 's 50,000,000 bushels of wheat , all that remains of the 250,000,000 it held a year ago . By thus putting the Farm Board out of the market , and by taking advantage of the fact that this year 's wheat crop is expected to be the smallest since 1925 , it is believed that the wheat prices could be stabilized at a higher level . The plan of revival as It now stands , according to authorities within financial circles , is fourfold : 1 . Formation of a private corporation , to whose capital banks would subscribe 10 per cent and the Re-.:onstruction Finance Corporation the rest . Loans by this company would be made to manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boost industry . 2 . Reconstruction Finance Corporation funds would pay the expense of a broad program of public works , the projects to be income-bearing . Elimination of Slums 3 . Elimination of slums and rehabilitation of homes through a housing project , which would call for the cooperation of banks in the home mortgage field with the home loan banks . 4 . Decrease in dividend omissions and bond defaults and increase of sound lending by banks , leading to revival of general credit activity . Widespread confidence and optimism , founded on this cooperation between government and industry , which is looked upon as the long-awaited turn to better business , was immediately apparent on the stock exchange , where prices have been showing a decidedly upward trend for several days . Yesterday the market experienced its most active day since December , the total turnover being 3,522,000 shares . Tendency to purchase preferre ' ! stocks was encouraging , in that it showed buying was not for speculative purposes , but on the basis of future possibilities . Formation of a syndicate to aid cotton is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stabilizing prices through the purchase by such a syndicate of a certain portion of the 3,500,000 bales now held by the Farm Board or cotton operatives , and the suspension of selling by the latter for a year . Eventual benefit to both cotton farmer and textile manufacturer is seen in this plan , which , it is believed , would in time bring about orderly selling . Meyer Keeping Busy Mr. Meyer is not confining himself to talks with the Young committee . Ever since his arrival here from Washington , he has discussed various aspects of the situation and its remedies , to the end of encouraging and rehabilitating industrial enterprise , with leading figures in the banking field . Behind him , authorities in business and finance here believe , is the backing of the Washington administration . Generally characterized as a major stimulus to business , this fall , the plan to form a corporation for the special purpose of - boosting inventories through financing the purchase of commodities necessary for increased production has evoked general and enthusiastic approval in the business world , especially since it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not come until the price level of commodities has shown a decided and persistent rise . This , it is widely conceded , will be the immediate effect of the proposed corporation , resulting , among other things , in improved farm purchasing power and further improvement of sen4Ment . BInce it is generallt reported that current inventories of many enterprises are at abnormally low levels because credit is almost at a standstill , the special loans planned by the corporation are believed to be a timely and provide ) at solution to the general business conditions prevailing .                     