@@704107

txt With prominent Boston and South Shore officials in attendance . and in the front row more than 50 Quincy and Wollaston children deprived of harbor bathing facilities , Gardner Auditorium today was the scene of a spirited defense of the ' recommendations of the report of the Special Commismon which investigated sewerage and sewage disposal and recommended on grounds of public health and necessity the outlay of I $24,717,000 In the North and South Metropolitan Districts and the City of Boston . Opposition presented to the Committee ? on Ways and Means was confined almost entirely to the inadvisability of entering upon this project because of the expense to the City of Boston . The answer of Representative Joseph L. Whiten ( R ) of Quincy , former Mayor and now member of the Special Commission , was to point to the children present and the " sad picture " of these youngsters " who could n't swim on their own beach . " Project Defended " The health of these children can not be measured in dollars and cents , " he said . " What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or $124,000,000 , when the public health . is at stake ? " Miss Margaret Morin , playground teacher at Avalon Beach , which was closed yesterday , said there were two dangers : swimming in the polluted water , and when that water was closed to them , swimming in the " treacherous Quincy quarries . " Senator Harris S. Richardson ( R ) of Winchester , . Chairman of the Special Commission and Chairman of the Legislative Committee on Metropolitan Affairs , which approved the report , declared the need was pressing because of the menace to public health and also because Federal money to the extent of , 45 per cent of the cost was now available , but might not be if the project was shelved . ' He told how Health Commissioners , resiI dents and bathers had testified to conditions arising from using the water . He said the situation had forced property values down and that residents were moving away . Prof. Marshal W. Jennison of Massachusetts Institute of Technology testified he had made 200 tests of water from the Charles Basin and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said an index of 1,01 ) 0 was , considered dangerous . Tells of water Tests Dr. Charles Lund of the Massachusetts Medical Society , also referring to the Charles , declared the water " was not good enough j for fish to live in " in fact , a three-inch spindleback was about the only fish there now . Representatives from the Charles i River Associates , the Cambridge League of Women Voters and others favored the report . Mayorj Thomas F. Burgin of Quincy said the situation must be remedied and that Quincy was ready to pay its share . Henry Parkman , Jr. , Corporation Counsel for the City of Boston , and George G. Hyland , City Commissioner of Public Works , opposed the adoption of the plan at this time for financial reasons . They recommended that one sewage plant be built at a cost of $3,000,000 , or about $1,400,000 expense to Boston over the 40-year period . E. J : , Secretary of the Quincy Chamber of Commerce , expressed the . opinion that if the Legislature did not act , - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injunction sought in the District Court to prevent the emptying of ' sewage into navigable waters of the United States . Polluting Boston Harbor Brings Two $750 Fines Charged with " violation of the Federal Oil Pollution Act by discharging oil sludge into Boston Harbor , Benedicto Sturla , Captain , and Jioachimo Labassa , Chief Engineer , of the Italian Steamship Capo Olmo , today pleaded guilty before Judge Francis .1 . W. Ford ' in Federal District Court and were , fined $750 each . The case was investigated by the Enforcement Division of the Customs Service . U. S. Attorney Edmund J. Bran- , don stated the case , was not unusual but that prosecution was in line with the Federal policy of cooperating in enforcing the law in an effort to stop pollution of Boston Harbor and keep the waters safe for the thousands of bathers using the beaches to the north and south .                     