@@701274

txt An Agricultural Adjustment Act , radically altered throughout with the purpose of bringing it within the limitations laid down by the Supreme Court in the Schechter case , yet conferring powers on Secretary Wallace to regulate production and sale of many farm products , was passed by the House today without a record vote and sent to the Senate . A well-organized majority rode rough-shod over fourteen mutilating amendments , and on a standing division of 168 to 52 voted final passage of the measure , which combines most of the farm-relief proposals of the last decade even to a $100,000,000 fund for carrying out a modified version of the old plan . A final effort to bring a record vote on the bill , called an amendment to the Agricultural Adjustment Act , was promptly squelched by Speaker Byrns with a reminder that only 218 members were needed for a quorum and that a motion to void the standing vote because of the absence of a quorum could not be considered . Test on Processing Taxes . The severest test to which the bill was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Wigglesworth of Massachusetts to amend the measure by authorizing a direct appropriation for payment of rent and benefit payments in whatever amount was necessary to do away with cotton processing taxes . Chairman Jones of the Agriculture Committee withdrew a point of order against the amendment to permit Republican members from textile sections of New England to express their sentiments , but when the vote on the amendment came it was voted down 87 to 19 . Designed primarily to place the farm program beyond threat of court tests on constitutional grounds , the bill alters and supplements the present Agricultural Adjustment Act in the following chief respects : 1 . Prescribes a definite rule of procedure for the removal of surpluses and stimulation of exports to remedy present alleged defects from unwarranted delegation of legislative power to the secretary . 2 . Substitutes for the existing licensing system authority in the Secretary to issue orders with Presidential approval prescribing minimum prices , quota allotments and terms of sale of milk , vegetables , fruits , walnuts and pecans , but excluding canned fruits and vegetables . Presidential approval is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in agreement . 3 . Provides that no one may sue for recovery of processing taxes on the ground they were illegally collected ; this on the theory that any such collections already have been passed on to consumers . 4 . Redefines interstate commerce provisions of the present law empowering Secretary Wallace to regulate marketings of certain nonbasic commodities . 5 . Permits rental and benefit payments for expansion as well as contraction of farm output ; gives existing processing tax rates a legal status and authorizes their increase by 20 per cent of present rates or reduction to zero with the provision that if the power to increase or reduce them is held invalid present rates are not to be affected . One of four amendments accepted by the committee on the floor and finally adopted authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture , in addition to going into the books and records of parties to marketing agreements , to have access to their income tax returns . Another amendment accepted spe " cifically prohibits the inclusion in marketing agreements of anything interfering with the tharketing of dairy products in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the House voted or shouted down amendments proposing to include hops and dried edible beans as basic and non-basic commodities , respectively , under the terms of the bill . The Pacific Coast delegations voted solidly for the inclusion of hops , but Representative Mead of New York said the result might be to restrict producers just coming back into the field since prohibition . " The gentleman 's beans are in no danger , " Chairman Jones told Representative Martin of Colorado when the latter questioned whether they could be brought under the act as " vegetables . " Mr. Martin said if the chairman was willing to state for the record that dried edible beans were a vegetable he would withdraw his amendment .                     