@@704288

txt Whatever may be Germany 's military plans of the immediate future , the Belgian and Netherlands governments have information which has caused them to bring their defense machinery into almost full bla v. The hurried peace appeal issued by the sovereigns of the two small nations jointly Nov. 7 , so far from easing the tension , has been followed by a clash between GerI mans and Dutch on the border at venloo , by a preliminary flooding by the Dutch of tracts around the Rhine mouths and in the neighborhood of Utrecht , and by the hasty preparation of a new trench system by the Belgians near the strategic Dutch city of Maastricht . Apart from the fact that Belgium has planned a flooded area for defense purposes north of Albert canal , near the Netherlands border , the defense systems of the two small countries are organized on an entirely different basis . The Dutch have strung around their frontiers light fortifications of barbed wire and blockhouses , contrived so as to halt an invader only long enough to bring their main defense scheme into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their territory , crowding themselves into the re- maining third , along the coast , which they can isolate from the land side by an elaborate system of floods . With no experience of any serious invasion more recent than the seventeenth century , they are adopting precisely the same methods that their ancestors used to hold back the Spaniards in 1578 and the Germans in 1672 . The Belgians , with the experiences of the World War vivid in memory , and with no possibility of large-scale flooding , are planning to defend themselves partly by a small edition of the French Maginot line , and partly with an I elaborately devised system of dynamiting bridges , roads and I railroads , designed to halt the invader long enough for assistance to be moved forward by the ' French , whose Maginot line lies to the south . As far as the Netherlands is concerned , the small nation , with about five divisions of troops , little heavy artillery , and a flat territory offering no natural defenses toward the east , is believed to be adopting the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with dynamiting operations similar to those organized by the Belgians , might be expected to offer the most convincing reply to an oncoming mechanized army . The Netherlands might look for invasion from two directions according to the goal before the invader . One objective might be to establish a convenient base for air attacks upon England on the flat coastal regions of Northern Brabant or the provinces of North and South Holland , and to organize effective submarine bases for the Nort'a Sea in the Rhine estuary , using Rotterdam and thence perhaps pushing down to Antwerp and Flushing . To attain this objective , invasion might be expected via Nijmegen or Arnhem , heading directly west to the coast . Time to Move People The Dutch plan in the event of such an attack is clearly to hold the invader as long as possible at the lightly fortified frontier until the railroads can convey the population and as much of their livestock and effects as possible into the unflooded regions of North and South Holland and the islands of Zeeland . There , in severely congested conditions , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dependent on the British for protection from the sea , they would endeavor to hold out until a favorable turn of the war released them . Their progress into the flood-girt refuge would be facilitated by more than one line of defenses . The main line of blockhouses behind the front runs all the way from Maastricht in the south , at the Belgian border , via Arnhem to Zwolle on the Yssel in the north . ' There are also said to be defenses running southward from Amsterdam as a final land fortification . As to the flooding , it divides itself into two systems , both fed from the Zuider Zee in the North . It is the more easily effected from the fact that the new " polders " or areas of reclaimed land in that sea , are mostly in an incomplete state . The first flood area , which is also partly fed by water cancelled from the Yssel , follows a winding course from the Zuider Zee southward . curving westward to the estuary of the Waal ( Rhine ) . This flood defense is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A second and larger flood area , also fed from the sluice gates of the Zuider Zee , and having an average width of about 10 miles , begins in the north of North Holland , winding southward , via Amsterdam and Utrecht to a wide area around the Waal , where it meets the first water line . Speed in Flooding Assured How quickly the flood gates of the Yssel and Zuider Zee can flood the reauired areas remains something of a military secret . It is reported that with the pressing of a button at Utrecht , the principal city in the middle of the flood defense area , sluices and dikes will be opened or blown up and water will rush into the prepared low land , in some places to a depth of 25 feet , so quickly that the population , even with the minimum of delay at the fortifications , could be safely planted on the western dry areas before the invader could reach them . This elaborate defense plan would entail the relinquishment of the four northern provinces and the rich farming country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated , however , that Limburg and Brabant would be overrun anyway , while the northern provinces are of relatively minor Strategic importance compared with the coastal regions of the Rhine mouths . If the leader of a highly mechanized force preferred not to take the risk of getting his elaborate equipment bogged in canals , flood waters , and the soft soakedl soil beneath , he might still wish to enter the Netherlands in order to outflank the Belgian defenses strung out to oppose an advance along the same route that the German . Von Kluck and his army followed in 1914 . If this were his aim , he would advance through the low-lying country of Limburg and turn southward through Belgium toward the French frontier . To meet such an advance , the Dutch could only offer their light fortifications , beyond which , at the 300-mile Belgian border , are the Belgian light defenses . Not until the newly constructed Albert canal is reached are there fortifications capable of holding up for some time a heavily mechanized force . This canal , 250 feet wide and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an advancing army . The terrain in front of it has been completely cleared , so that the advancing forces could find no shelter . On its west side , just above the water level , it is riddled with concrete fortifications and gun emplacements , behind which are permanent fortress camps . Toward the Netherlands frontier , after leaving ' Li  --  ge , the canal runs into hill country and deep cuttings , all of which are turned to up-to-date defense works . The bridgehead across the Meuse at Maastricht is covered by defenses 300 feet above the canal . Beyond the canal the invader would next face the formidable extension of the French Maginot line in territory familiar from the World War . Should the Netherlands be left to enjoy their neutrality and the attack be launched directly through the 55-mile Belgian-German frontier as in 1914 , there is a fairly strong line of Belgian prepared trenches , blockhouses and machine-gun nests and a still stronger line some distance behind , following to some extent the model of the Maginot line . Behind this is the eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only one considerable fortress , Liege , which is itself protected by a ring of smaller fortresses . To the south of Liege , the most effective defense is an elaborate system of dynamiting , which would render roads , railroads , and bridges useless to an eemy . While the Belgian preparations are thorough as far as they go and capable of delaying the advance of a modern mechanized army , there is little of the heavy artillery , or equipment for attack or defense by air necessary for prolonged resistance . Both Belgium and the Netherlands had placed their faith in the fact that they were inoffensive small nations , protected by sufficient treaties , and special guarantees from Germany , to ensure their frontier from violation under all circumstances . If in spite of these safeguards their neutrality is violated by an unscrupulous in-Nader in search of conquest , all they are capable of doing is to delay the invader pending help from a greater power . Advised to Leave AMSTERDAM , Nov. 10 ( IP ) ? The United States Consulate said tonight it would advise Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wives and dispensable American members of their staffs out of the country . " In doing so , the Consulate said , it would be passing on the advice given by the United States Minister , George A. Gordon , at The Hague in reply to inquiries by American businessmen there . It was estimated there were about 1,000 persons in the country with some claim to United States citizenship . It was understood the Legation received information that the Belgian border would be closed in event of any German action against the Netherlands . WASHINGTON , Nov. 10 ( IP ) ? Secretary Hull said today that American envoys in Holland and Belgium had authority to request Americans to leave those countries if it seemed advisable .                     