@@699267

txt Senator Ashurst of Arizona , a recent wet convert and probable chairman of the Judiciary Committee of the next Senate , issued a call for Democrats today to stand by their campaign pledge on repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Senator Ashurst said he and his Democratic colleagues would be " embezzlers of power " if they attempted to dodge any promise in the party platform and specifically the plank favoring repeal of the prohibition amendment . Calling attention to the action of the State of Arizona in repealing its State prohibition , act , Senator Ashurst said he had a clear mandate from his people and would consider it his duty so to vote on the question of liquor control . Arizona wasone of eleven States which took an anti-prohibition stand in the political upheaval of last Tuesday . Senator Ashurst 's views were set out in a formal statement ; He said : " Honesty and good faith require that platform pledges be kept . The Democrats would make themselves embezzlers of power if they refused to live to their own political platform promises . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Democratic national platform specifically favors a repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and also includes a demand that complete supervision and control of the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors be irestored to the States . As a Democratic Senator , it Is therefore my duty to vote for a joint resolution proposing a constitutional amendment to be submitted to representative conventions in the States for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . " As a Senator from Arizona I have always considered and still consider the Constitution of the State of Arizona to be the best indication of the will of the people respecting how I should vote on modification or retention of the national prohibition laws . The people of Arizona at the recent election having changed their organic law and having repealed State prohibition , my plain duty requires that I vote to carry out their mandate on this subject . " Prospects of modification of the Volstead act at the coming short session to legalize beer were considered to be increasing today as members began gathering for the final meeting of the present Con ' congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendment to a revenue bill . Should the legalizing of beer for the purpose of taxation be offered as a substitute for some such I scheme as a sales tax , Congress lead- ers believe it inevitable that the proposal would be accepted . Representative Byrne of Tennessee , already proposed by his friends as Speaker of the next House , said ... t ( . day that he saw no reason why a beer bill should not be passed by the lower body at the forthcoming session . He had some doubts about the strength of the beer advocates in the present Senate . Senator Bingham , who was defeated , although a wet , reiterated his promise today to do all consistent with his position as a " lame duck " to put forward a beer bill at the short session . He emphasized that two proposals for legalizing the beverage , both of which he introduced , are on the Senate calendar now and can be taken up immediately upon reconvening of the Senate . He saw no need for giving a beer proposal the cloak of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic platform pledges . He said there were enough Democrats in both bodies to insure legal beer early in December if they would live up to their campaign promises .                     