@@698436

txt Nine hundred Checker Cab drivers , meeting last night in Walsh 's hall at Noble street and Milwaukee avenue , voted to take their cabs out of service until the management agrees to cut its monthly service charges in half . Speakers urged all those present to carry on the strike without disorder and to persuade the other drivers of the company by peaceable means to join . During the afternoon twenty-five drivers stormed the company 's stand at 752 North Clark street and tore out the telephones . There was a similar attack on a stand in the Fillmore street police district . About twenty men were arrested in these disorders . Last night five strikers were arrested in the Town Hall police district and several others in various parts of the city . They were alleged to have threatened drivers who declined to join the walkout . A police guard was established at the company headquarters , 1401 Jackson boulevard . and another in front of the Morrison hotel , where nonstriking drivers complained of being menaced . Ralf of Drivers Rebel . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Checker organization , they are now compelled to pay 195.35 a month to the organization for a cab used by two drivers and 375.35 for a one man cab . For this they receive storage , telephone calls , and washing . They must purchase gasoline also from the company , and at rates which they claim are much too high for the quality of fuel sold . Specifically they demand that the monthly charges be cut to 147.50 and 133 for two man and one man cabs . respectively , and that the gasoline Prices be reduced . The speakers declared that while in form their company is an association of owner drivers , they are in fact at the mercy of their management . They hare been compelled , they declared . to purchase discarded Yellow cabs , repainted , at a price of 11,050. when such cabs sell in New York at 1250 . New cabs are sold them at 12:65 . Ca n't Make Money , They Say . It was said that the company retains ownership of the vehicles . issuing nontransferable stock to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of the speakers asserted the Checker organization was being ran for the bene5t of the Yellow Cab company . It is impossible under present conditions , it was alleged , to make any money driving a Checker . Michael 1.1 . Sokoll , president of the Checker company , declared the movement had only a small number of drivers and that 1,006 of a total of 1.120 cabs were in service and all paid np M. their dues .                     