@@700129

txt Taxes upon nearly all essential articles of food and clothing to help finance a stupendous program of federal relief during the coming winter have been decided upon by the Roosevelt administration . Launching of the large-scale federal direct dole of necessities , officials estimated offhand , will bring the relief total out of the public treasury to 51,000.000,000 a year . This includes federal . state and local expenditures . On the basis of current outgo , the federal government is carrying about 50 ' ; of the burden Although the taxes are to be levied under authority of the Farm Adjustment Act , officials of the Agricultural Department and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration said the announcement was not authorized by them and that they were unaware of the extensive . taxing plans . First impressions that the use of proceeds of processing taxes for relief might be illegal were dissipated by close study of the Farm Adjustment Act . However , there still remained the question of whether Congress contemplated thoir use in the manner which the relief plans call for . Nevertheless the plan is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems probable that the Agriculture officials will iie called upon to act under his orders . Hopkins . Wallace and Ickes in Charge The official announcement was made by Harry L. Hopkins . federal relief director , who has recently conferred with the President . Mr. Hopkins said there would be formed a federal surplus relief corporation to be managed by himself , Secretary of Agriculture Wallace and Secretary of the Interior Ickes The corpora tton will buy necessities of life in huge amounts and distribute them to the needy unemployed . The two-fold object of the effort will be relief and the attack en surpluses which are regarded as a factor depressing prices of agricultural products . Mr. Hopkins made clear that the relief program would be carried out in a most thorough fashion . The funds are to come from the processing taxes . federal emergency relief appropriations and Reconstruction Finance Corp . loans . Commodity Competitors Can Be Taxed Under the Farm Adjustment Act processing taxes can be levied on basic commodities de- , fined as wheat cotton . corn , hogs , rice , tobacco : and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article . Under this set-up the federal government has extensive powers to put into operation a virtual system of sales taxes on food and cloth-. ing . Thus beef and lamb compete with pork and may be subject to compensatory taxes Eggs compete with all meats . Vegetable oils compete with lard . Woolen competes with cotton clothing , as does clothing from other materials . In providing for this the thought of Congress was that the proceed* from the taxes : would be used to pay benefits for acreage reduction and crop curtailment . However , the law also provides that the taxes may be used for the expansion of markets and removal of surpluses , and legal opinion here i ? that the re- ; lief plans definitely come into this latter cate- : gory since they do contemplate removal of surpluses . . Work-Relief Plan To Be Used Commodities to be acquired include foodstuffs . clothing , coal , beef , wheat , flour , rice , dairy products and lard . The doles will likewise include staple articles of human necessities , the supply of which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct purchase of cotton , but the program will be reflected on the cotton situation by the use of cotton in the manufacture of clothing . Officials intend to use the ' *work-relief " plan in their operations , particularly in the manufacture of clothing . Beneficiaries of relief will be required to work for their relief doles . Unemployed garment workers will be put to work , just as able-bodied relief beneficiaries are now required to work on roads , etc. , for their allowances . Processing at Cost Likely The operations of the corporation , while concentrating on the distribution of surpluses , will not be limited exclusively to this field The corporation will have power to purchase anything , officials stated . As officials ace it , they " mean business " in carrying out the President 's intentions in this respect . There is every intention to get things for distribution to the people at the lowest possible costs The government is likely to accept the numerous offers of manufacturers to process commodities at cost Since this has already been done as to pork . officials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incsient of the fob , officials are considering the taking of a comprehensive census of unemployment to develop fully the pertinent information ( lard-Moiled Attitude on Distribution Another feature of the prospective program . as it shapes up here , will be a hard-boiled attitude in the actual distribution of relief . The federal government is expected to hear down upon local authorities and clean house where the administration of relief has not been up to the highest standards of efficiency . Harry L Hopkins . federal emergericy relief administrator , has been designated by President Roosevelt as chairman of the surplus-relief board The determination of officials in immediate charge of the program reflects a definite intention to launch a far-reaching program . While stabilization of agricultural commodities through the distribution of surpluses as relief items is an integral part of the program , it will not be emphasized above relief . Officials regard the surplus-relief combination as a perfect one and they do not propose that one shall outweigh the other They propose to buy stir- i pluses which they can use in the relief doles ' and will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hopkins asserted Details of the actual operations sr. : acquiring processing and distributing eush surpluses , have not been worked out .                     