@@699971

txt A definite parting of the ways between Governor Lehman and the Tammany-controlled administration of New York City , marked the opening today of the extraordinary session of the Legislature to enact measures to ease the city 's financial straits . Governor Lehman , in a message sent to the Senate and Assembly soon after the opening gavel fell , flatly rejected the proposal of the New York City authorities to raise the funds needed by the city through State-wide taxation . Governor Repeats Challenge . The Governor virtually repeated his challenge of the New York City program , laid down in a recent letter to the Board of Estimate , and . insisted that the money to supply the city 's needs should be raised theough imposts levied by the city administration on its own taxpayers . Later he made it very clear that this was a stand from which he would not recede . In the meantime Tammany lawmakers and other more direct representatives of the New York City , administration had come to the Capitol without any definite plan . It was apparent tonight that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and temper of his official communication to the Legislature , had taken them aback . Tammany members of the Senate and Assembly were in an angry mood . From all accounts their ire was strongly expressed at party conferences , held behind closed doors , at which they listened to an exposition of the city 's needs and grievances by Arthur J. W. Hilly , Corporation Counsel , as spokesman for Mayor O'Brien . Republicans Back Governor . The Governor 's message was received without comment in the Senate . In the Assembly two Republican members  --  Abbot Low Moffat and Herbert Brownell Jr. ? both representing New York City districts , came strongly to the support of Governor Lehman . They pro ' nounced his attitude " sound and just " and pledged the willingness of the Republicans to aid the city " in any way consistent with sound public policy . " Both attacked the present administration of New York City . Their speeches were considered by their colleagues of both parties as significant chiefly from a political aspect . Generally , what they said , was regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City , and also as foreshadowing the sharp political coloring that the extraordinary session would take on before proceeding very far , Tax Powers to Be Limited . It was pointed out that no blanket authority to levy taxes would be granted to municipalities , and that the purposes for which new revenues could be used would also be limited . In the case of New York City a demand was made for $41,000,000 a year to be used for unemployment relief . It is probable , however , that leeway will be given to permit the use of new tax funds to wipei out debts incurred for relief , or taf strengthen the city 's credit . Governor Lehman , in his riles ? sage , handled the request of New York City for State-wide taxes to lift it out of its financial hole as bluntly and with as much spirit ail Ile did in his earlier communication to the Board of Estimate . He condemned , as fostering extravagance , the entire practice of having the State collect taxes and then distribute a large part of the proceeds to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax proceeds is vested in local officials who , by reason of the fact that they do not themselves levy the tax , feel less responsibility for econor. in its disbursement. " the Governor said . " Continuing to hand over more and more money by the State to its local communities inevitably leads to local extravagance and wastefulness . " The Governor pointed out that if , as the New York City authorities have demanded , a general State tax were to be levied , the impost would have to be paid and the money distributed among all the communities of the State . " Such a procedure would be unjustifiable , " he declared . " A great many of the communities do not need the money and consequently would be wholly opposed to paying the tax . " No Bills Introduced . No bills were introduced in either branch of the Legislature during the opening day . In many quarters it had been expected that the New York City authorities would offer some measure to carry out their program . After the Senate and Assembly had adjourned until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly met separately in conferences at which Mr. Hilly spoke at length . He told the lawmakers that there had been no change in the program of the city and that the demand for State-wide taxation was wholly justifiable . " The only thing in our program , " he said , in an interview , " is to ask the man or woman in New York City who has a dollar to spend to contribute a penny of that dollar to help maintain the unemployed until such time as the splendid program of President Roosevelt absorbs them once more in industry . " There is no proposal by the City of New York to seek a single dollar or a single penny from any other municipality of the State . " This statement was thought to have reference to the proposal that , should a State-wide tax be levied , : he proceeds should be divided among municipalities according to population . The speeches of the two Republican Assemblymen were received in virtual silence , with Irwin Steingut , the Democratic leader , making a ' brief rfeply , accusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to get . funds to carry on its huge relief work among ' the unemployed . Moffat Assails Tammany . Mr. Moffat , in his address , re ; viewed the conduct of the financial affairs of New York City during the years of depression . He pointed out that during the first three years of the slump , with realty values sagging , there had been an increase of $2,500,000,000 in the ass.q:quent on real estate within the city and an increase of $68,000,000 in the amount of taxes levied . He said the fact that the city budgets failed to give a clear picture of the city 's transactions , had undermined confidence in the administration . " To Impose still another tax on the whole State where it is not needed to take care of a situation that exists only in New York City would be grossly and manifestly unfair , " he said . " In my opinion the Governor 's decision is sound and just . " Mr. Moffat suggested that , as a condition for Republican support , all revenues raised for the unemployed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervision and auditing of the funds by an appointee of the Governor , and that the State Ternporary Relief Administration should have greater powers of control , including the selection of all investi gators . He also demanded complete and accurate publicity as to the city 's finances with regular weekly statements , an end to juggling with moneys set aside for sinking funds and debt service , and that the city 's budgets be made " more honest . " " Adequate funds for home and work relief in New York City must be obtained immediately , " Mr. Brownell said . " The city 's power to borrow money for this purpose will be restored if the administration will make substantial cuts in its budget . If the city officials continue to refuse to follow this course , the real remedy is to defeat them at the polls in November . " Mastick Files Report . The New York State Commission for Revision of Tax Laws , headed by Senator Mastick of Westchester , filed an interim report in both the Senate and Assembly , which contained two specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amended so as to enable cities and counties to levy an additional 1 per cent retail sales tax within their municipal boundaries , the amendment should not be in effect later than June 30 next year , and the money should be earmarked for unemployment relief and debt services . The other opposed the city 's demand for an increase of 11 cent in the stock transfer tax . Mark Graves , President of the State Tax Commission , commenting on the report , said that the proposal for temporary local sales taxes was " interesting " and would not threaten the stability of the general tax plan under which the staff and its political subdivisions now operated . The Joint Committee of the Work- ' ers Committee on Unemployment , Workers Unemployed League and the Association of the Unemployed called on Governor Lehman late today and demanded that not less than $15,000,000 a month be made available by the State for relief .                     