@@700165

txt The United States Government places squarely upon Germany the blame for slowing down and impeding the movement toward general disarmament , Secretary of State Hull'indicated today . He said this government was greatly disappointed and very seriously regretted Germany 's move in withdrawing from the disarmament conference . The news of this step , as well as Germany 's notice of withdrawal from the League of Nations , apparently came as a surprise to the State Department . Practically all higher officials were called into conference in Secretary Hull 's office , and the scheduled press conference was postponed for two hours . When Mr. Hull began his conference with newspaper men he was flanked by William Phillips , UnderSecretary ; R. Walton Moore , Assistant ecretary ; Jefferson Caffery , Assistant Secretary , and Jay Pierrepont Moffat , chief of the Western European Division and disarmament expert of the State Department . It was evident Mr. Hull 's remarks were studied , and had been the subject of the conference with his lieutenants . Teamwork Is Blocked . The role of the United States , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one of striving wholeheartedly and unremittingly for general disarmament . The action of the Hitler government halted the spirit of teamwork the United States had tried to practice and encourage , he added . The exact part played by Norman H. Davis on behalf of the United States in precipitating today 's crisis was difficult to determine . The ' State Department had not been informed of any draft resolution , approved by Sir John Simon , British Foreign Secretary ; Joseph PaulBoncour , French Foreign Minister , and Mr. Davis , which Rudolf Nadolny , the German delegate , is said ? to have taken with him to Berlin , provoking Chancellor Hitler 's decision to withdraw from the conference . Whether or not the United States , Great Britain and France reached the point of agreeing on the wording of a resolution to be introduced at Monday 's scheduled preliminary session of the Disarmament Conference , there was no doubt from Mr. Hull 's remarks today that the three governments were in accord against any rearming by Germany . Their common meeting ground may have ended there , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out the spirit of the agreement of Dec. 11 , 1932 , offering equality of rights to Germany within a framework of security . Reports from Geneva during the past week of jockeying for position by the members of the steering committee have indicated that the United States delegation was seek- ing a formula satisfactory alike to Germany and to the former Allies , meeting all the susceptibilities exposed . The American position was principally one of mediation and reconciliation of conflicting views . Germany 's withdrawal from the conference has apparently ended this neutrality of position. - It ailpeered today that the United States was aligned solidly with its wartime associates against the peril , imaginary or real , of German rearmament . Mr. Hull made it clear that he had not given up hope of attaining measurable disarmament by the heavily armed nations . " I shudder to contemplate the alternative , " he said , " of all nations surrendering and giving up either efforts or hope of promoting disarmament and securing it . " Germany 's action today was viewed here more as a gesture than as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's entering into sanctions against Germany , as it was generally felt that no occasion for sanctions had been given . German dissatisfaction with the prospects of immediate application of the equality formula outlined last December , while understood here ; was deenied premature . The practical application of this formula , in the view of American officials , would have to be brought about through stages and through the downward revision of armaments in the heavily armed States . Opposition to Arming . The United States has constantly opposed , in principle , the early rearmament of Germany as a condition precedent to the signature of a disarmament treaty , and has hoped to secure at least a start toward general disarmament in Europe . The only movement which this government favored was a downward one . Presumably , efforts toward disarmament will be continued by this government . Among officials here there are several who , without becoming apologists for the German impatience manifested today , hold that France and Poland , notably , have been regrettably slow in living up to what they consider the implied disarmament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quote the preamble to Part V of the Treaty , which , outlines the military , naval and air clauses . Radio Aids Safety in Flight . Forty-two short-wave radio stations , scattered from coast to coast and from Canada to Mexico , are operated by American Airways in the dispatching of planes , C. C. Shangraw , director of communications for the company , explains .                     