@@697940

txt Mr. UNTERMYER 'S resignation as special counsel to the Transit Commission does not mean that his long labors have gone for nothing . Each of his later reports marked in many respects an advance over its predecessors , and served to explore further the possibilities of unification along the lines laid down by him . Even though the goal of transit unity on the basis he proposed should prove unattainable at this time , his name will be identified with much of the progress that has been made toward it . His diligence and persistence are recognized even by those most sharply critical of his approach to the problem . And he remains a factor to be recognized in any solution that others may bring forward , now that he has stepped aside . They have reason to fear his lance even more than they esteemed his shield . Their suggestions , as to both plan and price , must either meet with his approval or carry such conviction on their merits that his opposition may be overcome . The special counsel to the State body now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Transportation . It may be true , as Mr. UNTERMYER complains , that Mr. DELANEY has no more legal authority to work out a unification plan for the existing lines than the " man in the street , " but his approach to the problem is nevertheless realistic . The city and the companies are the two parties chiefly in interest even in the dual contracts , and in the matter of the new subways it is imperative that some operating agreement be reached at once . Mr. DELANEY has waited for months for something to come of the longdrawn-out negotiations over unification . With the consummation of that hope the city never is , but always to be , blest . The goal has a way of receding as it is approached , like swamp fire . Meanwhile transit unity remains desirable , but operation of the new subways by some one , somehow , has become both ' urgent and necessary . The whole incident reflects little credit on the Transit Commission . Instead of taking hold of the problem vigorously from the beginning , it virtually delegated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. DELANEY . It has not been alone in the attempt to shift responsibility for this vexed problem to other shoulders , but it has been peculiarly unhappy in that attempt . Having engaged Mr. UNTERMYER to draw up a plan , it held It at arm 's length , refusing even to approve it provisionally , as a basis of further consideration . Having reached an impasse with the companies over the program of its special counsel , it runs to Mr. DELANEY for help . The fact ( that he may be able to give it good advice is beside the point . " The law , " says Mr. UNTERMYER in his letter to the commission , " did " not intend you to be the tail to " any one 's kite . " It intended rather that the members of the commission should hold the strings tight in theirown hands .                     