@@699775

txt The higher level of operations , coupled with the economies which have been effected during the lean years , has , for the time being , at least , lifted the automobile and the accessory companies as a whole out of red ink in which many so long have been submerged . About Detroit , the talk now is not how much this or that company may lose , but how much profit the company will show . If the motor business continues its present pace , some pleasant surprises are in store for stockholders at the end of the current auarter Present prices for automobiles were predicated on production volumes which already are being exceeded by certain manufacturers with the result that for such companies the profit margins are widening . Some have instituted further economies and effected additional reductions in overhead since the first of the year . Most companies are protected against rising material costs for several months ahead . If material costs continue .10  --  and new commitments must be made at higher prices , the manufacturers have indicated that they will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the automobile retail market continuing to gain strength , the production curve climbing , and general business on the up-grade , motor executives are becoming Prater in their conviction that operations will hold at a. relatively high rate during the summer months . No one questions that potential demand that has been built up over the past three years , and now that purchasing power is steadily being enhanced by rising commodity prices and increased employment , the outlook for the motor industry is clarifying and presents a highly encouraging picture . Peak Generally in April or May April and May generally are the peak months , with production usually falling off quite rapidly thereafter . The current production rate of the industry indicates that May output will exceed that of April by a comfortable margin . and some are looking to June to establish an even higher production mark . There is nothing in the picture as yet to- indicate that a reversal of the current trend is near . Last year production and sales of passenger cars reached their high point in June , although the combined production of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher in May . In four of the last 12 years the peak production month was April , in three years it was May , and in two years August . In 1924 the peak came in March ; in 1922 in June , and in 1925 not until October . In the eight years for which registrations figures are available , five show April as the peak month for domestic retail sales . In two years May was the biggest month , and one year June . Several Plants Above Seasonal Level That Detroit industrial activity in May will exceed April is indicated in reports of representative concerns to the Detroit Board of Commerce . Of 34 companies reporting to the board , 26 expect the month to surpass April levels . Several plants also report that , according te present indications , May production will exceed May last year . The reports showed that April activity was substantially higher than that of March and for the first time in a year production was nearly equal to the previous year 's level . While production activity is favorably influenced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the plants are operating et higher than seasonal levels . Marked Gains in Wayne County Marked gains are being recorded in retail Volume of new passenger cars in Wayne County . Sales during the first 11 days of May were ahead of the corresponding 1932 period and are more than double the volume in the comparative April period . ? A total of 2,055 new passenger cars were sold at retail in Wayne County in the first 11 days of May , against 954 in the like period of April , according to compilation of the Detroit Automobile Dealers Association . For the first 15 days of May , 1932 , 2,050 cars were titled . Some idea of the potential replacement demand that exists may be had from a comparison of the number of pashenger cars registered in the 12 months ended March 31 , 1933 , with the number titled just prior to the depression . The best 12-month period for retail sales was that which ended October , 1929 , when 3,924,355 passenger cars were titled . Every 12 months ' period since that time has shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March 31 , last , only 1.061.927 new cars were licensed . March registrations were only 43C4 of the five-year average for that month .                     