@@701082

txt Former President Hoover is represented by his intimates in the Republican party as holding that , if radical currency inflation can be avoided in the present session of Congress , this country may escape any further disturbance to its monetary system . His views were communicated to Republican leaders shortly after he had issued his recent statement in which he advised the country to return to the gold standard as the only means of effecting a permanent recovery . According to these leaders , Mr. Hoover saw dangers of inflation in the event that Congress should pile the heavy added burden of paying the veterans ' bonus upon the already great current emergency expenditures now being met by borrowing . Mr. Hoover thought , these leaders said , that all conservatives and sound money advocates should aid the administration in defeating the immediate cash payment of the bonus . . His suggestion that sound-money Republicans should uphold the hands of the administration in defeating the bonus apparently has not met with much support , judging by reports today that scores of Republicans in Congress who have always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill , which American Legion legislative agents say will command sufficient votes in the Senate to pass it over a possible Presidential veto . Mr. Hoover 's belief that currency inflation may be escaped is not held generally by Republican leaders , according to statements by many of them today . Passage of the bonus , they said , would ' call either for increased taxes or continued excessive flotation of bond ; with the danger that the increased debt might ultimately force easy money of a fiat nature . Democratic leaders In Congress represent President Roosevelt as being opposed to any further devaluation of the dollar or expansion of the currency through unsound means . In their opinion there will be no inflation measures enacted in this session , although the silver and inflationary bloc is ready to fight for an amendment to the pending Work Relief Bill . The President will be powerful enough to control his part against inflation now , they say . In the next session , preceding a Presidential election , Congress , they believe , will not be disposed to go against his wishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be lmown as his followers as they go before the electorate . Senator Thomas of Oklahoma will test the strength of the silver and inflationary groups early next week , when he offers an amendment to the Work Relief Bill to compel the Treasury to issue silver certificates at the monetary value instead of the bullion value , as now , and purchase 50,000,000 ounces of silver a month . Ask Wide Silver Circulation . His amendment will also call for constant circulation of silver certificates . At present , he says , $129 , - 000,000 of such certificates are held in Federal Reserve Banks , and not circulated . His plan , he estimates , would increase the currency by $300,000,000 . Senator declined today to discuss Mr. Hoover 's reported discussion on inflation . Senator Couzens thought that " radical inflation " would depend on the extent to which the debt situation was controlled . Increasing public and private debts , he declared , might produce a situation that would force dangerous inflation such as occurred in other countries . Senator La Follette , Progressive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be avoided by increasing taxes to raise money , rather than by relying upon excessive borrowing . He insisted that this country should follow Great Britain in this respect and thus keep down the national debt . Mr. La Follette said he believed that the income taxes should be increased and the excessive profits taxes revived . He favors reducing the exemption for single persons from $1,000 to $800 and for married persons from $2,500 to $2,000 , increasing the normal taxes and imposing a 71 per cent tax on income above $1,000,000 . Representatives Bacon and Wadsworth , Republicans , of New York , were both hopeful today that there would be no destructive inflation . The latter thought that danger of fiat money would come in 1937 or 1938 unless there was a change in government .                     