@@698117

txt Belief that the world is confronted with a new situation which must be met with new methods is expressed as the present common view of all the governmentgi of Europe in a report of the economic coordination comtnitAce of the European union commission made public here tonight . The committee recommends that the commission adopt this document as its own report to the League of Nations Assembly . The commission will meet tomorrow to consider the report . The same governments will be represented , but many of them will have their Foreign Ministers present instead of those who drew the report . There is certain to be discussion of some conclusions and probably some changes will be made . The report gives the " foremost place " to the fact that all reports which have been examined stress " Europe 's urgent need of the prompt restoration of confidence , meaning by that both the indispensable faith of the capitalist , merchant and manufacturer in the stability of the economic system in which they operate and the imperative necessity of being able to count on stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Aid of Politicians Asicca . Two things are emphasized : First , since " the psychological factor dominates the economic crisis , " that " it is for the politicians above all to in ? fluence men 's minds by spreading through the world by their actions a general feeling of confidence " ; second , since " there is no one theory capable of restoring economic equilibrium in a few months " it " is necessary t'o discard every preconceived opinion , to be guided by experience and to seek for remedies wherever there seems to be a chance of finding them . " Hope is expressed that the meetings of the European commission and the League Assembly will " afford an opportunity for stimulating and encouraging a policy of genuine inter national cooperation . " The conclusion that the world is confronted with a new situation and must meet it with new methods runs through the report . One of the significant features is the special em- phasic placed on a European customs union as a goal to be sought . The coordinating committee lays stress on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European union commission . Pointing out that this is " a group of men who have been daily at grips with the difficulties of economic life " it says they have reported " that even when Europe has emerged from the present crisis she can not hope for a real economic revival unless she is prepared gradually to revise her traditional conception of separate national economic units and to approximate it ? with every necessary precaution and possibly in forms as yet unknown  --  to the conception of one vast market accessible on equal terms to all or most of the producers of Europe . " Commenting on this the coordinating committee says : " We have long been accustomed to consider the phenomenon of commerce from an exclusively national standpoint . Now comes the dominant idea of the economic experts suddenly to change our whole outlook and oblige us to take a birdseye view of the nitwork of varied economic relations established among a large number of countries . We are a little staggered by the number and variety of the problems raised by the idea of a European rapprochement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no hope of immediate action , however , saying it is extremely difficult to ask the countries struggling desperately with the depression to agree in the interests of Europe even appreciably to reduce their . tariffs " pending the return of better conditions . " It recommends referring the whole matter to the League 's economic committee for further study . That is typical of the rest of the report in two respects : First , it provides for immediate action on nothing important  --  indeed nowhere does it use the word urgent save with regard to the need of restoring confidence ; second , it refers to League committees questions which previously had been referred to the European commission 's own committees . Thus it would pass the question of credits to the League 's financial committee and that of public works to reduce unemployment to the League 's transit committee . It would maintain the European cereals committee and create another one to deal with preferential treatment for other farm products . It asks for a study as soon as possible of the Francqui Bank project and recommends further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole is considered by those who have followed the question to represent a considerable advance toward the idea of European Union , judged from the attitude the governments took in May , but much more progress is necessary if the project is to succeed . Suggestions a the Committee . ( ENEVA , Sept. 2 ( M. ? Among the tetommendations made by the coordinating committee to the European ti , Won oommjssion sae these : Who Yalaagu2 at Nations sbguld %be a more active part in facilitating the issue of State loans of an international character . The League 's finance committee should cooperate with the Bank for International Settlements ' and national treasury officials in extending financial assistance to needy States . The European commission should study the proposal for creating an international bank for granting longterm credits . The European commission ? should study the possibility of encouraging commercial treaties embodying preferential tariff rates , provided these treaties are publicly negotiated and do not injure third parties . To reduce unemployment an international placement bureau should be created . A technical conference on placing labor should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @             