@@703860

txt The post-Munich republic of Czecho-Slovakia was smashed yesterday and both German and Hungarian armies rushed across her eastern stretches in an apparent race to clinch control of CarpathoUkraine Ruthenia , one of the pieces . A British news agency dispatch from Prague said that the Rumanian Army had occupied twenty villages in the eastern part of Carpatho-Ukraine and that Premier Augustin Volosin of Carpatho-Ukraine had fled to Rumania , The Associated Press reported . The presence of three armies in tho crumbling republic , with a fourth not far away , made a tinder box of the entire region . The fourth army was the Polish , remaining on its own side of the border . Occupying Czech Regions The Czech Ministry of National Defense announced by radio at 4:30 A. M. today that the central Czech provinces of Bohemia and Moravia would be occupied by German troops at 6 A. M. The population was requested not to resist , since , the announcement said , resistance would be against the interests of the Czechs . an Berlin it was officially announced later that the Czechs had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and that German troops had already begun to occupy Bohemia and Moravia . At the announcement that German troops would march into the very heart of ancient Czech territory  --  territory spared by last September 's Munich settlement  --  church bells began to toll . The orders had cone from Berlin , where the Czech President , Dr. Emil Hacha , had conferred for rthree hours with Chancellor Adolf Hitler . The Czechs ' Defense Ministry 's solemn announcement was repeated over the air every five minutes . It read : " Attention ! Atttention ! Order from the President of the Republic ! Order from the Minister of National Defense to all formations : " German Army infantry and aircraft are beginning occupation of the republic 's territory at 6 A. M. Their advance must not be resisted . The slightest resistance will bring most unforeseen consequences . In that case they would intervene with utter brutality . " All commands have to obey the order . The units will be disarmed . Military and civil airplanes must . remain in airports . None must take to the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a report telephoned from Morayska Ostrava , on the border between Germany and what was Czecho-Slovakia , were advancing through Northern Slovakia in what appeared to be a strategic manoeuvre to block the Poles from attempting to join forces with either Czechs or Hungarians . Meanwhile , Hungarian troops were marching northward through Carpatho-Ukraine , which until yesterday was the Czech Republic 's easternmost province , toward Poland . The German troops , marching toward the Tatra Mountains in the direction of Carpatho-Ukraine , were reported to have reached Zilina at 10:30 o'clock last night and to be continuing on eastward . Zilina is fifty miles southeast of Morayska Ostrava . Twenty thousand Czech troops , meanwhile , were retiring westward from Carpatho-Ukraine . Czechs Taken by Surprise By G. E. R. GEDYE Wireless to THE NEW YORK TIMES . PRAGUE , Wednesday , March 15 . ? With the Prague population virtually unaware of what was happening to Czecho-Slovakia , the second partition and possibly final elimination of this little Slav republio from the map of Europe began pub- terday morning when the Slovak Diet at Bratislava , summoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence of Slovakia . Some hours later the ordinary Prague citizen was flabbergasted to see on the streets newspapers with the headlines " Slovakia Independent . " In reality , of course , the independence of the Czech parts of the republic also had come to an end . President Emil Hacha and Foreign Minister Frantisek Chvalkovsky left by special train for Berlin at 4 P. M. to make their submission to Germany 's dictator and learn what terms he had decided to impose . He will be able to impose these as completely as the Roman Emperors imposed their wills on the subject peoples whose territories they entered in triumph after protracted military struggles . Czecho-Slovakia has not been destroyed by the force of arms but by a threat of force and by her deliberate abandonment by former allies and friends . Slovak Centers Taken Over The seizure of further CzechoSlovak territory by Germany began last night , when motorized German units occupied Morayska Ostrava , where successively they took possession of Czecho-Slovak banks , police stations , barracks , railway stations ; Witkovice , with its important iron works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobody here knows . In diplomatic quarters the general opinion was that the whole country would not be occupied immediately , any more than Austria was occupied on the day that Chancellor Kurt Sehuschnigg paid his fatal visit to Berchtesgaden . But if any part of Czech territory escapes actual occupation by German armed forces it will not make the slightest difference in the political and military positions . As far as Realpolitik is concerned , Germany 's territory already includes Bohemia , Moravia and Slovakia , while Hungary is rapidly occupying Carpatho-Ukraine . Through it all the Czechs have been showing discipline and selfcontrol notwithstanding the atrocity propaganda broadcast from German radio stations in the last few ' days . Certainly there have been collisions in some provincial cities , particularly in those where Germans form a high percentage of the population . But the behavior of the Germans in Prague , where they are hopelessly outnumbered by Czechs , perhaps furnishes a clue to responsibility for the clashes where the Germans are strong . Provocation by Students In Prague the attitude adopted by the Germans might have been expected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniforms were posted outside German schools yesterday morning . This correspondent saw how , at the moment the afternoon papers brought the first intimation to the crowds in Vaclayske Namesti of the final destruction of their State . squads of German students in jack boots and wearing their colors forced their way through the crowds and shouted " Heil Hitler ! " With all their characteristic selfcontrol and slowness to anger , it must have required some intuitive feeling of the disastrous consequences that violence would bring to their city that restrained the Czechs from reacting outwardly to this extreme provocation at such a moment . There was a critical hour or two after darkness fell . The broad Vaclayske Namesti , to which the Prague citizen instinctively goes to express his feelings at moments of grave political crisis , was , despite efforts of the police , filled with vast crowds . By now the country knew that its President and Foreign Minister had left to make their final submission to Berlin . The government had made its formal resignation , which was left hanging in the air pending a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler As great crowds surged up and down the square and every fragment of conversation overheard was revealing of their bitterness and utter despair , Germans in jack boots , wearing enormous swastikas in their buttonholes , marched in small , compact detachments , shouting " Heil Hitler ! " and " Out with the Jews ! " Small groups of General Radula Gajda 's Czech Fascists , with big banners out of all proportion to their numerical strength , appeared shouting " Up Gajda ! " and " Out with the Jews ! " This correspondent saw one young German Storm Trooper with a gigantic swastika in his buttonhole resisting the efforts of policemen to persuade him to abandon this dangerous provocation and accompany them into a side street . " Leave me alone ! " he shouted . " The time for all this is over . " This writer heard other groups of young Germans loudly discussing amid Czech crowds the possibility of " starting something " in Prague . For a couple of hours it seemed inevitable that these provocations would result in bloodshed in the streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , without even drawing their truncheons , persuaded the crowds to disperse quietly . Loudspeakers incessantly called on all good Czechs to do a last service for their nation by going home quietly , continuing their usual work and refusing to be provoked in any circumstances . The crowds maintained self-control and gradually dispersed . By 10 o'clock the city 's aspect was so normal that it was difficult to believe what had been done to its population . The Czech press expresses grief but no bitterness in recording the splitting asunder of the republic and the loss of Slovakia , into which enormous amounts of Czech capital were poured and whose standard of life was raised to a far higher level than the Slovaks ever dreamed of while they were dominated by Hungary . Under the headline " No Hate , No Hostility , " the Prager Tagblatt says : " For twenty years the Czechs and the Slovaks endeavored to work together to the common advantage . Today the bond between two brother nations has been severed . We wish for the Slovaks from the bottom of our hearts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they may receive favorable economic terms , which their population needs . Political frontiers can not divide the hearts of peoples who have been together so many years . " The Narodni Listy says that " Bohemia must now go its solitary way and try to defend the national spirit of the Czechs , who have been robbed of all those with whom they had thought they would live together in the Czecho-Slovak Republic . " The same note of " no bitterness " is struck in all the other newspapers . Fugitives Move Toward Prague Immediately on the proclamation of Slovak independence a stream of fugitives  --  Czech officials and their families , Jews , and Slovaks who had exposed themselves in an effort to maintain the State 's unity  --  started moving toward Prague . At the same time trains were packed and roads were crowded , with motor vehicles fleeing towns on the border of the Czech areas . This writer was in communication during the day with most of the Czecho-Slovak towns , such as Bruenn and Pilsen , that the German radio said had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every case the writer 's informants expressed surprise at his inquiries and reported that , except for provocative demonstrations by German Nazis , everything was quiet and that they could not believe any German occupation was imminent . In Bruenn 1,200 German Storm Troopers from surrounding districts tried to force their way into the town , but they were held up by Czech policemen , who were forbidden to use their arms and consequently suffered six casualties . The Nazis then tried to cross the frontier into Germany , but they were turned back by frontier guards . In the complete political demoralization prevailing in official quarters it is impossible to do more in the way of forecasting the future than record some various reports current in serious quarters . It is believed President Hacha went to Berlin  --  without invitation from Chancellor Hitler but following a long meeting at noon between the German Charg ? d'Affaires and Dr. Chvalkovsky ? in order to offer the following terms to Herr Hitler : A customs union , a military alliance , German conduct of Czech foreign policy , immediate introduction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany 's reiterated demands had been one of the most urgent German complaints against the Czech Government ) ; the Cabinet 's resignation and its reconstruction in accordance with German wishes ; an invitation to Germans to occupy Iglau . It was hoped these offers might preserve Prague and the remnants of Czech territory from German occupation and probable resulting bloodshed . Regarding the government , it was hoped Germany would allow Rudolf Beran to remain Premier and would be content with the disappearance of General Jan Syrovy , Dr. Ottokar Fischer and two other Ministers to whom she had objected , and , instead of a Cabinet under General Gajda , Germany might be satisfied by his appointment as Minister of War . But even these hopes did not amount to anything more than that thereby the Czechs would perhaps gain a month or so for refugees to escape and the population to adjust itself to its pending fate before Germany took direct control . It was felt that if Germany really seized the industrial centers she intended to occupy , Prague could not even attempt to maintain an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gajda 's Fascist circles it was reported last night  --  without confirmation ? that fourteen German divisions were on the march toward Bohemia and Moravia and had in part crossed the frontiers , that President Hacha had been told by Berlin not to form any new government but to appoint General Gajda Premier-Dictator with full powers , that the army must be entirely dissolved , that only the police should be retained as an armed , uniformed body and that Germans should be installed in all government offices . Above all , it was declared in these Fascist circles , Germany insisted that in a very brief time the Gestapo German secret police must be in charge of what was CzechoSlovakia . It was not thought , however , that such extreme developments were immediately pending . It was even considered possible that the Germans might be content to occupy such industrial centers permanently , with secret police and Elite Guards ostensibly to protect German minorities , but might allow an economic connection of these centers with a nominally independent small Czech State to exist . The answer to all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not in Prague , which can do nothing but wait and accept whatever terms it may please Chancellor Hitler to dictate .                     