@@703176

txt President Roosevelt today named Rear Admiral Emory S. Land a member of the Maritime Commission to succeed Joseph P. Kennedy as chairman of that agency , and let it be known that the new chairman was expected to continue the " two-fisted , hard-hitting " policies of his predecessor . Word of this action reached here from the President 's special train en route to Hyde Park . The President also announced the selection of Max 0 . Truitt , at pressent the general counsel of the commission , to fill out the unexpired term of Mr. Kennedy as a member of the commission , which was to terminate in the Fall . The resignation of Mr. Kennedy as commission chairman became effective today , when he took the oath of office as American Ambassador to the Court of St. James . In his selection of Admiral Land to take up the commission chairmanship , Mr. Roosevelt followed the recommendation of Mr. Kennedy . Both have been members of the commission since its establishment ten months ago . On behalf of the President it was stated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of the commission a representative from the Pacific Coast . With these suggestions the President was in hearty agreement , and would provide for such representation in the permanent organization of the commission which is to be undertaken in the Fall , it was said . President Gives His Own Views Earlier In the day , before he left the capital , Mr. Roosevelt took the occasion of Mr. Kennedy 's resignation to express his own views on the shipping situation . The President , in response to a question at his press conference , said that the whole shipbuilding problem in this country was one big headache . He expressed concern over the recently submitted bids , saying they were far and away above costs paid by the United States during the World War when material costs were considerably higher but when total construction costs were considerably less than at present . The President mentioned three alternative courses of action if , new merchant ships were to be built in this country and the builders refused to reduce their prices . These were : 1 . Finance the construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have them privately managed on a fixed fee basis . 2 . Finance the construction of new yards and facilities and let the Federal Government supervise and do the building itself . 3 . Expand the present facilities of navy yards not now able to accommodate new commercial building and have the government do the building under direction of the navy . A possible fourth alternative would be to have merchant ships constructed abroad , as suggested by Mr. Kennedy in his letter to Mr. Roosevelt yesterday . But on this point the President said he had talked with members of Congress to obtain their reaction , and that while they agreed that this was the practical solution of the problem , none could afford to vote for such a proposition . In his letter of resignation Mr. Kennedy said that the United States would have to take " some exceedingly strenuous measures " if it was to preserve a merchant marine fleet of anything like its present proportions in either , foreign or domestic trade . Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Roosevelt that " the employer-employe relationship must be stabilized if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor question was " one of the most disturbing problems with which the commission has been confronted . " Second only to the labor problem in its effect on the difficulty of maintaining an adequate merchant marine was the high cost of building ships in this country as reflected by bids recently submitted , said Mr. Kennedy . Recent increases in such costs had presented the country with a real dilemma , he added , but said the Maritime Commission undoubtedly would work out a solution in the near future . Justice Reed Gives the Oath Mr. Kennedy was received by the President immediately after the press conference and the oath as Ambassador was administered to Mr. Kennedy by Supreme Court Justice Reed . In a letter accepting Mr. Kennedy 's resignation as maritime chairman the President expressed appreciation of Mr. Kennedy 's services . The President 's letter , addressed to " My dear Joe , " read : " It is with real regret that I accept your resignation as chairman of the United States Maritime Commission . This is tempered by the fact that you are staying in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I want to take this occasion to express my appreciation , so generally shared , for the fine work you have done . In both of your important government assignments you have maintained your justly earned reputation of being a twofisted , hard-hitting executive . " It may gratify you to know that in going to your new post you carry with you our confidence and high wishes . "                     