@@701800

txt William J. Bogart , superintendent I of the Chicago public schools for the last eight years , died of heart dis-1 ease last evening in his home at 741 Gordon terrace . He was 65 years 1 years old . Mr. Bogan had been ill since Feb. 1 . Suffering from overwork , a severe cold , and a digestive disorder , he entered Presbyterian hos. pital at that time for rest and observation . His return to his home was delayed because of a nine clay seizure of hiccoughing , which weakened him greatly . He rallied after a relapse in his home two weeks ago , but last week lie suffered a setback from which he did not recover . Goes Into Coma ; Dies . Dr. Sylvan Coombs said that during most of yesterday there was no change discernible in Mr. Bogan 's condition . He ate breakfast and luncheon and conversed at times with members of his family . At 6:20 p. m. , however , he lapse.1 into a coma . He died at 7:50 . At the bedside when death came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his two daughters , Katherine , a student at Wellesley college , and Marcella ; his sister , Mrs. Max Doud of Mackinac Island , Mich. , and a sister-In-law , Miss Mary Shelley . The Bogans ' son , William S. Bogan , was reported seriously ill in a sanitarium . A brother , Peter Bogan of Mackinac Island , also survives . Funeral Will Bo FridayMembers of the family announced that funeral services for Mr. Logan will be held on Friday from the home . The hour will be announced Inter . James B. McCahey , president of the board of education , said that all public schools probably will be closed on the day of the funeral . A decision on this is expected at the board meeting today . Mayor Kelly mid Mr. McCahey both expressed grief at Mr. Bogan 's death . " It is a great shock to me , " said the mayor . " Chicago has lost a great educator and a civic minded citizen . I mourn the loss of a good friend . " Born at Mackinac Island . Mr. Bogan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He received an elementary and high school education there and for a time after his graduation he taught in grammar and high schools in northern Michigan . In 1893 Mr. Bogan came to Chi . cago and obtained a teaching position at the Washington elementary school , 1000 Grand avenue . He re ? mained there as a teacher until 1900 , when he was appointed principal . In 1905 he was transferred to the Lane Technical High school and re ? mained there as principal until 1924 , when he was appointed assistant su ? perintendent of schools and placed in charge of high schools and night schools . He was appointed superintendent to succeed William in 1928 . Degree from U. of Chicago . Mr. Bogan took Lniversity courses while teaching and received the degree of Ph . B from the University of Chicago in 1909 . Besides his tin ! . versity work he studied engineering at Armour institute and music at the Chicago Conservatory of Musk . The superintendent was considered a leading authority on vocational cducation . While at Lane he built it into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Bogan was an advocate of close cooperation between elementary and high schools , colleges , and universi ? tics . He fostered junior high schools and for several years they were a part of the School board 's educational system . They were discontinued in 11133 for reasons a economy . Organizer of Evening Schools . Mr. Bogan placed emphasis on the education of those who did not expect to attend college , to whom he referred as the " forgotten 90 per cent . " Toward that end he was instrumental in organizing Chicago 's evening schools . He was superintendent during the trying times of the school board when its income was not sufficient to pay the teachers and employes . During that period he helped to sustain the morale a the teaching star that carried the educational system through the crisis .                     