@@697815

txt Yesterday 's discussions of the economic crisis , at the International Chamber of Commerce , brought out sharply a controversy which has for some time been moving into the foreground . Whether a general reduction of wages should or should not be undertaken had already caused a notable division of opinion . President HOOVER has taken ground energetically against it . Secretary MELLON further- expressed the Administration 's judgment by remarking that restoration of economic balance must be effected without such wage reduction , " provided the " period of readjustment is not too " long drawn out . " On the other hand , a strong body of banking opinion has begun to urge the policy of general wage cuts as immediately necessary , especially for the railways . The attitude of the railway managers themselves has not been openly declared . Most of them deprecate a concerted lowering of the wagescale , on the ground not ' only that efficiency might be impaired , but that the formidable strikes which such action has evoked on similar past occasions could not now be faced with equanimity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; they have - ranged from outright wage cuts to sweeping reduction of the working force , or the placing of the working staff on a four-day or five-day week , when the nominal scale of wages is maintained . The attitude of Tabor itself has been interesting . On some of the railways the labor organizations have actually cooperated with the management in reducing labor costs . In some of the industries unions have voted a voluntary shortening of the weekly earnings period , though possibly also with a view to providing work for unemployed fellowlaborers . It will readily be seen that such compromises mean the indirect lowering of the weekly payment , even if temporary and irregular . The obvious motive has been to insure retention of the basic rate with a view to the return of prosperous times . The Administration has laid emphasis strongly on the theory , which became the shibboleth of finance and industry in 1929 , that high wages ' for labor not only guaranteed high purchasing power for industrial products , but were the only way to preserve an adequate consuming market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even now . At the Washington conference yesterday both the policy of maintaining the present wage-scale and the reasons advanced in favor of it were challenged by one of the International Chamber 's eminent foreign delegates , the president of Continental Europe 's steel cartel . This speaker , himself a Belgian manufacturer , declared that the theory of high wages as a sure road to high consumption and prosperity is a " mirage , " a " seductive and magical formula . " He went further to assert that the high wages lately paid were themselves an important influence in causing the present adversity . Continental European countries , he insisted , have deliberately abandoned all such theories and are now accepting , as the necessary way out , " lower wages and a decreased cost of living . " Perhaps it is as well that these two diametrically opposing judgments should be introduced into the controversy . Mr. MEYER , the European cartel president , possibly approackes the view asserted in the older depression periods , when Wall Street and the business community habitually talked of " liquidation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not at all undesirable that the soundness of the theory , which assumes high wages to mean the consumption which insures prosperity , should be closely discussed . In the mind of disinterested observers , that theory has always had its weak points . If a wage-scale in 1929 higher by 10 per cent than in 1896 insured equivalent rise in trade prosperity , why not try a wage-scale higher by 50 per cent ? Even the advocates of highwage maintenance today , both employers and workingmen , are conceding indirectly what a wage cut would have effected directly and perhaps brutally . Yet this very fact must be taken fully into account ' when general policies are discussed . If the desired end can be attained , even less effectively or completely , without an acrimonious clash between capital and labor , the choice of alternatives should be strongly ' influenced by that fact . If organized labor is willing to take its share in the hardships of greatly ' diminished business profits , and if the process can be carried out in a different way from the old-time " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say for the expedient . To have surmounted a period of hard times without the angry and dangerous collision of other days between employers and employed in our greater industries would at least be a forward step in economic progress .                     