@@703427

txt Four picked firemen , wearing gas masks and with oxygen tanks strapped to their backs , took part last night in a dramatic attempt to put out a fire raging as if fanned by a forced draft forty feet below the bottom of - the East River in the north bore of the ManhattanQueens Tunnel now under construction . The terrific heat of the underground flames virtually stunned the firemen as they entered the tunnel heading through a compression chamber and they turned back immediately . After several attempts they found it impossible to approach the isolated flames . At midnight after firemen had attempted to reach the fire for two hours , Joseph O'Hanion , assistant chief of the Fire Department , who took command ' of the fire-fighting 1 efforts , announced that there was nothing his men could do . Officials of the Walsh Construction Company , ' the builders , began forcing water through pipes from shore into the tunnel in an effort to put out the flames , but said that the tunnel could be flooded to only a limited extent because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. M. today the flooding of the tunnel was suspended to allow four sandhogs to attempt to enter the tunnel in an effort to extinguish the fire . The fire appeared to have spread to wooden shorings forming a framework in the tunnel , now extending 350 feet from First Avenue . Meanwhile , compressed air under pressure of twenty-seven pounds to the square inch in the tunnel leaked through the silt of the riverbed , spouting into geysers on- the surface of the river about fifty feet from shore . The four firemen , in one of the strangest fire-fighting exploits of their careers , found it necessary to emulate the " sand-hogs " before they could enter the tunnel heading where the fire had been discov : - ered by watchmen . Out of a group of firemen from several companies , Dr. Harry Archer , Fire Department physician , selected the four he regarded as most fit to withstand the compression necessary before they could enter the intense air pressure ? of the tunnel heading . With gas ' masks covering their faces the four went down ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nearly 150 feet below First Avenue at Forty-first Street . There they entered a compression chamber at the entrance to the tunnel heading under the river . They were gradually subjected to a pressure equal to that of the tunnel and after about thirty minutes they were ready to enter the high pressure area . But as they opened the door of the compression chamber billows of smoke and waves of intense heat forced them back . Linking arms , they made several efforts to push forward but turned back when the heat began to burn them . They returned to a decompression chamber , where they remained for another thirty minutes before they could return to normal air pressure . When it was found impossible for firemen to reach the fire , several were stationed at the tunnel entrance to guard against spread of the flames . Ole Singstad , chief engineer of the Tunnel Authority , arrived at about midnight to supervise the pumping of water under pressure into the region of the fire . Engineers for the company faced the problem of keeping up enough air pressure in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the same time a controlled flow of water from land to put out the fire . Care was taken not to flood the tunnel too deeply because of valuable equipment in it . The fire was discovered by four watchmen as they went into the tunnel at about 8 P. M. There were no workers in the tunnel on Sunday . As the four men opened the door of the compression chamber to enter the tunnel , they smelled smoke , but 4:14d. not see any fire . Unable to search for the fire for fear of being suffocated , they returned to the decompression chamber . When they came to the surface they notified officials of the building company . Charles Hample , the company electrician , believed the fire had been caused by a short circuit and turned off electricity supplying lights in the tunnel . He then notified the Fire Department . Fred Potter of 433 Parsons Avenue , Brooklyn , one of the watchmen : who discovered the fire , said he believed it had occurred , in some unexplained manner , among bags of straw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tunnel heading when compression air blows up through the mud and water of the river bottom . There have been frequent " blowings " recently , he . said , and men on duty toss the bags into the spot where the blows occur . Work on the under-river sections of the tunnel started on April 10 this year and plans call for completion of the tunnel in 1940 . More than 2,000 workers have been employed in boring the holes for the two tubes under the river and engineers have prided themselves on safety devices to prevent accidents .                     