@@701170

txt Summary dismissal of Dean Chester D. Snell of the University a Wisconsin extension division was announced by the university regents today . To ? night he retaliated with an announcement that he would appear tomorrow before a state senate committee in ? vestigating communism and " use both barrels " in supporting charges he has made that free Jove is taught and Practiced in the extension school in Milwaukee . The committee investigation , which began a month ago , has now taken on a t  --  i-oa  --  tite aspect , with the commit ? tee members , Dean Snell and President Glenn Frank of the university  --  tho latter supported by the board of regents  --  all viewing the controversial questions at issue from widely differing angles . Sees Effort at Camouflage . Senator E. Brunette Dem. , Green BaYI , chairman of the committee , as . sorted that it is still looking into communism and other subversive tendencies in education and that it will not be diverted from this task by the injection of free love . Other committee members said that Dean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hut  --  that-they aro. determined to carry out'their task in. regard to communistic teachings . The dismissed dean now has . an atterney , Frank Ross , and Mr. Ross said . tonight his client would substantiate the charges of immorality . There has been no definite announcement that he will go further than he has in telling , what , if anything , he knows of communistic activities on the campus . Gusted for " Lack of Harmony . " President Frank and the regents have made it known that the dismissal of Dean Snell was not for communism nor yet for his " free love " charges . As they explain the matter , his ouster is strictly an adminIstra. - tive matter and due to a lack of hat . many between the dean and the rest of the university administration . Also , the university head , in a statement issued today , said that Dean . Snell had not informed any of his superiors of the alleged academic itnmorality at the time he charges it oceurred , in September , 1933 , and had brought forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the regents two weeks ago . In his first .. appearance before tho senate committee Dean Snell was questioned about the inclusion in the curriculum of the Milwaukee extension school of a course taught by Mrs. Doris Berger Welles , daughter of tho late Victor Berger , radical leader . Says He 'd Rather Resign . The dean gave his intimation of sexual " isms " and made the perhaps significant comment ; " I would rather resign than drag the university into a mess . " There was some speculation tonight as to whether this cryptic utterance related only to immorality or whether it included subversive activities as well . American Legion men and other Patriotic groups have complained for some time that the " liberalism " of the La Follette Progressives had been . translated by tho National Student league and certain members of the university faculty Into real cominu ? nism ? It is the intention of the committee to find out whether the course taught by Mrs. Welles in Milwaukee was illtroduced into the curriculum because of influence she may have had with the board of regents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at $9,000 a ; year will not expire until June 30 . He was notified in mid  --  March that he would not be reiingaged , but it was not until today that he was deprived . of all authority . In his place the regents appointed the present university registrar , Frank 0 . Holt . ' President Frank was summoned to appear before the senate committee tomorrow night , but was granted per . mission by Chairman Brunette to go to New York to make a speech . He furnished the committee , however , Leith the documentary evidence in the Snell case , including the dean 's affidavit concerning immorality . There was only one affidavit to sup ? port the dean , President Frank said , and four to controvert his charges .. Frank Makes Statement . " Although addressed to me and to the regents , this document was neither made the basis of any recommendation to mo at the time nor presented to me until April 4 , 1935 , " President Frank 's statement read . " The document was not sworn to until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notified that , by regent /lethal , he w , in Id not be reappointed for the coming year . On April four affidavits were filed With me and with the regents In sworn denial of the Implications of misconduct inferred in the affidavit submitted by Mr. Snell on . April " Ordinary considerations of justice require that such allegations be not submitted to public discussion until their truth or falsity is actually estab . " In dealing with personnel cases , where personal disqualifications of character are asserted , it is important that decision bo based on clearly established fact . This requires an administration in the accuracy , dependability , and justice of whose recommendations the governing authorities have full confidence . Tho action of the regents today makes this possible . " Frank Recalls Letter . Asserting that ho did not intend to enter a public controversy with Dean Snell , President Frank recalled two letters sent to hint in which tho dean Indicated he had previously preferred charges against Milwaukee extension faculty members and that President Prank had opposed immediate action . " The two letters handed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are almost complete misstatements of fact , " President Frank declared . " He was not advised that the out . side conduct of a teacher should not affect the term of his appointment , if by outside conduct Is meant moral conduct which the letter was designed to imply . " While addressed to me , those let . tors scent to have been prepared for the purpose to which they were put ? namely , release to the press as an attempt to delay or prevent the termina , Mon of Mr. Snell 's appointment on Juno 70 , 1975 . " In the purely mechanical process of planning and executing work he has genuine ability and force , " President Frank said of Dean Snell . " Neither the regents nor I wanted the fact of dissatisfaction with his manner of handling many problems involved in the administration of a university enterprise to ho an unnecessary handicap to him in any future undertaking , Ho has seen tit to act otherwise , " Red Charges in Texas . Austin , Tex. , April 24. -0 ? ) ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American institutions were taught at the University of Texas were made in the house today by Representative E. W. Pope of Corpus Christi , Pope denounced tactics which he said prevented a vote on an amendment he proposed to the general education appropriation bill which would require of teachers an oath of allegiance to the state and national governments . The appropriation bill was passed , 107 to 23 . Suspension of rules to permit the amendment was refused .                     