@@704312

txt As a result of the economic accord concluded in London , the French and British merchant marines , it is learned today , will be placed under single direction from London . The High Command for control ' of Allied shipping will be in British hands , just as the High Command for common land action on the Continent has been placed under direction of the French . The French Maritime Mission in London , which will be consulted on all questions , will be reorganized and a prominent Frenchman will soon go there to take charge of French interests . This new arrangement , so important from the point of view of conduct of the war and for future mercantile organization after the peace , raises many technical ' questions that will be difficult to solve . The French merchant marine , for example , is now tinder requisition , while in Great Britain it is a regime of private operation with government control . The first task of the new command will be to iron out and harmonize these differences In operation so that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . Some indications of how the plan will operate already are given . The French and British Governments will no longer compete for contracts . When once the goods are ready for delivery , instead of using British ships to transport British purchases and French ships for French purchases , French and Brit-1 ish merchant- ships will be used in- ! discriminately , according to their availability and capacities . In many instances , too , it is hoped to make use of neutral shipping , at present much depleted by the disappearance of United States vessels I from the war areas . Many neutral countries are taking steps to increase their merchant fleets , hoping to get orders which the necessity for immensely costly convoys makes impractical for the ships of belligerent nations . To his colleagues in the Cabinet Premier Edouard Daladier gave further details this morning of how the Anglo-French economic agreement will work and of its immense imporance . Here that agreement is welcomed as the equivalent of a major successful battle . It was not until after three years of war that the Allies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time they have reached in less than three months . It is understood that the French took the initiative in insisting there must be no competitive purchases abroad and the two countries should act as a single unit . It is believed here that the decision taken in London will have immense importance , not only during the war but in its effect on the economic organization of the world for a long time thereafter . For the first time in history , it is said , there is real and complete cooperation in all domains between the two countries which have been rivals ever since the fall of the Roman Empire . Among neutral countries , it is believed the example set by the two empires will find immediate imitators , for the advantages in economy of transport alone are so great that they can not be disregarded . If two countries with such extensive and intricate commercial dealings as France and Great Britain can coordinate their trade , it surely is possible that others will attempt to do the same . In Germany the London decision can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very definite check to Chancellor Hitler 's dream of dividing France from Great Britain and fighting one at a time . In the days when he wrote that it would he folly for Germany again to attempt to defeat the two together he considered France the greater enemy . Now Britain holds that first place in Nazi propaganda , but that unity of the two governments and peoples , which he dreaded , remains stronger and better organized than ever . Communiqu ? Praises Accord PARIS , Nov. 13 ( UP )  - -  A oommunique on the session of the Council of Ministers today said : " Premier Daladier reviewed the general diplomatic and military situation and reported on the session of the Allied Supreme Council at which complete agreement was reached by the French and British Governments on military and economic cooperation . " Concerning economic cooperation , M. Daladier emphasized the happy consequences of the FrancoBritish accord , for which he took the initiative , especially on the question of joint purchases abroad . " M. Reynaud Paul Reynaud , Minister of Finance and Economics reported on his Ncent London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir John Simon . "                     