@@703680

txt The chemical industry again is making plans for extensive plant expansion after a year of comparative inactivity in new projects . A. year ago when the butane : es recession set in work on new developments was abandoned temporarily and expenditure for construction during the past twelve months has been small . It now appears that that new building will start 1939 on a substantial scale . As a result several pieces of new financing have been arranged and a number of others may follow if continued business momentum provides an incentive to going ahead with new things . Monsanto Chemical recently has announced an additional issue of $5,000,000 $4.50 preferred stock , proceeds of which presumably will be used for building . Union Carbide Financing Union Carbide recently arranged $40,000,000 financing through insurance companies . of which $16,000.000 will be used to refund outstanding indebtedness . The remainder will be available for expansion . Carbide is understood to have in mind increased capacity in its production of synthetic organic chemicals . Da Pont already has announced construction of a new $7,000,000 plant to produce its new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily as a textile fibre for full fashioned hosiery , but which also has a wide variety of uses in synthetic bristles for brushes , tennis racket gut and similar things . Du Pont spent around $50,000.000 in 1937 on new projects and has spent only a fraction of this amount this year . Although no indication of further plans has been given , it is probable that progress in du Pont 's laboratories along various lines in addition to the natural growth in many divisions of chemistry will mean a major expansion program next year . Hercules to Increase Capacity Hercules Powder already plans to increase the capacity of its model ceiluloae acetate plant for the plastics industry , and its new hydrogenated rosin , Staybellite , may need new - plant capacity . Dow Chemical 's acquisition of the Great Western Electro Chemical Co. producing alkalis , chlorine and other chemicals on the West Coast is believed to be a prelude to expansion of Dow 's activities in that area . Business in chemicals so far this month has held up fairly well , although it has not continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sales have been slightly below last month . This probably is due to the fact that there was a rush to replace depleted inventories following the-fall business upturn which now has been temporarily satisfied . Fourth Quarter Business There is nothing . however , to indicate that business in the final quarter of this year will not exceed third quarter business , although the gains may not be as large as originally looked for . The following table shows earnings per share The progress made in research laboratories over the past year or so has been as great as it has been in any similar period in recent years and the parade of new materials , new uses and new technique probably is moving faster than ever . As a result , leaders in the industry are confident that chemical production over the next five years will be in an era of major expansion , retarded perhaps from time to time by the movements of general business . Demand for New Products First demands for new plants and therefore for new money probably will come from the rapidly growing demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unknown synthetic organic chemicals , from rayon and new textile fibres , from the plastics industry and from the whole field of cellulose chemistry which is just beginning to open up . New products with new uses are coming from phosphoric acid . notably sodium tetra phosphate. which has opened a new field in the soap industry . Vinyl compounds from acetylene are beginning to rival cellulose compounds for safety glass and perhaps in plastics and possibly later on may be used as a rayon material .                     