@@701798

txt As the subcommittee on taxation of the House Ways and Means Committee delves further into the proposed undistributed profits tax , it finds itself in deeper and deeper water . It is compelled to recognize more and more " exceptional cases " which it feels obliged to exempt , and this leads to talk of higher and higher rates on the other corporations in order to make up the lost revenue . First it was pointed out not merely that it was necessary for banks and other financial institutions to build up substantial surpluses if they were to give their depositors or policy holders sufficient protection , but that the 1935 Federal Banking Act itself had made it obligatory for national banks before paying dividends to set aside at least 10 per cent of their net earnings to surplus until that surplus equaled at least the amount of their common capital . So banks and insurance companies were declared to be an " exception " and are apparently to be taxed under the present net corporation income tax . Then another " exception " was thought of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the laws of thirty-six States prohibit corporations chartered by them from making a dividend distribution if their capital is impaired . Under the proposed undistributed profits tax , corporations affected by these provisions would be heavily penalized by the Federal tax for keeping within the law . So the Ways and Means subcommittee is apparently to make another " exception " here , and tax these corporations a flat rate on their net income of 222 , i , , per cent , regardless of their dividend policy . The " exceptions " have only begun . The bond indentures of hundreds of corporations contain clauses under which the corporation agrees not to pay dividends until its current or liquid assets have reached a certain ratio to its current liabilities , or until a sinking fund has been set aside for the retirement or redemption of bonds . These are legal contracts , enforceable in the courts . Many corporations would be heavily penalized by the proposed surplus tax for complying ' with these contracts . In addition , there are the agreements , legal or moral , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Again , there are at least the moral obligations upon receivers to build up the surpluses of corporations in bankruptcy . Still a further paradox arises . The subcommittee has now discovered that the proposed tax , as drawn , even penalizes a corporation for the money it withholds from stockholders to pay the tax . Suppose , for example , that a corporation earning $100,000 decides that it ought to carry $30,000 to surplus . To do this it must withhold $50,000 , for $20,000 is necessary to pay the penalty tax . But the highest rate that it pays , the rate of 55 per cent on the last $20,000 withheld , will be caused not by the net amount carried to surplus but by the amount needed for the tax payment . These are only a few of the difficulties raised by the proposed levy . Obviously , little thought was given to them when the tax was put forward . For one of the principal declared purposes behind the proposed tax was to catch tax evaders who were using corporation surpluses as a refuge from income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not " dodging taxes " for their stockholders , nor are corporations that are holding back earnings to restore impaired capital as required by State laws , nor corporations that are setting earnings aside under bond and other debt contracts . When " exceptions " are made of these corporations more and more fantastic rates have to be proposed for the other corporations in order to make possible the boasted yield . Is not the difference between these " exceptional " and other corporations merely one of degree ? Not merely banks and insurance companies but all corporations ought to follow a dividend policy that will protect their creditors and insure their financial stability . Not merely corporations under legal or contractual obligation to do so but all corporations should build up an adequate surplus . A. fanatic has been defined as a man who redoubles his efforts when he has forgotten his aim . The recent reports from the Ways and Means subcommittee 's struggle with the new tax suggest that state of mind . They are trying to frame a tax the whole tendency of which is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all sound fiscal tradition and legislation have hitherto insisted . The effect of such a tax must be to encourage improvidence and instability , to prevent the building up of the surpluses necessary to sustain purchasing power through wages and dividends in bad years , to force more corporations into bankruptcy in those bad years . The evils of this tax can not be averted by " amendments " designed to lessen these evils at the particular points where they are most obvious . The best amendment of the tax would be its abandonment .                     