@@701959

txt The great parade of bonus bonds into the hands of World War veterans will begin this morning throughout the United States . In New York and other large cities the major delivery of the registered mail will get under way at 5:30 P. M. and continue for hours . Last-minute reports to WashingI ton yesterday by postmasters all over the country showed that everything was ready for the greatest event of the kind in American history . Radio speeches , bulletins issued by veterans ' organizations and other means were used to make clear the regulations governing the issuance and cashing of the bonds . Individual payments will range from $60 to $1,500 . The government has provided many precautions against any efforts to defraud veterans . Warning was given that offenders would be prosecuted swiftly and punished heavily . The government expects the greater part of the bonus money to be released in the channels of trade and business immediately . Plans to Speed Delivery Elaborate plans have been made to speed the delivery and cashing of the bonds . The Postoffice Department is working in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Banks to effect the prompt transfer of 38,000,000 bonds , valued at an aggregate of $1,900,000,000 , to 8,518,000 veterans . In New York State the bonuses will total $134,493,497.62 . In the Second Federal Reserve District , embracing New York State and the metropolitan areas of New Jersey and Connecticut , 350,000 bonds will be distributed , Postmaster Albert Goldman , whose district covers Manhattan and the Bronx , has estimated that 96,000 veterans would receive bonus bonds in those boroughs , 74,000 in Brooklyn , 35,000 in Queens , 4,000 in Staten Island , 25,000 in Newark , 10,000 in Jersey City , 2,500 in Bayonne , 4,800 in Yonkers . Bonds will be redeemed in banks , postoffices and other government agencies . Veterans turning in their bonds at designated armories will receive receipts for them and checks will be mailed within thirty-six hours . Itt the business sections of this city , in the cases of veterans who have given their places of employment as addresses for delivery , the bonds will be given to them on deliveries starting at 7:30 A. M. and 1:45 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 6:30 P.M. , carriers will set out on routes , in the residential districts . Every veteran in Manhattan and the Bronx who applied for the bonus up to last Friday should receive his bonds today , Postmaster Goldman said . The plans imparted to all postal employes in meetings and bulletins are intended to place his bonds in the hands of every veteran who is available when the registered mail is delivered today and tonight . Postal stations in Manhattan and the Bronx received the bonds addressed to their districts during the past several days so that there would be no delay . Banks throughout the country have been asked by Robert V. Fleming , president of the American Bankers Association , to cooperate in the handling of bonus checks . Veterans ' organizations will facilitate the identification of bond recipients desiring to cash them . In Brooklyn , twenty-nine places have been designated for certification . In Mr. Goldman 's district this work will be carried on at forty-two substations which will remain open , tomorrow night from 8 o'clock midnight for that purpose . Armories Are Designated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Two Hundred and Fifty-eighth Coast Artillery , Kingsbridge Road and Jerome Avenue , the Bronx , 6 P. M. to 9 P. M. tomorrow and 9 A. M. to 9 P. M. thereaftet until all have been delivered ; 10th Field Artillery , Franklin Avenue and 166th Street , the Bronx , 6 P. 9 P. M. beginning tomorrow and the same hours each evening as long as necessary ; 102 Engineers , Fort Washington Avenue and 168th Street , Manhattan , same arrangements . Also , the following in Manhattan , from 10 A. M. to 10 P. M. , Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday , or until all have presented their bonds : Three Hundred and Sixty-ninth Infantry , Lexington Avenue and 114th Street ; 212th Anti-Aircraft , Columbus Avenue at Sixty-second Street ; 244th Coast Artillery , Sixth Avenue and Fourteenth Street ; 165th Infantry , Lexington Avenue and Twenty-sixth Street . Mail trucks loaded with sacks of registered mail containing bonus bonds began rumbling through the streets of Brooklyn early this mornning in preparation for delivery later In the day . Transfer of the bonds from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to the substations throughout the borough got under way about 2 o'clock this morning , according to postal attaches . It was said that all of them would be at the branch postoffices in time for the first mail deliveries out of these offices . Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr. , former State commander of the American Legion , issued a warning to veterans yesterday against " sharpers . " He issued the following " don'ts " : Do n't fail to consult your wife if you are married . Women are usually very prudent . Do n't believe you can get rich quickly . Large returns are seldom indicative of safety of investment . Do n't forget  --  any investment with promises of high yield is usually highly speculative and should be investigated thoroughly before you invest a penny . Do n't act hastily in investing your money . Take plenty of time and study all proposals . Do n't buy stocks , bonds or oil royalties without first - getting. full information both as to the seller and . the security . Do n't buy rights of purported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a fortune by accepting " prize " lots . Do n't fall for fabulous offers of any type which you are undoubtedly going to receive through the mail . Postmaster General James A. Farley has reminded veterans that they " may hold these bonds as security and draw 3 per cent interest on them . " However , they will pay no interest if cashed before June 15 , 1937.                     