@@698816

txt Two sets of suggestions for the solution of municipal finance problems and local tax relief , given with a view to protecting the soundness of municipal investments , have benefited by the municipal securities committee of the Investment Bankers ' Association of America , with a warning against certain remedies it considers unsound . " The investing public is purchasing more municipal bonds than any othell ? type of new underwritings , " the report issued today declares , " and while defaults are still confined to comparatively few localities and the probability of eventual loss in most of these is remote , it is no time to be oblivious of new problems . " To municipalities , the following five recommendations are offered : " Adoption of budgets embodying reduction of operating costs , based on the ability of the community to Pay . " Periodic review , during , the year , of tax collections ; to be followed by corresponding reduction in operating expenses . " Postponement of proposed public improvements not absolutely necessary , where the debt or tax burden Is substantial . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payment of current taxes by installments or discounts and enforcement of . collection , . of . , delinquent . taice4 through:adequate , " Relieving ' the : tax burden on real estate through , other to Of revenue . " ' Many of the problem of municipal finance , the report continues , could beioffset by state legislation covering the following points : " State .. supervision of municipal Ifiscal Problems along the lines adopted by North Carolina . " Relief of heavy burden of ? real estate taxes through special revenues , such as sales and excise taxes . " Encouragement of prompt payment of taxes when due , through authority to prepay taxes at a discount or to pay current taxes by installments . " A feasible plan for safeguarding public deposits in the light of the present banking situation , such as the rowa plan of setting up a guarantee fund out of interest earnings on public deposits . " Reasonable refunding privileges under proper supervision where heavy maturities are apt to be burdensome in the next few years . " Adequate methods of limiting overlapping indebtedness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among measures considered to be unsound are any which would increase tax delinquency , lower requirements of security for public deposits , or add to the present debt by authorization of public improvements for unemployment relief .                     