@@699168

txt Indiana , like its neighbor , Ohio , if required to vote for President today would return a majority for Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt- The polls show that and the Republicans will not dispute it seriously . Unlike Ohio , the Republicans seem to have a more reasonable chance of reclaiming the situation . They will need some breaks in the form of further economic improvement and rising prices and they will need some smart vigorous campaigning , but the job can be done . Economic improvement has appeared in scattered fashion here . There is an air of cheerfulness in quarters of the trtmost conservatism , but as in other sections . the improvement . has yet to translate itself into something definite and concrete for the average citizen . The Republicans are in position to make a campaign , apparently much better than the party organization in the states east of this one . They are , in fact . on the job now and for the next four weeks their efforts will be speeded up , despite low funds and some dissensions . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude of the voters here seems less adamant and sullen than in Ohio , but the story is much the same . Unemployment , thinner pay envelopes , heavy taxes and low farm prices have created dissatisfaction with Washington , regardless of Washington 's responsibility for those things . For instance near IndianapoliA is a community of squatters living in huts made of timbers and covered over with flattened tin cans . The inhabitants call the place " Hoover Town . " The railroad employes remain idle one day a week without pay and they refer to the idle day as " Hoover Day . " The State Federation of Labor and the Railroad Brotherhoods have endorsed the Democratic state ticket here . They have made no choice nationally , but it is well known that their sympathies are with the Democrats . Gov . Roosevelt is not well known here and anyone who can tell a little about him will get eager attention . His utilities speech gave him some positive strength in this section , which has felt the effect of the Insuil situation , but generally the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a question of whether one shall vote for or against President Hoover . Watson Worries Deniocrates The Republicans are trying to show the people that hard times are nut the fault of the Republicans , at least not theirs alone . They point out that the bulk of the taxes are from local taxing sources and that in Indiana the Democrats control more of these than do the Republicans , although the latter have control of the state government . Senator Watson is opposed by Frederick Van Nuys and the Senate Republican leader is no stronger than his ticket , perhaps not so strong . He has always had a fight in the primaries and won his elections by narrow margins . This year he had no primary fight , in fact had control of the Republican organization , which looked to him for guidance in making a choice of candidate for governor . The unsuccessful aspirants did not feel kindly toward Senator Watson and this has left a breach unhealed . Watson is campaigning in his characteristically bold style and the Democrats do not feel entirely safe about him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Democratic candidate for governor , opposed by Raymond S. Springer , also a veteran prominent in the Legion and a former judge . The two vie for veterans ' support , although neither was in service overseas . is the more vigorous of the two . but the Republicans say Springer is a better campaigner than he appears to be . Because of the apparent swing to the Democrats nationally . is believed to have the edge at this time . Some Democrats claim the state and the national ticket as a sure thing The more conservative are not yet ready to make that claiei They will wait two more weeks before forming final judgment . Business Seasonally Better The better tone of business , which undoubtedly is based on many seasonal factors , has yet to show itself definitely in statistics . Probably September figures will show some lines still declining . The American Sheet &; Tinplat , , - ; Elwood plant reopens this week after a shutdown since April , employing 1.200 men . Pharmaceutical plants have been doing ** v.-Ol Sytth some upturn lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the food lines A glove factory is feeling a gain of good scaisolaal character . Retail trade reached Its low point in July . There was a turn in August ; that month was about 20% below 1931 in money volume of sales . There has been a further seasonal gain in September , added by special sales at the end of the month . The story of Indiana farming is that of other sections , with prices generally low . General farm crops have been good and very little was lost in harvest . Stock raisers were helped by the recent rise in livestock prices . At the present level it is said that a smart feeder and buyer can make money . but it is difficult for the general run to do it . Small Manufacturers Doing Best Indianapolis is the home of the National Retail Hardware Association and here one can obtain further information on the flow of small orders reported by the hardware makers in Connecticut . At the first of the year hardware stocks in hands of retailers were large in comparison with volume of sales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year and retailers were again in position to take stocks , which they have done in anticipation of consumer demand . This , rather than heavy consumer demand , explains the orders . Retailers are reporting a demand for mill supplies coming mostly from small manufacturers , a reflection of the observation in all sections that small plants of all sorts are enjoying a rather good business , being able to accommodate themselves to conditions quickly and being favored also by the smallness of orders at present .                     