@@701964

txt Flushed and nervous in a House of Commons that seethed with excitement , Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden delivered today the deathblow to those sanctions that he more than any other man had brought into being nine months ago . Amid shouts of " Shame ! " and " Resign ! " from angry Opposition members , Mr. Eden announced that he would go to Geneva at the end of the month and recommend the prompt ending of the economic measures imposed against Italy by fifty-odd nations at Britain 's urgent summons last Autumn . Further pressure ' against Italy now would be useless , said Mr. Eden , and would lead inevitably to a great European war . But he warned that the ending of sanctions would not bring Italy back to the position she had held before the Ethiopian war began , Mediterranean Pledges Stand For one thing , he announced that the pledges of mutual assistance in the Mediterranean would stand until the present period of uncertainty was over . More important still , he declared that the British Government would " maintain permanently in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before this dispute began . " Some of Britain 's battle fleet may be brought home soon from the Mediterranean , but Mr. Eden 's statement was taken to mean that the hundreds of airplanes , the thousands of extra troops and the swarms of smaller fighting craft would be kept in the Near Eastern arena to protect Britain 's interests around the Suez Canal . But there was nothing in Mr. Eden 's speech hinting at non-recognition of Italy 's conquests in Africa . From first to last it was a capitulation to aggression and it stung the Opposition parties to fury . Not only did Mr. Eden admit that the League of Nations bad failed against the past aggressor , but Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin followed him with a remarkable appeal to a possible future aggressor nearer home . Understands Reich Mentality At present , said Mr. Baldwin , no nation except possibly the dictatorships of Germany and Italy , will march for any cause but the defense of its own frontiers . But the Prime Minister added that he understood the mentality of the totalitarian States , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it had saved Germany from communism , and said it was no wonder , considering the desperate troubles Germany had gone through , that her people now worshiped ideals of force and violence . " Yet Chancellor Hitler has told us he wishes for peace , " said Mr. Baldwin , " and if a man tells me that I wish to try it out . I can not see exactly now when or how the next opportunity may come , but we are hoping to bring the French , the Germans and ourselves into a conference for the better security of Europe . " The part Germany can play for good or evil in Europe is immense , and if we believe the opportunity is presented let us do what we can to use it for good . " Government Victory Sure There is no doubt that the government will survive the twin performances of , Mr. Eden and Mr. Baldwin today despite the admitted weakness of both speeches . Within the Conservative party , which commands an overwhelming majority of the Commons . the moral fervor of last Winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of relief than of shame in Parliament tonight . The Conservatives , with their allies , will stand behind Mr. Eden almost to a man next Tuesday when Labor moves a vote of censure of the government for its " lack of a resolute and straightforward foreign policy . " Yet today 's headlong surrender to Italy and the renewed overtures to Germany provoked an explosion of wrath from the Opposition parties and kept the House in turmoil throughout the debate . The Ministers huddled on the front bench in attitudes of utter dejection while the Labor members heckled and shouted " Cowards ! " at them across the floor . Friends who had seen Mr. Eden before he began his speech said they had never seen the young Foreign Secretary so anxious and so ill at ease . It was the bitterest moment of his public career , but he faced it without flinching . Interruptions Are Frequent The House was so packed and feeling ran so high that Mr. Eden had to interrupt his speech for ten minutes while Labor and Conservative members wrangled over a point of order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review Britain 's policy since the beginning of the Italo-Ethiopian dispute . Once when a Labor member taunted him about his election pledges Mr. Eden shot back angrily that " such gibes are out of place at a moment like this . " There were more jeers from the Laborites when Mr. Eden bravely took the entire responsibility and said the Cabinet had decided to abandon sanctions " on advice which I felt it my duty to give . " The Foreign Secretary begged for a chance to state his reasons . They were that only war could put the Emperor of Ethiopia back on his throne and that if sanctions were maintained the League front of fifty nations would crumble . Turns to German Problem After having announced that Britain would submit a comprehensive plan for reform of the League at next September 's Assembly meeting , Mr. Eden turned to the problem of Germany . He told of Britain 's persistent efforts to win German cooperation in Europe and recalled that Germany had done nothing to restore confidence after her reoccupation of the Rhineland . He urged the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There seems to me to be a tendency in some quarters to close an eye to one and let the other occupy the whole field , " said Mr. Eden . But , except for this hint , his references to Germany were polite ane. non-committal . A stinging passage he had intended to deliver had been blue-penciled by the Cabinet yesterday and further modified by Mr. Baldwin this morning during a visit Mr. Eden had paid to 10 Downing Street . Mr. Eden sat down wearily with an air of vast relief . Other Ministers who had watched him anxiously as he spoke patted him on the back when he finished . But Mr. Eden 's unhappiest moments were still to come . Lloyd George Scathing Arthur Greenwood began the assault for the Laborites with a bitter and abusive speech , but it was David Lloyd George who delivered the most telling blow at the government on this sultry afternoon . His mane of white hair bobbed up and down and his finger of scorn was pointed at the Cabinet Ministers one by one as he administered one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once believed in Mr. Eden , said Mr. Lloyd George , but they had now to watch him go to Geneva " to smash the League . " " I have been in this House nearly half a century , " said Mr. Lloyd George , " and I can not recall an occasion quite like this . I have never before heard a British Minister speaking on behalf of the government and holding the most important position in the government next to the Prime Minister at the present moment , come down to the Commons and say Britain was beaten  --  Britain and her Empire were beaten  --  and that we must abandon an enterprise we have taken in hand . Calls It " Unique Occasion " " I can not understand that of an empire that faced one of the greatest emergencies any empire was ever confronted with while thoroughly unprepared and for four and a half years fought her way through . That is not the empire I thought would ever say , after six months with no loss of life and with only ? 7,000,000 of trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go on . ' It is a unique occasion and may God never repeat it in this empire ! " Why , asked Mr. Lloyd George , did the government choose this moment to run away ? The real reason , he said , was that " there is no evidence the government ever really meant business over sanctions . " " There has been no stability , no steadfastness , no resolute pursuit of any particular aim , " said Mr. Lloyd George . " There never have been so many vacillations in the course of a few months in the conduct of foreign policy . Fifty nations trusted us . They will not when they see the British Empire saying it can not go on . They will never trust this crowd . " Calls Ministers " Cowards " Mr. Lloyd George pointed an accusing finger at the front bench and named the Ministers one by one who had promised last Autumn they would give unswerving support to the League . His final contemptuous words were like the crack of a whip : " There they sit  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of this onslaught . He contended he had consistently warned the country that if sanctions failed the League would have to take stock of its position . If Europe had disarmed after the war the League might have worked through an international force , he said , but that is not practicable today . Sanctions will work in the future , he declared , only if other States are ready to overcome aggressors quickly with overwhelming force .                     