@@704013

txt Announcement by Prime Minister Chamberlain of the imminence of an AngloRussian agreement yesterday bolstered hopes for further relaxation of international tension . The London stock market  --  faithful mirror of world politics  --  swiftly reflected the improved sentiment by staging a very strong close . If . as generally expected , the Russian treaty rounds off the series of anti-aggression pacts with which Britain hopes to balance the RomeBerlin axis , financial and political quarters here believe that it should greatly reduce the possibility of a European war in the near future . Although Mr. Chamberlain did not reveal the exact terms of the proposed agreement with Russia , recent reports in well-informed quarters indicate that it will take the form of an alliance ? possibly with some limiting reservations . for there have been suspicions on the part of both parties since the beginning . However , barring some last minute hitch which would prevent actual signature of the treaty , the Russian pact should prove a formidable counter-poise to Italo-German ambitions and make really effective Anglo-French ? guarantees to Poland and Rumania . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward a more peaceful outlook even though it can not be expected that Hitler will abandon his dreams of European domination . In the opinion of observers here his most likely course would appear to be an effort to test the strength of the new Franco-Russian-British alliances , either by attempting to keep up nervous tension or by actually working up some critical situa-tion On the other hand , it is believed that the Italian end of the Rome-Berlin axis is in none too good a domestic situation . Reports reaching here indicate that Italy 's internal economy is reaching a point where external ' assistance may be necessary , and it is reported , without official confirmation as yet , that Germany and Italy may be contemplating a customs and currency pact- The Reich certainly could not afford much financial assistance to its partner , but it could supply expert administrative assistance to aid in bolstering Italy 's program of economic selfsufficiency . Thus , despite the ever-present complicating factors , the general trend of international politics points toward a continued easing of international tension  --  a process which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signature of a British-Russian alliance . Financial circles feel this situation is likely to be reflected in growing public confidence , re-suiting in expanded stock market trading and an increase in investment buying . Some small but genuine investment interest already appears to have been attracted to London markets in the past few days  --  a development which has had an important and disproportionate effect on prices due to the shortage of shares in dealers ' hands . This development climaxes a recovery in markets here which started in British Government securities on May 2 and has since continued almost without interruption . Originally . this uptrend was motivated by an easing monetary position which financial quarters held to be a reflection both of relaxation of international tension and a determination on the part of the British Treasury to maintain an easy money policy . The more general market recovery , spreading from governments into foreign bonds , was at first due to short covering which gave a strong initial impetus to the upswing  --  there having been very large bear accounts outstanding . But later , the market received investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . British Government Financing The continued rise in gilt-edge bonds and the recent flotation of new bond issues by two of the Dominion governments , Australia and South Africa , has led to widespread discussion as to whether the British Government is preparing to issue long-term bonds for a part of the 1400,000,000 which is must borrow during the current fiscal year . However , many well-informed sources do not anticipate such an issue until autumn . It is argued that , provided there are no additional international crises , quotations on government securities will rise further in the near future and that the government will be able to obtain more favorable terms if it first generates additional savings by financing its expenditures by means of Treasury bills . Moreover , the outstanding Treasury bill issue is still 1130,000,000 below the same date a year ago owing to gold losses . At the same time , the ratio of clearing banks liquid assets is below the 30% minimum they usually maintain , and until this is rectified the banks would be unlikely to take up any new , long-term government issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated by the fact that the Financial Times ' index of gilt-edge bonds on Tuesday night stood at 105.7 , compared with a year 's low of 102.1 on the eve of Hitler 's speech . However , the index still is below the March peak of 108.4 before the German march into Prague . Gilt-Edge Issues Set Paz . The advance in gilt-edge issues also has stimulated other sections of the market although industrial common stocks connected with armaments are advancing somewhat hesitantly owing to the Government 's recent announcement that additional taxation will be placed on armament profits . Until specific terms of this proposed legislation are made public , dealers will be unable to assess the full implications of the cabinet 's intentions . Industrial companies which would benefit indirectly from government expenditures for armaments , such as Imperial Chemicals and the electrical equipment companies , are receiving investment support as are the shares of some of the one-price department stores , breweries , tobacco companies , automobile manufacturers and similar consumption goods companies which should benefit from increased purchasing power arising from wages paid by government armament @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly on reports showing improved gross income and partly on the prospects of Parliament enacting a railroad aid bill placing the carriers on a more equitable competitive basis with the trucking companies . Oil stocks generally are again showing improvement , stimulated by the excellent Venezuela Oil Concessions dividend , but commodity shares as a whole are hesitant , awaiting clearer indications of a trade revival in the United States . Without such improvement , financial circles here do not believe that any real recovery in commodity prices can be expected .                     