@@700857

txt Bernard S. Deutsch , Aldermanic President , announced he would support Governor Lehman for reelection . Mayor LaGuardia reluctantly consented to speak for the Republican State ticket and at a rally here Nov. 3 . New Liberal party opened its campaign to clean up the city democracy . Nathan Straus warned that Tammany is the same " Rotten old structure . " Robert Moses insisted he had personal knowledge that Farley and Flynn control patronage and influence awards on Bronx housing project . Governor Lehman will open his up- . State campaign tonight at Albany and reply to Robert Moses . Governor Lehman , answering a civil service questionnaire , said that he stood by the merit system and favored restoring salary cuts as soon as possible . Deutsch Aids Lehman . Aldermanic President Bernard S. Deutsch announced yesterday that he is supporting Governor Herbert H. Lehman for re-election . " I 'm for Governor Lehman , " he told reporters at City Hall , when questioned about his presence at a Lehman luncheon the day before . " I 've always been a Democrat and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasize the cross-currents of political opinions in the campaign , in which the three city-wide elected officials are taking different points of view on the State tickets . Mayor LaGuardia is for Robert Moses , his Park Commissioner , for Governor ; Mr. Deutsch is now on record for Governor Lehman and Controller who ran unsuccessfully in the Democratic primary in an attempt to get both Republican and Democratic nominations for Controller , is refusing to take a stand on the Gubernatorial candidates . Smith Once for . In addition , former Governor Alfred E. Smith , who came out without reservations for Frank J. Taylor for Controller at the meeting at Tammany Hall on Wednesday night , is known to have expressed privately , before the Democratic primary , the belief that the Democratic organizations in the city should accept Mr. as their candidate , and thus take the Controllership issue out of the campaign . Another side issue which caused comment yesterday was the avoidance by Mr. Smith , in his Tammany Hail speech , of criticism , even indirectly , of Mr. Moses , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that Mr. Smith , by reason of his long association with Mr. Moses . was barred from that type of campaigning . The first indication that Mr. Deutsch might come out for Gayernor Lehman came at a luncheon for the Governor on Wednesday at which Mr. Deutsch sat on the dais , but did not speak . A formal statement by him , endorsing the Governor , was scheduled to be released by the Lehman campaign headquarters . The statement , containing a full explanation by Mr. Deutsch of his views , will be issued shortly , it was indicated yesterday . Mr. Deutsch 's reply yesterday to a question as to whether he was supporting Governor Lehman because he regarded him as the " superior candidate " was " Yes . " He answered affirmatively also a question as to whether he was supporting Controller for election . Both he and Mayor LaGuardia joined in denying that the recently reported quarrel between them had anything to do with Mr. Deutsch 's adherence to the Lehman candidacy . The depositors ' committee of the defunct City Trust Company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued a statement yesterday endorsing Governor Lehman for reelection , and pointing out that the Governor had advanced $1,000,000 of his own money in order to insure a return to the depositors of 100 per cent of their money . The resolution adopted by the committee follows : Whereas the City Trust Company depositors ' committee is mindful and deeply appreciative of the great service rendered by the Hon. Herbert H. Lehman to the depositors of that institution in their darkest moments and that Governor Lehman was largely responsible for averting what was otherwise almost certain catastrophe and ruin for the depositors thereof . Whereas in addition to materially aiding in enlisting the support of financial institutions and financiers in rehabilitati .. g the then shattered City Trust Company , the said Hon. Herbert H. Lehman and his high-minded wife generously advanced $1,000 , - 000 of their private fortune in order to insure the 100 per cent return to the depositors of their money , without any expectation or prospect of reimbursement thereof ; and Now , therefore , be It resolved , That the City Trust Company depositors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any political affiliations , and inspired solely by a spontaneous desire to assure the safe welfare of the people of the State by the continued leadership fo the State of New York in the competent and unselfish hands of our present , Governnor , does unhesitatingly give its complete support and approval to the re-election of the Hon. Herbert H. Lehman and does hereby pledge its unified efforts to the end that the present campaign shall result in an unprecedented vote for the re-election of Hon. Herbert H. Lehman as Governor of the State of New York . Garvan Heads Finance Group . The appointment of Francis P. Garvan as chairman of the Democratic campaign finance committee was announced yesterday by Clarence H. Low , treasurer of the Democratic State Committee . The appointment was made by State Chairman James A. Farley . Mr. Garvan , former Alien Property Custodian , is president of the Chemical ? Foundation . Elmer E. Studley Of Queens , Representative at large and campaign manager for Mathew J. Merritt , nominated to succeed him , announced yesterday that he has written to all county and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Foreign Wars and the American Legion , asking their support for Mr. Merritt and Mrs. Caroline O'Day , running for the other post as Repre ' sentative at large .                     