@@701645

txt Asking to be relieved of its onerous duties after nearly four months of service , the extraordinary grand jury empaneled by Governor Lehman last July to stamp out racketeering in New York County reported to Supreme Court Justice Philip J. McCook yesterday that a dozen or more " major criminals " control the forces that extort millions each year from the city 's I business men . These " real powers behind the rackets " were not named by the grand jury , which said that most of them had covered their trails so well that they were " totally unknown to the public . " After hearing more than 500 witnesses in the four months it has been in existence , the grand jury said it had reached the conclusion that it would take two grand juries sitting simultaneously two years to complete the work it had begun . To ask one group of twenty-three men to make this sacrifice in time from their businesses , the grand jurors implied was both unfair and unnecessary . New Order Promised . Thomas E. Dewey , Deputy Assistant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , explained that technically the continuance of the extraordinary term of court to prosecute racketeers would require a new order from Governor Lehman , but he said he had been authorized by the Governor " to say that he will make the necessary order and that he is insistent that this investigation continue without interruption until its objectives have been accomplished . " As twenty days must elapse between the filing of such an executive order and the empaneling of a new grand jury , it was expected that the original body , the foreman of which is L. Seton Lindsay , a vice president of the New York Life Insurance Company , would continue to function for another month . A new appropriation for the investigation will have to be made by the Board of Estimate . Just before the grand jurors handed up their report five of the twenty-eight convicted loan sharks against whom they had filed indictments or information were sentenced by Justices Max Salomon , Thomas J. Brady and Alvah Burlingame in Special Sessions . Four received prison terms and the fifth a suspended sentence . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealt a body blow " to the racket and declared it could be wiped out in New York County by continued vigilance . Systematic Extortion . Most of the racketeering in New York , the grand jurors asserted , was based " on the systematic extortion of money from business by the criminal underworld through pretended trade and protective associations , labor union racketeers or plain intimidation . " The " legal immunities " given to labor unions , the grand jury said , made them , in many instances , " a particularly attractive instrument for extortion and coercion by criminals . " The grand jurors said they were " shocked by the reluctance of some business men , " who were victims of racketeers , to tell the truth about conditions in their industries , The victims of loan sharks , for the most part " poor and obscure " citizens , the report said , had displayed a courage " lamentably absent in many substantial business men who have appeared before us . " In their report , the grand jurors expressed the hope that the sentencing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West 125th Street , for contempt of court , would discourage others from attempting to impede the investiga- tion . Finkel , who was described by the grand jury as an evasive witness , was committed yesterday to begin serving a thirty-day sentence . Execution of the sentence had been stayed until after Christmas . GRAND JURY 'S REPORT . The text of the grand jury report , which was signed by Mr. Lindsay as foreman and by Bernard Vogel as secretary , follows : Dec. 26 , 1935 . To the Hon. Philip J. McCook , Justice of the Supreme Court , New York County . Sir : We , the grand jury for the extraordinary special and trial term of the Supreme Court in and for the county of New York , impaneled pursuant to the order of His Excellency , the Governor , dated July 3 , 1935 , do report to Your Honor as follows : When this grand jury was Impaneled we were given to understand we would be expected to remain in session three or four months . That time is now coming to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sessions of the grand jury were commenced , we have sat almost continuously . While the usual grand jury session is two hours per day for approximately one month , we have averaged more than three hours per day for four months , and on some days sat five and six hours . On one occasion we sat thirteen consecutive hours , from 2 P. M. to 3 A. M. Naturally , the burden of the work has interfered seriously with the conduct of our private business affairs , and we trust that the new grand jury can soon be impaneled . The work can , of course , be carried on without interruption by such additional grand juries as may be necessary , and none of the progress already achieved need be lost . We deem it proper that we should at this time report to the court . We have ourselves heard the testimony of more than 500 witnesses and we understand that several thousand additional witnesses have been examined in the office of Mr. Dewey , the special prosecutor . We have returned twenty-nine indictments and informations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigations were conducted secretly by Mr. Dewey 's staff and the witnesses were usually brought to the grand jury only after the defendants were actually in custody . As a result of vigorous prosecutions and prompt trials , twentyeight convictions were , procured against twenty-nine defendants , who then received substantial sentences . Many of these defendants were professional criminals of a dangerous type . We have found the loan shark racket to be very extensive , well organized and a large source of revenue to the criminal underworld . Prosecution of these cases has , we hope , dealt a body blow to this racket . We are convinced that it can be wiped out , at least so far as New York County is concerned , by the continuous investigations and prosecutions which we know Mr. Dewey is conducting . The loan shark racket has , of course , consumed only a very small percentage of the time of this grand jury . We have heard testimony in more than eighty different cases , involving many different rackets . We find that most of the rackets in this city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the criminal underworld , through pretended trade and protective associations , labor-union racketeers or plain intimidation . The various legal immunities given to labor unions have unfortunately made them , in a number of instances , a particularly attractive instrument for extortion and coercion by criminals . We have found that many labor unions and their helpless members are being mercilessly exploited by current leaders and gangsters who run the union for their own profit , preying upon business and union workers . Racketeering Centralized . From the witnesses who have appeared before us we find that many of the industries in this city are victimized by racketeers . This racketeering is largely centralized in the hands of a dozen or fifteen major criminals , most of them totally unknown to the public . Our experience indicates that the real powers behind the racket rarely , if ever , achieve public notoriety . They operate through lieutenants , who in turn operate through henchmen . Their activities are well disguised and the trail running to the actual leaders is often almost obliterated . Many of the witnesses who have appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part to further the work of the investigation . We have , however , been shocked by the reluctance of some business men , who are victims of these racketeers , to give testimony . Witness after witness has been brought before this grand jury and has been interrogated repeatedly about matters obviously within his knowledge . Nevertheless these witnesses have often continuously evaded questions and denied knowledge . Others who have repeatedly testified that they had no knowledge of the matters under inquiry have finally admitted that they first testified falsely and have given truthful testimony . Such witnesses have been protected and their identity kept secret . Almost all the victims in the loan shark racket cases were hesitant and in terror of reprisals . They were , nevertheless , induced to tell the truth and give their testimony . Most of these witnesses were poor and obscure , yet when they finally appeared before us they displayed a courage which has been lamentably absent in many substantial business men who have appeared before us . The loan shark cases have demonstrated that Mr. Dewey 's office can and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long crimi , nal records . The conviction of one evasive witness for contempt of court on Monday of this week should demonstrate that citizens can not with impunity obstruct the investigation and prosecution of organized crime . We expect and hope that there will be other prosecutions of such witnesses unless they give truthful testimony . It is imperative that business men cooperate with Mr. Dewey 's office and the grand jury . It is an appalling condition when , in order to procure the testimony of citizens against criminals , it should first be necessary to make criminal cases against those citizens in order to compel them to do their obvious duty . Indictments for individual crimes committed in the course of organized criminal enterprises have never stamped out rackets . Accordingly we have returned no indictments based upon such of the crimes , proved before us , as were only parts of large enterprises . Much additional work must be done and time consumed so that whole rackets may be de-. stroyed by getting at the roots , and not merely harassed . We wish to congratulate Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progress they have thus far made against the greatest of obstacles . We have also been impressed with the excellent detective work performed by Acting Deputy Chief Inspector John A. Lyons and the staff of police detectives working under him . Despite all this , much remains to be done . In our opinion it will take two grand juries working simultaneously two or more years to complete the work . In the interests of efficiency our experience suggests that these grand juries should be relieved by new juries at the end of each three months . We have greatly enjoyed our relationship with Your Honor , and we appreciate the many courtesies you have extended to us , as well as your constant support of , and cooperation with , the grand jury . Respectfully yours , L. SETON LINDSAY , Foreman . BERNARD VOGEL , Secretary . Loan Sharks Sentenced . The four loan sharks who were sentenced to prison in Special Sessions yesterday were : Julius Shenker , 36 , of 530 Pennsylvania Avenue , Brooklyn , six months in the workhouse . George Weiner , 31 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term in the penitentiary with a maximum of three years . Harry Manischewitz , 30 , of 5,124 Eleventh Avenue , Brooklyn , also an indeterminate term in the penitentiary . Sam Friedling , 26 , of 1,000 Faile Street , the Bronx , six months in the workhouse . The fifth man , Herman Lederer , 51 , of 1,000 Faile Street , Friedling 's father-in-law , received a suspended sentence of six months when a probaton officer reported that Lederer had been forced into the usurious money-lending racket by his son-in-                     