@@699746

txt BERLIN , April 21 . ? Representatives of the foreign press were invited today by the director of the political division of the Berlin police administration to inspect evidence offered in support of the contention that , despite repressive measures , the Communist spectre still menaces Germany , and that German Communists have been and still are actively engaged in instigating and keeping alive what here goes by the name of " atrocity propaganda against Germany . " The information was placed at the newspaper men 's disposal , they were told , at the personal behest of Ministers Goering and von Neurath and would later be expanded . The foreign correspondents were taken to several ostensibly harmless photographic studios which in reality , the police officials said , had been unmasked as secret centres of nefarious Communist machinations . One of these on the Belle Alliance Square had been conducted by Kurt Eisner , the son of that other Kurt Eisner , the Spartacist leader , assassinated in Munich in 1919 . Among the incriminating documents shown was a photograph of a battered Jew with an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " posed ; " and some palpable photographic fakes , such as Commander Seldte marching down the front of a Stahlhelm division with Thaelmann , the Communist leader , in Stahlhelm uniform at his side , and Stahlhelm columns parading side by side with Communists carrying the hammer-and-sickle flag  --  though what purpose except a jocular one such fakes can serve is rather difficult to say . Short-Wave Radio Found . There was also discovered in the Eisner studio an unlicensed shortwave radio transmitter ; it was not yet fully installed when the police raided the place , but , said the expounding police official , it was undoubtedly intended for the dissemination of propaganda material , probably in connection with the transmitter of the Social-Democratic " Vorwarts , " whose publication office is almost next door . Another studio , located right on Berlin 's most famous avenue , Unter den Linden . on the top story of an office building , was used as a distributing centre for Communist literature . It was found equipped with the most modern manifolding devices , and was safeguarded from any surprise invasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron door , a peep-hole in which allowed the photographer to scan the persons demanding admittance . If he were in doubt about them he would detain the visitors in the small space between the iron door and an inner wooden one , keeping the iron door open the while and thereby starting an electric buzzer in the studio , which acted as notice to his Communist accomplices to take safety in flight . They could escape by means of a secret exit either to the roof  --  and thence on across the roofs of adjoining houses  --  or down a long corridor in the storage attic to a stair in an annex leading down to the street . The wiring extended to the door guarding this back staircase , a door that could be opened only by those illicitly possessing keys to it . The moment this door was opened and closed again , the buzzer was switched off , and the photographer , apprised thereby that his Communist fellow-plotters were in safety , could then usher his suspected visitors into his studio with the assurance " there is nobody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Studio . That is exactly , the expedition 's cicerone told the newspaper men , what happened when the police , their suspicions aroused by circumstantial indications , raided the place . Only the photographer and his wife were on the premises . But searching the rooms they found the manifolding machine , a ton of Cornmunist literature , the wiring , the secret ways of escape ; and , on the back stairs , the foot-marks of at least two persons who had made their escape that way . In the next few days the police apprehended , so your correspondent was told , six other Communists who had been using that studio for their operations . The all-pervasiveness of the Communist " danger " and the extent of its ramifications in all quarters , say the . political police , are attested by the latest discovery of a Communist secret bureau for forging passports . Four others had previously been disinterred ; the first of them last December , more than a month before the Hitler government took office . This fifth one , though on a smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the police offices and courts concerning what was found in the first establishment raided five months before ! Proof conclusive , said the expounding official , that the Communists have clandestine access even to the bestsecreted government offices . These Communist passport factories did not confine themselves to forging passports  --  for which , the police assert , they were so admirably equipped , with faithful imitations of the official stamps from the United States and Venezuela to those of Japan and Turkey , that " it is almost impossible for a German police official nowadays to tell a forged passport from a genuine one " ? these Communist forgers also were equipped for turning out monthly passes for the Berlin Underground and tramways , &c.,; so well imitated that , again , they could not be told from the genuine article . This discovery explained what had , it was brought out , been a source of puzzle to the Berlin police : the frequency with which Communists when arrested would be found to have such transport commutation tickets on their persons .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     