@@699275

txt In Paris and Geneva simultaneously the French Government today issued in the form of a memorandum to the disarmament conference its plan for reducing European national armaments and armies to a defensive scale , setting up the nucleus of an international force and giving equality rights to all countries . Preliminary to this complete revolutionizing of the old conception of a sovereign right In armaments , the plan asks for a guarantee of the security of all by the amplification and the instrumenting of the BriandKellogg pact , effective application of Article XVI of the Covenant of the League , and the creation of special political and military arrangements between the principal European powers , giving the right to assistance in case of attack or invasion . Plan " An Indivisible Whole . " It is to be noted that twice in the memorandum the French Government declares the group of proposals which it makes to the conference to be " an indivisible whole . " That does not mean , it is stated here , that the French proposal is a " take it or leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France does not commit herself to any single proposal in the plan without its conditioning proposals . In putting forward this plan the French Government and its disarmament delegation contend that all previous proposals , and particularly those of President Hoover , can be fitted in . Where it supplements the Hoover proposals and others is that it treats the disarmament problem , as far as Europe is concerned , as political as well as technical in character . Its aim , it is asserted , is to snake a policy of aggression difficult , and , when that has been accomplished , to reduce all national armies and armaments to a defensive scale by the Institution on continental Europe of national short-service armies with limited effectives , and the absolute prohibition of specifically offensive weapons , except for specialized units which are to be placed at the permaI nent disposal of the League of Nat tions . By this system alone , it is believed here , can the countries of the world in the present scientific age increase their comparative power of defense against the weapons of attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plan asks only for adherence to the general pact , which contains four principles : First  --  That any war undertaken in breach of the Pact of Paris is a matter of interest to all powers and shall be regarded as a breach of the obligations assumed toward each one of them . Second ? In the event of a breach or a threat of a breach of the Pact of Paris , the powers should confer as promptly as possible with the view to appealing to public opinion and agreeing upon steps to be taken . Third ? In the application of the Pact of Paris outlawing war , any breach of that pact shall involve a prohibition of direct or indirect economic or financial relations with the aggressor country .. The powers shall undertake to adopt the necessary measures to make that prohibition immediately effective . Fourth  --  The said powers shall declare their determination not to recognize any de facto situation brought about in consequence of the violation of an international undertaking . These four principles , it is contended here , are in strict conformity with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary of State Stimson and others in their interpretation and development of the Briand-Kellogg pact , the Pact of Paris . Acceptance by all the world States of these principles will , it is believed . make it possible to give full effect to obligations devolving upon members of the League of Nations under the covenant . Defense Against Aggressor . A third step will be the organization within the E ) uropean Continent of arrangements which will establish the right to assistance when a country is attacked or invaded . There must first be the compulsory accession of these States to a general act of arbitration . The attack or invasion of one country by another will automatically call for a concentration from the other contracting States of specialized units which they will hold at the disposal of the League . These will consist of troops serving a relatively long term and possessing more powerful armaments than are permitted to national armies . The national armies will possess no powerful artillery , tanks or bombing aircraft . After a general armaments convention has been signed , it is suggested aneffort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units of the international force . Regular and permanent supervision of the armaments of all countries will be instituted . Naval and overseas forces , the memorandum states , are not affected directly by the continental system outlined . Overseas forces should , however , be calculated and specialized , or local requirements of their strength and armaments should be fixed by a general convention . Regarding naval limitation , the naval treaty of 1922 is cited as an example of the advantages of regional understadings of a political character for purposes of reduction , and the desirability of the conclusion of a Mediterranean naval pact is emphasized . Both qualitative and quantitative reductions of naval forces could be expected to follow , it is stated . Powerful League Air Force . With regard to air forces , the plan proposes , in addition to provisions already laid down in the draft convention , the prohibition of all bombing aircraft , the establishment of a " European air transport union , " which will insure a safeguard against the use of civil aircraft for military purposes , and the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equipment , at the disposal of the League . It is claimed for the plan that it derives directly from the covenant of the League of Nations and the Briand-Kellogg pact and , of that it meets very many if not all the difficulties which have been developed during the past eight months ' discussion at Geneva . While except in a single reference it does not treat of the German claim to an equality right , the whole plan has been constructed with the express purpose to give Germany equality in an organization which would by its character insure a reduction and not an increase in armaments .                     