@@698300

txt The Japanese advance lin North Manchuria across the Chinese Eastern Railway has complicated greatly the task of the Council of the League of Nations in attempting to solve the SinoJapanese conflict and also has injected seriously the Soviet Russian element into the situation , in authoritative opinion here . A speedy solution of the problem , it is feared , is more uncertain than ever with the course of events in the Far East apparently completely out of diplomatic control . Word of the Japanese advance struck officials here with stunning force today , even though many were prepared for it . The reaction in administration circles was typified by one official , who , when told of today 's battle , threw up his arms and exclaimed : " That spills the beans . " Asked what could now be done diplomatically , he rejoined , " When , in playing chess , you lose your queen you attempt to reorganize your movement and carry on , although realizing that it will be an uphill fight . " Stimson Had Hoped ! Or a Truce . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a solution to thr. problem would be found was understood today to have been based in part upon advices indicating that the Japanese and Chinese commanders in Manchuria would enter into a truce and that this would afford an opportunity for the League Council and the United States to effect a peaceful adjustment . Notwithstanding today 's developments , it was officially stated , efforts for a settlement will be continued through the League Council at Paris . The United States , for the present , it was added , will confine its efforts to the moves being made through the League , cooperating through Ambassador Charles G. Dawes . Secretary Stimson formally denied today the published reports that the Washington Government had changed its attitude on the Manchurian situation or that it proposed terms of settlement/ to Japan and China . This denial , he explained informally , applied also to a reported " Dawes plan " being offered in Paris . " I want to correct certain erroneous statements which have appeared lately in the press , " he said . " It is not true that this government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation which it has held from the first . " The American Government has not proposed any terms of settlement either to Japan or to China , has not been approached by either government on the subject of terms which it might approve , and has made no commitments . either express or implied , to either of the disputants . " This government has ebnsistently urged and is continuing to urge that only peaceful means and not military pressure shall be used in the settlement of the dispute between China and Japan regarding Manchuria . It understands that this is the essence of the position taken by the nations represented in the Council of the League of Nations at Paris . This government earnestly hopes that . the negotiations now going on in Paris oill find a way which will lead to a settlement of the difficulty in accordance with these principles . " Nine-Power Treaty at Stake . Inrocation of the Nine-Power treaty in the negotiations was said by officials to he unimportant at the present time . That treaty , which guarantees the territorial and administrative integrity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as is the Kellogg-Briand anti-war treaty . Secretary Stimson let it be known in September that any settlement of the Manchurian problem should fall within the limits of both pacts , but it was said today that the formula by which an arrangement can be reached along the lines of these two treaties is not yet definitely in sight . The reaction of Russia is awaited here with keen interest . With Japan astride the Chinese Eastern Railroad , Russian interests are directly involved , but it is not seen here how Soviet Russia could be in a military position to do anything effective for several months at least . Meanwhile , the situation may change . The Japanese Embassy said it had no definite reports on the battle , but officials assumed that the advance was made after the Chinese had attacked . Ambassador Debuchi had previously stated that the Japanese would not advance north of the river unless attacked ,                     