@@701697

txt The open threat of former Governor Alfred E. Smith to bolt the leadership of President Roosevelt in the coming campaign , made last night at the first annual dinner of the American Liberty League , resounded with baffling effect today throughout the quarters of those who feel they must carry the New Deal torch in that contest . Such Democratic leaders as expressed themselves pretended to disbelieve that Mr. Smith intended to sound a call for party revolt when he said that he and those who felt like him would probably " take a walk " if the coming convention in Philadelphia endorsed the measures of President Roosevelt . Mr. Smith 's utterance took them completely by surprise . They had expected him to inveigh against the New Deal and to go even further than he did and criticize the President personally . They had not expected , however , that he would suggest a course of action designed deliberately to defeat the administration next November . But to those who gave full credit to the plain language of that part of his address  --  and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Happy Warrior " appeared a much greater menace to the administration 's political secur- ity than had been expected from that source . The view among objective political observers was that Mr. Smith had so committed himself that he would have to bolt the party if the Philadelphia convention endorsed the Roosevelt administration . 1912 Campaign Is Recalled . The campaign of 1912. when Theodore Roosevelt led a similar revolt against President Taft and brought about his defeat and the election of President Wilson , could not be overlooked by the Democrats as they pondered the Smith speech , but they turned for consolation and encouragement to the differences between the situations now and in 1912 . Emil Hurja , vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee , was one of those who first declined to believe and then sought to brush aside Mr. Smith 's statement to the Liberty League diners and the country . " What Mr. Smith meant was that his attitude would be one of noncooperation if the Philadelphia convention endorsed the administration 's actions , " Mr. Hurja said . " Unless people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the administration with respect to the needs of the common people walk out on us , a few selfish persons can not hurt us . " The principal Democratic answer to.Mr . Smith 's threat and challenge is scheduled to come Tuesday night from Senator Robinson . The Democratic National Committee has already arranged for a radio hook-up over the Columbia Broadcasting System , the same that handled Mr. Smith 's speech , to broadcast to the country Mr. Robinson 's answer . Pending that broadcast Senator Robinson . who was Mr. Smith 's running-mate in the campaign of 1928 , declined to comment . Byrnes Hears " Wall Street . " Senator Byrnes was one of the few party leaders who would be quoted today who seemed to believe that Mr. Smith meant what he said . He was ready to meet the challenge . " What if he does walk out ? " asked Mr. Byrnes . " That would n't be anything new . He walked out on the last one , not even remaining to hear Mr. Roosevelt accept the nomination . " Senator Byrnes expressed disgust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Republicans who had taken part in the campaign of abuse against Mr. Smith in 1928 , cheering him on last night in his attacks upon the President . " They were the same people who in 1928 were accusing Mr. Smith of wanting to fly a foreign flag on the White House , " he added . " There was no doubt that it was Mr. Smith who was speaking . I recognized the voice . It was the voice of Oliver Street , but the thought of Wall Street . " Chairman O'Connor of the House Rules Committee , one of the party dependables in the lower branch , professed not to believe that Mr. Smith meant by his speech to infer that he would lead or take part in a revolt against the administration . " Of all people , he should be the last to attack Mr. Roosevelt , " Mr. O'Connor added . Speaker Byrns had his doubts as to Mr. Smith 's actual intentions to " take a walk " from the party or the Philadelphia convention . At least he hoped he would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beat Roosevelt ; there is no doubt about his re-election , " said the Speaker . " This group , sponsored by Raskob and the du Ponts , are deeply antagonistic toward the President because he did something . It is regrettable that Mr. Smith lined up with them , but I do not believe that he will bolt the party . " The speech was interesting ; Mr. Smith broke out once or twice but he restrained himself , I thought . " The planks he discussed were written in 1932 . Mr. Roosevelt came into the White House in 1933 ; something had to be done and he did it . Ile could not pursue a ' donothing ' policy . The sponsors of the Liberty League did not want him to do anything . " I wonder why Mr. Smith did not say last night what he would have done under the conditions that prevailed in 1933 and I think that his speech did not indicate that he would bolt the party . " Even Senator Schwellenbach , who in a Senate speech last week warned that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he did not believe Mr. Smith meant to indicate he would participate in a party rebellion . " Furthermore , I do n't think his group has enough influence to walk out on anything , " he said . " Governor Smith 's speech was clever , but I could find nothing in it that would be attractive to the American people , except the style . The people want a program . All he appeared to want was to go back to 1933 . " Richberg Recalls 1933 Speech . No one essayed to answer Mr. Smith 's sarcastic application of the administration 's performances to the party platform of 1932 . Senator Schwellenbach thought the platform of no consequence . Others , including Donald R. Richberg , former chairman of the Federal Emergency Council , went back to the record to show that Mr. Smith had sponsored the same sort of " progressive " measures that he criticized last night as having been accomplished by Mr. Roosevelt . Mr. Smith 's castigation of the administration for attempts to circumvent the Constitution , or for its attempts to regulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some observers to a speech the former New York Governor delivered on Feb. 8 , 1933 , before the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems . He suggested in that speech that a democracy should become a " tyrant " in case of emergencies such as the depression , just as it did during the World War . " In the World War we took our Constitution , wrapped it up and laid it on the shelf and left it there until it was over , " he said at that time . In the same speech he suggested that the government brush aside obstructive statutes , if necessary , to cut the red tape in aiding business . He said : " Now I say , and I 've said all along , that in a depression we are in a state of war . This stagnation of business , or whatever you call it , is doing more damage at home to our own people than the great war of 1917 and 1918 ever did . The only thing to do is to lay aside the red tape and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it fights . " He was speaking with particular reference to loosening Federal funds for public works projects in New York . Mr. Richberg 's comments were made in a joint statement issued by himself , as executive chairman , and Melvin D. Hildreth , as executive secretary , of the National Progressive League . " In , 1928 Governor Alfred E. Smith , as the Democratic candidate for President , invited and obtained the support of progressives because he advocated a program of agricultural relief , electric power development and protection of labor similar to that which President Roosevelt has put into effect , " the statement said , " Now that the announced policies and principles of Governor Smith 's campaign of 1928 have been made effective under the progressive administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt , the opposition with which Governor Smith has aligned himself is denouncing the Roosevelt administration as socialistic . " The statement proceeded then to " answer Alfred E. Smith , speaking in 1936 , by Governor Smith speaking in the 1928 campaign , " with the following quotation reputedly made by him then : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful interests that desire to put a damper on progressive legislation . Failing to meet arguments fairly and squarely , ' Special Interest ' falls back on the old stock phrase of socialism . ? ? ? To refer to the remedies for all these ' evils as State socialism is not constructive statesmanship , it is not leadership ; and leadership is what this country is hungry for today . " Mr. Smith went to some length in last night 's address.to criticize the administration as tending toward socialistic doctrines , even to the extent of inviting a comparison between the performances of the administration since 1933 with the Socialist party platform of 1932 . The politically minded were not content to compare the apparently contradictory statements which Mr. ' Smith might have made from time to time . Too many of them were acquainted with the fact that such might be used against many public men . They were more disposed to speculate on the possibilities of his open threat to revolt . Many doubted that , under present circumstances , he could create such an effective rumpus as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this belief was the fact that Mr. Roosevelt went to the 1912 convention with many delegates pledged for his nomination . He was a popular idol in the country . Furthermore , he had a record of ' service that left no doubt as to the ' program he would pursue if re elected . When his delegates were literally thrown out of the convention , their pique and the revulsion created throughout the country by the strong-arm tactics of which they were victims were easily united in a crusade . But in Mr. Smith 's case it is believed doubtful that he could induce very many delegates to " take a walk " with him out of the Philadelphia convention . Besides this practical side of ' the matter , his general popularity in the country can not be compared with that of Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 , and the program he would advocate to take the place of the one he criticized so bitterly is by no means clear to an obviously program-conscious public . Some of the material for Mr. Smith 's speech was said tonight by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been inspired by Mgr . Fulton J. Sheen of the Catholic University in remarks made at the National Eucharistic Congress in Cleveland last September . In a telegram to THE NEW YORK TIMES Washington bureau Mr. called attention to Mgr . Sheen 's radio talks on the " Prodigal Son , " asserting that these utterances and Mr. Smith 's remarks last night on communism and socialism were identical .                     