@@702454

txt If the forthcoming French loan proves to be the turning point in the financial fortunes of Prance , it also may Inaugurate a new phase under the tri-partite monetary agreement in which the dollar-pound ratio will hold the spotlight , according to the feeling here . Success of the French loan and cessation of fears over the monetary future of France could react in two ways to jar the relationship between the dollar and the pound , both ways tending to depreciate the pound at the expense of the dollar . Aftermath of the French loan , if it is successful , may be , therefore , a resurgence of the question of how low Washington is willing to see sterling drop . The answer to this question will be developed empirically on the basis of repercussions here . Washington , however , probably would become restive if the pound dropped below $4.86 for any length of time . Agreement Fixes No Ratios The tri-partite agreement fixes no ratios for the three currencies but merely binds the participants to cooperative action aimed at smoothing out exchange fluctuations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent pressure on the pound , and the United States has an easier means for retaliation than is commonly supposed because Secretary Morgenthau , theoretically , fixes each day the gold price at which the Treasury redeems dollars for foreign central banks . If success of the forthcoming French loan signals improvement in the financial situation in France , either of two results may follow : The movement of capital from Paris to London may stop , or the movement actually may start In the other direction . Either development would tend to weaken the pound . French funds moving to London for sime time have been a prop to sterling , obscuring to some degree the effect of developments within England . These developments have been on the adverse side . The defense program has unbalanced the budget . This program and the course of recovery have given Britain an unfavorable visible balance of trade which appears certain to continue . Fall Effect Probably Not Yet Felt Appearance of these two unfavorable factors normally would be reflected in lower sterling quotations , but their full effect probably has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into London . If this movement ceases , the net effect of the unbalanced budget and the unfavorable trade balance may be greater , increasing the pressure on the pound . Offsetting these influences , however , will be the fact that British investments abroad , most of them in raw material industries , should bolster Britain 's balance of international payments as recovery continues and arw material prices rise . If the improvement in the French situation should be great enough to start an actual return flow of capital to France , the effect on the pound would be even more marked . Sterling would suffer much more from repatriation of French capital than would the dollar , according to officials here . Although success of the French loan might raise new problems of great importance , its failure would be even more hazardous to the future of monetary stability , and officials here look with no particular dread on problems involving the dollar-pound ratio . The feeling between Washington and London is good , and authorities on each aide are willing to bear with those on the other side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  