@@704130

txt In spite of a solemn warning by Winston Churchill that ' , ' there is going to be a supreme trial of will power if not of arms " in the near future , the House of Commons today voted by 245 to 129 to go on holiday Friday for an eight weeks ' recess In the midst of Europe 's so-called danger period . The tired House accepteo . rrime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's de-11 mend for adjournment until Oct. 3 , but only after a dramatic four and a half hour debate in which bitter things were said against the Prime Minister from the Conservative benches as well as from the Opposition parties . Mr. Chamberlain was so stung by some of his critics that he announced that he would regard the vote as one of confidence in the government and he implied that he would resign if he could not have his way . Even after this crack of the whip the government vote fell 113 below the figure of a week ago and a number of prominent Conservatives , including Mr. Churchill , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouragement to Chancellor Hitler at a critical time . Many Followers Angered It was the sharpest duel this Parliament has known since the days of Munich , and although the Prime Minister achieved his wish of getting Parliament out of the way , he did so at the cost of angering many of his followers . One of his fellow Conservative members from Birmingham , Ronald Cartland , went so far as to attack Mr. Chamberlain for his " jeering and pettifogging " attitude and declared that the Prime Minister had made it harder for his friends to contradict the idea that he had " ideas of dictatorship " in his mind . Mr. Chamberlain tried to assure the House at the opening of debate that he would reassemble it without hesitation if events made an earlier meeting necessary . He would do so , he promised , if there were need of " new legislation not at this moment contemplated or not contemplated to be urgent " or " if the government desired to have the approval of the House for measures it had taken or was about to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present case , " said Mr. Chamberlain , " we have no information at the present time which leads us to suppose it would be necessary to call the House together at any particular moment in the next fortnight or three weeks . " This referred to the Labor party 's demand for the reassembly of Commons on Aug. 21 after a fortnight 's holiday instead of the eight weeks proposed by the.government . Mr. Chamberlain also repeated still another assurance he gave a questioner last week that " if the government were contemplating any important departure from its declared policy it would give the House the opportunity of expressing its opinion without waiting for the appointed day . " Recalling the mass of preparedness legislation passed during the last five months he declared that " the country is ready now for any emergency . " But this did not satisfy his critics , who remembered what happened to Czecho-Slovakia during the long adjournment last year and who feared some new " appeasement " behind Parliament 's back during the coming vacation . Arthur Greenwood , for the Labor party , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the absence of Parliament . " What guarantee have we , " he asked , " that when our backs are turned the government wo n't throw up its hands on the question of the triple alliance between Britain , France and Russia ? Our eyes today are fixed on Danzig , but suppose that during the recess Hitler turned his attention to Yugoslavia . My information goes to show that the situation there may easily become another danger spot in Europe . What will the government do about hat ? How do we know that the Far East is not to be another Munich before the House reassembles Oct. 3 ? " Last September the House reassembled to witness a funeral pyre . A great people had their independence taken from them . I believe that an overwhelming majority of the public in this country would wish Parliament to be on the alert at this critical time . " Mr. Churchill , in one of his stiffest fighting speeches in many months , followed by saying the House of Commons counted deeply in the thoughts of the dictators . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the invasion of Albania at Eastertime , he said , the dictators " timed their strokes in the past for when the House was not sitting . " House an Added Defense " The House is a recognized addition to the defense of Britain , " he declared , " and the country is safer when the House is sitting . Properly used and commanded , it will reinforce the power of His Majesty 's government . I have the feeling that things are in a dead balance and that even the minor factors of a favorable character should not be neglected if they could be thrown on to the right side of the scale . " The situation in Europe is graver than it was at this time last year . " The German Government now has 2,000,000 men under arms and when the new class joins in August 500,000 will be added . All along the Polish frontier from Danzig to Cracow there are heavy concentrations of German troops . There are five German divisions in a state of mobility around Breslau alone . The roads toward Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforced Czecho-Slovak labor . I have been told  --  I may be wrong but I have not always been wrong Opposition cheers ? that many public buildings and schools in large parts of Czecho-Slovakia  --  in Bohemia certainly  --  have been cleared and prepared for the accommodation of the wounded . But that is not the only place . There is a definite movement of supplies and troops through Austria toward the east . " It would be disastrous , pathetic and shameful if at this moment the Commons should write itself off as a factor in the situation or reduce whatever strength it can offer to the firm front which the nation will make against aggression . " Asserting that he personally trusted Mr. Chamberlain 's good faith , Mr. Churchill argued that the question at , issue was a far bigger One . " It will be a very hard thing , " he went on , " for the government to say to the House : ' Be gone . Run away and play . Take your gas masks with you . Do n't worry about public affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far as defense is concerned landed the country where it was landed last September and who in foreign policy guaranteed Poland and Rumania after having lost CzechoSlovakia and without having gained Russia . ' " A rapid fire of equally passionate speeches for and against Mr. Chamberlain followed . They had no effect except to sharpen Mr. Chamberlain 's temper . He was angry when he arose to reply to the debate . " Examining some of the arguments that have been put forward , many of the speeches left on my mind the impression , " said Mr. Chamberlain , " that those who were making them  --  I am thinking of the critics , of course  --  were very badly in need of a holiday and that their reasoning faculties wanted a little freshening up at the seaside . It must be clear in every quarter of the House that the good faith of the government , has been questioned . If you distrust us and show it by your vote it is a vote of no confidence in the government and of no confidence in the Prime Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamberlain went on sarcastically , " to hear Mr , Churchill suggest that , after all , the House might safely adjourn for a fortnight or three weeks . That is the very time when , if the House by sitting could prevent these terrible ? emergencies from arising , it ought to be at Westminster . Cites Case of Austria " Is it the case that when the House is sitting the danger of war is minimized ? Have we forgotten what has sometimes been called the rape of Austria ? Did that take place during the holidays ? No , the House was in session at the time , but the House was not able to prevent it . Another instance occurred only last March . On March 15 German troops began to move on Prague . The House was in sesssion and we had a debate the same afternoon . Not only was the House in session , but it was active ; it was talking about it , but did n't stop it . " Mr. Chamberlain ridie2uled the idea that Czecho-Slovakia could have ben saved if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I claim that the procedure I am asking the House to follow now is a procedure that has been found to be workable on other occasions , " Mr. Chamberlain concluded , " and is a procedure that enables us to have a date up our sleeve and keep it up our sleeve until there is reason to bring it down again . " Mander Attacks Counsel The rumble of dissatisfaction continued long after Mr. Chamberlain down . Geoffrey Mender Liberal , who invariably attacks the government 's foreign policy , predicted that after adjournment " there will be a leading article in The London Times  --  of course entirely without government authorization ? which will say that the case or Danzig is not worth a war and negotiations should he tried . " " Then , " said Mr. Mander , " we will be told that Poland has asked for the presence of Viscount Runciman to mediate . The next day Sir Nevile Henderson will have joined the party . The day after that Sir Horace Wilson will have found his way there , The final scene will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir John Simon and Sir Samuel Hoare to Danzig leaving Viscount Halifax on the Yorkshire moors . " The Conservative critics , most of whom were in the anti-Munich camp last ykar , assured Mr. Cham1 berlain that the country did not want Parliament adjourned for such a long time and begged him to reconsider in the interests of national unity . But all the appeals failed and the well-disciplined Conservative members finally trooped into the division lobby to send themselves on what many of them realized might be a historic holiday . LABOR GAINS IN ELECTION Victor Sees Demand for Firmer British Foreign Polley II/Inflow ; to Tas NEW TORIC Tam . LONDON , Aug. ** government lost a parliamentary seat to the Labor party today in the Brecon and Radnor by-election , W. F. Jackson , Laborite , beating R. Nanning Philips , Conservative , by 2,636 votes . The election was caused by the succession to the peerage as Lord Wimberne of Ivor Guest , who in 1935 , without political affiliation but supporting the government , won by 2,169 votes . " I take the message to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brecon and Radnor that they want more firmness in his handling of foreign affairs and that they believe th time has come when a peace Iron of nations should be constitute without delay , " Mr. Jackson sail after the votes were counted . The district has long had a hit Liberal vote . Mr. Jackson was for merly head of the Liberal organize tion and it is assumed most of till Liberal vote went to Labor thi time . It is believed Labor alsi profited by the farmers ' genera dissatisfaction with the govern ment 's agricultural policies . The result was unexpected an ( cheered the Laborites tremendously It was the seventy-sixth by-electiot since the general election in 1931 and was the sixteenth seat lost b : the government .                     