@@699538

txt Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S motive in announcing at once his appointments of a Secretary of State and a Secretary of the Treasury is fairly obvious . It is a desire to speed the negotiations concerning the war debts and the coming World Economic Conference . Foreign Governments have naturally concluded that it would be futile to seek to deal with the Hoover Administration in its expiring days . The President himself has cheerfully assented , and so has Secretary STimsoN , to turning all these questions over to Mr. ROOSEVELT . But as time is of the essence of the matter , it has been decided not to wait until March 2 ? as Mr. ROOSEVELT had indicated that he would wait  --  for making known the members of the new Cabinet . If the Ambassadors of Great Britain and of France wish to proceed quickly with the discussions which they are anxious to begin , they now know the incoming officials with whom they will have to argue their case . Senator HULL has for some time been indicated as Mr. ROOSEVELT 'S choice for the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instantly pressed upon it for decision he is peculiarly competent . During his long public service in Congress he has made himself known as an authority on taxation and on tariffs . His views about world commerce have been repeatedly made known . Moreover , his understanding of public finance , particularly the currency , has been shown to be comprehensive . If the necessary give and take respecting a new agreement about intergovernmental debts should partly turn upon the stabilizing of foreign currencies at a fixed gold value , Mr. HULL would find himself in a field perfectly familiar , where his knowledge and experience would be of high importance . For the rest , his character , his unusual intelligence , and the aptitudes which he has displayed as a serious student of public affairs should easily make him equal to the duties which he will have to undertake as Secretary of State . The cordial approval which his selection has met from his colleagues in Congress and from the press augurs well for his success in the new office which he is about to assume . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admit frankly to be a personal appointment . Mr. WOODIN is a warm friend of his , who has long been associated with him in various public-spirited organizations , such as the Warm Springs Foundation in Georgia , and in whom the President has every reason to feel perfect confidence . The fact that I the new Secretary of the Treasury has been known as a Republican , who left his party last year to support Mr. ROOSEVELT , will be taken as an indication that the Presidentelect wishes to recognize in this way the many Republicans who voted for him last November . Of the new Secretary 's personal qualities all his friends and acquaintances speak in the highest terms . Though there has been no occasion for any proclamation by him of his conception of our public finance , or especially of a sound and stable currency , there can be no doubt that it is correct , and will be lived up to by Mr. WOODIN when he takes office . One of the economic advisers of Mr. ROOSEVELT has put prominently in the program of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The country*Will take it for granted that Mr. WOODIN is completely in accord with this policy and purpose . . Although he was manifestly a second choice for the Treasury , he will be expected to go to it with a determination to uphold the promise of the Democratic platform to maintain a sound currency at all hazards .                     