@@704174

txt Premier Edouard Daladier backed up today the statement he made in his , radio speech yesterday , that France was willing to negotiate but not to surrender , by examining in the closest union with Britain and Poland Chancellor Hitler 's proposals , as submitted through British Ambassador Sir Nevile Henderson , and at the same time by calling to the colors two more categories of reservists5 and 6 . It is not possible to say how many men are now mobilized in France , but the number , it is admitted , is over 2,000,000 . This further measure of precaution has been accepted in the same spirit of " grave and silent resolution " as was the first call and with steady determination to put an end , by war if necessary , to that system and policy which have twice within twelve months disrupted the whole course of life in Europe , Most of today was occupied by an examination of Herr Hitler 's " suggestions " for a settlement , which , it is said , are of a general character and include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole plan , however , is linked with the Danzig problem and Germany 's relations with Poland , it is understood . The French Attitude It appears that Chancellor Hitler has made it clear that reattachment of Danzig to the Reich is a preliminary condition to the meeting of an international conference for a general settlement . If such are his proposals the only possible French reply , in accord with the statement that Premier Daladier made yesterday , must be that the Poles have never refused to discuss the statute of Danzig and that they are willing to do so now . The French position is that it Is for Germany to seek a solution with Warsaw in conversations that will not be conducted under military pressure but in a spirit of respect for Polish national independence and vital interests . It is understood that a reply in this sense has already been drafted , in agreement with the British Cabinet , and that it will be delivered by Robert Coulondre , French Ambassador to Berlin , if it has not already reached the Chancellor . For most Frenchmen it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national existence of Poland that is involved , but whether or not Herr Hitler 's personal system of rule in Germany and its methods are to be allowed to poison everybody 's life . That Herr Hitler has been impressed by the spirit of resistance in Poland , in France and in Great Britain has been shown , it is thought in official circles here , by the fact that he yesterday summoned she French and British Ambassadors , and at least opened the road for negotiation . But between what Herr Hitler and others consider negotiation there is a great deal of difference , his conception being limited to the expectation that Germany 's demands should be immediately granted . Until now , it is pointed out , the German Government has not officially claimed more than the return of Danzig to the Reich , but the German propaganda service has asked for the return of the Corridor , of Pomerania and the old German frontier . Putting the French position , one official spokesman said : " It is not to be expected that after having had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical handing over of Danzig to Germany and have to mobilize again next year , when it suits the Nazi Government to demand with the same threats of force the sacrifice of Pomerania , Silesia and the Corridor by Poland . " That is what every Frenchman called to the colors during the past few days is thinking . They do not want to have to go through this disturbance and anxiety again , and any premature " negotiation " or " arbitration , " or whatever else it may be called , of German claims against Poland is going to be regarded here as a grave error , not only by many of those at the head of affairs , but by the men now in the Maginot Line . No Quarrel With Belch People They have no quarrel with the German people , but there is a rising demand among all classes in the country that the Hitlerite system and method must go . Meanwhile , diplomatic activity to prevent war and preparations for war , if these efforts fail , went on today incessantly . , Much secrecy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a matter for many discussions between Premier Daladier and Georges Bonnet , Foreign Minister , and the British and Polish Ambassadors here , and their constant contact with London . Late in the evening , after a report of the British Cabinet 's discussion of Herr Hitler 's proposals had been received here , it was said these were being studied with the utmost consideration . It was again pointed out , however , that last year 's experience of the Hitlerite method of asking for what seemed , perhaps , a reasonable sacrifice for the sake of peace and his subsequent exploitation of ' what surrender had been made called for the greatest prudence and firmness . France , it was said , is not prepared to admit the possibility of another Munich settlement being followed , in the case of Poland , by another Fifteenth of March . It may be taken for granted that Paris , London and Warsaw will avoid burning any bridges in a manner that would give Germany an opportunity for saying she had been attacked . Every diplomatic move will be made carefully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflect are welcomed , it is secretly hoped that they will not be pushed to the point of affording Herr Hitler a way out and of embarassing those who might be compelled by any partial and imperfect settlement to have to repeat next year this costly and harrowing business of mobilization . The Petit Parisien 's diplomatic correspondent , commenting on the visit of the Italian Amabassador to the Quai d'Orsay during the day , says : " It is known that King Victor Emmanuel and Premier Mussolini are making great efforts to prevent war . Telephones are working all the time between Berlin and Rome . This activity must not , however , cover the attempt to attach Italy 's demands to those of the Reich . If there is to be mediation it must be by a mediator who thinks more of common safety than of himself . " When he received the British and French Ambassadors yesterday , Hitler declared ' My armies are ready . ' He must now know that our armies are also ready . If there is to be any conversation it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland by German force . " Among war measures taken today was the issuance of an order forbidding any civilian airplanes , other than those of regularly established airlines , from flying over French metropolitan or North African territory . The two Communist newspapers , Humanite and Ce Soir , were definitely suspended . Reservist categories 1 and 2 , who reside in frontier districts , as well as groups 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and half of 8 , have now been called . In the event of general mobilization , category 7 , the second half of 8 and those who have no number  --  that is to say , those not attached to some specialized arm  --  will be called . First-aid stations for civilians and soldiers have been established at all railroad stations . While there is no censorship of news , except as regards military movements , a decree was issued giving the government power to suspend any publication considered harmful to the national defense . British units in uniform on the way to special posts passed through at least one French port and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German and former Austrian citizens with their families , ordering them to leave on the first trains . The German tourist agency in Paris was closed today and the personnel returned to Germany . France will grant to Poland tomorrow a 430,000,000-franc credit for the purchase of war materials here . A note authorizing this loan will appear tomorrow in the Journal Officiel ; it follows the conclusion of an accord made here a week ago . During the evening M. Daladier received from General Joseph Edouard Doumenc , head of the military mission to Russia , a report on his negotiations there , which were described as " terrible for the Soviets . " While Ambassador PaulEmile Naggiar is returning from Moscow to report to M. Bonnet , it is said there is no question of his being recalled . Pictures of British Troops PARIS , Sunday , Aug. 27 ( 21 ) . ? Sunday morning newspapers published several pictures today showing British colonial troops and British sailors landing from England yesterday at Dieppe , France , and heading for an undisclosed destination . These pictures were the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Channel . The Military Secrets Law bans any identifying of the troops and sailors by regiment or indicating their destination . France was reported last night to have told Germany in a firm response to Chancellor Hitler 's peace proposals that the way to settle the European crisis was for Germany to negotiate directly with Poland . The French reply to Herr Hitler 's peace proposals to settle the European crisis was handed to the Nazi chief . The French answer , handed personally to Herr Hitler by Ambassador Robert Coulondre , was said by Paris diplomatic sources to have stated the French position in two points : 1 . France does not want to have to fight , but she has given her guarantee to Poland and intends to make good on it . 2 . If Germany wants a peaceful solution she must negotiate a settlement directly with Poland as equal power treating with equal power . The French Ambassador to Berlin reported back to Foreign Minister Georges Bonnet just after nightfall that he had placed the French reply personally in Herr Hitler 's hands . The reply was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As soon as the coded answer had been sent to Berlin and decoded there , M. Coulondre asked for an interview with Herr Hitler and was received immediately . Diplomatic sources here said that France and Britain were replying separately to the German proposals because the Chancellor presented his plan to the British and French Ambassadors with different emphasis . Views on Hitler 's Alms As diplomatic circles in Paris pieced together Friday 's dramatic interviews between Herr Hitler and the British , French , Japanese and Italian Ambassadors , the Chancellor , when he called them in separately , gave them separate messages for their governments that differed in details . With French Ambassador Coulondre , these sources said , he was fairly vague , stressing the fact that Germany had no quarrel with France and that a situation existed between Germany and Poland that must be regulated . He expressed general impatience with Poland to M. Coulondre , these sources indicated , but to British Ambassador Sir Nevile Henderson he made a more definite proposition . What these proposals were was still not definitely known , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handing over to Germany of Danzig and the Polish Corridor in connection with a " peace conference . " Whether this conference was to be held before or after Germany received her demands was not made clear . Herr Hitler was said to have told Sir Nevile Henderson to take his propositions to London and bring back a definite answer from the British Government . During the Cabinet session at London yesterday afternoon , the British were understood to have asked both France and Poland to rush their opinion on the Hitler proposals . Study Hitler 's Purposes The French study of the proposals ? as well as the British  --  was based , the French Foreign Office circles made clear , not just on the actual suggestions that the Chancellor has made , but on the possible purposes behind those suggestions . It was no longer simply a question of djscussion of the status of Danzig but also of the risk that might later be faced by Poland and Europe in general . Persons in close contact with the facts would say only that the question of war or peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Ambassador to Moscow , Paul-Emile Naggiar , had left his post on a call from his government and was speeding back to Paris . His recall , officially described as " on long leave , " reflected French dissatisfaction with Russia 's explanation of why she signed the nonaggression accord with Germany . M. Naggiar on Friday called on Premier Vyacheslaff Molotoff to ask for an explanation of the pact . He cabled the result to Paris and the recall " with a long leave " was cabled back to him from Paris today , officials said . Diplomatic sources in Paris said Mr. Molotoff " practically insulted " the British Ambassador , Sir William Seeds , and was " none too cordial " to the French envoy . The French Government tonight cut off all air communication between France and Eastern Europe . A decree , to become effective at 9 A. M. tomorrow 4 A. M. today in New York forbade any planes except French military craft to fly over French territory east of a line from Calais south through Paris and Lyon to Marseille . Eight regular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Germany , Switzerland and Italy , ase well as countries farther east , were eliminated by the order .                     