@@702649

txt President Roosevelt will be asked to settle the controversy between the Post Office Department and the Interstate Commerce Commission over regulation of air mai ! carriers . Until the President has made a decision , it was revealed yesterday , congressional action on conflicting bills will be delayed . One bill would strengthen the power of Post Office Department over the carrier ' , and the other repeal the air mail lawS arc g. ' r the ICCrcomi , plete regulatory authority . Postmaster General Farley , in a letter to House , Committee members , opposed the Lea bill which would place the air commerce industry under the ICC and announce i his preference for the Mead bill which would increase the authority of his department . President Roosevelt , in communications to Congress , has favored placing regulation of the air transport industry in the hands of the ICC , as a part of a general program for coordinating federal control over the transportation industry , including railroads , motor buses , water carriers and air carriers . In view of this , it appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has failed to see eye-to-eye with the President on the issue , despite his usual role of applying the political lash to recalcitrant Democrats who rasie their voices against proposals favored by the President . Meanwhile , the Post Office has asked Congress to amend the foreign air mail laws to permit the Postmaster General to extend foreign mail contracts for five years without advertising for bids . It also requested authority to transport airmail between the United States . Its territories and possessions and foreign countries without formal contracts . under this service , mall would be transported on foreign aircraft as well as on domestic owned craft . The rates , which would be paid for service on heavier-than-air-craft , could not exceed 51 85 per pound for each 1.000 statute miles for letters and cards and 50 cents per pound for each 1.000 miles on other articles and parcel post . Or lighter-than-air service of the Zeppelin type , the rates would be limited to not more than Si per pound on letters and cards and 27 cer.ts per pound on other articles . The Postmaster General would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excess of the rates paid the carriers In order to place the service on a self-supporting basis . It will be noted that this arrangement would permit the Post Office Department to carry our foreign mails by aircraft at a rate which would not include any subsidy , " W. W. Howes , acting postmaster general , informed Representative Mead ( Dem. , N. Y. ) , who introduced the bill recommended by the department . The bill provides that where a foreign air mail contract has been let and the services have been performed " to the satisfaction " of the Postmaster General , he may renew the contract for a period of not more than five years without advertising for bids . The extension would be at the existing rate of compensation . "                     