@@699965

txt The jobs of more than 6000 foresters are saved for the winter . A single scratch of Oovenor Ely 's pen committed Massacihusetts to a program of " more and better parks , " giving the welfare lists a prodigious " dig in , . the aides . " As a result , smoke spurts more cheerily than ever from the " Chow " tents of SO state forest camps . To keep the foresters on the job , the State needs more park land . The " 6000 " have enough work left On existing parks to keep busy well into the fall . An appropriation of $250 , - 000 is asked to increase the park system by 50,000 acres before 1035 . A preliminary grant of $10,000 sends the forestry experts jubilantly into the woods looking for possible park sites and checking land titles . Meanwhile , the " 6000 " rest easy with the ? assurance of loose change jingling in their pockets for some time to come . The State smiles because the Federal Government pays the wages . And federal authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Adjacent to Boston So far as feasible , land to be added to the park ' system of 120 , - 000 acres will be purchased in the solealled Bay State Circuit , that is , within a 25-mile radius of Boston . One of the first steps will be to enlarge the Harold Parker Forest lying in Reading , North Andover and Middleton . It will soon streith into Boxford and Georgetown , according to Mr. Harris Reynolds , secretary of the Massachusetts Forestry Association . New parks are planned in South Worcester County and , Bristol County . Otherwise , the experts will concentrate on enlarging present parks . The purpose of the State Conservation Department is to use federal cooperation in forestry work for necessity projects so , far , as possible . It is not desired to " doll up " the parks for the sake of hiring men . I : , was this argument ' that swayed the Legislature over to the side of exnansion . Model Forests Pictured . A picture of model forests , cover-'lng thousands of acres , criss-crossed with bridle paths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with ponds swimmers and pa- trolled overight camping grounds , was visualized by Mr. Samuel A. York . Commissioner of Conservation , provided the Federal Cioirettunent keeps on with , its , forestry progfam for the next 15 months . At the Perin and Home Week celebrations today at Massachusetts State College , the commissioner extolled the idea of . combining the demands of the ' foresters . for more timber land with the demands of the public for more space- to relax in , and presto : ? producing a park system unsurpassed in the country . On the surface , the two demands would seem to conflict , he said . But U properly handled , he argued , they will produce cooperative results . Public lands , it was his contention , are the safety valves where citizens can let off some of the pressure built up in crowded tenements and streets .                     