@@699227

txt All that is obrions about , the 71 : - cent drop in sterling exchange yesterday and the revelation today of a further ? loss overnight is that the official peg is still being withheld . The peg is provided by official British dealings in exchange out of the so-called ex ; change equalization fund of f150 , - 000,000 which was set aside on April 25 . Judged from the subsequent . course of events , the aim apparently has been to promote stability on the downward trend . sterling having oscillated between April and last week in a 53.70-53.50 zone , until last week 's break . Last week a decline of 10 cents in two days to a low price , for the week of $3.35 first signalized the removal of the peg . Then there was a recovery . But on Friday the financial community expected a reaction in the exchange market , as occurred in every other market , from Mr. Montagu Norman 's speech before a meeting of London bankers . This has now come to pass , and today the opening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connection is that France , Switzerland and Holland started to sell sterling holdings and translate them into dollars . Other factors are at work besides foreign selling . British financiers and traders are . likewise engaged in selling sterling for dollars . Always at this time of the year dollars are in demand in England for purchases of American cotton . Since mid-July , moreover , a strong British buying movement for American securities has been reported . fThis. of course , would bring about a demand for dollars at the expense of the sterling rate . Another factor is the prospective redemption on Dec. 1 of the unconverted 5 per cent war loan bonds , a redemption which would mean a large cash outgo to foreign holders . Yet another factor , by some regarded as the main one , may be the acquisition of dollars by the British Government to meet the Dec. 15 installment on its war debt to the United States . Britain owes $124 , - 000,000 principal and interest . The drain would be rendered the heavier by the fact that in view of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must find 30. per cent more sterling in obtaining the same amount of dollars . Some question arises out of the status of the ? 150,000,000 equalization fund . How much has been used in supporting sterling ? Nobody knows save the British Treasury and the Bank of England . A few observers here opine that Mr. Norman 's remarks might be construed as traceable to the low estate to which it has fallen . But in general the feeling is that the fund has not been damaged unduly and that the British have decided to allow the special factors at work to spend themselves and then , when a new " natural level " has been achieved , to intervene again with official dealings out of the fund In maintaining stability . London Expects Pound To Find Its Own Level LONDON , Oct. 25 ( IP ) ? Sterling opened today at 53.20% , an overnight drop ascribed by brokers to further Continental selling and the absence of control intervention . There was no official statement to justify a report in today 's newspapers that the pound would be stabilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to specUlative activity and seasonal payments for commodities in the United State . It is accepted by the market as a sign that the authorities prefer that sterling shall find its own level . Wall Street Undisturbed NEW YORK , Oct. 25 ( R ) ? Banking reports indicate that the - London markets Were regarding the sterling decline with composure . It was stated that the Bank of England still had funds left from its original stabilization appropriation , but apparently had stepped aside from supporting the sterling market until it had settled around some figure where the pound would help to support itself . The slump , it was pointed out in Wall Street today , is merely another I example of what may happen to a currency which is divorced from the gold standar0                     