@@700714

txt The political chaos growing out of the conflict between William Langer and Ole H. Olson over the Governorship of North Dakota threatened tonight to develop into a state of anarchy . Although there was no disturbance and no rioting , Federal troops at Fort Lincoln were reported being held in readiness to protect Federal workers and property in the event that the ' situation flared up into violence . It was said that officers at the fort were notified to be ready for instant action . At the same time , T. J. Edmonds , regional representative of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration , sped here by airplane from his headquarters at St. Paul , Minn. , on orders from Washington . The Federal Emergency Relief offices here are located in the Capitol Building , in which the executive offices of Mr. Langer were guarded today by the bayonets of militiamen . Mr. Langer , ousted from the Governorship by the State Supreme Court last night because of a Federal conviction of conspiracy against the government , and Lieut . Gov . Olson , who became Acting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today countermanding the orders of the other . At the same time , Langer prepared to take his case to the United States Supreme Court . Olson in Hotel Room . Mr. Olson , a dirt farmer from New Rockford , set up his own executive offices in a hotel room here . He announced he would not attempt to take possession of the executive offices in the Capitol because he did not wish to incite riot or bloodshed . The tangled situation is expected to develop still more confusion tomorrow , the day set for a special session of the General Assembly , which was called by Mr. Langer on July 12 . Acting Governor Olson countermanded that call in a proclamation early this morning and sent telegrams to the State legislators not to appear for the session . Mr. Langer renewed his call and urged the lawmakers to disregard Mr. Olson 's orders . Which of the two orders would be obeyed remained in doubt tonight . Many of the legislators delayed their decisions , but it was said in some quarters that the Assembly would convene . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions would be challenged by the Olson faction . It wits reported tonight that moves are in prospect for the impeachment of State officials unfriendly to Mr. Langer . It was believed the Langer camp was playing for time tonight to bring the legislative assemblies into session in the hope that these Langer controlled bodies would take some action that would supersede the Supreme Court 's ouster order . Langer Strong in Legislature . Observers pointed out that the convicted executive held enough strength in the House to force impeachment proceedings against unfriendly State officials and the four Supreme Court judges who ruled against him . Officials could be impeached and then suspended until their trials were completed in the Senate . Though the Langer supporters lack a few votes of the two-thirds needed for a conviction of a State official , they have enough votes in the House for an impeachment . Some Langer leaders were of the opinion that the Legislature could meet on its own initiative . Consequently the legislators , most of whom are friendly to Mr. Langer , could ignore Mr. Olson 's revocation order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cease with the issuance of the State court 's ruling , disclosed his intention of challenging the court decision by taking the case to the nation 's highest judicial body , in a petition filed with the State Supreme Court by his attorneys today . The petition asked a rehearing of the case and that judgment be withheld pending the action of the United States Supreme Court . Court Refuses Stay . The State Supreme Court accepted the rehearing petition , but refused a stay of judgment . The court abandoned its plan to issue a quo waranto writ to be served on Mr. Langer as notice that he is no longer Governor , and filed a judgment in the case which " ordered and decreed " that the entrenched Governor " deliver over to Mr. Olson the office of Governor and all State documents . " Despite Mr. Langer 's summary tactics , there were signs that he and his adherents expected eventual defeat and have expected it for some time . It was revealed that on Monday workmen began removing files and papers from Mr. Langer 's office and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ousted by Mr. Olson ' when he took over the control of the State 's , affairs . It was said some officials removed confidential files from their offices to their homes. / Some demonstrations were staged in various parts of the city today by Langer sympathizers , but there were no disorders . Unverified reports were in circulation to the effect that the Langer partisans planned to mob the city to keep ' Mr. Olson from assuming the executive power .                     