@@699915

txt Spain 's Religious Orders Law , which almqst overnight works reforms that have occupied decades in other nations , is the focal point of present conflict between the Roman Cathoflc Church and the Spanish Republic . Their respective viewpoints on this significant statute , which transfers control of education from the church to the state and confiscates Cie property of once powerful religious orders , are outlined by authoritative spokesmen : The recent political crisis , followed by the reconstruction of the Azafia Cabinet , has paved the way for the carrying out of the provisions of the Religious Orders Law . These , according to Don Alvaro Albornoz , Minister of Justice , will be applied rigorously by the Government , which , hOWever , is in no wise animated by hostile intentions to the ' Roman Catholic Church . Persecution is not intended and Sefior Albornoz declares that in respect of the functions in its proper sphere , the church should benefit enormously by its loss of the privileged  --  position which gave it a practical monopoly in education and undue influence in politics . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the law , in discussing the situation with The Christian Science Monitor . declared that the majority of the leaders of the revolutionary movement were convinced that progress in educational methods depended on the removal of the Roman Catholic influence . Primary , secondary and university instruction throughout Spain required complete overhauling unhampered by interference in the making of appointments . Even ' university posts had in the past been given to inferior men because of Church antagonism to non-Roman Catholics . Lack of Culture Alleged ' Two main factors , apart from political and educational considerations , impress , the minister with the need for liberation from such interference . One is that the world progresses rapidly in an intellectual sense while Rome stands still . The great majority of Spaniards are no longer willing , he said , to accept in blind faith teachings tainted with a medieval creed . The other was described as the low standard of culture of many members of the religious orders and priests . Even bishops in Spain , enjoying , privileged social positions , he said , were . notably lacking in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education under the monarchy was considered of minor importance . The Minister remembers having seenbudgets in which the amount provided for education for the , city of Madrid , with nearly 1 , - 000,000 inhabitants , was less than that allotted for the bands of a reginient . Indeed the Spanish treasury , sometimes provided , less for the education of the whole nation than was budgeted by the City of New to continue their education , ? previously provided gratis by the Jesuits . As a Traditionalist , the Count 's ideals are in favor of a monarchical regime . He admitted ; however , that circumstances today made all thought of as restoration impossible . Traditionalists and other Roman Catholics-were , he said , quite willing to ' support the republic and indeed many thousands whose votes once decided the issue against Don Alfonso were now eager to rally around any leaders likely to bring Spain back to tranauillite . President 's Action Criticized The Count finds it difficult to ex ' plain why Sefior Alcala Zamora , a professed Roman Catholic , did not make the gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all but those holding extreme views . The terms of the constitution allowed him to return the bill for reconsideration by Parliament and its passage by a majority of two-thirds of the deputies . Perhaps , as Senor Miguel Maura , Home Office Minister at the time of the first burning of the convents , pointed out , the return of the bill would have been the signal for the destruction of all the churches in Spain . Before the reconstruction of the Cabinet there were hopes that a partial crisis might enable the President to modify his attitude and withdraw his confidence from the Government , dissolve the Cortes and hold general elections . The passing of the bill establishing a Tribunal o : Constitutional Guarantees is the last of the important laws complementary to the constitution under the mandate of the Cortes . The Count declared that the pressure from the Basque provinces , where Roman Catholic sentiment is profOUnd , is very Strong From an independent source , it is stated that these provinces are seriously threatening separation from the rest of Spain , The Count was unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President and his ministers had ? been ex-communicated . It appears that the head of the state can not be subjected to this penalty without the express declaration of the Pope . Inquiries of a theological authority  --  elicited a reply which hinted at the futility of ascertaining the exact position vis-a-vis the church of Ihe offending parties and it was followed by the statement that " it Is not advisable that anybody should discover the truth . " It is obvious that the threat remains and the bolt may fall at any time The leading authority on these matters in Spain , the Nuncio , remains silent and his secretaries when questioned reply in Latin , Roman Catholic View Special to The Christian Science Monitor MADRID  --  Hoping that the Religious Orders Law may yet be prevented from taking effect , leaders of Roman Catholic opinion are watching the political situation closely . Previous to the recent Cabinet crisis they had expected general elections would soon be forced . The belief was that women 's votes would decide the future of Spain in a sense favorable to Roman Catholic traditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pro-Roman Catholic party , which many " Alfonsinos " are joining . when discussing the situation of the church and the attitude of Roman Catholics , told The Christian Science Monitor that , like the agrarian reform law , the Religious Orders Law would be found unworkable in practice . In order to close down thousands of monastic schools providing some 600,000 children with primary education , not only would several years be required but also a large sum of money which had not yet been voted . He believed that the critical situation throughout Spain would reflect itself in a change of government before provision could be made . Whereas only 50,000 scholars receiving secondary education were affected , the matter was , he added , much-more serious in their case owing to the complete absence of boarding schools . Besides , while parents were quite willing to entrust their children to ecclesiastics. they would not for a moment consider boarding them with laical teachers untried under this system . Change - Held Unworkable For some time past private enterprise has been Minding schools which will be run by ecclesiastics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said . This , it appears , can not be prevented by law . Roman Catholics are determined to counter the attempt to eliminate religion from early training and the result will be , declared the Count , that enormous sums of the nation 's money will be wasted in empty schools . It has so far been found impossible to replace the Jesuit teachers by state-paid employees , he added , and their fine educational establishments have been closed without offering anything in return . Many students belonging to the working classes , he said , have been unable vented any serious reaction and even the protest of the Spanish Episcopate , was described by the Minister as respectful and moderate. - The turn of events , he declared , showed that Spain was not so wholeheartedly Roman Catholic as is commonly supposed  --  an opinion he had never shared  --  and consequently the aetion of ? the Government may well be considered to have been one of the main successes of the revolutionary movement . The Minister does not consider that there has been an increase of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeds with a political motive . Questioned as to whether individual priests and members of the religious orders might engage in teaching , the Minister declared that whereas . this was prohibited under the law , the position required consideration , as this prohibition would be difficult to enforce . Members of the church were welcome to teach the Roman Catholic doctrine not only in their own establishments but could hire theaters or halls for the purpose . He insisted that no persecution of religion was intended . Seiler Albornoz explained that with the establishment of the republic as a laic state the Concordat with Rome automatically lapsed and there was no intention of reopening this question . His own department was no longer the Ministry of Grace , Justice and Cult , but merely that of Justice . He added that the Ministry of Education had made amazing strides in the provision of new schools , over 1000 of which had already been opened and a loan totaling 420,000 , - 000 pesetas ( some 442,000,000 ) spread over a number of ? years had been authorized for the carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious orders .                     