@@704023

txt Merit-Rating Bill Favored Retail Dry Goods Merchants Point Out Advantages of Young Measure To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : THE NEW YORK TIMES criticized editorially the Young merit-rating bill for unemployment insurance which is now before Governor Lehman awaiting his signature . In order that the general public may consider both sides of this question , I want- to take this opportunity to tell why New York State business men want merit-rating in unemployment insurance to become law . Merit-rating in unemployment insurance is not new . Indeed , it is at present in use in thirty States and the District of Columbia , is Federally recognized by the Social Security Act and its principles have for many years been used in workmen 's compensation insurance , Briefly , the Young bill , embodying the principles of " merit " or " experience-rating , " would allow an employer to pay his unemployment insurance tax according to the regularity of the employment he furnishes his workers . This idea is , in my opinion , sound , and I believe THE TIMES fails to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan by the Governor . The social and economic implications of a merit-rating plan are great . Speaking before the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on Unemployment Insurance , in behalf of the Retail Dry Goods Association of New York , on March 9 , 1 stated that , as retailers , we were interested in furthering stability of employment because we are convinced that a State-wide incentive for such stabilization would be of great benefit to the community . Broad Influence Seen THE TIMES 'S editorial says : " There is usually little that an individual employer can do in this direction . " True , but the Young bill will affect the whole community and not just individual employers . All employers working together will have the incentive to stabilize their employment and the employer who provides steady jobs for his workers will not be paying the bill for those employers who make no attempt to give their employes regular employment . All three of the employer representatives on the Unemployment Insurance State Advisory Council made this statement in the council 's report to the Governor and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not prevent the extensive unemployment which comes with economic depressions . On the other hand , our unemployment insurance system at best is not designed to cope with the problem of mass unemployment arising during periods of depression . The protection furnished by unemployment insurance is mainly limited to the irregularities in employment which are a concomitant of normal industrial operations and it Is this kind of unemployment which employers , if given an incentive , can do much to prevent . " Adjustment Desirable Although many progressive changes In our unemployment insurance laws were adopted at this session , of the Legislature , it must be remembered that in the fifteen-month period ending March 31 the employers of this State paid in m000moo in excess of the amount expended for benefits . This money was taken , out of the channels of commerce and , not being needed for benefits , has a deflationary tendency . It should be obvious from this that some adjustment can be made . The criticism has been made that some employers may actually pay a larger payroll tax when the merit-rating I plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is 31/2 per cent , but because of credits allowed under Federal law , the total net increase applicable to any employer is estimated not to exceed eight-tenths of 1 per cent . Further , the experience table of the bill provides for basing the new rates on three years ' experience ; this will mean that the greater revenue will accrue during the best years and the tax will not unduly burden the employer during depression periods . Gerard Swope , president of the General Electric Company , at a hearing held by the House Ways and Means Committee , praised the Wisconsin meritrating law thus : " If business and industry had this incentive in all the States , thousands of workers could be given assurance of a minimum annual wage which is not being done today because we have no provision in the law to encourage it . " Wisconsin Plan Model The Wisconsin plan provides that individual employers maintain reserves for unemployment insurance against which they may draw , and the one criticism against this plan is that an employer with unstable employment may overdraw his individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Wisconsin plan and adds to it by providing a State pool of all employer reserves with an automatic experience rating . The operation of Wisconsin 's law has been eminently successful , and New York State can profit by Wisconsin 's success and at the same time improve upon that State 's plan . Before the adoption of our present unemployment insurance law , many New York State employers voluntarily tried to stabilize their employment , and then introduced individual pension plans . Enactment of the State unemployment insurance law , far from encouraging continuance of these individual pension plans , in fact discouraged them and the employers passed the burden to the State . Few employers saw any incentive to continue their private pension plans when their competitors eliminated their pension arrangements . THE TIMES has advocated further study of the merit-rating bill for unemployment insurance and various groups have hinted that the bill now pending before the Governor was " rushed through the Legislature at the last moment . " As a matter of fact the actual tax rates , according to the experience table of the proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1941 . This should give ample time to em- ployers of the State to adjust their records to the new law , As far as the administration of the law by the Department of Labor is concerned , this will mean no additional burden on that department . The belief that the inclusion of the ' merit-rating provisions in the unemployment insurance law will add to the administrative burden of - the State is not founded in fact . Further study in such basic changes in our social legislation is always desirable , but the meritrating plan is not experimentation . The Joint Legislative Committee on Unemployment Insurance , which spent a year investigating the operation of our present unemployment insurance law , in its report to the Legislature of April 27 , said : " Decisions should be made on merit rating . " Signature of this law will carry out this recommendation of the investigating committee , and put onto our statute books the mandate of the people of the whole State as carried out by their representatives in Albany . Business wants the Governor to sign the Young bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid the whole community , because it will assist business in discharging its responsibility to the community and because it marks a progressive step in social legislation . WALTER ROTHSCHILD , For the Executive Committee , New York Retail Drygoods Association . Brooklyn , June 1 , 1939 . Puerto Rican Handicaps Islander Complains of Discriminatory Tactics in Washington To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Strange that our members of Congress who objected to buying Argentine beef for the navy never raised the question , " Why buy so much Cuban sugar when we can buy sugar not only from the States of the Union but also from Puerto Rico ? " Puerto Rico , part of the United States , can supply at least 1,500,000 tons of cane sugar . We are allowed 806,000 tons for , export and 70,000 for local consumption . We are limited as to the quantity of tobacco that we can plant ; coconuts have been restricted in price by an arrangement with England . Our needleworke ? s have been thrown out of work by a Wage and Hour Law and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business has been ruined by a reduction in tariff in favor of Cuba . If Puerto Rico had no limit on sugar and had proper protection for fruits and coconuts , we would not need reconstruction money . There would be work for almost all the population . The island would not be much of a problem for the Washington authorities . It would be healthy , happy and a paradise for every one . CHARLES E. LAWTON . San Juan , P. R. , May 31 , 1939 . For Economy First TO THE EDITOR OF ? THE NEW YORK TIMES : I , an overtaxed property owner , have carefully scrutinized the statement of Secretary of the Treasury Morgenthau and nowhere therein could I discover a solitary hint or suggestion as to cutting down our enormous government expense  --  local , State and national . Simply reshuffling the cards will not remove or end the pernicious tax irritants . Curtailment , economy , square-dealing with the people 's money should be the only order of the day . If it is true , and I believe it to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ payrolls to eleven who are not , then the plain duty of those in high government places is quite patent . To further burden , as suggested , the masses now carrying some ten millions of unemployed on their backs is fraught with danger to our democratic beliefs and principles . Government moves slowly , vide the recent decision to tax judges ' salaries . But more important to the people at large is the much delayed and imperative necessity of lopping the public payrolls and eliminating the political drones . Quick action is indicated before they permanently entrench themselves behind civil service walls . JUSTICIAOMNIBUS . New Haven , Conn. , May 28 , 1939 . Grass vs . Soil Erosion To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Anent your editorial today on grass : More than thirty years ago I was telling farmers ' conventions in California that " grass is the foundation of civilization " and urging strip cropping as a safeguard against the loss of their fertile hillside soil . At first I was as a voice crying in the wilderness but later they stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State University had to admit the soundness of my contentions . Now , in many places , the Federal Government urges or enforces strip cropping to hold the Soil . GERALD GERALDSON . New York , May 30 , 1939.                     