@@701666

txt Japan 's delegates will formally withdraw from the five power naval conference at tomorrow afternoon 's meeting after having spoken their final piece demanding naval equality with the United . States and Great Britain . The decision to withdraw was practically announced to the British at a meeting yesterday , but further queries were made to Tokio to clinch the decision . Replies to these queries were received today . The Japanese are expected to leave observers behind in case the four remaining powers  --  the4.1 rt lted St at e Britain , . France , and Italy  --  continue anxious the conference . The British are nxious to continue discussions on qualitative limitation . The Americans are said to have agreed to stay . Americans and British Confer . The British and American delegates met at the foreign office today . It was announced that they discussed the procedure for tomorrow 's session . All agreed on what was to be done , spokesmen for both the Americans and the British said . Later the British consulted the Italians and the French about tomorrow 's procedure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to newspaper dispatches from Tokio , the Japanese government 's instruc-. tions to its delegates here were , " no concessions , but no rupture . " It was on that basis evidently that the Japanese observers will remain . The British tonight intimated that the four powers which remain will discuss ship sizes and gun calibers and will later invite Germany , Russia , Spain , and possibly other powers to join in the conference , Defense Committee Meets . The defense committee of the British cabinet met again today . The session , which was attended by the chiefs of the naval and air services , was said to have been chiefly concerned with defenses in the far east rather than in the Mediterranean . The meeting was described as being preparatory to tomorrow 's cabinet meeting , which will review the whole foreign situation . There was a mention of floating a new defense loan . Severe strictures , evidently inspired from official sources , were laid on Tokio and on the Japanese delegation tonight . The British press warned the Japanese that their walking out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other four naval powers . Today 's discussions concerned the effort of the Japanese to torpedo the whole conference when they withdraw tomorrow . According to the British , the Japanese , yesterday demanded a complete dissolution of the conference , arguing that under the terms of the Washington and London treaties it would be illegal to , continue on a four power basis , Americans- Back British . The British consulted the Americans about that and found that the Americans agreed that continuance of the conference without Japan would be perfectly in order . The smothered wrath of the British admirals at Japan 's tactics seeped out through official circles . The Japanese were charged with not playing fair , with presenting demands which they knew in advance were not acceptable , and finally with full responsibility for killing the five power conference by suddenly demanding a reexamination of their original demand for all around equality , The British hint that the Japanese policy is provocative and entirely new in modern diplomatic procedure . The British also broadly hint , probably for Japanese consumption , that between the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ naval strengths , the effect of which is to rule out competitive building between them . Besides that , according to the British , the American naval authorities well understand and agree that Britain must rehabilitate its navy by substantially increasing cruiser tonnage . The effect seems to be equivalent to an announcement that the United States and Great Britain have practically agreed to pool their navies and a further warning from the British to the Japanese that " their defiant gesture " will render inevitable the completion of the American building program , which by 1942 will give the United States the world 's greatest navy . Recall Pittman 's Demand . The irate British attitude recalled Senator Key Pittman 's Dem. , Nev.i recent outspokenness in calling for a joint demonstration in the Pacific Ilagainst the Japanese . ? Japan 's decision to withdraw from the conference will , according to the British , lead immediately to developments in the Pacific and the situation may become dangerous there . Whether it is wishful thinking or riot , the British declare that steps to fortify bases in the Pacific will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they will follow suit by fortifying Hongkong , whose defenses have not been touched for sixteen years . Hongkong is nearer and points more directly at Japan than Singapore . On most of these points the American delegates preserved a discreet silence , but there seemed at the same time complete harmony of views between the Americans and the British . The Japanese remained bland . A Japanese spokesman said " Japan blames the adamant attitude of the other powers " for the collapse of the conference .                     