@@703608

txt President Roosevelt will tell the voters of his own State and , Incidentally , those of the whole country , what he thinks about issues and candidates in a radio address from his Hyde Park home on Nov. 4 . This announcement was given out today at the White House : " As a voter of the State of New York , the President , probably on Friday evening , Nov. 4 , will deliver a radio address from his home in Hyde Park . While the President 's remarks primarily will concern the voters of New York State , they will be sufficiently extensive in range to interest the nation as a whole . " Stephen T. Early , White House press secretary , made no attempt to guess at what the President would have to say to New York voters regarding his political sympathies in the election , and no one asked him . At his press conference a short time before the announcement was made , Mr. Roosevelt said that he did not know if he would speak in New York City on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt explained at the time , however , that he planned to confer with Governor Lehman at his Hyde Park home some day next week , the date to depend on the Governor 's campaign plans . The campaign as a whole in his home State was given by Mr. Roosevelt as the purpose and only subject matter contemplated in the conference with the Governor . The President has already expressed his approval of Mr. Lehman 's - renomination . Meanwhile , the President explained that he had been compelled by the press of official business to forego his original plan to leave Washington for Hyde Park tomorrow noon . He will entrain , instead , some time Sunday afternoon . When the President and Governor Lehman meet again at Hyde Park it will be for the first time since the latter 's attack on the Administration plan to reorganize the Supreme Court  --  a criticism which many Administration officials credit with having - turned the tide against the court plan . Politics and politicians played a secondary role at the White House today , being confined to a visit by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the President of his campaign speaking tour and to predict an overwhelming success for the Democrats in November . " I told the President , " said Mr. Mayburn , " that we ( the Democrats ) would lose very few , if any , seats in the House in the forthcoming elections . " Mr. Rayburn said that he was unable to give the itinerary of his speaking engagements since these were being arranged by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee . However , he said that he would go to Pennsylvania next week for a three-day speaking tour in the interest of the Democratic ticket . " I am going out to give the doctrine to the heathens , " Mr. Rayburn smilingly remarked .                     