@@697805

txt The possibility that Dr. Raymond C. Moley , Professor of Public Law at Columbia University , might be asked by the Hofstadter legislative committee to make studies of the District Attorney 's offices of Kings , Bronx , Queens and Richmond Counties was indicated yesterday . Dr. Moley 's analysis of the records of the office of the District Attorney of New York County , which showed a continuous drop in efficiency as far as convictions in major crime cases went , is said to have impressed Samuel Seabury , counsel of the committee . Those associated with Mr. Seabury in the investigation of the charges against District Attorney Crain regarded Dr. Moley 's testimony as particularly important in showing a gradual reduction in the efficiency of the office under Tammany , and it has been suggested that similar surveys in the other counties would be valuable . Split on Procedure Looms . Mr. Seabury is expected to confer tomorrow - with Senator Samuel H. Hofstadter , chairman of the legislative committee , and decide upon a course of procedure , which the Republican members of the committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt , despite any protest that may be made by the Democratic minority . It has been suggested that the committee should appoint Senator Hofstadter a subcommittee of one to sit at the private hearings , which course , if adopted , virtually would eliminate the Democratic members of the committee from the investigation until the public hearings begin . This suggestion is certain to be opposed by the Democrats on the committee , some of whom may join in the conference . Senators John J. Dunnigan and John J. are expected to lead the fight to demand full participation of the Democratic members in the committee 's inquiry . Except for Mr. Seabury 's scheduled meeting with Senator Hofstadter , the coming week is not expected to bring many important developments in the inquiries now under way . Some doubt existed even that the public hearing , set for Tuesday , on the fitness of District Attorney Crain to remain in office would be held . John Kirkland Clark , chief counsel to Mr. Seabury , Governor Roosevelt 's commissioner to investigate the City Club 's charges against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to attend the meetings of the Council on Legal Education and Admission to the Bar , a committee of the American Bar Association . He expected to return in time for the hearing , but Mr. Seabury also has several appointments in Washington later in the week . Mr. Seabury was spending the week-end at his home in East Hampton , L. I. In his absence Mr. Clark was unable to say whether additional specifications would be served upon Mr. Crain before the investigation of his office is ended . It was understood , however , that the main part of the case against Mr. Crain already was on the record . Mr. Crain 's investigation of the $250,000 fee received by former County Judge W. Bernard Vause for negotiating leases to city-owned piers , the Board of Standards and Appeals and the Rothstein case may , however , become subjects of public hearings later . It was explained that Joab H. Banton , Mr. Crain 's predecessor in office , presented most of the evidence to the grand jury relative to the murder of Arnold Rothstein . Consequently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Attorney overlooked any possibilities for action after the acquittal of George , who was accused of the gambler 's murder . Several witnesses were questioned during the day by Henry J. A. Col. Tins , a member of Mr. Seabury 's staff who has been investigating the activities of racketeers in the millinery trade , which Mr. Crain also investigated without results . " Tough Jake " Kusman , who , it has been said . levied tribute upon hat manufacturers for preventing labor troubles , would not be called as a witness , it was said , because his testimony . might give him immunity in future prosecutions . Kusman appeared before Magistrate Dreyer in Jefferson Market Court yesterday to answer a charge of simple assault preferred against him by Oscar Schorr of 1,655 Monroe Street , the Bronx , and was held in $1,000 bail for trial in Special Sessions . Schorr , a former employe of Furst &; Malzman , milliners of 55 West Thirty-ninth Street , said Kusman beat him on Aug. 19 , seemingly because he tried to unionize his fellowemployes . Vincent Impellitterri @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Crain 's bureau of racketeering , were in court to prosecute him . They admitted that Schorr 's complaint against Kusman , who gave his address as 147 Hooper Street , Brooklyn , was filed only a fortnight ago , but denied that it resulted from the revelations before Mr. Seabury . The City Affairs Committee issued another appeal for contributions to carry on its fight against Tammany and Mayor Walker . The appeal , which was signed by John Haynes Holmes , Rabbi Stephen S. Wise , Professor John Dewey and Paul Blanshard , read : " The dismissal of the charges against Mayor Walker by Governor Roosevelt is only an incident in the struggle . Denied a fair chance to reply to the distortions and personal insults of the Mayor , we will take our case to the people through the spoken and printed word . We will marshal evidence of corruption and incompetence and present it to the legislative committee . " We would like your help in this fight . The Tammany gang can never be defeated except by the loyal cooperation of the progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been organized to represent such citizens , to serve as a faithful watch dog for the people and as a responsible organ of thoroughgoing reform . We have a permanent program for schools , housing , subways , unemployment , taxation , health and the courts . "                     