@@703876

txt Gov . William H. Vanderbilt and Director of Labor Harvey Saul today will hold conferences with union leaders and truck owners in an effort to halt the strike of 3,000 Rhode Island truck drivers which has crippled highway 4tipptng since midnight Saturday : The Governor will confer with the union first and then the truck owners at the State House . Thousands of tons of freight are tied up and only ? perishable goods are moving as roving bands of pickets cover the terminals and mass picket lines are at the Connecticut and Massachusetts state lines . As the entire police forces of Providence , East Providence , and Woonsocket prepare themselves for an emergency , reports from their headquarters note " everything quiet and no violence . " Because ' only a few trucks whose ? owners had signed the union agreementiattempted to operate , ' State . troopers patrolled. , main highways . The uhibn order stopping the delivery of oil and other fuel was expected to , cause an ' inconvenience after tomorrow as most , of the distributors had prepared for today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bluntly told newspapermen they had no intention of meeting the union demands , saying that to grant $2 per week More to each driver would ruin most of the operators . ' The union will meet to hear reports of the conferences and to learn " how many truck owners had conic in and signed . " Union leaders , according to the Associated Press , described the calling of a strike in Rhode Island while withholding action in Massachusetts and Connecticut . a " strategic move . " The union announced it would permit movement of perishables and hospital supplies and the hauling of freight by the seaboard freight lines , which signed the new wage agreement with the Truck Drivers , Chauffeurs and Helpers Union ( American Federation of Labor ) for the 1,200 men on its 300 trucks . The strike did not affect local delivery trucks or the hauling of beer which is not permitted on a contract basis in Rhode Island . Percy P. Arnold , President of the commercial haulers of Rhode Island , organization of 50 operators employing 1200 men In the State , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pickets found freight terminals and truck garages closed , and no freight moving . Police Superintendent John J. Parker later reported that pickets had prevented sonic fuel oil and coal trucks from making local deliveries , and said he would halt such interference if he had to send police guards with each truck . He was backed up by Governor Vanderbilt , who declared perishable goods and fuel would be delivered " if the State had to step in . " He did not expand that statement , Joseph S. Prior , President of the Drivels ' Union , said the strikers wanted wage increases averaging nine cents an hour .                     