@@698056

txt A nation-wide movement to keep the youth of the country in school and out of the field of employment during the present unemployment emergency as an aid to President Hoover 's plans of placing men in jobs , Is under way , according to Mr. Fred C. Croxton , acting chairman of the President 's Emergency Committee for Employment . According to Mr. Croxton , if young men and women continued their education a year or two longer they would make an important contribution to employment conditions at present . A program of immediate action to this end is being developed through the cooperation of well-known educational organizations , with the President 's committee serving In a coordinating capacity . The objectives of the group are : 1 . " To take advantage of present period of unemployment and part-time employment by encouraging the greatest possible utilizatidh of opportunities for preparation for future positions and for the enrichment of American life . 2 . " To keep all children under 16 years of age in school In this time of surplus labor and increasing demands of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encourage undergraduates and meMbers of 1931 high school and , i college graduating classes to rem hi in school . 4 . " To urge that increasing effort be made by schools and institutions of learning for guidance programs that will direct young people not only into fields of usefulness but into fields where their services will be in demand . " Woman Takes Charge ' Miss Olga A. Jones , who has had extensive , experience with school systems and school publications in the middle West , has recently joined the committee to be in charge of its education work . Those who attended the first conference with the committee head this week were Mr. W. W. Husband , Asistant Secretary of Labor ; Mr. John P. Frey , American Federation of Labor ; Mr. James E. Cummings , National Catholic Welfare Conferencl ; Mr. W. Elwood Baker , general secretary , National Congress of Parents and Teachers ; Mr. Louis A. Kalbach and Marls M. Proffitt , United States Office of Education ; Edith Rockwood , National League of Women Voters ; Mr , Joy E. Morgan , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. Lenroot , United States Children 's Bureau ; Mr. John Cummings and Mr. Frank Cunt-man , Federal Board for Vocational Education . Other organizations have indicated their intention of cooperating . Employment reports , Mr. Croxton points out , indicate that young men and women are especially handicapped during the present emergency . They are competing with heads of families who are properly being favored by most employers , he points out . " During an abnormal time like the present , the dangers of idleness for young people still in the habit-forming age , " he says , " must be frankly reckoned with . Even more than in tittles of prosperity should we pteciate the need for school tendance . " Schools Asked to Help At the first meeting of the conference it was decided to encourage school authorities and legislative bodies to maintain adequate school facilities in the face of the present emergency . Appeals will be made to every local community to use all passible resources to encourage and help undergraduates of secondary schools and colleges to continue their training this fall . According to advices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize the need of making special efforts to keep young men and women In school during the present period , Mr. John Vaughan . state superintendent for Oklahoma , has told the committee that all institutions of higher learning in his State are planning to use student , labor in every way possible this year . selecting students to aid who must have help In order to remain in school . Virginia likewise is making a special effort to keep its children in school so that they will not compete with heads of families in the labor market , it Is said . Mr. Walter E. Ranger , commissioner of education In Rhode Island , is confident that many young persons will attend college this year who would not do so if work were available ) In his State school committees are prepared to provide accommodations for such young persons , ho advised the committee . ' National Chill Labor Minimum Standard Urged WASHINGTON , ' Aug. 10 tifl ? Es obi ish me nt of a national minimum standard for child labor was urged yesterday in a special bulletin of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' House conference committee on vocational guidance and child labor . Night work would be barred for boys and girls of 16 or 17 with entrance pi ? Whited into occupations known to be physically or morally hazardous . A maximum work week of 44 hours in eight-hour days was recommended . No child under 16 , the committee held , should bo permitted to tem. -3 school to go to work . Regulation of child labor by the states was described as " slow and uneven and the cause of grave injustice . " Educator Protests School Salary Cans NEW YORK , Aug. 10 ( AP )  - -  Dr . I. II . Briggs , professor of education of teachers ' college , Columbia Untvei - sffY , said Saturday night at the annual men 's dinner that the economic depression had begun to affect the education of the children . " Unfortunately , In seeking to effect economies , which are made necessary largely by reckless governmental expenditures in every direction but in education , no long-sighted policy is being generally used , " he said . " Some communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Worse still , some communities arc dismis.sing or retiring teachers on the higher levels of the salary scale , replacing them by those of less expel ' Nice or competence who ate glad and fortunate to accept any remuneration "                     