@@703665

txt The ish Government today gave urgent consideration to a bold scheme under which the United States and the Ihitish Empire would find homes for thousands of German Jews seeking Huge from violence and restrictive Jaws in Germany . United States Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy , who has been working day and night on the problem since the latest wave of anti-Jewish violence began , was believed to be the author of the plan . It was understood on the highest authority that Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain and Foreign Secretary Viscount Halifax , after a long session with the Ambassador , had agreed to co-operate . Although Mr. Kennedy declined to levee ! details of the plan , it was understood that it called for efforts to move not merely a few thousands but the majority of the Jews  --  estimated at 600,000 ? out of the Reich . British dominions , colonies and mandated territories , countries of South America , the United States , France , Belgium , and the Netherlands would be asked to assist . Aid of Netherlands Assured The co-operation of the Netherlands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lower Chamber of Parliament today that his Government already had approached other countries on the problem of Germany 's Jews . Mr. Kennedy spent last week end with Malcolm , Secretary for Colonies and DommiOns who is immediately concerned with Britain 's vexed pi oblem in Palestine and the general refugee situation , Yesterday Mr. Kennedy also saw Sir Horace Wilson , the close adviser who accompanied Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain on his historic visits to Germany to confer with Adolf Hitler . In Government circles it was said that the American Ambassador was Influencing the British Government toward taking the lead in dealing with the plight of the Jews . The " Kennedy plan , " it was understood , aims at moving Jews by tens of thousands into the British Empire and into North and South America . Prompt Action Needed Every major nation will be asked to take as many German Jews as possible in an effort to move most of the Jews out of Germany . A conference may be called to discuss the problem in the light of the Nazis ' recent anti-Jewish measures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Embassy secretary in Paris by a young Polish Jew In order to take care of many urgent cases , however , some Jews may be moved at once into British colonies and the United States . The support of France and the Netherlands has been sought . Mr. Chamberlain , it was understood , now is seeking support of the British Dominions for the plan Reports in London said the United States was ready to admit 30,000 Jews . It was believed that Mr Kennedy stressed the urgency of settling the question at once . Wilson Ready to Sail BERLIN ( X )  - -  Hugh R. Wilson , United States Ambassador , said he had canceled a planned visit to England Ind would leave Nov 16 for the United States as a result of an urgent summons from Washington . He did not disclose the purpose of the summons , but informed circles took ' t for granted he was called to go over the entire German situation with special emphasis on the anti-Jewish wave of the past week . Mr Wilson prepared to sail from Le Havre on the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents he contemplated a routine trip to the unite ( States by way of London . Political circles here believed Mr. Wilson would point out to Washington officials that the time has come for the International refugee Committee to get down to concrete methods for allaying the daily aggravating situation for German Jews Recently Mr Wilson has beep studying the colonial question and the possibility of a Linde treaty between the United States and Germany . Fly a Staff Corresponiteni of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , Nov. 15 ? American relations with Germany were today in a state of uncertainty unprecedented for two decades as the result of anti-Jewish terrorism in Germany . The official attitude was indicated by an announcement at the State Department last night that the American Ambassador to Germany , Hugh R. Wilson , had been summoned home " for report . and consultation . " Public opinion , meantime , was running ahead of official policy . Shortly after the announcement an extrtiordinary radiocast in which the two leading members of the Republican Party , Herbert Hoover and Alt M. Landon , participated , provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread character of American revulsion against persecution of Jews . Possible Meanings There is no certainty as to what type of action will be taken by the Government . The brevity of the State Department announcement and the refusal to clarify or amplify it madd it all the more dramatic and provocative . It might be only the gesture of protest which it is . It might mean withdrawal of an ambassador from Berlin , but without formal severance of diplomatic relations . It might be the first step to such a severance . The State Department probably does not know yet whether Ambassador Wilson will return to his post , remain hei'e on extended leave , or give up his post leaving the position vacant . Nor is there any certainty anywhere in Washington as to what ' other types of action might be taken to impress upon Germany the sentiment in America . Yet exhaustive attention is being given to such other means . In a dozen Govern ! sent agencies careful examination of various tangible means of impressing American displeasure is going on . It is significant that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levying a 50 per cent ad valorem duty on all imports from Germany , possibly of , even placing an embargo on most German goods . Emphasis Makes It Important The announcement of Ambassador Wilson 's summons was important solely for its context . The mere fact he is coming back to report means nothing in itself . Ambassadors are doing that constantly . But the State Department let the information out in a manner which inevitably suggested extreme importance behind the bare announcement . There were many locked doors throughout the State Department during the day , much hurrying back and forth . About 3 o'clock correspondents were privately informed to keep in touch With the Department . At 5:30 p. in. , repeated telephone calls produced information that " something " would be available shortly . Finally it came as a bare announcement , portentous because of its stark and unrelieved simplicity . That Mr. Wilson is being called to discuss the Jewish persecutions In Germany 18 obvious . The whole incident Is important because of the emphasis the State Department gave IL In this context the announcement serves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may be followed by diplomatic action , and possibly economic reprisals . Nothing definite is implied  --  merely that In the state of uncertainty which Germany 's actions produced anything ? is possible , depending on further developments . In net effect , American diplomatic and commercial relations with Germany are put in a state of suspension , Incongruously , therefore , at a time when Prance is making supreme efforts to come to closer terms with Germany and England still clings to its official policy of attempted appeasement , the United States shows no interest whatever in improved relations with Germany ? on the contrary both private and official behaviors exhibit vigorous dis  --  agrd for cordial relations . It almost seems from here as though there was competition between public opinion , as now led by Mr. Hoover and Mr. Landon and official action , in the direction of anti-Germanism . No voice is raised against the trend . Seldom has American opinion of all shades reached such a state of apparent unanimity in its condemnation of the behavior of another nation . Obviously from such an emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drastic steps could be taken at once on executive initiative . Mr. Wilson 's stay in the United States , which so far as the record stands at the moment is to be merely temporary , could be protracted . The continued absence of an Ambassador does not in itself involve severance of diplomatic relations , but constitutes a means of expressing strained relations and extreme displeasure . It is a device frequently used . France and Italy only recently have restored Ambassadors to each other 's capitals during a long period when the posts were vacant . Diplomatic relations might be severed altogether . The United States has done this before as a means of protest against policies of other governments . Even more significant than such diplomatic action is the possibility of economic measures against Germany . Germany is already on the trade agreement black list . The President has it within his power to go much farther without legislation by Congress . He can not only forbid barter trade which is going on with Germany today , but also place an embargo on German imports altogether . Barter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Treasury Department tolerance which has been vigorously criticized by labor organizations . A heavy restraint was placed on it for a short period in 1936 . On June 16 of that year the Treasury imposed a penalty tariff  --  known as " cotuiterveiling duties " ? on all trade with Germany involving the use of " aski " or blocked marks . On Aug. 2 , 1936 , following assurances from Germany that in the future no marks would be used in American trade which would constitute a subsidy , the countervailing duties were lifted . Trade with Germany continued , however , to be a large degree on a basis which many experts consider to be in effect barter and to involve practices open to a strong suspicion of disguised subsidy . There is also widespread belief in trade circles that Germany 's trade to the United States is being subsidized not only by the subtleties of the foreign-exchange machinery , but also by a secret subsidy fund the operations of which can be learned only by espionage . Under drastic powers written into the American tam Ill statutes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis of this condition . The first and most restrained step would be to apply countervailing duties on German imports . If he wished to go farther there is a little-known and never-used section of the tariff statutes ? Section 338 ? under which extreme trade penalties could be imposed . Under this statute , the President may retaliate against discrimination whenever , on his own authority , he finds it to exist . On his own finding he may impose a 5C per cent fluty ad valorem on all trade of the allegedly . discriminating country . If this actiori is insufficient , he may go farther and embargo any or all imports from the country in question . He may do this on his own findings of fact , and his findings are not subject to review in any court . Trade Balance in examining the field of means of protest to Germany , the Administration finds itself with strong weapons at hand . The fact Germany buys more from the United States than it sells is an argument against their use . However , German purchases of American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton purchases . And the virtual impossibility of obtaining payment for the trade balance reduces the desirability of preserving It . There is no reason for assuming that early action along any of these lines is contemplated                     