@@703741

txt Herbert H. Lehman , embarking today on his fourth term as Governor , departed from State affairs to deliver a ringing denunciation of foreign dictatorships and a call for action to meet the threat of the infiltration of their influence into American economics and politics . Such things " shall not happen here , " the Governor told the throng which filled the Assembly Chamber in the State Capitol for the inaugural ceremony . But , he added , as the cheers died down , determination that it shall not happen here is not sufficient . " The sole way to fortify and safeguard democracy so as to make its position permanently unassailable , . " he said , " Is to show all within the borders that their ? government , which is their servant , has a militant and never flagging concern for their daily welfare and happiness . " Toe people of some other lands , liberty was not too high a price to pay for assurance of a bare living , but for Americans that price is too high , he declared . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we need not pay it . " Outlines His Program Then came a broad outline , with the details reserved for his speech to the Legislature on Wednesday , of his program for preserving American civil liberties . " The removal of glaring social and economic inequalities , the assurance of decent wages and fair conditions for labor , an equitable distribution of national income , equal bargaining rights for labor and capital , the provision of decent housing with public assistance , the protection of the savings of the people , the establishment within the economic resources of the country of social security in old age and during periods of . enforced unemployment  --  these are all concrete examples of what the people , through their government , must continue to do , " he declared . " We must follow that path to avoid the danger which arises when a stagnant economic and social machine presents an opportunity to a dictator to take control of its levers in exchange for the surrender of all personal liberties . " The Governor pleaded also for a " productive partnership " between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , agriculture and government to join hands in a " sympathetic and realistic effort " to solve the social and economic , problems confronting the State and nation . Appeals for Brotherhood The Governor denounced all dictatorships alike , " Communist , Fascist or Nazi , " and coupled his attack with a plea for undivided loyalty to this country , and its tradition of personal and religious liberty . When he closed , his remarks were in the nature of a sermon , a plea for continued recognition of the brotherhood of man ? and observance of the true tenets of re ? ligion , rather than lip ' service to its forms . " The hope of the world 's future lies not in the madness and cruelty of pagan-minded rulers , " he said . " Nations which have worshiped false gods have crumbled and disappeared from the earth . God 's words alone remain eternally true . The commandments- that men shall love their neighbors and their God will live forever . They are the foundation of democracy and of religion alike . No force can destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those comma ; e ments . " The Governor told his audience that some have been sowing the seeds of discord here on racial and religious grounds . " Increasingly do we hear of racial or religious blocs , " he went one " Candidates and political parties sometimes receive support or are opposed solely on religious grounds . " Division between our people can not be allowed to exist if democracy is to be preserved . Hate begets hate . Intolerance begets intolerance . Oppression of the individual or of groups inevitably leads to the oppression of other individuals and groups . Wherever racial or religious division has raised its ugly head , the death knell of human liberties has been sounded . It was that very kind of division which led to dictatorship abroad , where many groups seeking divergent interests and working at cross purposes offered fertile ground for those who sought personal power . " As an offset to the forces of intolerance the Governor offered a three-point program as follows : A militant , defense of the civil and religious liberties guaranteed to every citizen ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the social and economic well-being of every citizen ; An awakened national spirituality . At one point in his address the Governor singled out aggressor nations for special condemnation when he said : " A new rule of force has supplanted the old rule-of reason . " Ruthless military governments have impressed their iron- heel not only on their own citizens ; but on neighbor nations who had relied in. vain on the confidence that cen-. tinges of civilization and humane culture had made such things impossible . Individual liberties , which the world had begun to accept as axiomatic , have ' suddenly been snuffed out forhundreds of millions of human beings . " Applause in the Assembly sham " ber and comments in conversations of Legislators and public officials after the ceremony indicated that the speech was well received . The ceremony began at 12:15 P. M. , but long before that the unreserved seats were taken , and the crowd , many in formal morning attire , waited patiently for the platform guests to arrive . Among the first to take their seats on the platform , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her three children , Hilda , John and Peter G. Lehman , and Mrs. Peter Lehman , daughter-in-law . Others entering soon afterward were James A. Farley , State and National Democratic Chairman , Vincent Dailey , Clarence H. Low , Albert H. Ward , Mrs. Charles Poletti and Edward J. Flynn , the retiring Secretary of State , who presided and pdministered the oath of office . Mr. Flynn called the gathering to order and the sergeant-at-arms , Richard Schnoor , announced that the members of the Assembly were ready to enter . Mr. Flynn bade them do so , and the same procedure was followed for the Senate , led by Perley A. Pitcher and John T. Dunnigan ; the Court of Appeals , headed by Frederick E. Crane and Irving Lehman , the Governor 's brother ; the Board of Regents , the Old Guard of the City of New York , . the Veterans ' Corps of the City of New York and the Troy Citizens ' Corps . The latter three- were represented by delegations of six each , in colorful uniforms and - busbies . Bray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wagner and James M. Mead ; M. William Bray and Charles Poletti , arm-in-arm , to the delight of- the crowd ; Controller Tremaine , Attorney General John J. Bennett , and , finally , the Governor himself . The. - Most Rev. Edmund F. Gibbons , Bishop of Albany , delivered the invocation and then Secretary Flynn- delivered.:the oath of office to the Governor . Bef , pre'he did so , Mr. Flynn said that Mr. Lehman , at the end of this term , will have served his State longer as Governor than any other man save one , and that the State was fortunate to have been able to obtain again the services of Mr. Lehman . The latter is embarking on his fourth term , the first four-year term in the history of the State . The Governor referred to by Mr. Flynn was George Clinton , the first Governor of the State , who served for twentyone years . The Governor took the new constitutional oath of office from which the declaration that he had neither given nor promised anything for support for his office has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was eliminated at the recent Constitutional Convention at the suggestion of Supreme Court Justice Philip J. McCook , who argued that it would hardly be a deterrent to any unscrupulous office-seeker and was an affront to the honest public servant . The Governor departed only once from his prepared address , to express regret at the fact that Mr. Flynn would no longer be a member of his Cabinet . The benediction was pronounced by the Right Rev. G. Ashton Oldham , Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Albany . - After the ceremony the Governor and Mrs. Lehman were hosts to several hundred of the inaugural guests at a buffet luncheon served at the Executive . Mansion . Farley Stopped at Door By The Associated Press . ALBANY , Jan. 2 . ? A nineteen-gun salute marked the administration of the Gubernatorial oath to Governor Lehman by Secretary of State Flynn today . Among dignitaries attending the ceremonies was Frances Perkins , Secretary of Labor . State police estimated that about 2,500 persons seated in the Assembly chamber and standing in the corridors heard the Governor take the oath . State troopers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrance to the  --  chamber and also patrolled the corridors in an effort to spot inaugural gate-crashers . Even Postmaster General James A. Farley was stopped by a trooper at the door of the chamber . Mr. Farley smilingly dug for his tickets , but was drawn in by other prominent guests before he could present them . At private ceremonies after the inaugural other elected State officials were sworn . They included Lieut . Gov . Charles Poletti , Attorney General John J. Bennett Jr . and Controller Morris S. Tremaine.                     