@@701667

txt In one of the worst disasters of its kind in the history of commercial aviation in this country , fourteen passengers and the pilot , co-pilot and stewardess were killed when a twin-motored American Airlines plane crashed into a swamp two and a half miles northeast of this village shortly after 8 o'clock tonight . The cause of the crash , involving the deaths of all aboard the plane , was not immediately determined , but officials at the municipal airport at Memphis , sixty miles away , said that they were informed that one of the two propellers of the ship had dropped off . The plane hurtled into eighteen inches of swamp water and was badly damaged . It was believed that the work of extricating the bodies from the wreckage and carrying them some distance to five waiting ambulances would require hours . The complete passenger list was not immediately available . Those known to be aboard , however , included the following : W. R. DYESS , WPA and FERA Administrator for Arkansas . Mrs. SAMUEL HOROWITZ of Boston . Mrs. B. HOROWITZ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CHARLES ALTSCHUL of Glendale , Calif . JULIUS S. COHN of Los Angeles . JERRY MARSHALL , 40 , pilot and Veteran flier . GLENN FREELAND , 32 , relief pilot . Miss PERLA GASPARINI , stewardess . A man named Sam Schwartz , whose address was not given , boarded the plane at the Camden airport shortly after it left New York for Los Angeles at 12:30 P. M. today , but whether he left the ship at Washington or another intermedi- ate stop was not learned , according to American Airline officials . The plane had left Memphis at 6:47 P. M. and was due at its next ' stop , Little Rock , Ark. , about fortyfive minutes later . It was in wireless communication with the line 's Memphis office for about fifteen minutes after the take-off . During that time the ship 's radio operator indicated that there was nothing amiss . Weather conditions for flying were good , it was reported . Shortly after the plane 's radio went dead , employes of the line at Little Rock started a search of the points @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four hours later  --  when the wreck was found by Sheriff Jim Campbell and a party of volunteer searchers , all of whom had to wear high boots to wade through the treacherous swamp . Farmer Makes Crash Report . It was a farmer named George Jones , living in the near-by village of Forrest City , who provided the first definite clue as to the location of the crash . He said he had heard the sound of the plane 's motors as it roared overhead , but that the motors suddenly stopped . The subsequent search was hampered by the darkness . By midnight Sheriff Campbell and his party , after laborious toiling through the swamp , came across the wreckage . A member of the party hurried back . to Goodwin , a farming community , and sent out the news over the telephone at the general store  --  the only available telephone in the village . Five ambulances , from points- as far away as Brinkley , Tenn. , and Memphis , sped here , but there was little that the ambulance doctors could do but wait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring the bodies out . It was believed that this work could not be completed until after daybreak . C. C. Fogg of Forrest City , one of the searchers , said that the members of the party had had to wade knee deep in water and mud for a considerable distance before coming upon the wreckage . He reported that four bodies had been thrown clear of the wreckage into shallow water , but that the others , evidently badly mangled , were pinned inside the cabin .                     