@@703289

txt The Americas are testing in this Costa Rican capital whether the power of mediation under the Buenos Aires treaties may not triumph over resort to armed force . This is the significance of the boundary dispute between Nicaragua and Honduras , whose delegates have laid their formal arguments before the mediation board composed of representatives of Costa Rica , Venezuela , and the United States . Meetings are held in the Casa Amarilla , seat of the Central American Court of Justice . It was the writer 's fortune to arrive in San Jose the day before Nicaragua and Honduras submitted their briefs . Both delegations , as well as members of the mediating - commission , labored to explain the maze of conflicting legal claims , some of which run back to Spanish Colonial times . Yet representatives of Nicaragua and Honduras recognize that settlement of this dispute by peaceful means is far more important than the territory in controversy . Neither side claims that there is great wealth in the region , but the dispute has become entangled with considerations of national prestige . In area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no postage stamp . It is one and a half times the size of the smallest Central American state . El Salvador ; that is , about equal to the combined areas of Rhode Island , Connecticut , and New Jersey . Honduras has prepared a series of exhibits , including a reproduc- tion of the Nicaraguan postage stamps by which Nicaragua retaliated to the Honduran stamp issue claiming exclusive ownership over land in dispute . Incidentally , sets of these controversial stamps may still be purchased , since neither side has withdrawn its issue . Publictition of the stamps by Honduras , dated from 1935 to 1938 , brought forth the Nicaraguan issue , dated from 1937 to 1940 , and also brought the two nations to the . brink of war . Mediation Accepted That was in NOvember of last year , reviving a dispute which had been almost dormant for some time . At the crucial moment , mediation was offered and accepted . On Dec. 10 a pact of reciprocal agreements was signed , providing for withdrawal of troops and a six-months period of mediation The present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of legal claims advanced by the parties . It averted the threat of hostilities and provided a " cooling off " period . Now the serious work of adjusting the conflicting arguments has entered its active stage . Briefly , Honduras contends that there is no issue to be mediated , since an arbitral award by the King of Spain gave Honduras the decision in 1906 , Nicaragua contends that the 1906 award was no award , is null , on the ground that it was brought about in violation of the terms of a treaty of 1894 which provided for arbitration . Volumes have been written in defense of both sides , and not even a Judge on the bench could quickly sift this complicated legal controversy to its bases of judgment . Along the path are such confusing elements as an admission by the Nicaraguans that their Government at the time of the Spanish award may have been negligent , but certainly did not fulfill all the conditions for binding Nicaragua to the award . Commissioners Hopeful Honduras counters with texts of telegrams signed by Presidents of Nicaragua on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ King of Spain . Nicaraguan lawyers reply that the President had no power to act without Congress , that his telegram was tentative , not final , and that in any case there was no authority under the treaty of 1894 for the King of Spain to render his award as sole arbitrator . Nicaragua today denies that its own representative on the three-member arbitral board of 1905-6 had authority to delegate sole arbitral power to the King of Spain . A sole arbiter could have been named only after every member of the diplomatic corps in Guatemala , then seat of the negotiations , had failed to accept the post of third arbitrator with the Nicaraguan and Honduran delegates . There it stands , and on legal battlegrounds no solution appears in sight . Yet every member of the mediating commission with whom this writer talked is optimistic . The chairman is Foreign Minister Tobias Zufliga Monttifar of Costa Rica . Dr. Jos ? Santiago Rodriguez. represents Venezuela . He is an international lawyer . and Venezuelan representative on the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague . The United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister to Panama . The commission , in the words of its chairman , hopes that the " moral force " of the Americas at this moment of world crisis will so inspire the parties that they will rise above the realm of warring contentions into the realm of conciliation and accord . To this end the commission pledges its endeavors With the next Pan American Conference scheduled for December in Lima , everyone in San Jose realizes that the American peace system itself is on trial .                     