@@699028

txt The Olympic torch on , the peristyle of the Los Angeles Coliseum flickered out with the fading twilight today in the presence of 95,000 spectators and the greatest carnival of sport ever held in this country passed into history . Although there are various methods of scoring in the Olympic Games , all of which are unofficial , the United States finished far in front by any system of figuring . Awarding points for individual accomplishment , the home athletes finished almost 500 points ahead of Italy , the closest contender , . On the basis of such individual scoring the United States rolled up- a total of 740% points to 262 ' , 4 for Italy . The others which ranked near till top were Japan , 160 ; Sweden , 154 ; France and Germany , 151 each . Listing the countries- on team achievements only , America was first with 110 points and Italy was next with 42 . Germany followed with 41 . France with 29l and Sweden with 29 1-3 . Of the seventeen team championships decided , the United States carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the sixteen-day program , the spectacular equestrian jumping competition known as the Prix des Nations , in which Lieutenant Baron Takeichi Nishi of Japan , on Uranus , carried off the individual prize after all four contesting nations had been disqualified for the team championship , Count Henri de Baillet-Latour , president of the International Olympic Committee , formerly proclaimed the closing of the tenth modern Olympiad , with the vast assemblage listening in rapt attention and the standard bearers of the participating liationa lined up ' before him in a semicircle . In these words , delivered in French , the most amazing festival of recordbreaking of all-time was brought to a conclusion : " In the name of the International Olympic Committee , after having offered to President Hoover and to the people of the United States of America , to the authorities of the city of Los Angeles and to the organizers of the games our deepest gratitude , we proclaim . the closing of the games of the Tenth Olympiad and , in accordance with tradition , we call upon the youth of every country to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebrate with us the games of the Eleventh Olympiad . May they display cheerfulness and concord so that the Olympic torch may be carried on with ever greater eagerness , courage and honor for the good of humanity throughout the ages . " As the . final words of Count Baillet-Latour came through the amplifiers a blast of trumpets sounded through the huge stadium and the Olympic flag of embroidered silk was lowered majestically from its lofty perch on the central mast atop the peristyle to the accompaniment of a salute *of five guns . Olympic Choir Sings . The Olympic choir sang the final cantata as the flags of the United States , Greece and Germany were , raised on the peristyle masts and Count Baillet-Latour , standing in the tribune of honor , received the Olympic emblem from Captain G. " Von Rossen of Amsterdam and turned it over to Mayor John C. Porter of Los Angeles , to be held in safekeeping in the City Hall here until the staging ? of the Eleventh Olympiad at Berlin in 1936 . The Olympic torch , which has flamed continuously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beacon to light the way for all to the mecca of the greatest athletes of the world , was extinguished and Los Angeles said aloha to the decorated heroes of the Olympic Games of 1932 and to the hundreds of thousands who came here to see them perform . As the quickly fading twilight of the Pacific settled over the scene , the huge , cavernous enclosure , where in more world 's records had been broken than in any other track and field meet ever held before and now barren of its'great burden of humanity , stood out in the solitude and grandeur of the coliseums of ancient Greece and Rome . Vast Throng of Spectators . Such was the fiinale to the tenth modern Olympiad . But it does not give all the picture , framed by the vast throng of 95,000 spectators , almost as Many in number as witnessed the ceremonies on July 30 , when Vice President Curtis in the name of President Hoover welcomed the 2,000 athletes from thirty-nine countries and officially proclaimed the opening of the games . The presentation of medals to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who came en masse in variegated costumes , and proud of carriage , to receive their awards and the acclamation of the stands ; the stirring strains of their national anthems , played to the accompaniment of the raising of the victory flags in the impressive " certmonie Olympique protocolaire " ; the parade of the beautiful mounts that had participated in the blood-tingling equestrian championships at Riviera , and , finally , the hazardous obstacle jumping over the picturesque course in the Prix des Nations , all combined to make a moving , colorful picture of pageantry that kept the crowd applauding and in gay spirits throughout the afternoon . It was a scene such as no one fortunate enough to . be present could forget , and its like , in the words of the , Bard of Avon , will not be looked upon again in this country within the life-span of those gathered here in the stadium this evening . Riders Receive Ovation . Few events in the Olympics . brought forth such deafening outbursts as greeted the courageous riders whose mounts . were successful in negotiating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greensward . The announcer , before the beginning of competition , took pains to inform the - crOwd of the perils besetting the contestants and of the necessity fO ? absolute quiet , and almost at the very'start the spectators realized how truly - he had spoken when Lieutenant John Wofford of the United States ' was thrown over the head of his mount , Babe Warthem , as the horse , going at full speed , balked abruptly - at the first barrier . Neither the rider nor his mount was injured , and Lieutenant Wofford received an ovation as he rode out of the Stadium . . As a further indication sof the hazardousness of the competition , only five of the eleven mounts- were able to take all the twenty jumps over the eighteen obstacles on the course , which was five-eighths of a mile in length , the other six being eliminated . For this reason  --  because no c , , untry 's triple representation completed the route  --  the team champion= ship was not awarded . Tan Bark Goes Distance . Two of the five ? to go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half-bred United States Government horse , ridden by Captain William Bradford , and Tan Bark , ' United States ' Government horse of unknown breeding , ridden by Major Harry D. Chamberlin . The other mounts to take all the obstacles were Empire , - half-bred , ridden by LieutenAnt Clarence : Von Rosen of Sweden ; - 1Cornett , half-bred , with Captain ' , Ernst Hallberg , of Sweden in the saddle , and - Uranus , of unknown breeding , ridden-by Lieutenant Takeichi Nishi of Japan . Baron Nishi , with a low point total against him of ? eight , won the individual championship . Major Chamberlin , Was . , secohd - with 12 points against hint and Lieutenant Von Rosen was , " , third with 16 points . Fourth.place went to Captain Bradford with 24 ? poitits and fifth to Captain Hallberg with 50.5 points . . The judges , in easing their awards , took nothing into account but the berse 's performance , its conformafition and appearance , the - form of ' the rider being . of no consideration . ' hree - balks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which ranged from 4 feet 3 inches to 5 feet 3 inches in height , and included a 16-foot water jump , resulted in its elimination . The disqualification of any one of the representatives of the four nations competing brought about the elimination of the country from the team championship . The United States , Japan and Sweden each had three mounts in competition , but Japan , owing to an injury sustained by Major , Shigemoto Yoshida , was forced to withdraw Falaisa and had only two entries . The first three horses to enter , the stadium were eliminated . They were El As , ridden by Captain Andre Bocanegra of Mexico ; Babe Wartham , which completed the course but was disqualified , and Sonny Boy , with Major Yasushi Imamura in the saddle . The other mounts to fail to go the route were Kang-uro , ridden by Major Carlos Mejia of Mexico ; Urfe , ridden by Lieutenant Arne Francke of Sweden , and Pinello , with Captain Ortiz of Mexico up . So ended the actual competition in the 1932 Olympics , and after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gallant riders the great crowd waited expectantly for the impressive closing ceremonies which followed . Record Crowd Attends . The remarkable turnout for the closing day 's program , by far the largest to put in an appearance for the final day of any modern Olympiad , brought the total attendance for the games to approximately 1,750,000 persons . Close to half a million saw the United States carry off the track and field honors with one of the most decisive sweeps it ever has ' enjoyed in an Olympiad . This part of the program was easily the biggest attraction of the games , 85,000 turning out on Aug. 3 , when Eddie Tolan carried off the 100-meter sprint championship , but the other stadiums and courses scattered over an area of 100 square miles also irew their big crowds to set a record for aggregate attendance at an Olympiad . At the Marine Stadium at Long Beach , approximately 160,000 saw the five days of rowing , which came to a climax yesterday with the sensational victory of the California Bears for the eight-oared championship . Swimming and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese and the brilliant American girl swimmers and of the American men and women divers , lured 125,000 , while boxing , the equestrian events at Riviera and the road cycling were each attended by 100,000 . It is estimated that at least 200,000 persons lined the marathon course to see Juan Carlos Zabala of Argentina win the grand prize of the Olympics . The cycling at Pasadena attracted about 75,000 , wrestling drew between 100,000 and 75,000 ; 50,000 saw the East-West football demonstration , fencing brought out 40,000 , and the shooting range , the gymnastics , the yachting races and the weight-lifting also added their thousands to the total . Then add to all this the 10C,000 at the opening ceremonies and the 95,000 today and the grand total comes to around 1,750,000 . Cordial Feeling Manifested . Along with the records set in competition and in attendance , the Tenth Olympiad will also go down in the records for the perfection of the weather , for the unparalleled grandeur of the scale on which the games were staged and the efficiency of the management , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the lone exception of the flareup of the Brazilian water polo team , and for the splendid sportsmanship and conduct of the crowds attending the events . Only once was there an instance of the spectators showing any hostility , that one being caused by the Ralph Hill incident in the home stretch of the 5,000-meter run . The weather here throughout the entire duration of the games has been a source of wonder to the visiting athletes and the foreign officials , every day being as nearly perfect as the one before , and undoubtedly it had considerable bearing on the performances turned in . The dignitaries of distant lands have been lavish in their praise of the way the games have been handled and of the hospitality that has been offered on every side , from Olympic Village , that unparalleled international settlement housing the men athletes , to Hollywood and Beverly Hills , where the leaders of the motion picture industry entertained with a munificence that won them friends from all over the world . In short , Los Angeles put over this $10,000,000 undertaking with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to surpass. , The 1932 Olympic Games set a rec- ' ord , not only in the field of competition , but from every other standpoint as well , that should stand in the an-nals of international sports compe-1 tition long after the marks made here during the past two weeks have been effaced from the books . As . Dr. Willy Meisi of Berlin put it today , " The Olympic Games at Los Angeles as themselves will stand in ' our memory as an unbeatable new Olympic and world - record . This mark ca n't be outclassed through decades ; it is the record of records . "                     