@@704021

txt Deficit Viewed With Alarm Ignoring of Time-Tested Principles of Economics Called Dangerous To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Taos : Successive annual deficits and the constantly growing national debt have been the subjects of discussion in many of the letters which have appeared in your columns . ' Your correspondents may for practical purposes be separated into two general classifications  --  those who are fearful of eventual disaster from a perennially unbalanced budget and those who can contemplate present government spending and an ever-increasing public debt with apparent equanimity . Unless we are prepared to summarily throw into the discard certain economic tenets , pertaining to- general solvency which , certainly until now , have stood the test of time and experience , it seems to me that the burden of proof is distinctly on the shoulders of those who , however sincere in the stand they take , are compelled to try to beguile us . from the long established virtues of thrift and its correlatives , frugality and prudence , as being outmoded and impediments to progress , in order to advance their point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published letter , your correspondent Finley Peter Dunne Jr . Is suspicious of what he calls " the present economy rage . " He is , of course , on perfectly solid ground when he distinguishes between the individual who squanders $75 a week on a fiftydollar income and the individual who goes into debt to expand his business . He then proceeds to liken government spending to the individual business expansionist . Even if Mr. Dunne does not believe , as many of us do , that redistribution of wealth for deliberate political advantage is an Important motive in government spending , he tacitly admits , that he is in favor of government in private enterprise , else there is no point or excuse for his analogy . The individual stands or falls according to the wisdom he has exercised in embarking upon his adventure . This adventure he has a perfect right to make , indeed should be encouraged to make , under our system of free private enterprise reasonably regulated . But the reason he does n't make it is because he is fearful of punitive taxation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competition from what Mr. Dunne now rather innocuously characterizes as " withdrawing funds from the cold storage of bank deposits * * * and using them to spread buying power . " No one will deny the right of the individual to embark upon a business enterprise even though in the very nature of things it can not but be regarded as a speculation . I believe the overwhelming sentiment of the country is against government in business , but even if this were not so , the propriety of government 's speculating in business with taxpayers ' money in the sense that an individual speculates is at least open to the gravest question . Dangers in Present Plan In conclusion I would say that thus far I have not read a solitary argument that convinces me there are not inherent the most dire eventualities in a casual disregard of certain hitherto accepted principles of sound finance and a constantly increasing burden of debt which might conceivably reach uncontrollable proportions before the hopedfor new high in national income is achieved . And an unprecedented prosperity is now admittedly the only cure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the precise equivalent of a bull operator trusting in and hoping for a rise in the market , and if any one ever took a pure gamble on the future ? regrettably a rather distant future from all present indications  --  Uncle Sam is the boy who is doing it now . And he has n't even the acumen ( or is it the will ? ) to exert himself to effect a genuine and sincere rapprochement with business , especially big business  --  one prerequisite in the process of freeing himself from the cloud of dust , debts and dismay which now enshrouds him . WILLIAM 0 . MORSE . Greenwich , Conn. , May 30 , 1939 . Washington at Trenton To THE EDITOR OF TEE NEW YORK TIMES : In a recent issue of your paper there is an article , " Over Historic Trail , " by August Loeb , in which he states that Washington spent the fifth night of his journey at Princeton , N. J. This statement is based upon Baker 's " Itinerary of General Washington , " and he quoted as his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stryker was a recognized historian before his death , I have found a letter written by Mrs. Jane Ewing the day after Washington 's reception in Trenton . In a family letter to her brother in Philadelphia she states that General Washington spent the night at Vandergrift 's Tavern in Trenton and that her husband spent most of the evening with him and accompanied him out of town the following morning . A photostat of this letter may be seen in the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress . CARLOS E. GODFREY . Trenton , N. J. , May 29 , 1939 . Battery Tunnel Favored To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I am in full accord with all the objections brought out thus far against the Battery Bridge . There are three points , however , which I have not seen mentioned and which it does seem should be given full consideration . First , a structure of this character in that particular situation would not only be hot traveling in Summer but bitterly cold in Winter . The raw winds sweeping across the bay are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverse  --  reasonably cool in Summer and comparatively warm . in Winter . Modern science makes it possible to regulate the temperature of a subway , but little . can be done about the temperature on a bridge . Second , in case of heavy snow consid- erable expense must be met for the necessary clean-up after the storm . No snow or ice has ever hindered traffic , in any subway . Third , a bridge is all expense , whereas the material excavated in building the subway can be a valuable asset if used to fill in and develop another recreational center in the chain Mr. Moses has developed so successfully and to his everlasting credit . S. E. LEITH . New York , May 25 , 1939 . Third-Term Observations Present Situation Is Likened to That Which Confronted Grant To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK Tams : I always read Mr. Krock 's political articles with avidity and instruction and have just finished perusal of that entitled " Third Term Stands Out as Leading 1940 Issue . " It has seemed to me that the analogy between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of Grant 's second term is very close . Evidence that Grant really desired a third consecutive term is , to me , convincing . There were powerful men in public life and in exceedingly close relations with him who would gladly have lent their aid . He publicly intimated at least " receptivity . " His re-election in 1872 had been over the opposition of some of the greater leaders of his party , just as was Roosevelt 's re-election in 1936 . And Grant 's 1872 victory was plainly comparable , in its sweeping extent , with Roorevelt 's in 1936 . Grant lost ground in his second term and so has Roosevelt . But the House of Rep ? resentatives adopted the Springer antithird-term resolution and Grant decided to wait for 1880 . It was then argued ( 1 ) that any Republican must run on the record of Grant 's two terms , and ( 2 ) that no one could win without Grant 's support . But the Cincinnati convention turned down all Grant 's friends , as well as Blaine and Bristow , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Grant had done and repudiated a great deal of it . Grant and his chief friends remained cold to the Hayes campaign until almost the end , when their " support " was little more than perfunctory . Yet Hayes became President and if he was not really " elected " it is equally true that Tilden was not . I strongly suspect that Grant had just about the same power to force his own renomination in 1876 as Roosevelt has now . The former could have resorted to the officeholders , then not legally inhibited from participation in political affairs to the extent that they are now . It is unthinkable , to me , that with full resort to patronage and other powers incident to his position , Grant and his associates could not leave controlled any Republican National Convention while he remained in office . But Conkling , Cameron and others shrank from the task . Of course , it is true that Roosevelt has no opponent comparable in capacity and position with Blaine or Bristow in 1876 , but neither has he any Conkling or Cameron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's anti-third-term resolution ? Has it been suppressed , and how ? I like everything in regard to Vice President Garner , but his election would make the Vice Presidency too important . And In 1928 Charles E. Hughes told me his age made it impossible for him to be a candidate , because no one would consider him eligible to re-election and the whole of his term would be occupied by intrigues for the succession . Harry Flood Eyed is less an opponent of the Roosevelt policies and methods than Hayes was of Grant 's policies and methods . H. T. NEWCOMB . New Preston , Conn. , May 30 , 1939 . Welcome to New Citizens To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORE TIMES : The forthcoming observance of " New Citizens ' Day " on Friday is an event which every public-spirited citizen will applaud . The people responsible for this wise move deserve wholehearted cooperation and praise on the part of all of us . At the same time it might be appropriate to mention that in November , 1915 , a similar event was inaugurated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the speakers at the Central High School auditorium where the municipal and educational authorities of Houston gathered to bid welcome to the newly naturalized citizens , and a genuine brotherly welcome into this big-hearted family of ours known as the United States of America was given to our new fellow-citizens . May I therefore express the hope that this new , even though belated , annual event will become one of welcoming all citizens , newly naturalized as well as native born , who have attained their majority , and that this wonderful spirit will further cement our unity for the good of all of us . J. ANTHONY MARCUS . New York , May 30 , 1939.                     