@@699065

txt Methods and organization to facilitate , through . credit arrangements , the purchase of raw commodities at present price levels will be the principal business of Friday 's conference between Washington officials and members of the advisory committees from the 12 Federal Reserve districts . Another angle which will receive extended discussion is the possibility of arranging the financing of projects which will afford employment and in this category housing construction is probably first in the minds of officials here . ? These ideas were the objective of the Reserve advisory committees formed some weeks ago . Those who are looking for something sanely and quietly constructive to develop out of Friday 's conference will be pleased in the opinion of officials here . The meeting will afford opportunity for exchange of ideas and experiences among those who have been trying to carry out the work of bringing together the possessor of credit and those who desire to use credit . This in itself Will be beneficial . And it is possible that some form of unified organization may be worked out from the various plans that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve advisory committees have been acting individually . Contact with each other would be helpful . There are times when because of seasonal conditions there are available funds one place and the need in another . Ordinarily this is taken care of almost automatically . It is obvious that at this time the process should have every assistance which can be afforded . Such a. contact organization might consist of one or two members from each Federal Reserve advisory committee . There also has been some thought that the Commodities Finance Corp. , which was formed by New York banks , might be made national in scope . This idea does not meet with favor in some interested quarters . The first organization would assist in commodity purchases and the second would assist in financing the large long time projects . ' Whatever form of organization is decided upon , the important thing in the mind of officials here is that every possible encouragement be given to the new attitude on the part of potential purchasers of materials . Until re- cently that attitude was one of a fear to buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point where they have every desire to buy if they can . 150 to Attend Conference More than one hundred and fifty business men in touch with all lines of business , industry and agriculture will take part in the conference . A canvass will be taken of means , methods , agencies and powers available in the country for general advancement , wider expansion of credit facilities to business and industry where consumption of goods is assured ; coordination and expansion of livestock and agricultural facilities ; coordination and expansion of financial facilities for movement of commodities into consumption ; expansion of programs for repairs and maintenance of the railways ; and creation of organizations for further spread of existing employment and expansion of employment . Preliminary Meeting Today Secretary of the Treasury Mills reported ' to President Hoover that preliminary plans had been completed for the meeting , on Thursday , of chairmen of the twelve business and industrial committees . Mr. Mills said the meeting would take place in his office at the Treasury . He also said that some of the chairmen of these committees , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are to participate in the conference . Secretary Mills expected that Henry M. Robinson would preside at the executive meeting . The general meeting will be held on Friday at the Commerce Department . Mr. Mills refused to give any details of plans which will be presented by the Administration at the general meeting . ? ? ? The Gov . Norman Mystery The mystery attendant upon the visit of Montagu Norman to this country is not unusual . Each time that the governor of the Bank of England has come to these shores there has been the same discussion and speculation . It is probable that Governor Norman 's stay here has far lees of international financial significance than some of the speculative stories suppose . It is also probable that the more apparent aspect , that Governor Norman is here for vacation and social purposes , ie somewhat nearer the truth . The real mystery as viewed here is why Governor Norman makes such a mystery of his goings and comings . So far as can be learned here , Governor Norman has not had contact with important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his plans in this country .                     