@@701402

txt An effort to block action on the Tax Bill at this session , begun with a sharp attack from the Republican side , was overwhelmingly defeated today by the Senate . By a vote of 55 to 19 , a motion by Senator Vandenberg of Michigan to recommit the measure to the Finance Committee for further study was rejected . Although eight Democrats joined with eleven Republicans in voting for the Vandenberg motion , Senator Copeland was the only Democrat who spoke in its behalf . He denounced the wealth-tax provisions as unjust and unfair . Encouraged by their show of strength , administration leaders purposed to head the measure straight into the amending stage tomorrow , confident that the , could beat off all other opposition and send it to conference by Saturday night in a form still more in keeping with the desires of President Roosevelt . At the same time , a possibility developed that the inheritance levy , chief feature of the President 's wealth-sharing tax plan , might be dropped for this session because of the increasing difficulties in working out proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approval by both the Senate and House of increased estate tax rates , as substituted for the inheritance levy by the Senate Finance Committee . Consent Is Held Probable . If the inheritance tax proposal should be dropped , it will be with administration consent . An indication that the administration is amenable to deferring this levy for further study of administrative features and to accepting the Senate estate tax provisions was seen in the attitude of Senate leaders who originally announced their firm determination to reinsert the inheritance tax on the floor . None of them would say definitely today that he would attempt , to reincorporate this provision . Meanwhile , the Senate 's tax ex perts were laboring fruitlessly to work out satisfactory administrative details . These same leaders have also insisted lately that if the inheritance tax goes back into the bill special exemptions must be allowed for inheritances passing in the form of going industrial enterprises and for proceeds from insurance policies . The immediate task before the leadership was to get the bill to conference , however , and they believed that they weathered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to block action this session . The second test will be faced early tomorrow when the offering of amendments starts . At least three proposals are pending . Senator La Follette favors higher personal surtax rates all along the line and the lowering of the personal income tax exemptions . Senator Clark would tax immediately the income from tax-exempt securities instead of waiting for a constitutional amendment as suggested by the President . Senator McCarran seeks the repeal of certain permissive features of the Silver Purchase Act of 1954 . Senator Long is expected , also , to offer an amendment carrying out his share-the-wealth plan . Vandenberg Assails Measure . The Republican broadside against the measure was thought to have been spent in the debate that pre- ceded the vote on Senator Vandenberg 's motion . The attack was led by the Michigan Senator , with the most caustic speeches heard in the Senate during the Roosevelt administration . Far nearly an hour Mr. Vandenberg hurled one epithet after another at the measure , calling it a " tin foil bill , " a " fiscal fiasco , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The bill was born , he said , of " dictation , desperation and exhaustion . " " This bill is a display of pell-mell statesmanship if ever there was such , " he said . " It falls to serve any real fiscal purpose or any mythical social purpose . It is hastily thrown together in response to an unwelcomed , eleventhhour executive mandate , which for a time perplexed the most capable of the administration 's adjutants . " Senator Vandenberg challenged , the administration to produce a bill that would raise revenue in keep , ing with its expenditures .. " If you must have a Tax Bill , why this sham reported to us by the Senate committee ? " he ' asked . " This bill is utterly unrelated to I the budget . It hurts the taxpayer land helps no one else . " Senator Vandenberg opened the attacic soon after Chairman Harrison of the Finance Committee had explained the various provisions of the Senate bill . Mr. Harrison spoke for the most part from ' the- committee 's majority report which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few minutes before , session began . Senator Harrison pointed out the differences between thaaction taken by the House and the committee 's bill . He gave comparative figures on estimates of returns under the various proposals . The House measure as amended by his committee would yield , he explained , about the same amount of revenue : $25,000,000 under the House bill and 256,000 ; 000 under the proposals before the Senate . He defended the Senate proposals for surtax increases on , very high incomes instead of being . applieclp as in the Housethroughout the scale of taxable incomes as being " more in conformity-with the President 's message than the House bill . " . He recalled that the President recommended the restriction of only very high personal incomes . A. proposed amendment to the existing Estate Tax , Law , permitting estates to claim any shrinkage in value occurring , within a year after death , was cited . " This provision is equitable and will prevent in practically all cases the danger of complete confiscation Of estates due to a sudden decline in : market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases in estate taxes , he added , were " buttressed " by increases in ' gift taxes , which would be assessed at a rate equivalent to three-fourths of the estate tax in each bracket . . The Finance Committee report , after calling attention to the House 's revision of the excess-profits tax by substituting for the flat 5- per dent rate some graduated rates , remarked that this was not " specifically mentioned " in the President 's message . It was held likely to " operate unfairly against many corporations . " ; The report added that the committee had devised a complete substitute , and went on to detail these provisions , It was believed that changes in the capital-stock tax and excess-profits tax as made by the Senate committee developed a bill " more equitable " and nevertheless capable of bringing in " substantial and dependable revenue . " In recommending substitution of increased estate tax rates for inheritance taxes provided in the House bill , the committee said that while it was " recognized that the inheritance tax , in a number of respects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the difficulties encountered in designing an inheritance tax even reasonably free from serious administrative difficulties are very numerous . " The ground had been prepared for the Republican assault by the filing of a minority report by Senators Hastings and Metcalf , members of the Finance Committee . The minority report contended that the bill was not a revenue raiser , that it violated every sound principle of taxation , and that inframing it the Democrats in both houses had shown " an utter disregard for obvious inequities and patent absurdities . " The Republicans offered substitute recommendations , to wit , that Congress adjourn immediately , that the administration leave business alone , that waste and extravagance be eliminated in government , and that if revenue be required the administration devote itself to a real tax program . Senator Hastings took the floor to elaborate his views upon the bill . " This particular bill was conceived in political intrigue , " said the Delaware Senator . " It is a cross between a spend-thrift and a social revolutionist . It has for its principal object the Presidential election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic party whatever is left of the wealthy class . " It is a bid for the votes of those who have but little . It makes:a pretense of meeting the demands of those who believe the salvation of the country is in the share-thewealth proposal . It will not raise money enough to pay the deficit for twenty days . It brings in no money Until March , 1937 , and I think it.la safe to say that it does not meet the actual desires of 10 per cent of the members of either house of Congress . " The truth is that it has been drawn and is about to be passed because of the President 's message of June 19 and because certain mem- , hers of the Senate - called the bluff of the President in sending that message . " The Republican attack was eontinued by Senator Steiwer . He contended that the bill as reported by the Senate Finance Committee was nothing less than a " betrayal of the philosophies of the President . " " We are confronted with a confusion of theories , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconcile them if we only had the time in which to attempt a reconciliation . " Throughout the speeches today in opposition to the Tax Bili there was a note of futility , coupled with - an obvious desire of the speakers to rush consideration of the measure in the interest of early adjournment . Senator Vandenburg practically ' announced at the outset that he Cid not expect his motion to prevail , but the majority in opposition to it was surprising to both Republicans and Democrats , encouraging the latter in the belief that the measure would be rushed through with little further trouble . SWIFT OPPOSES TAX PLAN . Packer Warns Stockholders on Income Levy Proposal . The proposed higher income taxes on large corporations would , in the case of the packing industry , be not only Injurious to Its stockholders , but would work a hardship on every producer of livestock and every consumer of meat , G. F. Swift , president of Swift &; Co. , declared yesterday in a letter sent to shareholders of the company . Mr. Swift said that shareholders of all large companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate and the House of Representatives , which would impose higher income tax rates on large corporations than on small ones . " The shareholders of Swift &; Co. , " Mr. Swift said , " and of all other large companies should be greatly concerned about this matter . Both large and small corporations now are paying a tax of 13m , per cent of their income to the Federal Government . This tax necessarily comes ahead of dividends . It is paid by the shareholders , who constitute the company , out of income that could otherwise be paid in dividends . In the case of Swift &; Co. , the tax rates proposed by the Senate Finance Committee would im11 pose a total burden of nearly $3,000,000 whenever the taxable income amounted to $15,000.000 . This would be a tax burden of almost 50 cents per share of stock to be met before dividends could be paid . " Swift &; Co. is not an individual and should not be taxed as such . Swift &; Co. consists of more than 53,000 individuals , ? most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are women . " The character of the meat business is such that there must be large distributers having the facilities for nation-wide distribution . It is largely because of the initiative Swift &; Co. has shown during the past fifty years in developing its distribution facilities on a nationwide scale that there is now a national market for meat and a national market for livestock . To penalize agencies which operate between these two markets simply because they are large , when such agencies must be large if they are to do their work efficiently , seems hardly credible . Not only would shareholders be injured by a discriminatory tax , but a tax on efficiency in marketing methods would injure every producer of livestock and every consumer of meat . "                     