@@700621

txt Individual banks in the New YoAt Clearing House Association have indicated their intention of settling as quickly as possible the government 's suit arising out of the collective assurance guaranteeing the deposits of the bankrupt Harriman Bank and Trust Company . The amount involved is roughly $10 , - 000,000 and an agreement by most of the largest banks in the Clearing House to make good in full  --  which is expected  --  would mean the early repayment to Earriman depositors of all but a small part of the amount still due them . Negotiations are now under way looking to a settlement of the government 's suit brought last . December by the Controller of the Currency to compel the twenty banks of the Clearing House Association and the bankers who served as the clearing house committee in the previous two years to pay the claims of Harriman depositors . A disagreement has developed among the Clearing House banks , but present indications are that most of them will elect to make separate settlement with the government on the basis of the pro-rata portion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The matter will be voted on in the clearing house within the next week or two . Meanwhile , efforts are being made to persuade those banks which disclaim responsibility to assent to a general agreement which would avert a trial of the case . The government , it is understood , is insisting upon a 100 per cent assumption of the liability to Harriman depositors . As the negotiations stand now , there is a strong sentiment , in the clearing house that the matter should be disposed of with as little additional delay as necessary . The right of the government to enforce , against all the clearing house banks , the claims based upon " assurances to the public " by the clearing house committee is disputed on legal grounds . No question has been raised as to the facts . Some of the large clearing house banks have gone so far , in the present negotiations , as to offer immediate payment of their part of the claims , and the funds from these sources will be available as soon as formal action is taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the event of resistance by other banks , will . not figure as defendants in the government 's suit , it is understood . But final decision on this point will rest with the government attorneys . About 11,000 depositors will benefit from the payments to be made . The government attorneys expect to proceed with the equity suit as soon as the present negotiations have been concluded , assuming , of course , that there is no unanimous agreement among the defendant banks to settle . When the suit was originally filed , on Dec. 27 , 1933 , the banks ' position was that , on the advice of counsel , they were unwilling to assume guarantees made on their behalf , but without legal authority , " in a crisis and without extended consideration of the technical formalities involved . " After the crisis had passed the conclusion was reached that the banks could not obligate treinielves to spend their stockholders ' money in sustaining an agreement of doubtful validity . Hold Agreement Binding . The government 's contention was that the clearing house banks had entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and repudiated . " The point was made in the suit that the Clearing House Association was accustomed to repose full authority in its clearing house committee and that this committee comprised the heads of the most important banks . Letters to the Controller of the Currency and published advertisements were cited . Before proceeding with its suit , last December , the government through the Controller of the Currency had sought for several months to induce the Clearing House banks to insure the payment to Harriman Bank depositors of the full amount due , the demands for such payment being based upon the written statements of the clearing house committee during the banking crisis . Fifteen of the twenty banks had indicated their willingness to abide by the results of an arbitration . Five held out for a court determination . This minority insisted that " to say that the legal situation must be tested out in court is not , as has been suggested , the invocation of technicalities , but is , because of the grave responsibility imposed on bank directors , a prime requisite to corporate ac-1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjudication of the question in the courts were the National City , the Bankers Trust , Bank of Manhattan , First  --  National and Fifth Avenue Bank . It is understood that the position of some ' of these institutions has since changed . The government 's suit did not fix the amount of the claim that was made on behalf of Harriman depositors , but the sum estimated as needed was $.8,875,000 with interest which would , up to this time , increase the amount to almost $10 , - 000,000 . After the failure of the bank the Reconstruction Finance Corporation advanced about $7,100 , - 000 , against security , which was paid out as a N per cent dividend to depositors in July of last year . The claims against stockholders arising from the bank 's embarrassment remain to be settled .                     