@@701823

txt The Committee of Thirteen of the League of Nations today instructed Its president , Salvador de Madariaga of Spain , to ask Italy and Ethiopia to send delegates here Tuesday to discuss with him and Joseph A. Avenol , secretary general of the League , how to open armistice negotiations . The decision to take this action was reached after the most extreme differences between the British and French members that the committee has yet witnessed . Mr. de Madariaga is to report to the committee on Thursday , April 16 , to which date it adjourned instead of to the 20th , as had been planned . Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden of Britain , who by hard fighting got the delay thus reduced , also arranged that Augusto de Vasconcellos of Portugal should have his Committee of Eighteen , which deals with sanctions , ready to meet next Friday or on any day there'after when he , as president , thinks such further consideration of sanctions will be in the interest of peace . Eden Can Force Showdown Thus Mr. Eden is in a position to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is satisfied by Mr. de Madariaga 's report on Thursday that the Italian attitude toward ending hostilities is incompatible with the covenant . The Ethiopians have agreed to attend Tuesday 's meeting , and Mr. de Madariaga told the Committee of Thirteen that he confidently expected Italy , on the basis of his talks with Baron Pompeo Aloisi last night , to send a delegate too . Informed quarters see no hope for these talks and regard them as only a blind to allow Italy to delay cessation of hostilities until the rainy season , when it will militarily help her and hurt Ethiopia to have an armistice . They expect the Italian delegate to say Tuesday that he has no power to discuss armistice terms but only the procedure for taking them up and to insist that this procedure be direct Italo-Ethiopian negotiations without League intervention . It is conceded that he may possibly allow the Committee of Thirteen the right to have its president and secretary seated silently at the table . France Supports Italians To meet this expectation Mr. Eden strove to have the committee decide today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could immediately intervene to block such delay tactics . Foreign Minister Pierre-Etienne Flandin of France , to the amazement of many in the committee and of the secretariat , pushed his support of Italy so far today as to urge the committee to adjourn not merely till April 20 , but sine die , and to leave the Italians to negotiate directly with the Ethiopians , with only the proviso that either could appeal to the committee when it so desire &; Mr. Eden declared he could not possibly agree to that , and could concede only that they delay opening the permanent session until Thursday , since , in the circumstances , there was little meanwhile on which Mr. de Madariaga could report to them . Mr. de Madariaga saw in Mr. Flandin 's idea that the committee president might be present in the Italo-Ethiopian discussions , but without the right to intervene , danger that he would be used as a figurehead to give a League air to the proceedings and to place responsibility on the committee for whatever hypocrisy this might involve . He said he could not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervene in the talks and at least report what was going on to the committee so it could take the responsibility for deciding whether it was compatible with the covenant . Consequently he not only strongly supported Mr. Eden 's demand for a permanent session of the committee , but asked the committee to instruct him today whether it agreed with Mr. Flandin that direct negotiations were compatible with the covenant . The committee disagreed sufficiently for Mr. de Madariaga to plan to intervene when the Italian delegate raises this basic point Tuesday and to say he fears the talks are getting outside the spirit of the covenant and that he must refer to the committee for a decision . Then today 's fight will be resumed , unless meanwhile the French and British patch things up . Today 's committee meeting was , as usual , secret and the disagreements were so acute and the results so hazy that , contrary to the usual practice , no communiqu ? was issued .. Consequently , all the absent League members lack an official text by which to know precisely what was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to old hands here . In insisting that the Committee of Eighteen be ready to meet Friday , Mr. Eden explained that apart from the possibility that the armistice talks might break down and further sanctions might be needed , the committee needed to follow the existing sanctions . Mr. Flandin tonight explained to the French press that the calling of the sanctions committee did not necessarily mean continuation or extension of sanctions , for if an armistice started off well the committee might take up the question of raising the sanctions . The British I laugh at this possibility . Mr. Flandin is understood to plan sending a message to Premier Mussolini strongly urging him especially because of the central European situation , not only to send a delegate Tuesday , but to make a I real peace effort .                     