@@703759

txt Broad revision of the American system of corporate management , including provision for paid directors ? " salaried professional experts " ? who would give more adequate representation to stockholders and the general public , was suggested yesterday by Chairman Witham O. Douglas of the Seem ities and Exchange Commission . The SEC Chairman coupled this proposal with advocacy of small but active boards of directors , exercising close supervision over corporate management , and limitation of the number of directorates held by any one individual . Mr. Douglas made his recommendations in an " unofficial capacity . " adding that he had no legislation in mind to bring it about . He proposed it " as a program for industry itself " . Text of Mr. Douglas ' address will be found on Pape 9 . Speaking at a luncheon meeting of the Fort Worth Clearing House Association , Mr. Douglas quoted freely from a recent discussion with Joseph P. Kennedy . former SEC chairman and now Ambassador to Great Britain , to lend support to contentions that the present system of corporate directorates in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representation of stockholders ' views in management . In contrast , he praised British industrial concerns for establishing compact directorates with " special knowledge " who take " an active part in supervising corpol ate affairs . " Twice during his speech the SEC head indirectly referred to the &; Robbins case and the failure of the present system of directors to safeguard stockholders in cases such as these . He asserted that it is too much to expect directors to do a full and adequate job for the small honorariums they now receive for attending meetings . Mr. DiDuglas said that when directors are paid so little as they now are it is no wonder that sometimes the .. are " tempted to collect invisible rewards , to make use of their inside information , their market tips , their banking connections , and otherwise to serve themselves rather than their stockholders . " " We should have smaller directorates. " said Mr. Douglas . " It is in the unwieldly boards of the larger corporations that inactive directors are most numerous . Corporations under their own motive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no man can sit on 15 , 40 or even 50 boards . A man who belongs on 50 boards obviously can work on none . " The paid director , " he said , " would revive and strengthex , the tradition of trusteeship . His job would not be to represent the management or to represent himself . It would be primarily to represent the stockholder  --  to return to the stockholder the protection which today 's stockholder has too frequently lost " Mr. Douglas admitted that " the problem of working out the paid director would of course present many details . But I feel that the principle is sound . There would be no lack of capable , mature , experienced men to enter the new profession of full time director . There are any number of men whose successful business or banking experience has qualified them to act in an advisory capacity . "                     