@@700737

txt Post-war Europe has surely never presented a more ironical picture than that of France on the twentieth anniversary of the World War deeply regretting today the death of Field Marshal von Hindenburg , whose name once personified all that was hateful in wartime Germany . With gloomy forebodings the French awaited President von Hindenburg 's end and now with dismay they have learned of Adolf Hitler 's brusque accession to Presidential power and supreme command of the Reich 's armed forces . But mingled with these fears is the sincere tribute that Frenchmen are always - Ailing to pay to a gallant enemy . This historic event and all these conflicting emotions gained peculiar force today , , for they found France 's statesmen and military leaders gathered at Nancy to pay final honors to a great French soldier , Marshal Lyautey , whose funeral took place with all the ceremony that can attend this nation 's tribute to its heroic dead . Pershing Gets News . Never since the war ended have so many ghosts and so many sad and wonderful memories impregnated the air of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arms that Is still plastered on a building just off the Place de la Concorde is the hotel where General John J. Pershing heard today the news of President von Hindenburg 's passing  --  the Hindenburg against whose line he had sent his men in the struggle that was to crush his opponent 's army and end his military career . At Nancy Marshal retain , who commanded the French army that faced Hindenburg , learned the news just before rising to pronounce the funeral oration over Marshal Lyautey 's bier . General Maxime Weygand , right-hand man of Marshal- Foch , was there , too . For them and many others today must have seemed to mark the end of a great and terrible epoch . It seems that another and unpredictable era is beginning . President von Hindenburg , in the words of a Temps editorial tonight , represented " the last moral force surviving in Germany , which is prey to every ? distress and which has lost her way , buffeted by winds of revolution . " " After him , " adds the editorial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made up of hate and violence , nothing but a disarray of hearts and minds , nothing but an abandonment to instincts unleashed by the worst sort of demagogy . " That is what Herr Hitler 's accession to greater power means to the average Frenchman . His quick seizure of the Presidential prerogatives took the French by surprise and it has caused considerable consternation . Herr Hitler always has personified to the French an evil force in German politics . It is true that he is not feared as he once was . He has ruled the roost for a year and a half and , in French eyes , he has failed . Since June 30 , especially , Herr Hitler has been regarded as a somewhat exploded force . Fear for the Future . Now a new and highly disturbing element has been introduced by Herr Hitler 's accession to supreme power . The French fear that in a desperate effort to regain and hold his prestige Herr Hitler may embark on some foreign adventure . No better spokesman need be sought today than the semi-official Temps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a synthesis of French opinion . " There is no German republic , " says the paper . " There is no German Constitution ; there is no German Government ; there is only Reichsfuehrer Reich Leader Hitler with absolute powers such as the Hohenzollerns never knew , sole master after God of the German people . " ?  - -  After asking whether Herr Hitler 's bold gesture will calm the situation , and whether the Reichswehr , the Junkers , ' the industrial magnates and the ' Hohenzollerns will yield docilely to him , the Temps concludes : " That is tomorrow 's secret , but if they do yield , it must be realized that Hitler , freed of Hindenburg 's guidance and of all governmental control , no longer obliged to play one element against another , having an open road before him and aagin caught by the advanced elements of the forces he created , will go right to his goal , ? which , in the minds of his partisans , ought to have the character of social revolution as much as that of political revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany begins . " War Foe Praises Marshal . General Maurice Duval , who fought against Marshal von Hindenburg , said in an article in the Journal des Debate today : " He can not be denied the honor of having been a great sOldier and leader in unhappy times . " In all the accounts here today , and everywhere in Franed that President von Hindenburg 's name is being spoken , there is praise for a person whom they regarded as upright , dignified and courageous . He was a leader whose patriotism was of a kind that Frenchmen understand much better than they understand that of the rabid German who was an Austrian housepainter and who now becomes the late Reich President 's successor .                     