@@704262

txt Public Interest Lags There are now suitable planning boards and authorities in many communities , Mr. Flavel noted , but necessary public interest to make the movements successful is still lacking . He urged a series of popular lectures on planning for Massachusetts . As examples of the benefits that Civic planning brings to communities , Mr. Flavel and other speakers selected Stamford , Conn. , and Orange and Wellesley , Mass . In Stamford a new zoning ordinance was badly needed but was brought up three times for passage without success . Finally those interested in the ordinance set up a committee of 100 which functioned somewhat as a planning board , gave talks throughout the community to explain the value of the new zoning law , and assured its final approval without dissent . In Orange , Mass. , the local taxpayers association gave support to a Town Planning Committee which was established and which , among other things , has saved 615,000 annually in local WPA contributions , Everett B. French , Secretary of the Board , told the conference . Wellesley Program And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set up under an arrangement proposed by its Planning Board by which all household conveniences ? gas , light , phone , water , etc. ? were piped under ground to each house , eliminating all surface wires and poles . This was done , Angus , Chairman of the Wellesley Planning Board declared , by a- co-operative agreement between the town and the concern which sponsored the new development . The result , he said , was a most attractive colony of homes without the ordinary architectural detriments . All new developments should work out similar schemes , he said . Other speakers at today 's conference were : Rufus Dunbar of Paxton ; Harold Lautner of Harvard University ; David I. Rozman of the State Planning Board ; Arthur W. Dean , Chief Engineer of the State Planning Board , William Stanley Parker of Boston ; and Melvin E. Scheidt of the National Resources Planning Board .                     