@@703656

txt A wave of destruction , looting and incendiarism unparalleled in Germany since the Thirty Years War and in Europe generally since the Bolshevist revolution , swept over Great Germany today as National Socialist cohorts took vengeance on Jewish shops , offices and synagogues for the murder by a young Polish Jew of Ernst vom Rath , third secretary of the German Embassy in Paris . Beginning systematically in the early morning hours in almost every town and city in the country , the wrecking , looting and burning continued all day . Huge but mostly silent crowds looked on and the police confined themselves to regulating traffic and making wholesale arrests of Jews " for their own protection . " All day the main shopping districts as well as the side streets of Berlin and innumerable other places resounded to the shattering of shop windows failing to the pavement , the dull thuds of furniture and fittings being pounded to pieces and the clamor of fire brigades rushing to burning shops and synagogues . Although shop fires were quickly extinguished , synagogue fires were merely kept from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as could be ascertained the violence was mainly confined to property . Although individuals were beaten , reports so far tell of the death of only two persons  --  a Jew in Polzin , Pomerania , and another in Bunzdorf . In extent , intensity and total damage , however , the day 's outbreaks exceeded eve  --  i those of the 1918 revolution and by nightfall there was scarcely a Jewish shop , cafe , office or synagogue in the country that was not either wrecked , burned severely or damaged . Thereupon Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels issued the following proclamation : " The justified and understandable anger of the German people over the cowardly Jewish murder of a German diplomat in Paris found extensive expression during last night . In numerous cities and towns of the Reich retaliatory action has been undertaken against Jewish buildings and businesses . " Now a strict request is issued to the entire population to cease immediately all further demonstrations and actions against Jewry , no matter what kind . A final answer to the Jewish assassination in Paris will be given to Jewry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal action is going to be remains to be seen . It is known , however , that measures for the extensive expulsion of foreign Jews are already being prepared in the Interior Ministry , and some towns , like Munich , have ordered all Jews to leave within forty-eight hours . All Jewish organizational , cultural and publishing activity has been suspended . It is assumed that the Jews , who have now lost most of their possessions and livelihood , will either be thrown into the streets or I put into ghettos and concentration . 1 camps , or impressed into labor 1 brigades and put to work for the Third Reich , as the children of Israel were once before for the Pharaohs . Thousands Are Arrested In any case , all day in Berlin , as 1 throughout the country , thousands of Jews , mostly men , were being taken from their homes and arrested  --  in particular prominent Jewish leaders , who in some cases , it is understood , were told they were being held as hostages for the good behavior of Jewry outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the homes of non-Jews where they might have been hiding . Foreign embassies in Berlin and consulates throughout the country were besieged by frantic telephone calls and by persons , particularly weeping women and children , begging help that could not be given them . Incidentally , in Breslau the United States Consulate had to shut down for some time during the day because of fumes coming from a burning synagogue near by . All pretense  --  maintained during previous comparatively minor antiJewish outbreaks  --  to the effect that the day 's deeds had been the work of irresponsible , even Communist , elements was dropped this time and the official German News Bureau , as well as newspapers that hitherto had ignored such happenings , frankly reported on them . The bureau said specifically : " Continued anti-Jewish demonstrations occurred in numerous places . In most cities the synagogue was fired by the population . The fire department in many cases was able merely to save- adjoining buildings . In addition , in many cities the windows of Jewish shops were smashed . " Occasionally fires occurred and because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partly destroyed . Jewish shop owners were taken into custody by the police for their own protection ! ' Excesses in Many Cities Berlin papers also mention- many cities and towns in which antiJewish excesses occurred , including Potsdam , Stettin , Frankfort on the Main , Leipzig , Luebeck , Cologne , Nuremberg , Essen , Duesseldorf , Konstanz , Landsberg , Kottbus and Eberswalde . In most of them , it is reported , synagogues were raided and burned and shops were demolished . But in general the press follows a system of reporting only local excesses so as to disguise the national extent of the outbreak , the full spread of which probably never will be known . On the other hand , the German press already warns the world that if the day 's events lead to another agitation campaign against Germany " the improvised and spontaneous outbreaks of today will be replaced with even more drastic authoritative action . " No doubt is left that the contemplated " authoritative action " would have a retaliatory character . Says the Angriff , Dr. Goebbels 's organ : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that this criminal the Jewish community inflicts on a German anywhere , every individual Jew will be held responsible . All Judah wants is war with us and it can have this war according to its own moral law : an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth . " Possession of Weapons Barred One of the first legal measures issued was an order by Heinrich Himmler ; commander of all German police , forbidding Jews to possess any weapons whatever and imposing a penalty of twenty years ' confinement in a concentration camp upon every Jew found in possession of a weapon hereafter . The- dropping of all pretense in the outbreak is also illustrated by the fact that although shops and synagogues were wrecked or burned by so-called Rollkommandos , or wrecking crews , dressed in - what the Nazis themselves call " Raeuberzivil , " or " bandit mufti , " cone sisting of leather coats or raincoats over uniform boots or trousere , these squads often performed their work in the presence and under the protection of uniformed Nazis or police . The wrecking work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a controlling person in the street at whose command the wreckers ceased , lined up and proceeded- to another place . In the fashionable Tauenzienstrasse the writer saw a wrecking crew at work in one shop while the police stood outside telling a vast crowd watching the proceeding to keep moving . " Move on , " said the policemen , " there are young Volksgenossen racial comrades inside who have some work to do . " At other shops during the wrecking process uniformed Storm Troopers and Elite Guards were seen entering and emerging while soldiers passed by outside . Crowds Mostly Silent Generally the crowds were silent and the majority seemed gravely disturbed by the proceedings . Only members of the wrecking squads shouted occasionally , " Perish Jewry ! " and " Kill the Jews ! " and in one case a person in the crowd shouted , " Why not hang the owner in the window ? " In one case on the Kurfuerstendamm actual violence was observed by an American girl who saw one Jew with his face bandaged dragged from a shop , beaten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragged from the same shop by a single man who beat him as the crowd looked on . One Jewish shopowner , arriving at his wrecked store , exclaimed , " Terrible , " and was arrested on the spot . In some cases on the other hand crowds were observed making passages for Jews to leave their stores unmolested . ' - Some persons in the crowds ? peculiarly enough , mostly women ? expressed the view that it was only right that the Jews should suffer what the Germans suffered in 1918 . But there were also men and women who expressed protests . Most of them said something about Bolshevism . One man  --  obviously a worker  --  watching the burning of a synagogue in Fasanenstrasse exclaimed , " Arson remains arson . " The protesters , however , were quickly silenced by the wrecking crews with threats of violence . Warned Against Looting To some extent  --  at least during the day  --  efforts were made to prevent looting . Crowds were warned they might destroy but must not plunder , and in individual cases looters either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrested . But for the most part , looting was general , particularly during the night and in the poorer quarters . And in at least one case the wreckers themselves tossed goods out to the crowd with the shout " Here are some cheap Christmas presents . " Children were observed with their mouths smeared with ? candy from wrecked candy shops or flaunting toys from wrecked toy shops until one elderly woman watching the spectacle exclaimed , " So that is how they teach our children to steal . " Foreign Jewish shops , it appears , Were not at first marked for destruction and were passed over by the first wrecking crews . But in their ? destructive enthusiasm others took them on as well and even wrecked some " Aryan " shops by mistake . Among the foreign wreeked-estabof several thousands watching in the street . Around another corner in the center of the city a tailor shop was looted . In the doorway , a tailor 's dummy with a hat on its head hung with a rope around its neck . Children " Fish " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed thoroughly ashamed at the exhibition of mob rule , those who participated in antiSemitic actions had a gay time . Before one Friedrichstrasse shop devoted to the sale of magic apparatus children lined up with brass poles that had hooks at the ends . With these they fished magicians ' boxes of tricks for themselves out of the interior of the shop through a broken show window . Older boys unconcernedly threw tables , chairs and other furniture out of smashed windows . ? One group moved a piano from a shop info the street and played popular tunes for onlookers . Before synagogues , demonstrators stood with Jewish prayer books from which they tore leaves as souvenirs for the crowds . This correspondent started out at daybreak with the milkman . On the tour the first damage seen was the destruction by fire of the wealthy synagogue in Fasanenstrasse , near the Zoo railway station . Clouds of smoke rose from three domes of the stone building . The interior was a furnace , with the tile roof about to collapse as the fire ate at rafters . Worship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the center . During the morning this smoking synagogue could be seen by passengers on international trains arriving from the West . This temple , with the city 's newest one in Prinzregentenstrasse , both huge structures , was virtually destroyed by fire . Help Themselves to Shoes Hundreds of stores gaped open when workmen passed them in the morning . Near Alexanderplatz some twenty workers from the city market were helping themselves at a shoe store . When this correspondent got there they were sitting on the curb , laughing and trying on ? pair after pair of shoes . Six large plate-glass windows in the capital 's best-known children 's furnishing store , in Leipzigerstrasse , were caved in . This afternoon the optimistic proprietors took measurements for replacement . The gangs worked throughout the day in various sections of the city , seemingly according to plan . The swank Kurfuerstendamm quarter , which had suffered earlier in the morning , was revisited later by gangs that vent inside shops and completed the ' demolition . In the late afternoon fire broke out in Israel 's department store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ About the same time a well-organized window-smashing crew did a thorough job in Berlin 's downtown textile center in Kronenstrasse . The crew 's shout of " clear street " was the signal to a madly cheering crowd that entry had been forced into " just another Jewish store . " The usual after-work rush of traffic was halted along Friedrichstrasse , Charlottenstrasse and other streets crossing Kronenstrasse . An immense crowd filled the intersections . The noise of breaking glass and cracking furniture accompanied loud anti-Jewish jeers . When the smashing crew had passed , it looked as if a tornado had swept the street . The pavement was covered with brolfen glass . Typewriters , chairs , files and other office furniture , sample books and packing cases had been hurled into the street . Invoice sheets and price tags fluttered about . Restaurants that previously had made no distinction between Jews and non-Jews posted signs : " No Jews Wanted . " The official German News Bureau expressed indignation that some Jewish proprietors had compelled " Aryan " employes to clean up the debris . lishments were three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near the office of THE NEW YORK TIMES , the owner of which shop is now in America ; the Leipzig fur shop in Rosenthalerstrasse , owned by C. G. Schultz , who is also in America , and the Rose Bach rug shop in the Hauptstrasse . Other Places Wrecked Also wrecked were the Warner corset shop on the Kurfuerstendamm , which is partly Americanowned ; a Jewish Ford dealer 's on Unter den Linden , and a large , wellknown department store that has considerable British capital invested in it . The Leipzig fur shop displayed a large American flag in its window , but the manager reported that the wreckers had shouted that they did not care whether the place was American or not and went to work . This shop reported the loss of three silver fox capes and other furs ; the Bach rug shop reported the loss of goods valued at 2,000 marks . No photographing of the wreckage was permitted and Anton Celler , American tourist , of Hamden , Conn. , was arrested while trying to take such pictures , although he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likewise got into trouble on that account . Grave doubt prevails whether insurance companies will honor their policies . Some are reported to have flatly refused to reimburse for the damage because of its extent , and , considering the standing the Jew enjoys in German courts today , there is little likelihood of his collecting by suing . But there still remains to be settled the damage done to " Aryan " houses and other property . Damage in the Millions BERLIN , Nov. 10 TIP ) . ? In a great wave of anti-Jewish violence that swept Nazi Germany today millions of dollars ' worth of Jewish property was destroyed . Jewish stores were looted . Synagogues were burned , dynamited or damaged in a dozen cities . Bands of youths roved the streets of Berlin and other cities from early morning on , smashing windows of shops . In many places crowds that gathered after daybreak pushed into the establishments and came out with loot . Most of Berlin 's 1,000 Jewish stores were plundered . - Sounds of breaking glass and shouts of looters died away only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in jails fearing worse violence as reports of burning and looting continued to come in from many cities . Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels had appealed at 4 P. M. for an- end to the demonstrations , but at first the appeal apparently had no effect in the West End of Berlin . Three hours later it was repeated by radio . Then policemen appeared in Koenigstrasse , where several Jewish shops are situated , arrested twenty-one looters and cleared the street . Crowds Watch Gangs In a tour of Berlin this afternoon this correspondent saw few Jewish stores or synagogues that had escaped damage . Many buildings were destroyed . The rioting reached ' a , high point at the center of Berlin , where , at noon , thousands gathered in the streets to watch gangs pound to bits dozens of stores . This correspondent saw dozens of men and women rush into a toy shop in the Arcade between Unter den Linden and Friedrichstrasse and scoop up what they could get . They went in after gangs of youths had smashed the plate glass windows . Inside , counters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the floor and smashed . Five other stores in the Arcade , known to tourists , also were plundered . Few policemen were visible . A short distance away , at the corner of Jaegerstrasse and Friedrichstrasse , a second-story pawn shop came in for vengeance . Youths with lead pipes broke windows , then threw fur coats from the pawn shop 's racks down onto the heads                     