@@699884

txt An improved elevated railway train is under consideration by B.R.=2 . T. officials who are looking toward ultimate rehabilitation of the company 's elevated lines in Brooklyn . No definite agreement or commitment has beenade , but railway car manufacturers have virally completed specifications and design for a new five-car unit . The proposed train , designed to emobdy the outstanding features of the new equipment ordered by the Union Pacific Railroad Co. and the " laboratory " . street car developed by Professor Hirsh/led for the Electric Railway Presidents ' Conference Committee , is calculated greatly to improve service and reduce operating costs on the elevated . The equipment 's most remarkable features are " resilient " or rubber sandwiched wheels , vastly improved brakes , and aluminum or lightweight alloy steel bodies . New controls developed by General Electric and Westinghouse Electric will enable the train to get away from stations much faster than trains now in use . That plus greater braking power would materially reduce the schedules now being maintained . The cost of the new unit has not been definitely decided , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , train will not cost more than $150 , - 000 . Among the railway equipment manufacturers who have sounded out the 3. - /w . T. with regard to new elevated equipment , the Pullman Co. is said to have made the greatest strides In development of such a train . As tentatively planned , fewer trucks would be required than are now used on elevated units . This principle has been employed by the B.-M . T. on its subway trains in recent years . Through the use of differentials , the resilient wheel . Timken bearings and worm-drive propulsion , much of the present wear and tear on wheels and track would be eliminated . The materially lighter unit with improved rubberspring suspension , is also counted upon to reduce greatly the cost of maintenance . It is understood that the builders are not entirely satisfied with the braking equipment as now developed ; they hope to make a new type of electric brake which will virtually eliminate severe wear on wheel and track . Either forced draught ventilation or air conditioning is to be used in the cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Extra riding features and an advanced method of lighting are intended to add to passenger . ' comfort . It is not known how many trainmen would be used , but . it has been intimated that present specifications would permit of operation by one man . Electric buttons in the motorman 's will open and close all doors , eliminating the necessity of carrying trainmen for that purpose . The high speed of the unit would reduce the number of trains required by 257 , , it is estimated . Much interest centers in the contemplated new equipment for the B.-M . T. elevated lines , because of their direct competition with extensions of the city 's new subway system in that borough . The Fulton Street line of the Independent subway system runs directly beneath the company 's elevated structures for approximately four and a half miles to Rockaway Avenue . The new electric car has , in the opinion of some transit experts , virtually rendered the new city subway equipment obsolescent , although it is of the latest conventional type . Since the development of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are growing restless over the company 's lease with the Interborough Rapid Transit Co . They feel that were ? he Manhattan lines rehabilitated and equipped with trains similar to that contemplated by the B.-M . T. , the Manhattan could be turned from an unprofitable road into a lucrative business . Whether or not the Manhattan lease could be terminated is highly conjectural , but independent operation of the line is now viewed In an entirely different light than heretofore.                     