@@698920

txt President Hoover became the focal point of the prohibition controversy today as drys made it plain that their strategy in the forthcoming presidential campaign depends entirely on the position the Republican nominee takes in his acceptance speech . If the President stands as dry in that speech as the Republican platform framed in Chicago , and insists on law enforcement pending a popular decision on the Eighteenth Amendment , leading drys are understood to be prepared to indorse his candidacy for the Presidency and come out openly against Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Democratic Party . But if the President should succumb to the pressure being brought to bear on him by Republican wets , , and take a personal stand opposed to the Eighteenth Amendment , the important dry leaders are also prepared to denounce both candidates and look for some other course of action divorced from either major party . . . Conciliatory to Republicans This became clear in the light of two successive dry statements , one issued here today by the Rev. Dr. Daniel A. Poling , chairman of the Allied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other issued in Chicago over the week-end by the National Prohibition Board of Strategy , the supreme council of all dry organizations . Both statements boldly and unequivocally denounced the Democratic prohibition plank and the wet stand of the Democratic candidate for President , but no reference was made to President Hoover and the references to the Republican prohibition plank were sufficiently conciliatory to leave the way open for qualified indorsement if this course of action becomes desirable at a later date . It is both the sincere hope and the expectation of the dry leaders that the President will make it possible for them to support him . The extreme wetness of the Democratic platform makes their opposition to that party inevitable . If the Republicans should also prove in the end to be too wet for them they would be forced into opposition with both con , sequential political groups . Third Party Considered Whether such a situation would result in a prohibition party movement headed by Senator William E. Borah ( R. ) of Idaho , is another question causing considerable speculation in political circles here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that Dr. Poling came straight here from the deliberations of the Board of Strategy in Chicago to confer with Senator Borah . Whether a third party was the object of their discussion is not known . While waiting for these considerations to develop , however , the drys are by no means planning to rest idle . Their real battle , according to both statements will be in the Congressional districts and here they are going to start work at once . Dr. Poling , in his statement , first analyzed the two prohibition planks . He rejected " specifically " the resubmission phase of the Republican plank and then denounced in its entirety both the Democratic plank , which he quoted Senator Carter Glass ( O. ) of Virginia as calling " a bar room plank , " and the indorsement given to that plank by Governor Roosevelt in his acceptance speech . Prepared for Campaign He declared , in conclusion : - " Our campaign does not wait . We shall participate in all contests against the repeal of state enforcement laws . " Other developments in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morris Sheppard ( D. ) of Texas , clarifying his position in the light of his party 's recent action in Chicago , and the return of Mr. D. Leigh Colvin , chairman of the national committee of the Prohibition Party , to the party convention in Indianapolis following a conference with Senator Borah . Mr. Colvin , who offered the party 's presidential nomination to the Senator , declined to disclose on his return how the negotiations had turned out . It was said , however , from reliable sources , that Senator Borah had not definitely and finally declined the nomination . Senator Sheppard 's statement made it very clear that he remained opposed to repeal or modification of the Eighteenth Amendment , modification of the Volstead Act and resubmission Of the Eighteenth Amendment , and would vote against such action " unless directed to vote for it by a representative referendum in my State . " Returns from the North Carolina senatorial primaries indicated that the dry candidate , Senator Cameron Morrison , had lost by almost a two-to-one vote to his wet opponent ; Mr , Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @              