@@703580

txt Although conceding that private placement of securities may save the labor and cost of registration and is a much simpler job , Charles W. Kellogg . vice president of Virginia Electric &; Power Co. and chairman of Engineers Public Service Co .. Inc. , told the Securities and Exchange Commission it is a mistake to try to take advantage of this apparently easy short cut . Mr , Kellogg appeared before the commission on Virginia Electric 's exemption request from the declaration requirements of the utility act for issuance of $37,500,000 of series B bonds , due 1963 , and $4,000,000 of bank loans . The utility executive gave three chief reasons for his opinion on the question of public versus private financing as follows : First , he said , an open market for the company 's bonds is a fundamental importance . In his opinion this can be obtained only through a broad , general offering and preferably , also , listing on the New York Stock Exchange . Favors Wide Distribution Second . he believes to have its securities widely held is better for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for future issues when additional capital is required . He noted that the whole history of public utilities is a constant requirement for new capital . Third . he feels that even the theoretical saving in cost which might be effected by a private sale is largely illusory . " The buyers for the large life insurance companies are very canny gentlemen , " he explained . " They know just about what it costs to get an issue registered . They knot 's ' just about what the spread that the company will pay to an investment banking group to sell their bonds will be . And they insist on getting both these things themselves in the price they offer for the bonds Sees No Net Oslo - " So that , in the end , the company not only C ; act . eta broad distribution and what value 4. o Hi that represents , but , also , it has no real net gain in the net price and , axially , the effect of a private sale is that the company can never , during the 30 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it otherwise could , of lower bond prices in future years in purchasing bonds for the sinking fund , for it is safe to say that none of this small group of private buyers would sell their bonds for less than the call price - Mr. Kellogg told the commission that one of the most desirable features of the new bonds is the fact that the issue is 30 years , whereas the old bonds had 17 years left to go of a 20-year term , thus making a 13-year extension of the first mortgage debt . In his opinion . this is a valuable provision since during a period of 30 years there are likely to be substantial changes in money matter conditions which might make it more expensive to refinance .                     