@@698047

txt Business In Chicago has had enough of prohibition . It wants to see the sale of liquor under federal and state control . And it asks the inclusion of planks to that effect in the national platform of both the Republican and Democratic parties . The industrial Club or Chicago , it tv learned yesterday , took this nos : ? lion forcibly at its last meeting before the summer adjournment . Then It , wIthorized its executive committee to go ahead with active work toward the goal established . It also voted for real beer through modification of the Volstead act . Leaders of Chicago Business . This organization is numerically small , but it consists of men who are leaders In their lines . The club is . re . garded as , a cross section ' of the representative financial , industrial , com ? merelal , and professional life of the community . It has even been said that so far reaching are the Interests of its members  --  they are directors in so many big corporations  --  that definite and deers ive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered indicative of the attitude of business in the United States as a whole . ' There are no representations , in its declaration against prohibition , that the club sought to wield such a voice . It spoke only for itself In closed session . Even now the organization is opposed to publication of its Proceed ? ings on this subject . Its spokesmen contend that the cause they have determined ' to support would be advanced further if the plans are not announced until they are further ahead . Plans Told in Folder . Those plans came to the attention of THE TRIBUNE through distribution to members of a folder consisting a the minutes of a dinner held at the Chicago club on May 23 . It is believed that because of the mailing el more than 100 copies of this document secrecy may no longer be maintained . That meeting was the result of intensive attention given to prohibition by the club . Ten days earlier the ' Industrial club had . joined with the Chicago Association of Commerce in arranging a bancluet for 1,000 , Chicago leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IV . Anderson of Richmond , Va. , who as a member of the Wickersham commission , wrote his own section of the commission report urging a system of liquor control similar to the Swedish system . Outline of Anderson Plan . Necessarily the Anderson plan is complicated . The Virginia lawyer says the first thing to do is to replace the eighteenth amendment with one glv- , ing congress control of the liquor situation by authorizing it to regulate I or prohibit intoxicating liquors . He proposes that if congress decides . to use the first of these powers there shall be a hi-partisan fdderal liquor ' . commission resembling the interstate commerce commission or the federal reserve board . Col. Anderson would give each state the right to determine whether it IOW create a commission a its own subordinate to the rulings of the federal commission . All liquor would ' be handled by authorized private corporalions with their profits limited to 7 per cent , all surplus to go into the United ' States treasury . ? Club Polls Hs Members . Even before the Stevens hotel banquet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a poll of its members on the " Anderson plan . " At the May 28 meeting , after District Attorney George E. Q. Johnson had told the club ' his conviction that beer racketeering must be terminated In order to smash crime rings , the results of the " Anderson plan " poll were announced . Those results and a proposed pro ? gram of procedure based on them formed the body of the confidential minutes of the meeting now before the entire membership of the club . But on the front page of the circular ap ? Pears the list of those present and participating in the action . That list is headed by the name of the chairman of the board of the Illinois Bell Telephone company and Includes the presidents of several banks , railroad officialis , nationally known lawyers , large manufacturers , lumbermen who head several big companies , wholesalers and retailers of hats , steel . salt , and hardware , and oil men , and insurance men  --  the cross section already referred to . The list is as follows : W. Rufus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John L. Berm Sterling Morton George W. BlossomDavid Allan Noyes Jr . John W. O'Leary John S. firocksmit Joseph E. Otis Jr . Edward J. Brundage Marvin B. Pool Alfred T. Carton Earle H. Reynolds Philip R. Clarke Charles K. Rollins Jr . Kent S. Clow Donald M. Ryerson Charles D. Dallas Frederick H. Scott Albert B. Dick Jr . Charles Ward Seabury Calvin Fentress Arch W. Shaw Gustave F. Fischer Albert W. Sherer James B. Forgets Jr . Harold C. Smith Thomas S. Hammond Elmer T. Stevens Ralph F .. Hellman Robert W. Stewart Ralph H. Hobart Harold H. Swift Col. Noble B. Judah Frank H. Warren Stanley Keith knelt P. Wand Warren Lamson John A. Holabird Harry H. Labdell Proposals Put io Members . The referendum announcement was that the vote on two questions was as follows : 1 . I approve the Anderson plan as offering . the possible solution of the evils arising from the prohibition proolem . Yes , 91 . No , 4. 2 . I approve the development by the executive committee of a program for the furtherance of popular acceptance of the Anderson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented to a closed meeting of the club . Yes , 88 . No , 5 . The program referred to in the second question , already prepared by the executive committee , was pre . seated by Elmer T. Stevens and was adopted , the printed minutes not indicating whether there were any negative votes . The Program as Adopted . The text of the program follows : " The Industrial Club of Chicago , after a consideration of the so  --  called crime situation through its own committees and through the experience of its members working in connection with other agencies , presents the following conclusions : " 1 . That the surest approach to a solution of the crime situations is through an attack on the income of organized crime . " 2 . That the essential part of crime 's income comes from the illicit traffic in alcohol , the existence of which Is traceable directly to the prohibition situation . " Crime Corrupting Justice . " " 3 . That inasmuch as the huge financial resources of crime are being used and will be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no permanent reform can be hoped for as long as this source of income exists . " 4 . That , intolerable as the present situation is , it does not warrant.any action which will permit a return of the old saloon . " 5 . That the eighteenth amendment should be modified so that a the saloon shall remain a thing of the past , b illicit traffic in alcohol shall be stopped , c the cause of real tern . perance shall be advanced , and . d the districts which desire to be dry may have the opportunity , at present denied them . Anderson Plan Indorsed. " 6 . That the club therefore indorses the Anderson plan because a it is the best plan so far presented which promises the foregoing results , b It has the necessary flexibility , and c it eliminates crime 's chief source of revenue , through solution of the pro " 7 . That the club take steps to put its conclusions in this matter before the two major political parties asking that they adopt planks looking toward reasonable modification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus avoid the bitter emotional conflict which is inevitable should the coming election be devoted to the so-called wet and dry issue in. stead of the basic economic problems in which the safe future of our country is so greatly involved . " Two other resolutions then were adopted . The first authorized the executive committee " to proceed in accordance with its best judgment to take steps looking toward the adoption of the principles outlined in the Anderson plan . " The second resolution , presented by Edward J. Brundage , directed that the executive committee consider endorsing an amendment to the Volstead act to permit " the making of beer . "                     