@@700720

txt With some exceptions , corporation financing under negotiation is on behalf of railroads and public utility companies . according to active securities houses Industrial financing in volume through issuance of obligations to the public seems to be laid aside for the present , although a few operations have beer , discussed for this year . Activity In the new issues market since the amendments to the securities act became effective has been of the character generally contemplated In conservative quarters . Forecasts of an outburst of new offerings , the moment changes in the securities act made it reasonably workable , have not been supported by developments and such outcome does not appear likely for months , in barUting house opinion . The accepted expectation has been for an intermittent Bow of new Issues until well into the fall , barring any important adverse development in business conditions . If business plods along with an Improving tendency and new offerings are placed successfully , by winter negotiations for additional issues are expected to move more rapidly In the industrial field the background of limited business activity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties with labor are not making issuance of new obligations on a broad scale immediately simple Business or ? ganizations find the commercial paper market an inexpensive means of securing short term funds , making this form of financing advantageous . There has been a steady rise throughout this year in volume of commercial paper outstanding , midyear figures as reported by the Federal Reserve banks standing at $151.000,000 compared with $141,000,000 on May 31. $109,000,000 at the close of 1933 and $72,000,000 a year ago . The main demat , ds for new funds are for refunding maturing obtigations , for converting bank loans into less expensive fixed capital and for replacing high coupon rate callable bonds by lower rate issues Substantially more than 300 bond issues dealt in on the New York Stock and Curb exchanges are selling in excess of call prices . Many corporations of all types have been considering the feasibility of such operations . A factor tending to slow up consummation of discussions of new issues , where requirements of the corporation are not absolutely necessi ? tuts , is the expense involved in preparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply to the railroads , which being under supervision of the Interstate ' Commerce Commission do not have to register new securities , although more elaborate circulars have Increased the expense burden , but it does relate drastically to utility and industrial corporations Expenses of preparation of registration statements have been extremely high in some instances because of the completeness of the data required , involving minute study by experts , accountants and counsel .                     