@@697300

txt Claudius H. Huston , chairman of the Republican National Committee , made statements today at a meeting of the committee 's officers which were accepted by his critics as satisfactory assurance that he will retire as head of the party organization soon after the special session of the Senate . To newspaper men after the meeting Mr. Huston said he had not resigned and that he had not indicated to the committee 's officers whether or not he would resign , but his remarks during the discussion of his case behind the closed doors of the meeting room were interpreted as a promise that the end of the Senate 's session would cause him to take steps for vacating the chairmanship . Whether these steps will involve a meeting of the national committee or its executive committee to arrange for his retirement and elect his successor was something that neither . Mr. Huston nor any of those present was willing to disclose . Sketches Campaign Plans . Two sessions of the committee 's officers were held in the office of Chairman Huston at national headquarters in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a colorless statement sketching the plans discussed for this year 's campaign for the election of Republican candidates for the Senate and House of Representatives , and at the end was a brief reference to the effort to have him step out from the direction of the party 's affairs . The reference comprised a question which Mr. Huston asked of himself and gave his answer , as follows : " ' Was the chairmanship matter discussed ? ' " ' Certainly the matter of the chairmanship was discussed , but what I have to say on that subject will be withheld until after the adjournment of the Senate . ' " To this cryptic utterance Mr. Huston would add little when news ' paper representatives called on him immediately after his statement was issued . Some of the questions and answers were as follows : " Did you indicate at the meeting whether you would resign ? " " I did not indicate whether or not I would resign . " " Were you asked to resign by any one present ? " " I was not . " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " The next statement I give you will answer that . " " Have you been In communication with President Hoover directly or indirectly today ? " " I have not . " " Was any message from the President delivered to you ? " " There was not . " Ruston Alone Makes Statement . Others who attended the meeting were equally reticent . Some of them said that Mr. Huston had insisted that all statements concerning the meeting should come from him and that the statement given to the news- papers embodied all that he cared to have made known . Mr. Huston exacted a promise from those present that they would maintain silence as to what took place , and the little he Iiimself was willing to disclose is given above . So the future course of Mr. Huston still remains something of a mystery despite broad intimations that the only possible construction to be placed on his statement was that he would retire from the chairmanship after the special session of the Senate . From all accounts Mr. Huston dominated the meeting . It was he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give up the chairmanship . None of those who went to the meeting prepared to insist that he should yield to party sentiment by resigning brought up the matter . They and others there who had contended that the Huston case should be taken up and disposed of before campaign plans were considered were outgeneraled by the chairman at every point . Not only was it Mr. Huston who broached the embarrassing subject , but he chose his own good time to do so . The purpose of compelling a " show-down " on the resignation question was not carried out . While those who attended the meeting went away with the understanding that the Senate 's adjournment , which is expected ten days or two weeks hence , would mark the tender of a letter of resignation , the chairman did not resign and was not asked to resign , according to his own statement to newspaper men in the presence of some of his committee critics . Although Mr. Huston described the meeting as harmonious , it is understood that there were some acrimonious exchanges between Mr. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to committee affairs rather than to the effort to have Mr. Huston retire , in which Mr. Nutt was credited with being actively engaged . When Mr. Huston was asked who brought up the matter qie his suggested resignation , he answered that he had , and proceeded to explain that he had introduced the subject " to discuss tome of the erroneous contradictory statements that had been made . " To this he added that when the matter was broached there necessarily was discussion of certain newspaper references to the proposed change in the chairmanship . Seems Satisfied With His Day . When Mr. Huston received the newspaper representatives he was calm and collected . He smiled broadly over some of the questions asked and his answers to them showed no sign of annoyance or embarrassment . Altogether his demeanor waskthat of a man who was serene and without worry . Dressed in a conventional Summer costume for Washington  --  blue coat , white I flannel trousers and white shoes ? he looked cool and unperturbed . His whole manner indicated that he had accomplished a satisfactory day 's work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had circumvented those who were predicting that today 's meeting would bring " a show-down " which would mean that if he did not retire voluntarily he would be forced out . The chairman 's statement contained the names of those who attended the meeting and gave some- brief information as to the party matters discussed . Omitting the reference , . already quoted , to the resignation phase , the statement read : " The officers of the Republican National Committee met , pursuant to the call of the chairman , at 10 o'clock A. M. , all being present or represented by proxy except Vice Chairman Ralph E. Williams , whose proxy , Senator Steiwer , was unable to attend on account of illness . " Those present were Claudius H. Huston , chairman ; Daniel E. Pomeroy , vice chairman : J. Matt Chilton , proxy for Mrs. Alvin T. Hert , vice chairman ; J. R. Nutt , treasurer ; James Francis Burke , general counsel ; also Senator George H. Moses , chairman of the Senatorial Campaign Committee , and Congressman Will R. Wood , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Vermont and Hon. William G. Skelly of Oklahoma , members of the executive Committee , also were present . " The morning session was devoted to a general discussion of the campaign plans for the Fall election . and the meeting adjourned for lunch to reconvene at 2 P. M. All who attended the morning session were present at the afternoon session except Congressman Wood , who was unable to be present and who was epresented by Earl Venable , execusecretary of the Congressional Ca paign Committee . " The same plan is being followed this year in the raising of campaign funds as was followed in 1926 , in that the entire requirements of the party are being raised through the treasurer of the national committee and allocated to the Senatorial and Congressional committees , who are in active charge of the coming campaign . " The treasurer , 3. 1 ? . Nutt , reported that satisfactory progress was being made to insure the proper needs of these committees and that . his organization would continue with the work until sufficient money had been pledged to supply the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the national committee for the ensuing year . " Both Senator Moses and Congressman Wood reported that their organizations were functioning in a satisfactory manner , and while it is too early to forecast results . predic- tion was made that party chances would improve as the campaign grew nearer . " A number of vacancies exist on the national , dommittee which were discussed and will be presented for action by either the executive committee or the national committee in the customary way when called by the chairman . " Mr. Huston 's announcement that all he would have to say on the subject of the call for his resignation " will be withheld until after the adjournment of the Senate , " is construed as having two points of significance . One is that his resignation while the Senate is in session would furnish a text for attacks on the Republican party by Democratic and insurgent Republican Senators . The other is that if opportunity for such attacks were provided , the Senate 's session would be prolonged , which might endanger action on the London naval treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the treaty is acted on soon , it will be difficult to maintain a quorum of Senators in Washington . At the morning session of the committee 's officers Mr. Huston , it was said , did most of the talking . The impression was given that this session was devoted chiefly to discussing plans for the Congressional campaign . When the first session was adjourned at noon , three of those who attended , Vice Chairman Pomeroy , Treasurer Nutt and General Counsel Burke , went directly to the executive offices where they spent some time with President Hoover . This gave rise to a report that some sort of understanding was reached as a result of the White House conference by which Mr. Huston was to be permitted to defer any statement . concerning the efforts to have him retire until after the Senate adjourned . ' If any further evidence were needed that the Republican party realizes that it is facing a severe struggle in this year 's Congressional elections it was found in the cautious statement of Chairman Huston that the chairmen of . the Senatorial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is too early to forecast results , but that party chances " would improve as the campaign - drew nearer . " The party chiefs expect to lose a number of Senate seats now filled by Republicans . As for the House , it is expected that there will be a loss of forty Republican seats at least , with danger that the party 's majority , now in the neighborhood of 100 , will be overthrown . According to reports , the treasury of the Republican National Committee has between $200,000 and $300,000 , and itas said to be probable that t $100,000 each would be asked for by the Se atorial and Congressional campaign committees to finance this year 's campaign . Nearly all those whe attended the meeting of the committee 's officers were in favor of , having Mr. Huston up the chairmanship . Some of them were his friends , but their ... felt that his usefulness to the party had ended because of the disclosures concerning him before the Senate lobby committee , and that for the good of the party he should retire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressional campaign committee , who expressed himself as believing that Mr. Huston had been made the victim of unjust accusations , but because of the popular impression as to what Mr. Huston had done , it was necessary for him to step down from the post of head of the party 's organization . With the possible exception of Senator Moses , who is an intimate friend of Mr. Huston , all those present were impressed by the view that party safety demanded that the chairmanship should change hands .                     