@@701098

txt Eight Tammany Assemblymen , home for the week-end after their " victory " over Governor LEHMAN in the preliminary skirmishes over reapportionment , may have an opportunity to ponder its ultimate cost . For the moment they appear to , have saved their skins . If they can defeat the Streit bill they hope to be able to retain for a few months or years longer the three Senators and seven Assemblymen which Manhattan would lose to the other boroughs under the new dispensation . Except for the racial issue in Harlem , there is no other consideration that counts with these eight Tammany bolters , who care nothing for the fact that the reapportionment is the work of their own partisans , has the sanction of their own leaders and is widely regarded as equitable . But even if self-interest alone rules their votes , it is still pertinent to ask , Is it enlightened self-interest ? Strictly from the Tammany point of view , is it expedient to try to defeat a measure of this character ? For nearly two generations the Democrats have complained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " constitutionally Republican . " In the language of the report now before the Assembly , " The Constitution of the " State prohibits a redistricting which " would assure every citizen fair and " equal representation . " The reference is to the familiar restrictions designed to give preponderant recognition to . rural areas , which are traditionally Republican . Much of the force of some of the old arguments has evaporated in recent years . Aliens , purposely left out of the reckoning in the State apportionment , partly because of their great number in the cities , have been a rapidly diminishing factor since the passage of the Restriction Act . The grant of home rule to the cities placed conduct of their affairs largely in their own hands . The pending constitutional amendment extending similar privileges to the counties , adopted on the recommendation of a Democratic Governor and with the approval of a Democratic Legislature , flatly recognizes the principle that area as well as population should be considered , and that a mere show of hands is not necessarily the final criterion , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that considerable injustice remains . New York City today has 52 per cent of the citizen population of the State , but only 41 per cent of the members of the Assembly . If the new apportionment goes through it will still have only 43 per cent of the Assembly and 46 per cent of the Senate . A strong case can be made for rendering one body or the other more strictly representative . Now that they control the Legislature , the Democrats are ready to press once more for the change , which should work to their advantage for generations to come . Tammany stands to benefit from it along with the rest of the Democratic organizations in urban territory . Being the underdog , at least constitutionally , they have the popular side of the argument . But they must come into court with clean hands . It is fast coming to be realized that some of the worst injustices are now being perpetrated , not in the " rotten boroughs " up-State , but right here in Manhattan . When the day comes to argue for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do the Tammany Democrats want to have it on the record that when they were themselves given the opportunity to correct some of the most glaring of the injustices of which they never tire of complaining they failed to do so ?                     