@@698588

txt Six of Japan 's most respected citizen statesmen , none of whom holds office in the present government , today cabled to London a strong defense of the Japanese policy in China . The signers were Viscount Ishii , former Ambassador to the United States ; Baron Wakatsuki , former Premier and chief delegate to the London naval conference ; Prince Tokugawa , the head of the Japanese delegation to the Washington conference and a signer of the NinePower treaty ; Baron Matsui , Baron Sakatain and Baron Dan . Their letter , which will appear in The London Times tomorrow , answers a recent protest by Viscount Cecil of Chelwood and Professor Gilbert Murray , who charged Japan with aiming at military domination of all China . The Japanese statesmen support whole heartedly their government contention that Japan has been acting in self-defense at Shanghai and add that she is doing no more than the United States Government would if the Panama Canal were endangered . Appealing to the British sense of fair play , they complain to Lord Cecil that his letter is " couched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Its authors appear to think the foundations of civilization threatened and the future of the British COM7ionwea.lt h of Nations undermined , " they write , " because of the necessity which has been laid on Japan of de'ending herself against attacks in China . It is not because China is weak  --  she is not  --  but because China is subject to no effective central control that the present most deplorable situation has arisen . The acts of Japan are acts of sheer self-defense against the Chinese militarists , who obey no will but their awn , whether in Manchuria or in the Shanghai district . Their only principle is to overcome other chieftains and so gratify personal greed and ambition in total unconcern of the welfare of their countrymen and the peace and security of the Far East . " It is most unfortunate that , when the League commission is on the . point of arrival and will shortly be in a position to make this clear to all , Lord Cecil and his colleagues should choose the occasion to embitter the issue and prejudice the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon a course of military nomination over all Chinese territories would be laughable if it were not so mischievously dangerous and ill-timed . Manchuria is an outlying appendage of China ; Shanghai is an international settlement . In both places small Japwill continue to receive it . " Japanese forces were lawfully stationed ; in both they lawfully defended their position when aggressively attacked , just as America , for instance , would FOR A FAIR HEARING certainly defend the Panama Canal " But Lord Cecil and his co-signatories , without even stopping to consider whether what Japan ' seems to have ' done has really been done or not , on the strength of unverified assumption , clamor for Japan to be made to ' mend her ways . ' " America , Britain and other powers have in the immediate past found it imperatively necessary to repel attacks of Chinese militarists , even if to accomplish this they were forced to carry out military operations on Chinese soil . Japan has done no more and has not the remotest intention of entangling herself in that remarkable operation of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territories . ' " The generous but ignorant sympathy with an imaginary ' China ' is the greatest danger today to universal peace . " In common with the rest of the world we have always placed the highest value on British fair play . And , although it is not conspicuously evidenced in the letter in question , we shall continue to believe the great mass of English people retain that confilience in the old allies which will prevent them from seeing in Japan a piratical adventurer ready to undertake with a light heart and brazen conscience the task of subjugating a continent . We assure the British public that Japan has quite enough on her hands without such extravagances . Japan will not cease to deserve the approval of British opinion , as it did in the old days of the alliance . We are confident she                     