@@697470

txt A man entering public life in America has to run a savage gauntlet . If his strength is on the administrative side , he is exposed to attack inspired by party rivalry , fanned by legislative jealousy , fortified by legislative immunity . If he is himself a member of the legislative branch , he suffers from the low repute in which our legislative bodies as a whole are held , even by the very persons responsible for the election of the individual members who compose them . Nowhere are the hazards of public office more conspicuous than at Washington . It is the common custom to speak slightingly of the men and women who compose the Federal service . They have lately found a champion in a somewhat unexpected quarter . FELIX FRANKFURTER , Professor of Administrative Law at Harvard University , is a critic of many of our institutions , or at least of the way in which they are served . Words of praise from him should be doubly welcome . He has an article in this month 's Atlantic on " Democracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research in government , more " royal commissions , " more experts ? " not on top , but on tap , " in AE 's luminous phrase . But he goes out of his way to note that the government has already enlisted more devotion , intelligence and technical equipment than is generally realized . " The all too common " depreciation of men in public service is " at once shallow and cruel , " he complains . " It mocks where it should praise ; " it debilitates where it should encour " age . " Virtue is rarely news . The occa ? sional scandal clouds the devoted years . Professor FRANKFURTER quotes , with evident approval , this judgment by JOSEPH . B. EASTMAN of the Interstate Commerce Commission , " himself one of the ornaments of the public service " : Now my observation of the public service ? ? * is that with all the defects of that service  --  and there are many of them and some scandals , just as there are in private business  --  the true story of its accomplishments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit side . There is no doubt that the adverse popular verdict is too sweeping . Government is frequently able to command fine abilities , sometimes even in competition with the material allurements of industry . No one can live in Washington lord without coming in contact with innumerable individual ; instances of fine ability and devotion leavening the lump of bureaucracy . The bureaucracy itself is elephantine ? in girth , in movement , in its general lack of adaptability to any but the simplest tasks , even in its unreasoned fear of the mouse of reform . Security against political removal of efficient employes , won long ago , has a curious way of tapering off into an unwarranted security a : - just administrative removal of inefficient employes . There is an enormous difference bets- : en bureaus . Some are still in the rut of routine . Others , invigorated by leadership , have had their energies released for surprising labors . Ever these become more difficult , more technical . The elephant needs to be better trained  --  that in effect is Professor FRANKFURTER 'S plea  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native powers . The telephone company will find itself in plenty of trouble if the " scrambled speech " adjustment on the radiophone reverses itself and scrambles a declaration of love breathed across the Atlantic into " mee - ware - play - o - fine-crink-anope. "                     