@@699337

txt Slowly reviving business Is the encouraging forecast contained in recent Administration statements which chart the trend of major industrial and economic indexes . The hopeful reports arc backed by President Hoover and Mr. Ogden L. Mills , Secretary of the Treasury . In forecasting revenues to be derived Rom taxation now and in the future , the Administration budget takes into account an expected business recovery , of gradual extent next year ; and at various points , both in the message from the President , and in the report of the Treasury , by Mr. Mills , definite statements are made that the sun is at last beginning to show between the hanging clouds of business decline . Mr. Mills points out , as a start , that domestic business has " already , shown some improvement since last summer . " Describing this improvement , Mr. Mills says . in part : " The physical volume of manufacturing and mining output has increased , as is indicated by a rise in the Federal Reserve Board 's season ' ally adjusted index of industrial production , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in September . Avail ; able Information indicates that in October industrial activities was I maintained at the September level . 1 " The improvement in nianufactur- ing output and factory employment has been concentrated largely in the light industries , such as textiles , clothing , shoes and some of the food products . Production and employment in these industries increased substantially between the early summer and September . In the heavy Industries , on the other hand , such as steel , machinery , and automobiles , there was no improvement in August and only slight improvement in September and October . " President Hoover gives corroborative detail to the picture of gradual stabilization , in a section of his annual message which received scant attention in the first press notice . He declared that the " unprecedented emergency measures enacted , and policies adopted , undoubtedly saved the country from economic disaster . " And he added in part : " After serving to defend the national security ; the measures began in July to show their weight and influence toward improvement of conditions in many parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight specific items to show how business indexes in different lines have shown improvement from their low-water mark , which was in most cases about July this year . It was then when many observers think the business slump " struck bottom . "                     