@@703788

txt With martial law in effect , with an inadequate number of relief and medical workers , and with the grave danger of pestilence sweeping through the area in South Central Chile that was devastated by Tuesday 's earthquake , the number of dead was estimated high in the thousands today and the injured at many thousands ! more . From the welter of confusing reports of the staggering loss of life and property caused by one of the worst disasters in the history of South America , it was impossible to obtain even an approximate reckoning of the number of dead , injured and homeless . The number of the dead was placed at 10,000 and the injured at 20,000 in Chillan alone , a city of 50,000 , fifty miles inland from Concepcion , that was virtually wiped off the map . Another estimate was that 10,000 had been killed in the area between Talca and Temuco . Many communities in the six Chilean provinces where the earthquake spread havoc have yet to be heard from . With definite word that both Concepcion and Chillan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliterated , the military authorities ordered the complete evacuation of the two centers and the removal from them , as rapidly as possible , of every man , woman and child via sea routes northward . The order was issued after a survey showed that 70 per cent of the buildings in Concepcion had been razed and that the remaining structures were in imminent danger of collapse . Fires smoldering in the ruins constituted another menace . A message received this evening from Concepcion said : " Drinking water has been completely cut off . We are short of medical supplies and sanitation facilities . We must have serums against tetanus and gangrene , also more nurses , practicing medical students and other medical help . Food is very scarce . More than 15,000 persons are without shelter tonight . We must have tents soon . Already 1,200 dead have been counted but there are many more under ruins and it is impossible so far to get out the bodies . " Doctors , nurses , medical supplies , food and drinking water were being rushed to the stricken area today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pitifully small army of rescue workers , toiling against heavy odds in almost unbearable heat and with insufficient drinking Water , continued feverishly to bury the dead , aid the injured , rescue sufferers imprisoned in ruined buildings and give succor to the homeless . Hundreds of automobiles and other vehicles streamed northward with injured and other refugees . Members of the Chilean Cabinet , under Foreign Minister Abraham Ortega , held an all-night vigil and furthered plans for rushing troops and Red Cross ambulances into the earthquake zone . The officials also directed immediate repairs to railroads , viaducts , bridges and highways to facilitate the relief work . Meanwhile the President , Pedro Aguirre Cerda , accompanied by his wife , the Minister of Interior and other officials , made a survey of the area in a Pan American-Grace Airways plane . Upon reaching Parral this afternoon he reported widespread havoc . At the same time the military authorities took measures to maintain order and guard the ruined cities and . towns . Regiments were hurriedly dispatched from Talca , Valdivia and Temuco to Chillan and Concepcion . Colonel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with full powers during the state of siege . Fears for the safety of the American delegation to the Pan-American Highway Conference were eliminated today . The delegation , which had worked here between Jan. 10 and Jan. 20 , was reported to be safe at Temuco , whence its members will proceed to San Rosendo and later return to Santiago . The delegation had been visiting with representatives of other American countries in the Southern lake district , very close to the earthquake area , and until today there had been no information as to its exact whereabouts . With reports of death and destruction still pouring in , the United States Embassy headed the list for funds being collected for the earthquake victims . At the same time the British Embassy declared that all celebrations in honor of the arrival of the cruisers Ajax and Exeter for a courtesy visit had been suspended and the ships ' crews placed at the disposition of the Chilean Government for relief work . Appeals Are Urgent Chillan continued to appeal urgently for more sanitary and medical help . The appeals said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed in greater quantities . There were 1,000 persons in the Municipal Theatre in Chillan , enjoying a United States film , when the earthquake struck on Tuesday night . All were caught in the debris when the building fell . Indescribable terror was pictured on the faces of the dead when some of the bodies were removed . The Governor 's Palace toppled into the street , burying passing cars . Church buildings of great architectural beauty , constructed in the times of the Spanish conquerors , schools and many other buildings were completely ruined in less than three minutes . For many hours after the shock cries of the injured were heard in the various ruins . Searching parties and doctors worked desperately to save and help them , risking their lives in falling ruins . With the hospital reduced to a pile of wreckage , doctors worked in the open air , using make-shift tables on which to operate on the more seriously injured . Curfew Established Pending the complete evacuation of Chillan , the authorities have forbidden the buying or selling of any article whatsoever . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No one is allowed to enter that city of the dead after dusk , no matter what the reason for desiring to do so may be . Many tourists who had been staying in hotels in the center of Chillan were feared to have been buried alive . Thus far only one visitor , a naval officer named Julio Santibanez , was reported to have escaped . Witnesses who surveyed Chillan from an airplane today reported that the entire city was an ugly pile of ruins . Around the railroad station and yards , trains , twenty locomotives , merchandise of all kinds , liye and dead cattle and water tanks had been , scattered around in hopeless confusion . From the plane , spectators saw rows of corpses lined up in the blistering sun , evidently awaiting identification by relatives who may never be found . From surrounding communities long caravans of wounded and survivors were seen struggling toward Chillan , evidently hoping to find there the medical assistance and food they needed so greatly . Extra Plane Service To help assemble , reports and distribute necessary ' supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chillan and Santiago , performing the postal service free . Pilots reported that Chillan resembles a vast antheap , with jagged lengths of church towers and other masonry protruding . The ruined city is surrounedd by fertile lands dotted with rich wheat and corn fields and vineyards . In spite of the surrounding plenty , it has been necessary for the planes to carry bread , meat , condensed milk , clothing and medical supplies to Chillan . Senators and Deputies also made flights to the scene today to get details of the city 's tragedy . Observers saw stunned crowds , estimated at 20,000 , roaming aimlessly around Concepcion . It was reported that only 2,000 of the homeless there could be taken care of in railroad cars drawn up near the station . Cities of the Dead In one part of Chillan , airplane observers saw bodies of victims being tossed into pits in a feverish effort to dispose of them before disease sets in. - Chillan and Concepcion are destined to be truly dead cities until the confidence of their survivors returns and reconstruction begins . Elsewhere , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established that six provinces have been laid waste and that the earthquake has razed Parral , Cauquenes , Los Angeles , San Carlos , Mulchen , Lots , Caronel , Talcahuano and San Rosendo as well as Chillan and Concepcion and many other communities . The port works at Talcahuano , a chief military seaport , have been ' reported destroyed . The coal mining districts have been torn up . The mines are all in a dangerous condition and the miners ' homes have been blotted out . Graciela de Schnake , Mayor of Santiago and the only woman Mayor of an American capitol , called a women 's meeting in the Municipal Hall this afternoon at which recommendations were made to all women 's clubs and associations , regardless of their political or religious nature , to join in helping the earthquake victims . Technicians Called The Governor of the Province of Linares called for a hundred trucks and a like number of automobiles to spread relief throughout his district . Meanwhile the military railroad corps and the technical section of the Chilean Army have sped to the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , steamed at top speed to Talcahuano , port of Concepcion , to do relief work . The largest of these vessels was the dreadnaught Almirante Latorre . In the squadron also were three destroyers , two cruisers , a submarine mother ship and smaller craft . The government has decreed that there shall be no highway traffic from Linares southward unless the vehicles or persons are on government duty . The Argentine Government has informed the authorities here that it is sending an airplane over the Andes tomorrow to help move supplies through the stricken zone . Air France , a French aviation company , and the German Condor company have joined the Pan AmericanGrace . Airways in helping establish contacts with the districts in the south . Chilean Army wireless posts are being established at various points to keep the authorities in touch with their needs . More Help Needed All measures taken thus far by the government have proved timely , but the urgent need for more help is sounded constantly . The women 's section of the Chilean Red Cross has been mobilized and is ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered thousands of blankets , cots , wireless sets , medical supplies and X-ray equipment , which will be installed in camp hospitals . The various foreign colonies in Chile were quick to offer help . Americans have given money and loaned their private cars ? for relief work . Members of the United States Embassy have turned their automobiles over to the authorities to help move men and supplies into the zone of devastation . Congressmen Killed Congress has been summoned to meet in special session tomorrow to deal with the situation . Many of its members , however , will be absent . They were killed in the earthquake . President Aguirre will reassume direct charge of the situation tomorrow after completing his twoday trip , without a rest , through twenty ruined cities- and towns . University teachers and others have declared that they will donate one day 's salary every month during the year to provide funds to meet the emergency .. Economic measures in contemplation are for the creation of a large public fund for reconstruction work , so that the earthquake victims may be rehabilitated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            