@@701498

txt It is estimated , the company states , that earnings of Freeport Texas Co. during the third quarter of 1935 were in the neighborhood of 45 cents a share . With the low coats at Grande Ecaille now prevailing and with the elimination of production from Bryanmound , which has recently been at high costs , earnings should shortly begin to show an improvement over this level . Sulphur production at Bryanmound , Brazoria County , Texas , was permanently discontinued as of September 30 . This property , for the development of which Freeport Texas Co. was organized , has been producing sulphur since 1912 . The total production of the mine has been 4,992,726 tons . The abandonment of operations at Bryanmound will leave the Freeport Co. with two operating mines , Hoskins Mound in Texas and Grande Ecaille in Louisiana , at both of which properties the company has large productive capacity and extensive reserves . For many years , the early abandonment of Bryanmound property has been predicted . Operations during the last few years have been made possible only because of very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1930 . As the property has neared exhaustion , operating costs have of course increased and the profits from this propertyhave consequently become less and less imp6rtant in the Freeport picture . The termination of operations at Bryanmound necessarily involves a reduction in employment and because of a desire to give all consideration possible to Its employes , production was continued just as long as it was possible . Until the last few months the existence of Bryanmound has been an important factor in the Freeport Texas situation because of the operating difficulties that were encountered at the company 's new property In Louisiana in the early days of production at that property . These appear now to have been successfully overcome . Production from Grande Ecaille in the third quarter of 1935 was 124.180 tons as compared with production of 22,680 tons in the third quarter of 1934.                     