@@703849

txt The world is beating a path to the American door in sealch  --  not of a mousetrap  --  but of aims and munitions . And it is finding out to its surp Ise that there is very little to be had Much has been heard about the French aircraft procurement mission which was here in December and January . And there was some publicity of the previous British mission . But the others have been moving about as quietly as possible , not that there is any great secret about their maneuvers , but because they shrink from attracting to themselves the amount of publicity the French inission , acquired . There is , for example . a huge Netherlands delegation in Washington now . A Russian delegation of " technicians " headed by Admiral Ivan Isakoy , Vice Commissar of the Soviet Navy , is in the country . if anyone took the trouble to watch the hotel registers in New York they would probably run across the trail of at least half a dozen more , most of them Latin-American , The Netherlands mission- is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official guidance . Army , Navy and State Department have all nelped to inform its members of what arms are available on the American market and where they are to be had . Others have communicated their presence at the State Department , but scrupulously declined any proffer of help , insisting that they want contact exclusively with the private manu-facturers Few Arms for Sale But what all have encountered , to the surprise of most , is that partly due to the post-World War decline in the munitions trade and partly to the publicity of the Nye Munitions Investigating Committee , there is only one type of war weapon really to be had . That one thing is aircraft . The United States is a world supplier of this commodity The Netherlands has already built up a tidy little air force in its East Indies with American planes . Others want them because of their high quality . But of other things there is little to be had . Du Pont , contrary to popular impression , never manufacttned any war material other than explosives And du Pont went out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in October 1937 So sensitive did that company become about the adverse publicity it got from the Nye investigation that it wanted to shut clown its explosive plant altogether and was only dissuaded by the , earnest pleas of the U. S. Army and Navy . But it absolutely refused to sell its explosives to anyone other than the American armed services . Bethlehem Steel Corporation once offered an extensive line of artillery and other weapons of war to all comers . But it shut down its gun factory in 1925 and has n't yet been persuaded by any foreign interest to go back into the business  --  despite much pleading . This proves a gloat disappointment to the Netherlands , for example . That tiny country occupies one of the most unhappy positions in the world in event of a possible War between the big powers . It wants great quantities of anti-aircraft artillery to act as a deterrent to any violation of its neutrality at home and as a defense of its vast East Indian possessions against the much feared Japanese threat . But it finds that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a gun of this type , and that is a small size weapon not suited to Netherlands needs . Bombing experiences in the Spanish Civil War have demonstrated that only the large anti-aircraft guns capable of keeping attacking planes at a height of about 20,000 feet are of much use as a deterrent to bombing . What Soviet Wants The Soviet delegation is being very quiet about its desires . The assumption is that it is still in search of the famous " knock down " battleships about which there was considerable publicity about two years ago . The principal Latin American customer at the moment is Brazil . It wants mostly warships for its Navy which it is expanding against the assumed danger of a German-inspired , Fascist revolution . But it has run up against the double obstacle of the high cost of ships built by private American firms and the fact that the United States Navy is the only manufacturer of naval ordnance in the country . All the Navy 's guns and turrets are built in its own factories , mostly at the naval gun factory here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hulls and machinery of destroyers i4 could not obtain the armaments for them in the United States . The State Department is hoping to.remedy this by legislation which would authorize the Navy to manufacture naval guns for sale to Latin American countries . But It has n't been done yet . No Ban on Materials There is some irony in this situation . Since the Nye Committee was concerned with actual arms and implements of war it did little to publicize the greater value of many raw materials to a belligerent . While the Netherlands ca n't find anti-aircraft guns to defend its neutrality and Brazil ca n't obtain fully equipped warships to protect its sovereignty  --  both seemingly commendable purposes for relatively weak nations  --  Japan , Italy , and Germany are perfectly free to buy gasoline , oil , cotton , copper and a thousand other essentials of war which go into their powerful military machines all being used for aggression . They are buying those commodities daily and in considerable volume . And there is no serious objection raised . True , the supply of airplanes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States large quantities of the raw materials with whic4 it manufactures and operates its own weapons of war , The result is that the aggressor nations are getting all they want of raw materials of war , but such nations as the Netherlands and Brazil are finding that they ca n't get what they need in the United States . The situation is satisfactory to France and England . Both have eittensive arms industries which are adequate to meet their ordnance and small arms needs . What they need most from outside is airplanes to counteract Germany 's enormous preponderance in this arm . And they are getting them . Aircraft Competition The aircraft export business is , of course , booming . The only competition is from Germany , and while what Germany has to offer is much cheaper , it is also inferior , Germany is not selling its latest planes . But for two years now its factories have been producing at a high rate . The result has been a large accumulation of planes of older models , Ger- many will sell them at low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in less demand than the new American models . The situation dramatizes no defense problem more than that of the Netherlands , And it is a problem which occasions much concern here , for the future of the Netherlands East Indies is bound up closely with that of America 's stake in the Far East . The United States is heavily dependent on the East Indies for several essential raw materials . Much American rubber comes from there . More American quinine also comes from the same source . The Army and the Navy have a list of dozens of other items considered essential by them which are derived primarily from those islands . Hence the eagerness of Washington to lend the Netherlands every possible assistance in developing the defense of the islands . Neutrality Problem For less immediately interested motives it also sympathizes with the desire of the Netherlands Government to keep out of a European war . But it , is a difficult military prob lem . It is taken for granted in informed quarters that if Germany had not invaded Belgium during the World War the Allies would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Netherlands in event of anothlr European war . Germany and France would both want to flank each other . The Belgium frontier has now been fortified as an extension of the Maginot line . The Netherlands are the last northern free route by which the heavy fortifications of the Franco-Germany frontier can be flanked on the north . War plans of both sides are assumed to contemplate such a move . At the very least the skies over the Netherlands would unquestionably be a highway for the bombing planes of both sides  --  unless those skies could be filled with such a pattern of antiaircraft shells that no one would care to challenge their neutrality . Russia is concentrating intensively on its naval forces . It is in danger of being bottled up in the Baltic in another European war as it was in the past . If it can develop sufficient naval force it could perhaps at least keep control of the northern part of the Baltic , even if it could n't blast a way out into the North Sea . But its naval technique is decades behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers on move to limit huge armament costs . LONDON , March 10 UN  --  Britain intends to sound out the major powers on the possibility of halting the tremendous arms race which Pilate Minister Neville Chamberlain has declared can end only in bankruptcy for Europe if continued at its present pace . London papers were unanimous this morning in reporting with optimism the projected disarmament efforts . Political quarters in this connection attached increased Importance to the official trade mission which takes Mr. R. S. Hudson , Secretary for Overseas Trade , to Berlin next week . Some thought Mr. Hudson might gain support in 3erlin for the idea of a least n " token cut " in armaments , Some newspapers predicted that events in the near future would show how much " wishful thinking ' motivated present optimism . Conference Planned The Daily Mail said that " Mr. Chamberlain is planning to call a conference of big powers to consider calling a halt to the arms race in Europe , possibly before the end of the summer . " Limitation may be aimed at aerial weapons in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction the disarmament discussions might be widened to include world powers including the United States . " British belief that there was a chance for a successful disarmament venture apparently was based on this reasoning : That Premier Mussolini 's ex- ? pected claims upon France for colonial adjustment would be more moderate than Italian press agitation has indicated . That the end of the Spanish Civil War would remove the most dangerous immediate threat to European peace . That Germany admits she is feeling a severe economic pinch because of her tremendous arms expenditures . Colonial Settlement No mention was made in Government circles about a colonial settlement with Germany , but several Cabinet members were said to be convinced that the problem should be tackled and , if possible , settled soon , Informed quarters intimated that British unofficial and semi-official contacts with German leaders , how . ever , belied the anti-British onslaughts by the National Socialist-controlled press . British leaders were impressed by Reichsfiihrer Hitler 's Reichstag speech of Jan. 30 , In which he said that he had no territoi ial designs on France and Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " At that time Herr Hitler asset ted that the National Socialists must " do everything within human power to strengthen our national defenses " and blamed Britain and France for the international arms burden . British Arms Cost Britain is spending $8.000.000 a day in her $10,000.000.000 live-year arms program and apparently feels the weight of those figures is making an impression in Berlin and Rome . French leaders have intimated their willingness to talk about arms limitations , but meanwhile have braced their African defenses in the expectation that Premier Mussolini would advance colonial demands as soon as the Spanish Civil War ends with Gem Francisco Franco firmly in power . British quarters expressed the opinion that those claims , however , probably would be reduced through negotiation . British had shown concern at Italian troop reinforcements in African Libya but they were said to be satisfied with reassurances the Italian Foreign Minister , Count Galcazzo Ciano. was said to have given Sir Noel Charles . Charge d'Affaires at the British Embassy in Rome , yes-terday Reich and Arms Cut BERLIN ? Repoi ts of British hopes for at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ March , 10 that it was up to others to make tangible proposals , since Reichsffihrer Hitler " In at least 10 to 15 speeches frankly expressed Germany 's fundamental ideas thereon . " Herr Hitler in his Jan. 30 speech to the Reichstag declared his proposals for " reasonable limits to armaments " had been " coldly rejected . "                     