@@703945

txt Diplomatic contacts between the German and British Governments returned to normal this morning when the newly returned British Ambassador , Sir Nevile Henderson , was received at the Foreign Office by Baron Ernst von Weizsaecker , Foreign Office Under-Secretary . According to the German version , the visit was wholly in the nature of a routine call , and it was not revealed whether the Ambassador carried a specific message from Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain on the eve of Chancellor Adolf Hitler 's Reichstag speech . Reports that the Ambassador had sought a private audience with Herr Hitler were said to be without foundation . Robert Coulondre , French Ambassador , who also has returned to his Berlin post , will call at the Foreign Office tomorrow . The return of the two envoys , who were recalled by their governments for " consultations " following the dismemberment of Czecho-Slovakia , was registered here as a routine matter . The Briton is believed to have informed Germany of impending British conscription . He had indicated his visit had the purpose of giving the Reich assurances that Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration against Germany . Britain 's decision to introduce conscription receives cynical treatment in the press , which interprets it as a gesture to France , Poland and Russia in Britain 's encirclement policy . " Britain may arm as much as she wishes , " says the Lokal-Anzeiger , " for it makers no difference to us . We have no intention of attacking her and the Fuehrer has seen to it that she can not attack us. , , The reported opposition to the British move also is featured here and a distinction is drawn between the possible effectiveness of Britain 's " outstanding professional army " and the Territorial Army of " conscript militia . " The press says the latter in their short period of training will not be able to master the intricacies of modern mechanized warfare . Foreign Minister Alexander Cin- car-Markovitch of Yugoslavia concluded his two-day talks with Reich leaders today with a lengthy audience with Chancellor Hitler in the presence of Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop . He had had a long talk with Field Marshal Hermann Goering on German-Yugoslav cooperation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe Yugoslavia has become a firm unit in the Balkan bloc the Axis powers are now welding . Saturday 's visit of Premier Paul Teleki and Foreign Minister Stephen Csaky of Hungary is a corollary to the Yugoslav 's . In addition to discussion of Hungarian-German relations , Saturday 's visit is expected to be devoted to ironing out minor differences between Hungary and Yugoslavia . M. Cincar-Markovitch , who until recently was the Yugoslav Minister to Berlin , made a statement to the official news agency in which he stressed his country 's desire to strengthen the bonds of friendship with the Reich and the mutual " full confidence " which characterized the relations between the two nations . " There is no question which can not be discussed between the representatives of both neighboring countries in a spirit of fullest confidence , " the Foreign Minister said , " in order to better our friendly relations and preserve , the interests of peace in this section of Europe . " Some German newspapers have been eulogizing Yugoslav watering places and other interesting points during the Foreign Minister 's visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as bewreathing the war memorial , have been widely featured in headlines and pictures . Germany Sees Provocation BERLIN , April 26 ( 20 . ? Heavily militarized Nazi-Germany was represented tonight as " not in the least impressed " by Great Britain 's new compulsory military service , which was called a " quieting measure for France . " At the same time the British Ambassador , Sir Nevile Henderson , succeeded after a two-day delay in conveying to Chancellor Hitler through a subordinate a message about British motives for taking the unprecedented peacetime step , but Herr Hitler was said ' already to have finished his anxiously awaited Friday speech and to be unwilling to change what he intended to say . " It is the provocative nature of the move and not its military aspect that interests us , ' ' a government spokesman said concerning the British announcement that all British men in their twenty-first year would become liable to six months of , military training . Militarily , the Nazi reaction , tinged with sarcasm , was summed up by the spokesman 's remark : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six months , but you can not train them for modern warfare- within that time . " He said Herr Hitler in his forthcoming address to the Reischstag doubtless would deal with Prime Minister Chamberlain 's speech today in the House of Commons , along with the Nazi answer to President Roosevelt 's request that Chancellor Hitler and Premier Mussolini give non-aggression pledges to thirty-one nations . The spokesman said it was doubtful whether official , detailed reaction would be forthcoming , before the Chancellor spoke , to Mr. Chamberlain 's assertion that Britain was ready to discuss a " general settlement " with the German Government and that Britain also was willing to consider any proposal that might be brought forward for the better distribution of raw materials . Herr Hitler had advance knowledge of what Mr. Chamberlain was going to say through the message delivered by Sir Nevile at noon today , almost too late . The Ambassador was kept waiting until the last minute and then was not received by Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop but by his second in command . Baron Ernst von Weizsaecker , ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Information " Wireless to Tam NsW Yoair Taos . BELGRADE , Yugoslavia , April 26 . ? Newspapers , commenting on the Berlin visit of Foreign Minister Alexander ' Cincar-Markovitch , stress that it is principally to obtain information . The insistence on this point seems to indicate that it has been suggested by government circles . Another point , emphasized by Politika and Vreme , is that Yugoslavia wishes to avoid participation in ideological conflicts and wants to work for the maintenance of peace in Central Europe and the Balkans . It was confirmed today that the Chief Regent , Prince Paul , would go to Rome next month . It also was announced that the Prince of Piedmont , heir to the Italian throne , would come to Belgrade next Summer . Authoritative circles explained both visits as " normal in view of the kinship of the two dynasties . " Yugoslavia Hopes for Peace BELGRADE , Yugoslavia , April 26 UP ) . News that Great Britain will ' introduce conscription was welcome in Yugoslavia , where it was regarded as a decisive step toward the maintenance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an indication that the Chamberlain government was serious in the guarantees given against aggression , although Yugoslavia is outside such guarantees . There was new hope that Yugoslavia may be able to maintain her now delicately balanced neutrality .                     