@@701031

txt Found guilty of violating the Grain Futures Act , Arthur W. Cutten , Chicago trader , once described as " the greatest speculator this country ever had , " was suspended today from all trading on grain markets for two years . The order , effective March 1 , was made by the Grain Futures Commission , composed of Secretaries Wallace and Roper and Attorney General Cummirin:s . The decision was reached two days ago , but was delayed until Mr. Cutten had been notified . Mr. Cutten was found guilty of making false reports of his holdings and of concealing his position in the market during 1930 and 1931 " to manipulate the price of grain and thereby to make large profits . " It was also held that " he systematically allocated purchases and sales of wheat futures in order to keep them under 500,000 bushels " to avoid detection . The Futures Act required that holders of more than 500,000 bush-1 els of wheat , corn or oats report position to the Grain Futures Administration . Accounts in Names of Others . The commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through eight commission firms and that he had split his trade into thirty-five different accounts , some of which were carried in the names of relatives and associates , but were owned and controlled by Mr. Cutten . Although he was familiar with the terms of the act and its requirements , the commission stated , Mr. Cutten " on approximately 130 days in 1930 " had open commitments in a single wheat future , in accounts owned and controlled by him , equal to or in excess of 500,000 bushels . It was also found that during 1931 Mr. Cutten " made reports irregularly to the Grain Futures Administration , none of which was true or correct as a statement of his net position on the market on day covered by such report . " During both years accounts ' definitely identified as belonging to Mr. Cutten had been found , but no reports had been made of such holdings , the commission found . The commission gave its " findings of fact , " based upon " duly considered evidence arid the irgumeats and briefs of counsel , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was duly designated as a contract market under the Grain Futures Act of May 3 , 1923 , and it has been a contract market continuously since that date . 2 . During the years 1930 and 1931 respondent was , and now is , a member of the Chicago Board of Trade . 3 . From and after Oct. 31 , 1927 , through and including the year 1931 , members of contract markets were required by regulations made pursuant to the Grain Futures Act to report to the Grain . Futures Administration their net position in futures owned or controlled by them , long or short , by grain and by future , when they had net open commitments in any one future equal to or in excess of 500,000 bushels of wheat , corn , oats and , 200,000 bushels of rye or barley . 4 . Respondent in 1930 and 1931 had knowledge of the reporting requirements . 5 . Respondent , in 1930 and 1931 , transacted his business through eight commission firms . He split his trade into thirty-five accounts . He carried some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Respondent owned or controlled each of the thirty-five accounts . 6 . During the year 1930 respondent did not make any reports to the Grain Futures Administration . Concealing Position Charged . 7 . On approximately 130 days during 1930 , respondent had open commitments in a single wheat future in accounts owned and controlled by him equal to or in excess of 500,000 bushels 8 . On approximately 110 days during 1930 , respondent had trades in a single wheat future in accounts owned and controlled by him in which he had open commitments equal to or in excess of 500,000 bushels 9 . During the year 1931 , respondent made reports irregularly to the Grain Futures Administration , none of which was true or correct as a statement of his net position on the market on the day covered by such report . 10 . During the year 1931 , there were a great many days on which respondent made no reports at all , although having on such days open commitments in a single wheat future , in accounts owned and controlled by him , equal to or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days during 1931 , respondent had trades in a single wheat future in accounts owned and controlled by him , in which he had open commitments equal to or in excess of 500,000 bushels 12 . On many days during the years 1930 and 1931 , the respondent , in accounts definitely identified as belonging to him , had open commitments and trades which he failed to report as required by the act and regulations made pursuant thereto . 13 . During the year 1931 , the respondent made false reports of his open commitments and transactions in amounts definitely identified as his and indisputably belonging to him contrary to the act and regulations made pursuant thereto . 14 . Respondent 's purpose in concealing his position in the market was to manipulate the price of grain and thereby to make large profits . He systematically allocated purchases and sales of wheat futures to the various accounts in order to keep them under 500,000 bushels , and this to avoid detection . He attempted to manipulate the price of grain . General Denial Through Counsel . At a public hearing on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " greatest speculator this country ever had . " At that time he declined to take the stand , but Orville Taylor , representing him as counsel , denied any intent to defraud or to falsify reports submitted by the respondent . It was said at the time that failure to make the required reports was due to the presence of a new secretary in Mr. Cutten 's office . The alleged inaccuracies , Mr. Taylor said , were the result of her unfamiliarity with the office routine . Today 's suspension was the second under the act ; Adrian Ettinger and Ewing W. Brand of Cleveland were barred last November for six months . Thomas M. Howell of Chicago has been ' charged with manipulation of the price of corn , but the commis- sion has not ruled on the government 's request that he be suspended .                     