@@702082

txt On the eve of the Republican State Committee meeting , Which will bring leaders from all parts of the State to this important political clearing house for central New York , there is every indication that any proposal for a showdown on candidates for the Gubernatorial nomination will meet stubborn resistance . Syracuse , which is the political center of Onondaga County , was selected as the meeting place toI morrow largely because some influential leaders in the Republican State organization were hopeful that the meeting might result in lining up the forty-two delegates from Onondaga County for George R. Fearon , minority leader of the State Senate , and the elimination of Mayor Rolland B. Marvin of Syracuse as an aspirant for the nomination . It is admitted that Clarence R. Icing of Onondaga , who is also chairman of the executive committee of the Republican State Committee and one of the most influential party leaders in the State , could bring this about by merely saying the word . Choice Left to Convention But it was learned tonight that Mr. King was not prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in common with many other Republican leaders in the State , is prepared to take State Chairman Melvin C. Eaton at his word and make the State convention , which will meet in Albany Sept. 28-29 , an " open " convention unimpaired by any decisions made in advance with regard to candidates . The meeting of the State committee has been called to arrange the formal call for the convention and to confirm an earlier decision reached by the executive committee as to the place and date of the convention . In addition , it is expected that the State committee will perfect the slate of Presidential electors , of which this State will have fortyseven in the electoral college . While there is nothing to Indicate that the demand for a showdown at the State committee meeting tomorrow originated with promoters of the Fearon boom , supporters of Mayor Marvin 's candidacy are out in open opposition . They are insistent that all the Gubernatorial candidates should have their day before the delegates at the convention . Any Commitments Fought If the question should come up in any form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urge that no commitments to candidates should be made by county leaders until they come to the convention with their delegations . Mr. King would say nothing for publication tonight to indicate his stand with regard to proposals for a showdown , but It was learned on unquestionable authority that he was in no mood at present to commit himself to either of the two candidates for the Gubernatorial nomination from his own county . William T , Lane , pre-convention campaign manager for Mayor Marvin , who was a candidate for the nomination at the 1934 convention as well , said tonight his candidate had made no deals or alliances and had sought no pledges from county leaders in advance of the convention . He has made only two or three political speeches so far , and Mr. Lane said he did not expect the Mayor would deliver half a dozen addresses of that character in all prior to the State convention . " Mayor Marvin has taken his stand as a candidate for the Gubernatorial nomination before an open convention , " Mr. Lane said . " I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last few days and I think that I can say with propriety that he feels the convention should be free to pick its own candidate after reaching a decision as to the aspirant most likely to carry the Republican banner to victory in the State . " Some Fear . Bleakley Gain Mr. Lane recalled that it had been suggested the candidates for the Governorship from Onondaga County would run the danger of killing off each other if both remained in the race by the time the convention met , thereby leaving the field open to Justice William F. Bleakley of Westchester County , a third contender who is credited with having gained much additional strength in recent weeks . " I do not share that opinion , " Mr. Lane said , " unless we should get into a ' dog fight ' that is not likely to happen , and it has been nothing like that so far . Both Senator Fearon and Mayor Marvin have conducted a dignified campaign and are good friends . " It should be remembered that the demand among Republicans throughout the State this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bleakley is not regarded by party men up-State as coming within that category , even though he does not actually hail from New York City . " Should the demand for a showdown be pressed when the leaders arrive here tomorrow , supporters of Mayor Marvin are prepared to insist that the Republican County Committee of Onondaga be called in to decide whether the delegates from Onondaga are to be committed to Senator Fearon or to the Mayor . Marvin 's Popularity Is Wide In connection with this it was pointed out in one quarter tonight that about one-third of the 478 , Republican county committee members are holding jobs either under Mayor Marvin or under the county administration . The latter , of course , would be more directly amenable to Mr. King than to the Mayor , although Mr. Marvin enjoys considerable popularity with the rank and file of Onondaga County Republicans even aside from patronage considerations . Followers of the Fearon fortunes profess not to be disturbed by the rivalries growing out of Mayor Marvin 's candidacy . " We feel so confident that Senator Fearon will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exclusively to the stage of the campaign that will come after the State convention has been held , " one promoter of the Fearon boom said tonight . Few of the leaders had arrived tonight . Borough President Harvey of Queens is expected in time for the meeting tomorrow , and some spokesmen for Mr. Harvey are already on the scene . The executive committee of the State committee is scheduled to meet tomorrow forenoon with Mr. King presiding . The meeting of the full committee will follow in the afternoon , with State Chairman Eaton wielding the gavel.                     