@@698987

txt The committee on currency questions of the Imperial Economic Conference organized today by the significant election of I H. H. Stevens , Canadian Minister of Trade and Commerce , as its chairman . Mr. Stevens is the outstanding advocate of the remonetization of silver in the Ottawa Government . He is also sympathetic to the proposal for a superbank for the whole empire . Also on the currency committee is C. H. Cahan , Canadian Secretary of State , who represents the views of Prime Minister , Bennett , which are opposed to those of Mr. Stevens on the silver question . Furthermore , Mr. Bennett and some of the British delegates are convinced that no definite conclusions can be reached on monetary matters at Ottawa and that they will have to await the proposed world conference . Silver Men Demand Policy . On the other hand , the out-and-out silver men and some others here believe the delegates at Ottawa should devise a definite empire policy to be presented as the British contribution to the world conference . Those who want action have won the chairmanship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accord with the ideals held by Mr. Stevens . Stanley M. Bruce and J. G. Coates , leaders of the Australian and New Zealand delegations , are on the currency committee and are most sympathetic . Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer , and Sir Philip Cunliffe-Lister , Colonial Minister , the two United Kingdom members ' of the committee , are understood not to have slammed the door against consideration of silver as a possible addition to gold as a backing for currency . Bankers Friendly to Stevens . Mr. Stevens has the sympathetic support of such men in England as Sir Robert Horne , Sir Josiah Stamp , J. F. Darling , a director of the Midland Bank , and L. S. Amery , Dominions Minister in the last Baldwin Government . Mr. Amery and Mr. Darling are here , and there is some expectation on their part that their friend and fellow silver advocate , Senator Key Pittman of Nevada , will come to Ottawa as an unofficial observer to watch the proceedings of the currency ' committee . The committee will begin work Thursday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of the nine British countries represented at the conference . After this general survey the committee will follow the usual conference course and split into as many groups as there are major proposals . Among the proposals there surely will be the matter of silver remonetization , the question of consolidating the " sterling area , " which already exists as the combination ? of Great Britain and all the empire and foreign countries that have abandoned tale gold standard . That means all of the Commonwealth States represented at Ottawa except Canada and I South Africa . In behalf of South Africa , Finance Minister Havenga will urge that the empire get back to the gold standard at the earliest possible moment . Amery Speaks for Silver . I Although he is not a member of the committee nor a delegate , Mr. Amery closely reflects the opinions of Chairman Stevens in. this . matter . As a delegate can not talk publitly at this stage of the proceeding Ameilea opinions may serve as a. useful indication . " This currency committee , " Mr. Amery told this correspondent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be to devise a way for raising wholesale commodity prices throlighout the empire . The other will be to reorganize the monetary system . ' Remonetization of silver would help in lifting the price level . The depreciation of silver has not been due to overproduction of that metal but is the artificial result of the action of governments , which has reduced the purchasing power of China and India . " We are not advocating anything so extreme as the old Bryan formula of sixteen to one . Much would be accomplished if governments would put a better silver content into their subsidiary coins and if they would allow their central banks to hold some silver as a backing for their currency issues . " The general rule now is that currency must have a 40 per cent backing of gold . It would be better if there were 35 per cent of gold and 5 per cent of silver or some such distribution . It would also help if International obligations could be paid partly in silver . All these arrangements would be useful to widen the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world could ' again prosper . "                     