@@702496

txt A law requiring women to lay aside their veils comes Into effect In Albania today . Ever since Albania became an independent state the Government and national leaders have been trying to induce the women to free themselves from this tradition , which for centuries had kept them in an inferior pOsition . The veil is an emblem of humiliation . It has represented both a stigma and a prison . Hence forward-looking plbanlanS naturally endeavdied a to lend ' their ' women toward 4niineip4tion , . Mit ' these quiet ' reRirmers have no4 , b04 much success . SO King flog decided to make unveiling obligatory . Albania is largely a Moslem country . Oriental customs cad ? here centuries ago and have been observed with great rigidity . Christian women , even , have been almost as secluded as their Moslem sisters . They , too , have avoided the society of men and have not appeared in public with bared faces or arms . It may be pointed out that in spite of this , women here enjoy a certain prestige . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are never molested . Even the wildest Albanian would not shoot his worst enemy if that enemy were accompanied by his wife or his mother . A brigand . would feel eternally disgraced if he embarrassed a woman . In the mountains , also , women exert much influence and play a social role of considerable importance . They are robust and stalwart and able to do a man 's share of work . Each accompanies her husband , in forest or wilderness , in rain or snow , and would scorn to seek special consideration . She rides horseback well , can swing an ax . or tend the flocks , Mothers have been known to lead whole mountain clans . Still , no one acquainted with Albania would deny that a ban has rested on women here and that it has blighted their lives . It prevents the finest type of social intercourse , It hies filled towns with gloom and made relations among men strained . The houses , the courtyards , the verandas and windows , the city streets and village alleys are all constructed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by men . High thick walls , enormous locked gates , latticed windows characterize such society , After the age of 12 girls no longer go to the common fountain for water except at times when it Is not frequented . They do not carry bread to tho common ovens or go to the stores for soap or matches except , with covered faces . They are withdrawn from human society . When a man wishes to enter a neighbor 's yard , he knocks at the strong outer portal and waits , with averted face , If the master or his servant is at home and opens , all is well ; but if a wife , daughter , sister or mother clatters in her wooden slippers to the gates and , without opening It asks : " Who there ? " the visitor tells who he Is and asks when the master will be nt home , after which he goes his way . In many Near Eastern Moslem lands the word most often used for husband is master or owner . The woman is considered to be owned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blights social life . Tirana , Scutari , Albasan and other Albanian towns are dreary places in the evening , devoid of the Inspiration , Joy and idealism which comes from social intercomse . The women are shut away . Young men go their ways apart with nothing to do . Each yard Is a walled camp and comradeship is lacking . Of course , educated yoking Albanians have brought some changes . A few such men take their wives to movies , and even arrange pleasant home parties . now and then . A few young women , especially teachers , do their part , too , in helping Albania to advance . There Is oven a woman 's national organization , But progress is very slow , ' and old traditions still hold sway . So to hasten enlightenment , the heads of the Moslem church gathered in Tirana and decided to recommend unveiling , They declared that Mohammed had never asked women to cover their faces and they Instructed all Moslem clergy to support the movement for unveiling . The Ronan Catholic and Orthodox churches were both ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tho religious organizations . In spite of that , however , the old tradition is not likely to disappear at once . Of course , women will not wear veils on the street , for that will bo a misdemeanor , but many of theM will simply keep off the sheet:I . After 80 many years of modehty , tome women feel It would be shameful to go uncovered ,                     