@@702771

txt The expulsion of additional foreign correspondents from Germany was predicted today in an officially inspired article in the Berlin Boersen Zeitung . It was printed in connection with the official announcement of the German Government 's request for the recall of Norman Ebbutt , the Berlin correspondent of The Times of London , served on the British Government yesterday . The German communique made no mention of the fact that this request had been preceded by the futile demand for the readmission into Great Britain of the three German correspondents expelled by the British Government a few ' days ago and thus avoids official emphasis on the retaliatory character of the action against Mr. Ebbutt . The communiqu ? merely says : " The German authorities have requested the British Government to induce The Times to recall Ebbutt within fourteen days because otherwise his permit to stay in Germany would be withdrawn . " This action , says the communique , " is proved necessary because Mr. Ebbutt 's reports about Germany have been written for years in an exclusively anti-German tenor and represent a violation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the reticence of the official communiqu ? , which , it was officially emphasized , was in line with Germany 's effort to settle the matter in a " fair manner , " is more than compensated for by the frankness of the article in the Boersen Zeitung , characterized semi-officially as the German answer to Great Britain . After arguing ironically that now that the British Government was expelling the German correspond ? ents in the interests of AngloGerman relations there was no further reason for Germany to postpone the urgently necessary and long-contemplated measures against foreign correspondents in Germany , the article proceeds : " It can be assumed as certain that the measures which had to be used against Mr. Ebbutt will likewise be employed against other foreign correspondents who have not confined themselves to their journalistic work but have , according to our knowledge , greatly interfered in German domestic policy . " It is an open secret that certain foreign correspondents have become , so to say , press chiefs of cliques and groups hostile to the State , that they actively cooperate with these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have the German press at their disposal , give them an amount of publicity in the press of their home countries which is in inverse ratio to the real importance of these groups in Germany . " A very careful investigation in this field is to be concluded shortly . " The inference of these charges which have been taken up by other newspapers , like the Berlin Tage- Matt , is obvious to every foreign correspondent here : The " groups and cliques " referred to are the church groups in their opposition to the Government and correspondents who " interfere in German domestic policy " are those correspondents who report the church struggle in Germany . Press Condemns Ebbutt In addition , however , the German press also condemns Mr. Ebbutt for having reported only the dark side of the Third Reich and having shown no appreciation for the constructive achievements of its National Socialist regime . Official quarters stated tonight that the threat of official expulsions had no " practical significance " at the moment and no immediate action against other correspondents was contemplated , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developments . " The governing board of the Association of Foreign Correspondents in Berlin met today and called a general meeting of the association for tomorrow to consider the situation . In addition to threats against foreign correspondents the German press also publishes under the caption , " Attention ! Spies at Work , " a warning to all Germans against having any dealings with certain foreign press correspondents , bureaus and credit institutions which , it was charged , were merely creations of foreign secret services to lure Germais into betraying military and economic secrets . Some of these news and credit agencies are named and are alleged to be in the employ of Western European in addition to eastern European powers . " The end of any connection with these agencies , " says the warning " is usually the well known red placard of the Peoples Tribunal announcing the execution of a traitor to the State . " Ebbutt Will Not Be Replaced Special Cable to Tax Naw Yong TIMES . LONDON , Aug. ** expressing the hope that in the in -- terests of constructive news reporting the German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Times of London chief correspondent in Berlin , in retaliation for the expulsion of three German journalists from London , the directors of The Times today made clear that they would stand by the news policy for which this paper is notable the world over . If Mr. Ebbutt is forced to leave Germany within the fortnight specified in Berlin yesterday The Times plans to carry special dispatches from Mr. Ebbutt 's assist-ant . However , the latter will not be promoted to Mr. Ebbutt 's position but Mr. Ebbutt 's office chair will be Ieft vacant in order to avoid the appearance that the newspaper is replacing him with some one possibly more amenable to the Germa -- Government 's idea about the proper news . If his present assistant is also ordered to leave Germany The Times plans to keep its Berlin office open but will not send a correspondent to Germany or carry dispatches by staff writers from Germany , although , of course , it will have access to news agency dispatches . This decision was communicated today to Dr. Ernst Woermann , Charg ? d'Affaires of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy . May Affect Other Papers Reports were current in London today that other local newspapers might feel the brunt of the new campaign against the British press by Chancellor Adolf Hitler , but in the absence of action confirming such reports other publishers took no joint action , leaving The Times to handle its problem according to its own discretion . Considerable surprise was expressed that Mr. Ebbutt should be singled out as an example for German discipline in view of the fact that The Times news and editorials regarding Germany have been much lore restrained than those of some other publications , but it was thought he was marked principally because action against The Times would have the widest public effect because of the international prominence of the paper . The Times instructed Mr. Ebbutt to accept the German dictum gracefully and leave his post possibly three days in advance of the operative date of expulsion so as not to risk the indignity of being escortedout of Germany . There is some gratification that the expulsion of Mr. Ebbutt  --  a veteran correspondent in the German field  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the future it is expected that the Home Office will reveal the facts proving what has already been officially confirmed  --  that the expelled Germans were so treated for activities entirely aside from news reporting . The Times confines its reports on Mr. Ebbutt in tomorrow 's paper to the report from Berlin on the German communiqu ? in which it is emphasized that the German Government neglects to point out that its action is a reprisal for the British Government 's action and to the publication of comment from other countries . The British Foreign Office quietly pursued the subject today without making an announcement of its actions and the Home Office ? which initiated the movement to expel the Germans  --  maintained its tight-lipped silence . In the absence of official word some newspapers other than The Times printed sensational stories of alleged German activities here , with The Daily Mail predicting that other German expulsions will , take place soon . The Evening Standard printed a report that some 400 Germans in London are enrolled in the German secret police to " supervise the activities of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports on their political temperature and work . " The Daily Herald tomorrow morning will print a story that Werner von Crome , Wolf Dietrich Langen. and Franz Otto Wrede , the expelled journalists  --  were connected with an " inner ring " of Nazi agents which has been studied by a special division of Scotland Yard detectives . " The secret Nazi organization was in daily touch with Berlin , " The Daily Herald says . " In a great new building operated under the control of the German Foreign Office there is an index file , giving the name , address , occupation , friends , acquaintances and the social and poltical activities of every German resident abroad , whether a refugee or a Nazi sympathizer . " Among the foreign comment on Mr. Ebbutt 's expulsion reprinted by The Times tomorrow are editorials from the press representing France , the Netherlands , Denmark , Austria , Poland and South Africa . All join in condemning the action .                     