@@698045

txt International Nickel Co. of Canada has found itself saddled this year with the last of its construction campaign . This will require a capital expenditure of $6,000,000 this year . The whole program of expansion and modernization has cost more than 550,000.000 . . After this year no major capital expenditures will be required for many years . While these extraordinary expenditures practically are completed , the making of them has cut into cash somewhat . Consequently , it was not surprising that the management , which has always kept the company in a good financial position . should deem it advisable to reduce the dividend payments on the common stock to 10 cents from 15 cents a quarter . Not improbably , even this reduction would not have been made were it not for the uncertainty of the general industrial situation here and abroad , and the low price and uncertain outlook for copper . Nickel is the company 's main source of income . and it is this business that rCLUBt be protected . As producer of 90. ; : - of the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying all the nickel stocks and making all the adjustments necessary in order to stabilize the price of the metal . Due to the success of the company 's zr , , anagement in keeping nickel price stable , and also because of its persistent search for and development of new outlets for nickel and monel-metal , nickel consumption increased satisfactorily this year until the summer lull began in June . Consumption in the first half of 1931 was better than in the last half of 1930 . Copper 's Importance increases Since mining of the Frood orebody has begun . copper has become of increasing importance to Nickel . In fact . International Nickel Co. of Canada not only is one of the major producers of copper , but also one whose costs are among the lowest . Copper must be produced in the mining of all the ore from the Sudbury nickel deposits . International Nickel markets practically all the nickel from the Creighton mine in the form of mane ' metal , the natural alloy which carries about two-thirds nickel and onethird copper . The ore in - the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the Creighton ore . Copper from the Frood mine must be electrolytically refined and sold as copper . With a capacity Of 20,000,000 pounds of copper a month and with copper production , ? even at present reduced rate of operation , 8 , - 000,000 pounds of refined a month , it can be seen how important to International Nickel the price of copper has become . Because of this , International Nickel is doing as much in the way of curtailment as any of the straight copper producers and much more than many , notably liatanga , the big African producer . of copper , to protect the copper price . ' Naturally with a copper production larger than that of many important producers that mine only copper , the uncertain situation in the red metal necessarily tended to Make the directors of International Nickel cautious . - While the major source of income for International Nickel is and probably always will be its nickel and moue ' metal sales in the ' United States , its sales in Europe also are important , and with uncertainty prevailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With-close to 15,000,000 shares of Nickel common outstanding , a reduction of 5 cents a share in the dividend a quarter means a cut of almost $750,000 a quarter in disbursements , or , about $3,000,000 a year . Omission of the common dividend undoubtedly would have brought much discontent among atockholders in such times as these , especially at the company is earning ? ter deprecation and depletion 8 cents a quarter on the common . While the outlook is for small earnings in the third quarter , it is probable that for the second- half of 1931 earnings will be about the same as in the first half , or about 15 to 16 cents a share on the common . Due to the face that International Nickel 's earnings are after depreciation and depletion , payment of 10 cents a share will not reduce the cash position . In fact ; if earnings do average 8 cents a share a quarter for the second half-year the dividends of 10 cents a quarter can be paid and cash position of the companyk improved at the same time . Had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially the projected expenditures for the second half-year , a reduction in common dividend probably would not have been thought necessary at this time . Fortunately these extraordinary expenditures will end this year . As a result of the modernization of the various plants , and completion . of the expansion campaign . International Nickel 's operating costs will show further decrease in the second half-year , while it is probable that the management also will be able to introduce - further economies during theremainder of the year .                     