@@703305

txt The Sudeten German Party adheres whole-heartedly to National Socialism . ' It feels itself an integral part of the Greater German community , and will press for the fullest recognition of its rights at home and the greatest possible co-ordination of Czechoslovakia with Third Reich policy as a condition of its co-operation in the development of this Republic . Such are the conclusions which must be drawn from the annual conference of the party held here this week end . Though not expressed in speeches , but inherent in the conversations and general atmos- phere among the delegates there appears also the viewpoint that but for possible European complications a demand for a plebiscite to decide whether Sudeten Germans should join the Third Reich would also be advanced . Such seems implicit also in Konrad Henlein 's statement that the party demands were moderate considering recent " internal and external developments which haVe led to marked accumulation of the Party 's strer th and power , " by which , of c : . ie , are meant Germany 's recent annexation of Austria and the resultant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The high spot of the Congress which was attended by 480 delegates Iron parts of the Republic known as German was Herr Henlein 's speech which , apart from its frank confession of National Socialism as the Inspiration for thought and ac tion , contained strong condemnation of 20 years of alleged Czech tyranny and far-reaching demands for absolute equality between Czechs ' and Germans . This speech was the most outspoken that Herr Henlein has delivered because it emphasized the fact that behind the Sudeten Germans stands the Third Reich  --  in I fact the speech first outlined the conditions of Reich-Czechoslovak understanding , thus showing clearly how much his party acts under orders from Berlin . If Prague desires better relations with Berlin , then , according to Herr Henlein , Prague must give satisfaction on three points . Two of these points involve a new orientation of Czech history , especially that the Czechs abandon the standpoint that their mission is to act as " bulwarks against the so-called German Mang Nach Osten , " and finally a revision of Czechoslovakia 's foreign policy , which obviously means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Education of Public Opinion There was an interesting note also in Herr Henlein 's indirect but clear advocacy of National Socialism 's control of the press in the only conciliatory word of his whole speech when he declared it would be easy for the Government to educate public opinion , seeing that the Czech man in the street loves peace and is disposed to become reconciled to facts . " But , " he added , " the average Czech citizen must be freed from influence of the chauvenistic French press . " Here is the Third Reich demand that state policy must be one and the same with press policy . Herr Henlein 's statement of the relations between Czechs and Germans attacks the Czechs for alleged violation of peace treaties and of Republic% Constitution where Sudeten Germans are concerned . He claimed to speak not only for the Sudeten German Party but as the leader of all the minorities in this Republic suffering under the " dictatorship of the Czech bureaucracy and police . ' In consequence of alleged suppression since the establishment of the Republic , Herr @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 's celebration of the 20-year establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic . He also declared that the Sudeten Germans had rejected Premier Milan Hodza 's proposals of codification of the laws in regard to nationality on the ground that this so-called minority statute " would clearly perpetuate injustice and violence . " Summary of Demands Herr Henlein asserted that Czechoslovakia had drifted far from ideal of a second Switzerland and made eight demands which , he said , must be fulfilled as basis of Czech and Sudetic German co-operation . These he summarized as follows : complete equality of Germans and Czechs ; recognition of the Germans in corporative groups ; definition of German districts ; autonomous administration of such districts in all departments of public life ; legal protection for Germans outside these purely German districts ; removal of " injustices , " and compensation for damage ; German officials for German districts ; liberty for Germans to profess German " Volkstum " ( nationality ) and German " Weltanschauung " ( world outlook ) . The last point would constitute Czech recognition of National Socialism within the State . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would come under German administration . " Autonomy " Carefully Avoided Throughout the speech the word autonomy was carefully avoided but it was implicit in the demands Herr Henlein put forward . The frank advocacy of National Socialism leaves Czechoslovakia with the difficult problem of finding a modus vivendi within its own borders between totalitarianism and democracy . In future the general European situation alone will reveal the unfoldment of this difficult problem . The speech was an election speech beginning a six-week campaign for local elections which will include elections in 2,000 Sudeten German areas .                     