@@701774

txt A proposal that differences among Eastern . railroads over passenger fares be compromised on a basis of 214 cents per ' coach mile is under discussion here and in the next few days may be put up to Daniel Willard , head of the Baltimore 4 Ohio . Over long distance from Baltimore . yesterday . Mr. Willard said that he had heard of no " definite proposition " and declined to comment on any theoretical basis on which the roads might get together . Mr. Willard did not , however , reject the idea . The Baltimore &; Ohio has been the only Eastern carrier favorable to the recent ICC order establishing fares at two cents per coach mile and three cents per Pullman mile . effective June 2 . If the B. 11. 0 . agreed to a compromise , the next step would be to ask ICC to modify its recent decision . Pattie* Ready for Labor Parley Spurred by pressure from the White House , railway management and labor representatives are prepared to resume negotiations looking to an agreement for protection of rail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was disclosed that Eastern railroad executives will meet within a few days to consider the Interstate Commerce Commission 's passenger fare order . They are expected to discuss a compromise agreement with Baltimore &; Ohio or to determine whether an injunction e.gainst the Commission 's order should be sought . President Roosevelt 's request that management and labor seek to settle their differences over employe protection by negotiation , outside the held of legislation , was well received in both management and labor quarters . Labor , having initiated the negotiations that ended in deadlock , was pleased that the President came out so fatly for negotiation as opposed to legislation . Both groups realize that an agreement reached by negotiation would be much more desirable , by reason of its flexibility , than a rigid law . Conroe Depends ' Upon B. &; 0 . The course pursued by the Eastern roads will depend almost entirely upon the stand taken by Baltimore &; Ohio . The B. &; 0. , the , only major eastern road that supported the position taken by the ICC , has favored lower passenger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the week-end from a Western trip and is ready to meet in conferences with other Eastern rail executives It previously had been reported that the carrier was prepared to file the lower rate schedules ' with the ICC very soon , but Mr. Willard has not made known his position . It also has been suggested in some quarters that New Haven might initiate a suit to enjoin the Commission 's order . The road , already having court contact by reason of its bankruptcy , proceeding , might file such a suit and be sup- ' ported by the other Eastern lines . However , a move by B. &; 0 . to put the new ' fares into effect would virtually preclude. , an injunction suit , inasmuch as New York Central ' and Pennsylvania immediately would have to institute the rates on their own lines With lower fares in effect , the matter of an injunction against low rates probably would be considered by the court as a moot question . Pelliey Reported In Aceerd N'Ilth Stand President Pelley of the Association of American Railroads forwarded Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported as endorsing the President 's stand re : garding the negotiations , and standing ready to ' aid both groups in any way possible . At the same time . RFC Chairman Jesse H. Jones , reviewed the President 's stand as " pretty sound , " but doubted that " large savings " could be accomplished by the railroads . While stating that there is much room for coordination , ; Chairman ones said labor should be fully prort.ected . Rail employment , he said , has been ' " cut to the bone , " and there should not be a further reduction . Any employes who are displaced by coordination , he said , should be put to work on new railroad projects or taken care of until they can be put to work . Normal displacement of workers by reason of death , retirement and the like , coupled with increased traffic making necessary additional help should . in a very shorE time , " take up the slack " in employment brought on by coordination , the chairman said " Of course you meet yourself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities . " he continued . He explained that " varying interests , both in personalities and securities " will prevent coordination on a bigBeale . A number of duplicating tracks might be eliminated , he thought , but the unification of terminals might be " uneconomic " . However , the entire mater of coordination " should be given serious consideration , ? he said , adding that management and labor should be able to work out their differences by negotiation . Meanwhile , at the ICC hearing yesterday . L. C. Madeira III . director of the Anthracite Institute , opposed the railroads ' petition for extension of emergency rates . Motions of the National Association of Railroad and Utility Commissioners and certain shipper organizations for dismissal of the carriers ' petition will be argued at the hearing today .                     