@@704276

txt A formal complaint charging the American League for Peace and Democracy with violating Federal laws requiring the registration of agents of foreign governments was prepared tonight for submission to the Department of Justice by Represen= tative Dies , chairman of the Committee to Investigate Un-American Activities . Mr. Dies set forth his complaint in the form of a letter which he made public coincident with mailing it to Attorney General Murphy . He requested action by the Department of Justice in view of the state of limited emergency declared by President Roosevelt for protection of the United States soon after the outbreak of the European war . " The evidence in possession of the committee , " Mr. Dies wrote , " shows not only that the American League was organized in the first instance by the Communist party acting under instructions of the Communist Internationale and that the league has shifted its policies whenever changes have been made in strict accordance with the changing policies of the Communist Internationale but also shows that the league is today the instrument of the Communist ' party of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Communist Internationale . " Voluminous Testimony Cited The request for prosecution of the league was filed by Mr. Dies only one day after he made public a list of 563 names of government employes seized in the files of the league , along with a statement to the effect that , while these persons were not all Communists , the league was a " front " organization for communism in the United States . The league has repeatedly denied this charge , both in public statements and in testimony of its officers before the committee , of whom the most recent was Dr. Harry F. Ward , national chairman . In backing his request for investigation and prosecution of the league , Mr. Dies drew upon voluminous testimony taken by his committee He charged that the league , formed in 1935 , was the successor to the American League Against War and Fascism , which was " launched as a direct result of the work of the Amsterdam World Congress Against War , " held in 1932 . " The American League , " he stated , " was set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in various countries , affiliated with each other under the direction of the Communist International in Moscow . " Daily Worker Is Quoted The original league , he added , was formed directly by Henri Barbusse , about whom ne quoted The New York Daily Worker as stating that " Henri Barbusse ? ? ? came here to found the American League Against War and Fascism . " He wrote , in turn , that Earl Browder has said , " I speak of Barbusse as a Communist , " in a speech delivered by Browder , Communist and former official of the league , at a congress of the original league in Cleveland in 1936 . After citing a long chain of other testimony before the committee , Mr. Dies continued : " Both the financial secretary of the Communist party of the United States , Mr. William Weiner , and the national chairman of the American League for Peace and Democracy , Dr. Henry F. Ward , testified under oath before our committee that the Communist party is the only national organization which contributes any appreciable sum of money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to two or three thousand dollars annually , according to these two witnesses , and represents approximately 15 per cent of the total annual budget of the American League . This financial contribution from the Communist party has continued down to the present moment , despite the fact that the Communist party formally severed its affiliation with the American League almost two years ago . " In the meantime , Representative Celler , Democrat of New York , introduced in the House two bills to prohibit and penalize dissemination through the mails of any material defamatory to religious , racial , national , fraternal , industrial , commercial or labor groups . He suggested maximum penalties of one year in prison , a fine of $5,000 , or both . Representative Martin J. Kennedy , Democrat of New York , urged in a House speech that the work of " protecting the country against communism " be turned over to veterans ' associations such as the American Legion , ' the Veterans of Foreign Wars and the Disabled American Veterans . upon the findings of the committee even when they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the house , Representative Coffee , Democrat of Washington , demanded that the Chamber and the Roosevelt Administration repudiate the committee 's action . He accused it of engaging in " unAmerican activities which it was created to smoke out . " Representative Cox , Democrat of Georgia , interrupted to inquire : " If there is not something that is bad about this so-called league for peace and democracy , then why object to the publication of the list of the members of the Washington chapter ? " Mr. Coffee asserted that although league leaders were willing to submit the list on request , Dies committee agents had " raided " the league office here to get it . Special to Tax Mow Yortic Tams . CHICAGO , Oct , ** officials started here today an investigation of Fascist , Nazi , Communist and other alleged subversive organizations with a view toward indictments if they are found violating Federal laws . The investigation was ordered by Attorney General Murphy . District Attorney William J. Campblee said that Mr. . Murphy had telephoned orders for the general investigation after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Silver Shirts for breaking department store windows . Committee Criticized in House By The Associated Press . WASHINGTON , Oct. 26 ? The Dies committee encountered fresh criticism from one of its own members today for publishing what it termed a " membership and mailing list " of the Washington branch of the American League for Peace and Democracy . Representative Voorhis of California told reporters that giving out the list was " just what the Communists wanted us to do . " He added ? " It will lead to casting doubt                     