@@697531

txt The Government of the Republic of Panama , headed by President Florencio Harmodio Arosemena , was overthrown early today in a revolution that flared up with deadly swiftness , catching the Federal officials by complete surprise . Following an uprising at 2 o'clock this morning in which ten persons were killed and twenty-four , including an American newspaper correspondent , were wounded , the revolutionary junta announced the formation of a provisional government headed by Harmodio Arias in association with Francisco Arias Paredes and Dr. 3 . J. Vallarino . Officials Seized in Homes . The revolutionaries , armed with rifles , pistols and machetes , surprised the members of the government in their homes while attacking the central police station . Five policemen were killed at the station . The attackers wore strange garb for a military assault . One officer wore a soiled white linen suit and bright yellow shoes and had no hat . Ile carried a huge sabre without a scabbard . He was accompanied by a man in blue dungarees and a white American sailor hat . Soon a procession of important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were in pajamas and some were barefoot . They included ' Colonel Arango , Chief of Police ; Nicolas Victoria , Secretary of Finance ; Federico Boyd , Governor of Panama Province ; Carlos Guevara , President of the National Assembly and a member of the National Election Board ; Antonio Anguizola of Chiriqui Province and a =Umber of police officers . Simultaneously the revolutionaries ktssaulted the President 's Palace and a hand-to-hand struggle ensued in the pretty Moorish patio around the marble fountain in which floated a sluggish tortoise , creating a panic in a group of tame white cranes , dainty egrets and brilliantly colored tropical water fowl . In the first advance on the palace , the guards stood their ground , returning the fire of the revolutionaries . A number on each side were Wounded and the attackers were forced to retire . There followed a momentary lull , during which the attackers held a council , planning a fresh assault . Once more the rebels advanced , determined to rush the palace guards and to win entrance to the edifice by way of an adjoining building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revolutionaries swarmed up to a balcony of the palace , while others forced their way in through the butler 's pantry . President Arosemena was seized in his own chambers , finding himself facing an automatic riot gun . Ordering his men not to fire , the leader commanded President Arosemena to surrender . President Arosemena said to newspaper men soon afterward , a have not resigned . " He added that he did not intend to withdraw . from office . Then Francisco Arias Paredes , Harmodio Arias and Dr. Vallarino called at the American Legation to consult Minister Davis , who left to confer with President Arosemena . Later the President resigned . Before resigning , President Arosemena appointed Daniel Ballen president of the Supreme Court and filled the vacancy left in the Department of Government and Justice by the appointment of Harmodio Arias as Secretary . Seiler Arias took charge of the government after the resignation of the President . Pays Tribute to Our Minister . Senor Arias was sworn in as provisional President by the Supreme Court at 5 P. M. today and then addressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the honor and asking all . citizens to cooperate with the government . He then went to the Presidential Palace , where he received the foreign press . Referring to the good offices of American Minister Davis , he said : " I feel deeply grateful for the tact , courteousness and great earnestness with which he proceeded to cope with a very difficult situation , especially by coming here to ? interview President Arosemena at the risk of his life , when the firing was still going on . I am sure the people of Panama deeply appreciate his disinterested action . " We are going to have honesty and fairness in the goveKnment and will abide by all contrac , whether held by Panamanians or foreigners . " I did not want this place , but somebody had to take the responsibility . I am only temporary . " Then he announced the provisional Cabinet as follows : Under Secretary of State ? Dr. 3 . Z. VALLARINO . Foreign Relations ? FRANCISCO ARIAS PAREDES . Finance  --  ENRIQUE JIMENEZ . Public Worko  --  RAMON E. MORA . Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a public automobile to the American Legation to call on the Minister as a private citizen . Arosemena Is Liberated . Ex President Arosemena was permitted in the afternoon to go with his family to the Hotel Tivoli in the Canal Zone . A Tribunal of Honor , consisting of Raul Espinosa , Tomas Arias , Samuel Lewis and Enrique de la Guardia assumed responsibility for the protection of ex-President Arosemena . The Supreme Court is reported to have declared the election of Tomas Duque as First Vice President and the election of Carlos Lopez as Second Vice President unconstitutional , which leaves Dr. Ricardo J. Alfaro , Minister to Washington , the constitutional first designate to the Presidency . It is believed that he will take the Presidency . There was no disorder after the revolutionists completed their coup . The Supreme Court requested Panama 's efficient neutral fire fighters under Commander Juan Antonio Guizado to take charge of policing the city and soon red-shirted firemen in huge black helmets were using pink extra editions of The Panama American as batons for directing traffic . The Star and Herald and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were forbidden to publish early in the day , but the restriations were soon removed . Among those detained by the revolutionaries was Dr. Belisario Porras , former President , who recently joined the government wing of the Liberals as the result of a reconciliation with their leader , former President Chiari . The crowd was so threatening that Dr. Porras was not taken to the police station but was guarded at his home . The Panama American reports that J. D. Arosemena , former Secretary for Foreign Affairs , and - two members of the editorial staff of Estrella de Panama and the Dian ? were de ? tained . Former President Chiari and - his son , Colonel Roberto Chiari , have taken refuge in the Ecuadorean Legation , where they have not been molested by the revolutionaries . Soon after the uprising started , Abel Lastra , Mayor of Panama City , fled by automobile to the Canal Zone , narrowly escaping the fire of revolutionists ' bullets . Seven bullets tore into the hood of his machine as he sped away . It is believed the restoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because the revolutionists would have resisted interference . Most of the rebels were young members of the Accion Comunal , an organization formed to oppose the Arosemena regime . A truckload of American soldiers , sent to guard the American Legation , were the only troops to enter the city . The only other uniforms in evidence are those of policemen who joined the revolution . American Banks Guarded . Although entrance to the Presidential Palace was gained by breaking into the National Bank , not even the papers on the desks were disturbed . One of the first acts of the revolutionists was to place guards before the branches of the American Chase and National City banks . A manifesto signed by fifty prominent citizens supporting the revolution says it will restore the rights of citizens and give the country a just election law , assuring absolute freedom of the ballot . " We declare that we will recognize all agreements made by the former government and that we will respect all obligations of an international character which the Panamanian Nation has with the world , " the manifesto reads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jan. 2 ( M. ? Despite the apparent success of the revolutionary movement which overthrew President Arosemena at Panama City today , Governor Inocencio Galindo of the Province of Colon tonight refused a demand from the revolutionary junta that he resign and that the province adhere to the new government . He announced that his resignation ? would only be effective if it were demanded by President Arosemena . Earlier in the day Governor Galindo characterized the revolutionary leaders as- a smil group of malcontents and . asserted that with the exception of Panama City the nine prisoners remained loyal to the old government . ' He attempted to ? send a detachment of 500 of the national police to Panama City to support the government but the Panama Railroad refused to carry the men . Governor Galindo today issued a call to the Governors of other provinces urging cooperation in repressing the revolt and suggesting the disarming of all citizens .                     