@@698899

txt The whole weight of Britain is to be directed toward weaving the Hoover disarmament proposals into a comprehensive plan to restore confidence to the world , the Monitor is reliably informed . Following conferences with the Cabinet Sir John Simon , Foreign Minister , returns to Geneva next week authorized to give the British Government 's substantial approval to the American program . This does not mean that Downing Street believes the Hoover plan will be adopted without some amendments . Earnest , perhaps prolonged , negotiations are expected to be necessary before the plan can be brought to fruition . Britain itself will seek to amend the naval clauses . So will Japan . And France is expected to bring forward important changes in the land section of the scheme . Nevertheless , in spite of all difficulties Britain sees in President Hoover 's proposals new hope of bringing fresh guns of peace to bear on the forces of fear , which are beleaguering the world today . Downing Street will therefore set itself first of all to the task of fitting the Hoover iilan into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to link Geneva to Lausanne . Definite Assurances Needed The key word to the puzzle in the British view is confidence  --  political confidence for France and its allies that if they disarm further they will still be safe from attack . Political confidence , too , for Germany in the shape of progressive release from restrictive clauses of peace treaties as well as immediate final settlement of reparations . In this connection , Downing Street is particularly pleased to find the German Chancellor , Capt . Franz von Papen ? so at least it is understood here ? is proposing to give the French practical proofs of the advantages to be reaped from abandoning reparations . Obviously it is impossible to say precisely what Germany is offering since the whole matter is still under discussion . But it includes substantial tariff concessions and joint Franco-German action to restore central and eastern Europe . The possibility of industrial cooperation is also under consideration . On the purely political side there is talk of a new consultative pact to fill the gap in the Kellogg-Briand treaty . Germany is ' ready to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tension on the side of Poland as well as France . Even Britain , which has hitherto viewed any further European commitments very unfavorably , is prepared to think again . In this connection , considerable interest has been aroused here in a statement in the Republican platform adopted at Chicago , June 16 , to the effect that President Hoover , if reelected , would seek congressional authorization for the United States to call or participate in an international conference in case of any threat of nonfulfillment of Article 2 of the peace pact . Fulcrum for World Action In all this it is possible to see the outline of a new world house of confidence gradually taking shape . Until President Hoover came forward with his declaration in favor of cutting armaments by one-third , the architects at Lausanne backed up an integral part of the plan . No specific arms cut had been proposed at Geneva . The Disarmament Conference could get little further thrill the verbiage of how the powers might disarm -- if they felt so inclined . Hence the welcome Downing Street now gives to President Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a fulcrum like that 4or which Archimedes , the architect and Greek philosopher , begged , so that he might . roo4T the world . Accordingly when Sir John Simon goes back to Geneva he will be charged with using the Hoover fulcrum to the best of his powers to bring the world back to stability and confidence . Dutch Unions Favor THE HAGUE , Netherlands , June 25 ( /P ) ? The Congress of the Netherlands Federation of Trades Unions , representing a membership of 350,000 workers , Thursday sent an appeal to the disarmament conference to accept President Hoover 's proposals . Church es Back Arms Cut NEW YORK , Jtine 25 ( AI ? President Hoover 's proposal for a reduction in world armaments yeiterday received the unqualified approval of the administrative committee of the Federal Council of Churches. ,                     