@@698935

txt Governor General James has demanded an apology from Eamon de Valera , President of the Irish Free State Executive Council , for affronts by the President and members of the Council . He has called for the apology " as an alternative to my removal from office . " This was revealed tonight when in defiance of an express prohibition by the Irish Executive Council the Governor General made public correspondence between himself and Mr. de Valera referring to the " deliberate discourtesy " shown him at a recent function at the French Legation when two Free State Ministers walked out upon his arrival , as well as to other snubs before and during the recent Eucharistic Congress . The entire correspondence was published except for one letter written by Mr. de Valera that the President had marked " personal . " Late tonight the daily newspapers of Dublin received from James Geoghegan , Free State Minister of Justice , formal notice that the correspondence sent them by the Governor General consisted of State documents that , under the official secrets act , must not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but for the moment the newspapers find themselves obliged to comply with it . As far as could be ascertained , all three Dublin morning newspapers , The Irish Times , The Irish Independent and Mr. de Valera 's Irish Press were complying with the ministerial order . Until the boat arrives tomorrow it will not be known whether any step - will be taken to exclude English newspapers that are publishing extensive extracts from the correspondence . Protests " Offensive Conduct . " In the first letter dated from Viceregal Lodge , Dublin , on April 26 , the Governor General wrote to Mr. de Valera protesting against the action of Sean T. O'Kelly , Vice President of the Executive Council , and Frank Aiken , Minister of Defense , in leaving a dance at the French legation as soon as he arrived . " In the absence of any explanation , " he wrote , " I must protest against the offensive conduct of the Ministers and the use of your party newspaper The Irish Press to assist them . I think that while I am Governor General you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasions to be discourteous whether or not The Irish Press gives added publicity to their conduct . " ' Mr. de Valera 's letter , marked i'personal , " was addressed to the Governor General on April 30 . In a reply on May 2 Mr. wrote : " Having considered your letter in all its parts , I think an apology from you and the two Ministers concerned is due not merely on my personal or official account , but with regard to the honor and self-respect of Irish public life . " " Regrettable , " Says de Valera . Mr. de Valera 's reply to this on May 7 was : " In my previous letter I made it clear that I regarded the whole affair as unfortunate and regrettable and vne that should not have been permitted to ? rear . Further than this I am unable to go . " The next letter was from Mr. on May 24 in which he said that following a call by an emissary of Mr. de Valera named Waishe he deferred issuing invitations to several European Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eucharistic Congress . As the time drew near the Governor General sent for Walshe who , according to the letter , said , " To issue the invitations would cause embarrassment to the government . " The Governor General proceeded : " I feel ' hat the embarrassment , if it should arise , would not be sufficient to justify me in failing to make the contribution to the Con*Tess which I had already arranged .. I have already sent invitations to English Catholics , which have been accepted . I regret your government has been unable to assist me in inviting other visitors . " Having waited until July 7 . Mr. again wrote to Mr. de Valera saying he had " thought it undesirable to make any further protest regarding the discourtesy with which you and your Ministers have treated me , " immediately before and during the Eucharistic Congress . He again pressed for an apology , saying . " Your newspaper glories in the insult , but made no reference to an apology to the French Minister . " Charges " Ignorance of Duty . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex. - ' zhano.ed with the Cosgrave Government in obtaining the addresses distinguished Catholics , and , referring to Walshe 's visit , said : " Your message conveyed verbally was more than discourteous . It suggested a profound ignorance of the duty you owed to the people in connection with the Congress . You had no right whatsoever to send such a message , even if you had carefully refrained from putting it in writing . " The letter at great length dealt with the controversy over the engagement of an army band for the welcome to the Papal Legate and proceeded : " Aiken wished to know if the Governor General was to be present ? before the army band could be permitted to be present and trumpeters provided to play a fanfare in honor of the Cardinal Legate . The band is not the property of Aiken or any political party . The army band which was asked for by the Lord Mayor in behalf of the citizens was not present . It was absent because the Lord Mayor could not agree to the Governor General 's exclusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phrases From the Letter . Other excerpts from Mr. 's letter are : " I am willing to return to private life when my public duty is displeasing to a majority of either the Dail or the people , but I do not think I should resign because other officeholders think I am a suitable target for ill-conditioned bad manners . " " I know you have a majority in the Dail and could have me removed . " " I have arranged that all correspondence shall be published within three days unless I receive apologies here from you and the other Ministers who , sometimes openly , sometimes otherwise , have sought to behave with calculated discourtesy to the Governor General from whom , you accepted confirmation of your appointments . " You have made it necessary for me to explain to my countrymen that without any change of principle in his attitude since there was a change in government I have not suddenly become a coward on account of the attractions of an honorable office . " " I am sorry that you have chosen for the occasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which the Irish nation was united with the whole Catholic world . " Order Bans Publication . Mr. de Valera 's rejoinder came by messenger the next day . " I submitted your letter of July 7 to the Executive Council . " he wrote . " The Council is surprised that the Governor General should propose to publish letters which passed between him and the President . Communications between the President and the Governor General are confidential State documents . The Executive Council is not prepared to create a precedent of permitting the Governor General to publish such documents , and I hereby convey to your Excellency the formal advice and direction of the Executive Council not to publish the letters in question . " ? The Governor General 's final letter , dated last Saturday , read in essential part : ' " I have objected in my letters to the acts of the President and the Ministers as unjustifiable and offensive . In the face of affronts how1 ' ever outrageous by the President and some members of the executive council to the Governor General there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me but silent acceptance . It must surely be evident to you that you and your council are the only people in Ireland who think the course you suggest is honorable . I think that only you and your council will be surprised at my decision to have an apology . - nade to me as an alternative to my removal from office . " I note you are silent about Aiken 's misconduct in his interview with the Lord Mayor of Dublin . Having addressed you on the subject and received no answer , I am still supposed to regard my statement as confidential . The correspondence other than your letter marked ' personal ' will be published . " Incident Caused Sensation . A sensation was caused in Dublin on the night of April 23 when Vice President O'Kelly , Minister of Defense Aiken and a number of their friends ostentatiously left a social function at the French legation upon the arrival of Governor General . After the guests had assembled the Governor General entered a ballroom in the legation and the British national anthem was played by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's government left the room and the legation . The occasion was a ball given by Charles Alphand , French Minister to the Free State , and Mime . Alphand for a daughter who had recently been married to a Dublin man . Many prominent persons attended the ball , including Frederick A. Sterling , tfie American Minister , and members of the former Free State Government of William T. Cosgrave . Preceding the State reception for Cardinal Lauri , the Papal Legate at the Eucharistic Congress , President de Valera 's personal secretary asserted that the government considered it " hardly appropriate " for the Governor General ? an appointee of the British Crown  --  to attend the formal reception . " The Governor General will be attending several other functions in connection with the Eucharistic Congress , " the secretary said . " It has been considered hardly appropriate for him to attend the State reception . " Relations With Britain Strained . Relations between the Irish Free State and Great Britain have been troubled by President de Valera 's attempts to eliminate the oath of allegiance to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annuities has brought a reprisal measure from Britain , allowing imposition of duties up to 100 per cent on Irish goods . There has been talk for several months that Mr. de Valera might ask for the elimination of the Governor General 's office on a plea of economy . Since the Governor General is appointed by the British crown , his removal , unless by resignation , presumably would have to be also by act of the crown . Mr. 's procedure might be to lay the case befor the Crown and ask for his removal . Mr. , who was one of the drafters of the Free State Constitution , was appointed to succeed the late Timothy Healy on Dec. 15 , 1927 . Born at Glenarm , County Antrim , on March 27 , 1869 , Mr. was educated in Dublin schools and at Cambridge University . In 1890 he entered the Indian Civil Service , remaiming in ' that branch until 1915 . He was registrar of Cooperative Soeieties in 1904 and later was sent on special duty in the West Indies and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became Commissioner for the Central Division of Bombay Presidency he was often regarded as a sort of buffer between Lord Kitchner and Lord Curzon of Keddleston and smoothed out many a dispute between those self-willed high officials by his tact . His last office in India was that of additional member of the Imperial Legislative Council of India . In 1922 Mr. was chairman of the Dublin County Council . The following year he was appointed Irish Free State Commissioner to London , a ' post he held until he became Governor General of the Free State .                     