@@704299

txt The Admiralty announced today that a British destroyer had struck a German mine and sunk . The ship , the fifth the British Navy has lost since the outbreak of the war , went down within a mile of where a British merchantman sank whose loss was announced yesterday . Rescuers of the survivors of the destroyer . witnessed the second disaster . Destruction yesterday of the 11,109-ton Norwegian tanker Arne Kjode and of the 8,003-ton Liverpool cargo steamer Aratra was also announced during the day . Only one life was lost in the sinking of the destroyer , whose name , for some reason , the Admiralty withheld . Five other members of the crew were reported missing , however , and fifteen were listed as injured . ( The British navy includes in Its various " destroyer " classes more than 150 vessels . These vary in size and equipment . The Blanche , as an example . is of 1,360 tons , 323 feet in length , with a speed of thirty-five knots and mounting four 4.7-inch guns and eight 21-inch torpedo tubes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lost The destroyer was the first of that class and the fifth warship the British had lost since the beginning of the war . The aircraft carrier Courageous and the battleship Royal Oak were sunk by torpedoes from German submarines with losses of 573 and 810 , respectively . The submarine Oxley fell a victim to German action with fifty-three men lost , and the armed trawler Northern Rover is missing , presumably sunk , with twentyseven aboard . The latest victim met her fate presumably on submarine patrol just after dawn yesterday . Several small craft were in the vicinity when the explosion occurred , and it was due to their presence that the casualties were so small . Tugs v:ere on the scene before the destroyer sank , and they managed to pick up most of the ship 's complement . An effort was made to tow the destroyer into shallow water , but she broke in two and sank before she could be beached . The explosion was heard by two fishermen in a motor boat hauling in their nets a quarter of a mile away . Jack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they reached the destroyer 's side she was going down stern first and men were jumping into the sea . " The surface was covered with thick oil , and the survivors were slippery as eels , " said Mr. Pockock . " One man was singing ' Even Hitler had a mother , ' and he refused to be picked up until weaker swimmers were rescued . " Just as the motor boat was starting for shore with sixty survivors , Mr. Pockock said , he heard another explosion and saw a merchantman , which turned out to be the 1,360-ton Ponzano , in the distance . Going alongside , the fishermen related , they saw a big hole in the Ponzano 's bow and stood alongside until her crew got off in her boats . The freighter settled slowly and finally sank about a mile from where the destroyer had gone down . Loss of Warship Serious While Great Britain has a large force of destroyers , the loss of even one is a serious matter in the struggle going on between the British Navy and Germany 's submarines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ninety-seven modern destroyers and sixty-two over-age ships of this class . Forty-three new ones , provided for before the outbreak of war , are being built . The only man killed in the loss of the destroyer , it was said , was a seaman . Three officers were among those injured . All the survivors were landed today at a British port . Watchers on the landing stage said the men were covered with grease from head to foot and that six of them had to be carried in stretchers . Twenty-three survivors from the Arne Kjode , the Norwegian tanker , were landed at a Northern British port by a trawler after having been adrift forty hours in an open boat . The trawler spent five hours searching for another boat containing seventeen men , including the tanker 's captain . The tanker , according to survivors , was struck amidships by a torpedo and broke in two . So little time did her crew have to take to the boats that many were not dressed warmly . Her wireless was put out of commission before they abandoned ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they related , took the skipper 's boat in tow , but during the stormy night it broke loose and was lost in the darkness . It carried little food or drinking water . It was about 2 o'clock this morning before the weary castaways sighted the trawler that picked them up . The Matra , it was announced , went down in the North Sea last night after an explosion . Two members of her crew were killed and twenty-two injured . The captain , pilot , ten officers and about forty Lascar sailors were taken off by a lifeboat which made three trips to the stricken vessel . The rest of the survivors , who put out in the Matra 's lifeboat , were picked up by a tanker after rowing several hours in the darkness . The Matra was owned by J. and J. Brocklebank , who said they understood all European members of the crew were saved . The possibility that the sinking of the British steamer Sirdhana by a mine off Singapore yesterday meant extension of German war operations to the Far East was dismissed tonight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unusual mishap in navigation . " It would appear , " said the Admiralty , " that the Sirdhana must have inadvertently entered a British mine field off that port . " An earlier report stated the explosion occurred just after the port pilot had left the Sirdhana . All military personnel aboard the linter were saved , it was officially announced today . They included 163 East Indian non-commissioned officers and men with " followers " ( native servants ) of the Hong Kong and Singapore artillery ; 3,070 Ships Convoyed Making his first speech in the House of Commons as Minister of Shipping , Sir John Gilmour declared today that of 3,070 British ships convoyed since the war broke out , only seven had been lost . He announced that more than onefifth of the total tonnage at present on order or under construction in the United Kingdom was on the government 's account . He admitted that a quicker and better solution for the transport of coal was urgent , but added that arrangements were being made to increase the number of convoys and gave assurance that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Answering questions , Sir John said shipbuilding orders had not yet been placed in Canada . He maintained that every possible British yard mugt be used for shipbuilding and pointed out that the President of the ' Board of Trade , Oliver Stanley , had taken steps to insure that a proportion of whatever yards were available should be set aside to meet the shipping program other than naval production . The Minister of Shipping revealed that a considerable number of ships had been designated to bring cereals from Canada before the St. Lawrence River freezes over . The reason for this , he explained , was that his Ministry must concentrate at this time on shorter overseas routes rather than longer ones . He said so far the Ministry had resorted to requisitioning ships mainly for supplies for the fighting forces . Trawler Sunk by U-Boat LONDON , Nov. 14 ( UP ) ? The 275-ton British trawler Cresswell , out of Liverpool , was shelled and sunk by a U-boat off the north coast of Scotland with a loss of at least six lives , it was announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for six hours after clinging to rafts and debris in icy-cold water , were landed at Fleetwood from the trawler Phyllisia . Three British steamers have sunk in the past three days after striking the same submerged hulk  --  the wreck of a steamer sunk two weeks ago  --  off the east coast of England . A coastal lifeboat rescued the crew of the Leith steamer Dryburgh , 1,289 tons , after the vessel struck the wreckage on Saturday , and on Sunday night the same lifeboat rescued eighteen men from another British steamer and still later twenty-eight of the crew of a third British ship which struck the wreckage . Survivors of the trawler Cresswell , sunk by a Nazi U-boat off the north coast of Scotland , said the submarine opened fire on the ship without warning . " The first man to jump overboard was Boatswain Andrews with his lifebelt , " said William Fausset , mate of the Cresswell . " Ten of us threw a raft into the water and clung to it while the submarine kept on shelling our ship . " The water was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmerciful ' ly . After firing about twenty shells , the submarine disappeared , and we thought she had left us for good . The raft tossed us about and it was difficult to hold on . " We were in the water nearly two and a half hours when the U-boat reappeared and hauled us aboard . After that the U-boat crew did everything to make us comfortable . They gave us clothing , hot food and brandy . " Mr. Fausset said the survivors of the Cresswell were aboard the submarine more than six hours until the Phyllisia was sighted and they were transferred to her . Most of the survivors of the destroyer sunk yesterday landed from the tug were a pitiful sight , scantily clad , some naked and all thickly coated with oil . " They must have been through a terrible experience , " an eyewitness said . " They were wet through and blue with cold . Some had nothing on , and they wrapped blankets around them . " The men who aided in the rescue of the men of the destroyer also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mile from where the warship went down . Two fishermen , Jack Pockock and Benjamin Richards , witnessed the sinking of a British destroyer . " The destroyer was surrounded by oil , and the men were plunging into the sea from the decks , " Mr. Richards said . " Some clung to debris and spars , others swam , and we saw some sinking . " Many of the men were exhausted when we pulled them into our boat . A number refused help until we had picked up the weaker swimmers . As we assisted some , we had to watch others drown . It was impossible to help them . " This indicated that the toll might have been greater than one dead and six missing . " Unfortunately we saw two or three go under before we were able to reach them , " he said . One of the crew of a second fishing boat that aided in the rescue said that his ship was trawling just before dawn when he heard a loud explosion and saw several ships illuminated by searchlights . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a tug and several smaller boats standing by , " he related . " We thought that by then all the survivors must have been picked up . But as vie approached the destroyer we saw a man in the water . He was covered with oil and could hardly speak . " Survivors of the Norwegian tanker Arne Kjorde said their ship also was torpedoed without warning and broke in two amidships . Their radio was destroyed , they said , making it impossible to send distress signals . The crew took to two boats . Seventeen members of the crew were in the captain 's boat , which was being towed by a boat carrying the mate and twenty-two other men .                     