@@700491

txt A recommendation that the Administration reciprocal tariff bill be drastically liberalized to give President Roosevelt even greater tariff making powers was made to the House Ways and Means Committee by Robert L. O'Brien , chairman of the Tariff Commission . Mr. O'Brien opened the second day of hearings on the Administration sponsored tariff measure . The commission chairman , a Republican , reappointed recently by President Roosevelt , warned the committee in frank language that the present system of flexible tariffs , based on the cost of production theory had produced few concrete results . He assured the committee that both present law , which opponents of the Administration plan favor . and the proposed new act leave tariff making to the Chief Executive . " The bi-partisan nature of the present tariff commission means nothing . " he said . " President Hoover appointed a Democrat so strong a protectionist that he makes you " , Dr. Crowther ( Representative Crowther . Rep .. leader of the protectionist group in Congress ) look like a free trader . " Would Have Free List Included The witness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power he should have " to get the country out of the intolerable quagmire its foreign trade is m " He also recommended the measure be extended to include the present free list . He assured Republican members of the committee . who are bitterly opposed to the Administration plan , that " President Roosevelt is a good deal of a conservative on tariff making . " Returning to his principal argument , that the two systems , present and the proposed , are little different , he said : " Any tariff commission chairman would not know his job if he took up to the White House something that would get the President in a hole . " Using as an example the 30 cents tariff on wheat enacted by Congress which was raised to 42 cents by Presidential decree upon upon recommendation of the Tariff Commission alter a cost of production study , Mr. O'Brien remarked that such a determination depended largely upon accountancy methods . He said later that there were lawyers who had made a specialty of advising companies on cost of production data for use before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Chamber of Commerce urged modification of the proposed bill to assure protection of American business . James A. Farrell , former chairman of the United States Steel Co .. represented the Chamber 's foreign commerce committee He emphasized , however , that his attitude toward the bill was " not one of antagonism. rather it is one of a desire to put forward some suggestions which in our opinion would make the proposal more in keeping with the reasonable coordination of our national and our internation interests . " He listed three suggested changes as follows : 1 . That , in granting authority to make tariff changes in the interest of reciprocal negotiations , Congress write into the law the definite limitation that no rate be lowered to a point where American industry and agriculture shall " be subjected to destructive foreign competition . " 2 . That present flexible provisions be maintained embodying a basic formula to be 12 , id down by Congress according to which the adequate protective level of individual rates should be set would be determined . 3 . That a tariff adjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by any proposed reciprocal agreement , to present its arguments .                     