@@699972

txt The fusion group headed by former Governor Charles S. Whitman stood ready last night to name Robert Moses , former Secretary of State and intimate friend of Alfred E. Smith , for the fusion nomination for Mayor . Unless blocked by protests from the outside or by the refusal of the prospective candiI date , this action will be taken at a meeting at the Lawyers Club today . The decision of Mr. Whitman , backed by the other members of the fusion conference , to refuse to recommend former Representative Fiorello H. La Guardia and to put forward Mr. Moses caused Samuel Seabury to quit the fusion conference . Mr. Seabury , who as counsel for the Hofstadter committee produced the disclosures that will furnish the basis for the anti-Tammany campaign this Fall , made it I known that he would not support 1 Mr. Moses either for the nomination or for election . Moses Had Declined . Mr. Moses , who declared a week ago that he would not be a candidate , was not reached last night either at his home in Manhattan or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the fusion group seemed to have some grounds for belief that he might reconsider his decision . " We have definite assurance of the availability of candidates for the major city offices , including the office of Mayor , candidates who we are confident will command independent public support , " said Maurice P. Davidson , chairman of the City party , who will be the host at today 's luncheon conference . " Fusion against Tammany is of paramount importance and overshadows the ambitions or preferences of any Iindividual . " Former Assemblyman Langdon I W. Post , Democrat , who has sub ' mitted his resignation as assistant administrator of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration , to become a candidate for Mayor , was reported still to be under consideraI tion for that nomination , in case Mr. Moses should decline or the members of the Whitman group came to believe Mr. Seabury 's support of the fusion nominee was essential for his election . It was said to be more probable , however , that the nomination for Borough President of Manhattan would be offered I to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's split with the Whitman fusion group is regarded as final . He is understood to believe that he has been tricked by the members of this group and to feel that not all of them are sincere in the attempt to make the coming municipal campaign a real fight against Tammany . Mr. Seabury is understood to feel that it would not be possible to make a real fight against Tammany with Mr. Moses as the fusion nominee for Mayor , because of the latter 's known friendship for former Governor Smith . It is Mr. Seabury 's view that , if Mr. Moses should be elected Mayor , Mr. Smith naturally and inevitably would become his principal adviser . It is also Mr. Seabury 's belief that the election of Mr. Moses as a fusion 1 Mayor would cause John F. Curry to lose his Tammany leadership 1 and would bring about a reorganization of Tammany by Mr. Smith . To express , in condensed form , what are understood to be Mr. Seabury 's views , the nomination of Mr. Moses on the fusion ticket would I mean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties in Tammany and the control of that organization . A bitter foe of Tammany , Mr. Seabury believes that the old Tammany of the days of Tweed and Croker was bad . that the " new Tammany , " as revealed by his investigation , is worse and that the " newer Tammany , " if Mr. Smith can bring about a reorganization , would be little better . Seabury Course Unknown . Just what course Mr. Seabury and Mr. La Guardia will take if the Whitman group recommends the nomination of Mr. Moses could not be ascertained . Mr. La Guardia announced that he intended to stand with Mr. Seabury . Should Mr. La Guardia enter the Republican primary , it might be difficult to obtain the Republican nomination for Mr. Moses , although four of the five Republican county leaders , Samuel S. Koenig of Manhattan , Frederick J. H. Kracke of Brooklyn , John 3 . Knewitz of the Bronx and Warren B. Ashmead of Queens , are pledged to support the choice of the Whitman group . The Whitman group , which includes , in addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ingersoll of the City party , Joseph M. Price of the City Club and the independent fusion committee and J. Barstow Smull of the Chamber of Commerce , were to have met yesterday at luncheon at the Lawyers Club as the guests of Mr. Davidson , but the meeting was postponed until today because of " important developments . " La Guardia 's Statement . Mr. La Guardia 's statement , - urging the union of all anti-Tammany elements , follows in parts " We have arrived at a time when there must be very clear and sincere talking in connection with the coming municipal election . The majority of the people of the City of New York want a change in the city administration . " There is only one way of doing it and that is by uniting all antiTammany groups , forces and individuals . There is no political or partisan issue at stake . The only issue is clean , honest , decent , efficient municipal government . " The best available ticket must be presented . I would support such a ticket whether the head of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his anti-Tammany record is clean and unspotted . It is as ridiculous for any one to say he would not support such a ticket , if it is led by a Democrat or Republican , as it would be for an infantry soldier at zero hour to say that he will not move in attack if the artillery takes part . " My coat is off and I am set to go . I am not fighting for a nomination . I am fighting Tammany Hall and to redeem New York City . I will stand shoulder to shoulder with Judge Samuel ' Seabury as long as he is holding the line . He has rendered a great public service to the people of New York City . His work milst not be permitted to be lost in the mesh of selfishness , personal ambition , petty politics or Tammany intrigue . The Seabury program must be translated into action . To the people of the City of New York I report for duty . " Hylan in the Running . Alfred L. Breor of Richmond County , the only Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was confident that former Mayor John F. Hylan ultimately would be named as the Republican-fusion nominee . A telegram urging the nomination of Mr. Hylan was sent to Mr. Whitman by Francis J. Rogers , chairman of the Home Owners and Taxpayers Association . Mr. Hylan , in reply to a question by Allen Carruthers of the Allied League of Independent Voters , announced definitely that he was a candidate for the Republican-fusion nomination for Mayor and characterized the suggestion that he might be a stalking horse for Tammany as " preposterous . " Mr. Koenig and Mr. Kracke denied reports that they were opposed to any candidate . " I am neither for nor against any one , " Mr. Koenig said . " We will await the decision of the fusion committee , which is charged with - the responsibility of selecting a candidate for Mayor , and will submit the results to our executive committee . We hope that an effective union . can be brought about against Tammany Hall to insure victory at the polls this Fall . " Mr. Whitman 's action in opposing the nomination of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whitman is chairman of the fusion conference by virtue of his chairmanship of the Republican Mayoralty Committee , to which he was appointed by W. Kingsland Macy , Republican State Chairman , who favors the nomination of Mr. La Guardia . Members of this committee , which have not met since the fusion conferences have been in progress , contemplate asking Mr. Whitman to call a meeting of the committee to determine what candidate a majority of the full committee favors.                     