@@698843

txt There is absolutely no danger of war between Japan and Soviet Russia , Admiral Makoto Saito declared today in one of his first statements on foreign policy since he assumed the Premiership last week .. " The Japanese Government has stated repeatedly that no danger of war with the Soviet Union exists , " said the Premier , but he added that Japan opposed Russia 's sending additional troops to Siberia . The Admiral accused " a considerable and influential section of American and European opinion " of being too hasty in criticizing Japan 's course in Manchuria and at Shanghai , and hinted that events might impel the Tokyo Government to withdraw from the League of Nations . " It is impossible to say , " he asserted , " that withdrawal from the League might not , under some circumstances , be the right course for Japan to pursue . But I hope such circumstances may not arise . Japan will , of course , fulfill her pledges as a member so long as she remains one . " More Confidence Is Sought . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The attitude of the Soviet Government respecting affairs in Manchuria has been perfectly Forrect , and we only wish that the Soviet Government might see a way to repose such a further measure of confidence in Japan 's sincerity as would enable the Soviet Union to discontinue all concentration of troops In the Far East . " This concentration , the Japanese Government believes , is the real source of recent unfounded rumors of dissension between our two countries . " At the same time , it is feared that the effect of concluding a non-aggression treaty with the Soviet Union would be to weaken the force of the Kellogg-Briand pact and to cast a shadow on Japan 's relations with every other State with which no nonaggression treaty existed . It ' would amount to setting up those special intimacies between nations which so often have been deprecated . " Accordingly , the most serious consideration must be devoted to all the circumstances attending this subject before a definite decision can be reached . No Plan to Acquire Railway . " The interests which the Soviet Union may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ militate in any way against Japan 's legitimate interests in Manchuria , where the policy of the Open Door is in full force and where full effect should be accorded to every ' vested interest of whatever national complexion . For these reasons , it is not considered desirable that Japan should acquire any Interests possessed by others in the Chinese Eastern Railway . " The Japanese Government adheres firmly to the principle of the Open Door , with equal opportunity for all nations in Manchuria . No customs union or economic federa- tion between Japan and Manchuria is even contemplated . " Japan 's recognition of Manchukuo must depend upon the usual conditions for recognition of a new State , including proved capacity to maintain itself as such . Clearly . Japan 's propinquity to and vital interests in Manchuria make this a matter on which it is peculiarly proper for Japan to come to a decision . Annexation Aim Is Denied . " Annexation of Manchuria certainly is not desired , nor does Japan wish to control in any illegitimate way the policy of the Manchukuo authorities . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and interests in the regions under their control . " The question of sending more Japanese troops to Manchuria depends entirely upon circumstances . Here again , it is obviously impossible to prophesy , nor is it possible to say how long military operations there may be continued . " If the toleration afforded to bandits by the present unsettled state of political affairs in China should be ended through recognition by the League of Nations of the unsubstantial nature of the Chinese National Government 's claims in this region , military operations in Manchuria probably would come to a speedy and successful end . " In reference to American and European critics , the Premier said they had " too hastily come to an adverse opinion on Japanese proceedings in Manchuria and Shanghai without troubling to acquire full knowledge of the situation in either case . " Acts of Violence Are Cited . " In particular , many treated the question as though it were one of invasion of a regularly organized State by Japan , " he said , and con-tinued : " They ignored Chinese acts of violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shanghai , and they envisaged Manchuria as part of the territories administered by the Nanking Government . " These assumptions may be natural , but they are inaccurate and the whole Japanese people reel that to rush to embrace such suppositions and to brand Japan as aggressive in consequence was not the act of a real friend . " Relations between Japan and other powers now are excellent , as the position of Japan comes to be better understood by the world at large . " It would seem that the only policy Japan should follow is to adhere unswervingly to her engagements to work for maintenance of the Open Door and equal opportunity throughout the world and to seek restoration of the world 's economic balance by breaking down tariff walls now stifling trade . "                     