@@703920

txt Three placard-carrying pickets and a sound truck patroled a street near the entrance to Newark Airport yesterday as the first day of the system-wide strike of Eastern Air Lines maintenance mechanics fo : higher wages and shorter hours ended with officials of the line announcing that only 50 of 250 mechanics had walked out . The Air Line Mechanics Association asserted that the strike was 90 to 100 per cent effective in the key cities of the system . Mrs. Franklit ? p . Roosevelt , who arrived at Newark Airport on the 5:20 P. M. plane from Washington , told reporters that she had not heard of the strike until after reaching the airport in Washington , and that she would have made the trip by train had she known of the labor controversy . As Mrs. Roosevelt left the plane , three airport policemen gathered around her and attempted to escort her through a crowd of newspaper reporters and photographers . After a few steps she told the officers that she did not want an escort and insisted on talking to reporters . Learned of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all of the strike until some one at the Washington Airport handed her a newspaper clipping shortly before the plane took off there . It was too late then to change her plans , she said , but had there been more time " I would have come to New York by train . " She said she would leave New York today by American Airlines for Seattle , where she would help her grandson , Buzzie Dall , celebrate his ninth birthday April 19 . Officials of Eastern Air Lines reported that the strike had in no way impaired regular schedules . Flights were leaving and arriving on schedule , they said , and traffic between here and Washington was particularly heavy . Captain H. T. ( Dick ) Merrill left Newark at 9 A. M. with a full passenger list , it was reported , and at least one other plane was filled to capacity . A spokesman for the airline explained that the mechanics on strike were not the real maintenance experts , but rather were the men who did the rougher sort of work . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Captain E. V. Rickenbacker , president and general manager a the line , announced . Captain Rickenbacker also explained that replacements for the striking men had been flown into the cities where needed . All the replacements , he emphasized , were regular , licensed mechanics from the company 's large maintenance base in Miami . All chief mechanics were " on the job , " Captain Rickenbacker said , ' and outlying stations were not affected . " The strike has in ' no way affected the , operations of the company , " he said . " All schedules pre operating on time . The company 's rigid standards of inspection and maintenance as well as the Civil Aeronautics Authority regulations will be rigorously maintained . " - A. P. Martin , president of the . Air Line Mechanics Association , an independent union , reported , however , that 98 per cent of the line 's midnight and 8 A. M. shifts of mechanics at Newark , Washington , Atlanta , Ga. , and Miami , Fla. , had joined the strike . A picket line of twenty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . According to a Chicago dispatch of The Associated Press , Robert H. Stoy , editor of Air Line Mechanic , the union 's monthly publication , reported that a canvass of the airline 's airports disclosed a 100 per I cent walkout at Newark ; 90 per cent at Miami , 100 per cent at Atlanta and " an indicated 100 per cent at Washington and Chicago . " Some observers at Newark Airport said thirty-five of thirty-seven maintenance mechanics there had heeded the strike call . Although David Behncke , president of the Airline Pilots Association , was quoted by The Associated Press as saying members of his organization were " watching very closely " the developments of the strike , Mr. Martin said no move to enlist the aid of pilots or to attempt to . spread the walkout to other airlines was contemplated . " Our fight , " Mr. Martin said , " is with the management of Eastern Air Lines , and we see no reason to penalize other lines . " " The next move is up to the company or the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day Mr. Martin announced that the Civil Aeronautics Authority had grounded three Eastern Air Lines planes , two in Atlanta and the other in Washington , because of improper servicing . The CAA denied this , however , saying its inspectors had found that the airline 's mechanical force was fully up to standard and that all men were properly - licensed to do the necessary work . Three pickets , bearing placards which read " Eastern Air Lines Mechanics on Strike , " shared patrol duty on Port Street , near the entrance to the Newark Airport , with a sound truck . Two other pickets marched up and down before the line 's New York ticket office at 51 Vanderbilt Avenue . No disorders were reported either from those groups or from any other point along the line . Foresees Traffic Record Beverly Griffith , public relations counsel for the line , reported late yesterday that 182 passengers had been carried to Newark by eleven flights and that when the other four of the regularly scheduled fifteen daily into Newark were completed the traffic record for a single day might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanics at Washington had joined the strike , but that replacements from Miami had taken their places . He also announced that only one man of eight was out in Chicago , while the uni6n said it understood all had gone out . The airline said eight men had walked out in Atlanta , while the union put the figure at twelve . At Miami , according to Mr. Griffith , thirty of 175 mechanics were on strike ; the union asserted that fifty men were on picket duty . Mr. Martin said the union was asking hourly wages of 46 to 56 cents for apprentices , 65 cents for junior mechanics , 80 cents for mechanics , 90 cents for senior mechanics and $1 for master mechanics . It also sought a 48-hour , 6-day week and seniority rights .                     