@@699486

txt It was bound to come . New The people of this State York are now invited in the Alone ! matter of vegetables to " Buy New York . " They must not stand idly by and see the canning industries of " the State driven out of business by " out-ofState cheaply canned , inferior quality fruits and vegetables . " That , at least , is the position taken by certain canning interests in the western part of the State , and , The Canandaigua Times-Journal has found much support for the proposal that State products be labeled " Grown in New York State . " The next Step will be , presumably , a " Buy Southern Tier " movement , to be countered by a " Finger Lakes Alliance " and a " Delaware Watershed Union . " The logical culmination of selfcontained New York vegetables will come one day when a little boy pushes a can back over the grocer 's counter and says , " Mister , my mother says she does n't want these New York peas because she says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was made in Indiana , and she says the fertilizer came from Chile , and they were cooked over a fire of Pennsylvania coal by a lady born in Sweden ; and mother says the steel from which the can is made was made in Pennsylvania , and the tin comes from Bolivia and the label was printed in Wisconsin on wood pulp from Maine , and it was soldered with stuff from Missouri and delivered to you by a truck made in Detroit . And mother asks what do you mean trying to pass off foreign stuff on her ? " MUSTAPHA KEMAL Pasha Muezzin has still to win over the Calls Turkish nation to wholeto Riot , hearted acceptance of his religious reforms . It must have been a formidable pop-1 ular outbreak at Broussa which necessitated the presence there not only of KEMAL himself but of the Ministers of the Interior and of Justice . The latter , in particular , conveys an ominous note . The head of the Turkish nation has not been tender-handed in dealing with previous demonstrations against his authority . Wholesale hangings have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been persons of high standing . The outbreak in Broussa came as a protest against the application of the order substituting the Turkish language for the traditional Arabic in mosque services . It is an issue familiar in religious history . Yet it is hard to understand why a nation which has accepted the abolition of institutions like the caliphate , polygamy , and the segregation of women , should raise violent objections to a change in ritual . BAUDELAIRE went to Monuments jail for writing Follow " Fleurs de Mal " and Persecution . some people now call him the greatest French poet since RONSARD . He is to have a statue in Paris if the efforts of a committee headed by PAUL VALERY are successful . But among those present some day at the unveiling of the monument will not be , by present indications , M. PAUL CLAUDEL  --  himself a poet and French Ambassador at Washington . He was asked to serve on the committee , but could not quite overcome his indignation at the shabby treatment of which BAUDELAIRE has been the victim , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wrote M. CLAUDEL , would be " too bitterly ironic . " His real monument is the piece which FERDINAND BRUNETIERE wrote about him . " There , if you will , is the homage which French ' official judgment ' has paid to the man . " But a writer in the Paris Temps argues that there is no point in nursing a grudge . In the first place , there were some very good " official " names that stood with BAUDELAIRE  --  among them PAUL BOUROETas well as against him . In the second place , is n't a statue a way of making amends ? An annual saving of Smaller $100,000 a year on jury Jury service is expected from Costs . the revised system which will shortly go into effect in the Brooklyn division of the Supreme Court . Each of its nine parts will henceforth be provided with forty jurors a day instead of fifty , and another fifty talesmen will be saved by abolishing a general reserve division of jurors . To any one familiar with our leisurely methods of court procedure  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be evident that still further economies may follow upon a reform in jury methods . It is plain that with smaller panels out of which to fill up the jury box the lawyers on both sides will not spend so much time and effort on the selection of juries . This preliminary process is not the least cumbersome part of our entire slow-paced judicial tempo . In sensational cases it may happen that the business of selecting a jury will use up as much time with us as the entire trial would take in an English court .                     