@@702312

txt General Motors ' officials and their ** striking workmen yesterday appeared to have reached a complete deadlock which drew the concerned attention of federal and state authorities , although there was no immediate indication of governmental action . Alfred P. Sloan , Jr. , president of the strikeh , . s.iged motors company , issued a statement to him employes which had the effect of conclusively rejecting union demands . " General Motors , " said Mr. Sloan in a notice which will appear today on all company bulletin boards , " will not recognize any union as the sole bargaining agency for its workers , to the exclusion of all others . " Ultimatum Formally Forwarded Meanwhile , the " United Auto Workers ' newlycreated board of strategy formally forwarded their eight-point ultimatum to company officials . In an accompanying letter , signed by Homer Martin , auto union president , it was asserted that : " failure of your corporation to accept the fundamental doctrine of collective bargaining with its employee is the sole and only cause for the serious situation that has resulted . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat similar to those given General Motors were presented to Nicholas Dreystadt , president of Cadillac Motor Car Co. and to the Fleetwood division of Fisher Body , which makes custom bodies for Cadillac . From Washington it was announced that James Dewey , crack conciliator of the Labor Department , would be in charge of federal efforts to solve General Motors ' labor difficulties . In his statement to employes , Mr. Sloan asserted : " Wages , working conditions , honest collective bargaining , have little , if anything , to do with the underlying situation . They are simply a smoke screen to cover the seal objective . Position of General Motors " Now , you are entitled to know what General Motors ' position is . That is the real purpose of this message to you . Here it is : " 1 . General Motors will not recognize any union as the sole bargaining agency for its workers , to the exclusion of all others . General Motors will continue to recognize , for the purpose of collective bargaining , the representatives of its workers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Motors plants will continue to depend on the ability and efficiency of the worker  --  not on the membership or nonmembership in any labor organization whatsoever . This means that'you do not have to pay tribute to any one for the right to work . " 3 . General Motors will continue to pay the highest justifiable wages in the future , as it has in the past , and just as it is doing at present . It believes in high wages . It is justly proud of its record in that respect . " 4 . General Motors standard work week will continue to be 40 hours . Time and a half will be paid for overtime . " 5 . Seniority rights will be obsera ed under the rules laid down by the Automobile Labor Board appointed by the President of the United States in March . 1934 . These rules are recognized as fair and just to all workers and permit no discrimination against any worker on account of any organization membership . " No Limitation Fixed No limitation accompanied any of the union demands . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threat to spread strikes through General Motors other plants or to call a general strike was removed by the probability that most of the corporation 's plants will close shortly anyway , because of parts shortage occasioned by strikes already effective . The Delco-Remy plant making headlamps and other electrical supplies for General Motors , employing 11,600 workers at Anderson , Ind. , was closed yesterday , bringing the total of closed G. M. plants to thirteen , and the number of employes laid off to about 39.000 . At other of the , corporation 's plants work schedules were reduced . Operations at Ford . Chrysler and other automobile manufacturers continued at high IcNels , with assemblies in almost every instance running well ahead of this time a year ago . Glass or other parts shortages are not expected to curtail these companies ' schedules for perhaps another ten days or so and should no additional labor troubles break out , certain of these companies could run almost uninterrupted as far as supplies are concerned . Settlement of the labor troubles in the immediate future does not seem likely , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some days at least . Should either the state or federal government intervene some time would be consumed before the plants could be put back into operation . Governor Watches Situation Governor Murphy of Michigan stated that he was hopeful that the corporation and the union could final some means of settlement with-out his aid , although he stood ready if his of-tees were needed . The legal procedure General Motors is following to regain possession of its property now being held by stay-in strikers was made known through the service of injunction papers on Mr. Martin by the sheriff of Genessee County , where Flint and the two Fisher Body plants are located . On General Motors ' complaint , the court can now hold the strikers in contempt of court and order their eviction to appear before him . Or , on the basis of a summons also served on Mr. Martin in action for a permanent injunction , eviction might be delayed for as much as fifteen days . during which time the union must answer to the bill of complaint and a hearing held . Observers saw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention of a government agency and establishment of some system of mediation , to be followed later by labor legislation giving labor some status and at the same time attempting to make it responsible for its actions . The other was the probability of protracted skirmishes by the union and eventually evolution of a formula that would return the men to work . It is thought that General Motors is not particularly vulnerable , inasmuch as its working conditions and wages are well above ' any levels that could possibly be prescribed by law . At the same time the unions are none too certain of being able to hold their membership or of being able to control them . Collins &; Aikman Corp. , manufacturers of upholstery fabrics , located in Rhode Island , Pennsylvania and North Carolina , have notified employes working in divisions producing automobile upholstery that it will be necessary to go on a short time basis due to labor trouble in the automobile industry . Approximately 4,000 workers are affected . CLEVELAND  --  Making a bid for a share of the low-priced truck business , White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cost less than $1.000 . Robert F. Black , president , states that manufacture of the new truck models will push pro ( Suction schedules upward 50% over last year , adding that White anticipates the sale of more than 20,000 units during the coming year . Orders for more than 500 of the new series , first of which roll off the assembly line in a Lew days , already have been received . The new trucks will be the lowest-priced ever placed on the market by White , being listed at 8985 and up and rated in the 1142-ton field .                     