@@701415

txt Premier Mussolini 's newspaper yesterday delivered a warning to Great Britain that the employment of coercion to curb Italy 's policy in East Africa would mean war . The newspaper , Giornale d'Italia , which usually interprets the Fascist dictator 's attitude , said that if the Suez ? canal is closed to Italy and the free export of arms to Ethiopia is permitted the Italian government would regard them as " hostile acts " and likely to embroil the two nations . Emperor Haile Selassie announced he will order the execution of any Ethiopian who attacks an Italian . His announcement was made after the accidental shooting of an Italian consul on a hunting trip . The incident threatened to result in serious repercussions until the consul said be had shot himself . Details on Page 2 . BY JOHN STEELE . Chicago Tribune reese Service . LONDON , Aug. ** five hours today the British cabinet , in a full session , assembled from vacation resorts in Great Britain and Europe and considered what is described as the gravest international crisis since 1914 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then adjourned until 2:30 . At 4:30 the session ended . The ministers at once dispersed . Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin returned to Aix-les-Bains , France , and the others left for other resorts . Ramsay , lord president of the council , will fly to Lossiemouth , Scotland , tomorrow , but Sir Samuel Hoare , foreign secretary , and Capt . Anthony Eden , minister for league of nations affairs , will remain in or near London to keep in touch with the situation on the continent . 's Message Brief . The only minister who said anything at all about what had been done at the cabinet meeting was . " We have a very clear mind as to what is to be done , " he said . " I am very calm and cool . " He refused to amplify this statement , but it was evident he was content with the course of events . The other members of the government , although they refused to talk , showed no signs of worry . It was learned the cabinet 's deliberations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what happened at the Anglo-French-Italian conference in Paris and of the desperate attempts to settle the HaloEthiopian quarrel . Premier Mussolini 's rude and brusque rejection of the Franco-British proposals to secure for him great economic and territorial advantages in Ethiopia was described . The cabinet thereupon expressed its approval of the course taken by Capt . Eden and Premier Pierre Laval of France . Much time was given to the examination of Britain 's commitments both by treaty and the league covenant . After a brief discussion the ministers decided the British government must abide by all its obligations . In the strictest Interpretation , this might mean an obligation to make war on Italy as an aggressor if the league demanded it . However , this is outside the realm of practical possibilities for such a move would mean a unanimous decision by the league council . Embargo on Arms Exports . What the cabinet did do in a positive manner was to reaffirm the unofficial embargo on the shipment of arms to Italy and Ethiopia . This , however , is little more than a gesture since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ethiopia has the credit or cash to purchase weapons and ammunition abroad . The embargo does , however , confer a theoretical advantage on Italy , for she has great arms factories which can continue to turn out weapons for a long time on internal credit . The British cabinet also indorsed the policy of Capt . Eden and Foreign Secretary Hoare of keeping in closest touch with the French and continuing constant contact with Italy through ordinary diplomatic channels right up to the meeting of the league council on Sept. 4 . At that time the matter will pass out of the hands of the individual countries and become a matter for a collective decision . Indian Troops to Addis Ababa . POONA , India , Aug. 22 . ? ( , ) ? A force of 130 men , comprising the fifth battalion , left tonight for Addis Ababa where they will reinforce the guard of the British legation . They are native Indian troops .                     