@@701125

txt OTTAWA , April 4 . ? Canadians , like other Americans , have been growing worried over the prospect of war in Europe , how to prevent it and whether to participate in it should it break out . These anxieties found expression in a debate in the Federal House of Commons here this week . The fact that Parliament pledged itself anew in support of the Kellogg-Briand pact and to cooperate with other nations to keep the peace was useful but not remarkable . What was more striking was the decided change of opinion regarding Canadian participation in a European war should it occur . Henri Bourassa , erstwhile fiery leader of the Quebec Nationalist party and now a snow-haired veteran who has assumed the role of Elder Statesman , moved the resolution which provoked the debate . Mr. Bourassa recalls with humor and some pride occasions during the World War when he was chased out of meetings in Ottawa and elsewhere-for advocating Canadian neutrality . Arguments Repeated . This week he repeated his arguments and met with less dissent . Not until he had gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nations for the Pan American Union , look to Washington rather than to London for her safety , trust to the Monroe Doctrine rather than to the British fleet for protection , and make it clear to Great Britain in advance that if she chose war and the I United States chose peace Canada I would also choose peace , did he re- ' ceive a chiding from Hugh Guthrie , Minister of Justice , speaking on behalf of the government . Mr. Bourassa said he was moving his motion and making his speech in response to appeals from various parts of Canada  --  many of them from veterans of the late war . There is little or no doubt that even his most extreme statements accurately represent the sentiments of his French-Canadian countrymen ? almost a third of Canada 's total population . All but his most extreme statements probably would be endorsed by 80 per cent of Canadians . When , in a famous speech in Hamilton in 1926 , Arthur Meighen , former Prime Minister , urged that a referendum should be held before Canada entered another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader , repudiated the suggested policy . It is doubtful whether the party would find it expedient to repudiate it now should occasion arise . Relies on Monroe Doctrine . As for Mr. Bourassa 's appeal to " stand without shame by the Monroe Doctrine , " Canada has been relying on it for the defense of her coasts ever since 1911 , when an alliance between the Conservative forces , led by Sir Robert Borden , and the French Nationalists , led among others by Mr. Bourassa , defeated Sir ' Wilfrid Laurier 's plan to create a Canadian navy , and Liberal blockade tactics after a general election nullified a Conservative proposal to grant $3.5,000,000 for the construction of three battleships . The chief reason why Canada 's contribution to empire naval defense has since been negligible has been her unadraitted confidence in the potential protection afforded by the Monroe Doctrine . The Doctrine was actually transformed into an active defense during the war , when an American cruiser was dispatched on a request to patrol the Canadian Atlantic Coast , believed to be threatened by German U-boats . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused some alarm in British naval circles . Last Summer Sir Roger Keyes , admiral of the fleet , and Admiral Tyrwhitt , naval aide to King George , intimated during the course of visits to this country that any help from this Dominion toward a larger imperial navy would be accepted . They were followed some months later by Sir Maurice Hankey , Secretary of the British Cabinet , who , coming to Ottawa at the conclusion of a four-month empire tour , conferred privately but lengthily with Prime Minister Bennett and General , chief of staff of the Canadian Army . It was an open secret that the object of Sir Maurice 's mission was to ascertain the Canadian Government 's views on empire defense . , attlAgiteS10 SK0411 igabliOnleLle defend their own coasts and would almost certainly rally to Britain 's aid if she were the victim of an utterly unprovoked attack . Further than that , however , it is unlikely they would go .                     