@@702968

txt Despite continued turmoil in certain sections , coincident with the final stages of the historic evacuation of the Chinese Government from Nanking , this capital began yesterday to assume an aspect of desertion . Crowds and traffic were still dense on the main streets and the river front , but in many areas homes , offices and shops for blocks were already shuttered , and only a few vehicles and pedestrians were moving through the roadways , ' littered in many spots with bomb wreckage , papers , bedding and household goods left behind in the hurry of departure . In most of the government offices virtually all the staff members have departed , only a few executives remaining . As on Wednesday , a low mist accompanied by an intermittent drizzle added to the gloom of the depression and at the same time saved the city and the long trains , fleets of ships and endless trails of automobiles forging their way into the interior from the further panic of Japanese air raids . Reinforcements for Front While the exodus continued all last night there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , showing China 's determination to offer continued resistance to the Japanese advance upon Nanking . Meanwhile there was beginning a tragic procession through the city of peasant refugees from villages east and south pf the city . Most of them trudged afoot  --  men , women and children . In some cases families were driving slow-footed water buffalo or heavily laden oxcarts . An official announcement of the evacution of the Chinese GovernI ment failed to materialize yesterday . Close consideration was given throughout the day to changes in the draft prepared early in the morning in the Foreign Office . The announcement almost certainly will be released today . It is understood President Lin Sere has not yet arrived at Chungking , but is due there shortly . Highways outward from Nanking yesterday were ribbons of mud , but many officials set out for Hankow , Changsha and other points in their private automobiles , not desiring to leave the vehicles here , where they might fall into the hands of Japanese . Refugees Are Somber The excitement amounting almost to panic that characterized the evacuation Tuesday was absent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a plodding , somber mood , - seeming grimly unwilling to face the tasks pressed upon them . by tragic necessity . " We are leaving 90 per cent of our things ; there are simply no facilities for taking more , " an executive of one of the ministries told your correspondent . A similar situation was noticeable in nearly all the government offices , which were being abandoned still fully furnished . Only the most essential equipment , vital documents and files were removed . In the compound of the War Ministry huge bonfires , fed by the debris of the offices ' secret records and unwanted papers and books , - blazed throughout the day . Typical of the skeleton basis upon which the government departments will operate in their new quarters at Hankow , Changsha and Chungking is the situation of the Foreign Ministry , where only sixty staff members , including the Minister and Vice Ministers , are being retained , while in excess of 240 persons employed since before the war have been summarily digcharged with a month 's pay or enough cash to travel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " No Cabinet member has yet left the city . Many other important heads remain , awaiting orders . It is expected , however , that the higher officials will be leaving before next week , although they may stay here even longer in view of a brighter outlook and more encouraging news from the war front west of Shanghai . Although civilians are being encouraged by the government to depart , many small shopkeepers and poverty-stricken denizens of slum areas are obviously not preparing to leave , and it is likely , if the Japanese succeed in capturing the ' city , that they will find thousands of civilians , provided the capture is not accompanied by fighting within the city itself or by terrific aerial or naval bombardments . Coincident with the government evacuation , wounded soldiers continue to be removed from Nanking , although the persistent and enormous influx of new casualties makes it unlikely that the city will be cleared of war wounded . The army medical service considers it probable that more than 10,000 wounded are temporarily concentrated in Nanking . At present efforts are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permits their trans ' fer farther into the interior . Shiploads of lightly wounded men are departing for Hankow daily . The buildings of Wuchang University will be utilized as a huge hospital similar to that functioning on the campus of the National University . Bitterness Over Evacuation An atmosphere of hatred and bitterness , tinged with sadness and humiliation , has marked the evacuation of the Chinese Government from Nanking . There was painful regret because of the abandonment of a capital founded on such high liopes of national regeneration , unification and nationalist revolution only a decade ago . Nanking represents to the Chinese the new China which sought to shake off the shackles of foreign domination and special privileges , aimed to modernize the country , terminate civil strife , establish one central democratic government , build up national economy and educate the masses and improve their lives . Much Idealism and much striving have gone into the building of Nanking and its abandonment signified to many Chinese the loss of a generation of efforts toward national revival . There were gloomy prospects of the city 's destruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made in Nanking and the city recently assumed an appearance worthy of the capital of a great nation . Millions of dollars had been spent on ornamental public buildings and municipal utilities . Now the Chi- , nese are seeing all this endeavor lost through incursions of foreign invaders . Weeps Over Fallen Hopes One high American-educated Chinese official wept continuously as he supervised the packing of , his office furniture and records . " What is the use ? " he said . " We have tried hard to pull our country up to the standard of others so we could look at other nations with a feeling of equality and rightly d'emand mutual respect . It now appears that all these efforts are coming to naught . " Outside the Foreign Office building , this correspondent attempted to photograph , piles of documents and luggage being loaded on trucks . He was stopped by a Foreign Ministry official , apparently laboring under great emotion : " You can not take this picture , " expostulated the official . " The world would misunderstand and believe the . abandonment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Cynics , however , are not lacking among the fugitives , and the traditional Chinese sense of humor is not completely suppressed . " See you in Sinkiang , " said a young Ministry clerk , taking leave of this correspondent , referring to Chinese Turkestan , nearly 2,000 miles northwest . An unusual phase of the evacuation was the large number of singsong girls who , undismayed , continued their appeals to the rushing crowds for funds for wounded soldiers and refugees . Asks Immunity for Camp NANKING , Nov. 18 LP ) . ? United States Ambassador Nelson T. Johnson undertook today to obtain pledges of immunity from bombardment for Kwangfoh , near Soochow , so that it might be used as a refugee camp . Dr. Mason Young , Lucy Grier , nurse ; H. H. , C. G. and H. A. are establishing the camp . Americans departing tonight for Shanghai by boat and hoping to reach the international city in six days included : Edmond Rice of Albertville , Ala. ; James Thoroughman of Atlanta , Ga. ; Robert Henry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Va. ; John Roberts of Richmond , Va. ; E. R. Dyer of Dallas , Texas ; Miss Laura Lenhart and Miss Gertrude Seltzer of New York City , and Dr. and Mrs. P. F. Price . All missionaries who were at Huchow , in Northern Chekiang Province , except S. P. Manget and Miss Ava Morton of Cotton Valley , La. , safely reached Mokanshan , according to Chinese military telephone advices . Hull Gives Position WASHINGTON , Nov. 18 CO. ? Secretary of State Cordell Hull said today that if and when the Chinese Government decided to evacuate the capital at Nanking , Ambassador Nelson T. Johnson undoubtedly would follow suit , so as to insure uninterrupted communication with Chinese officials ,                     