@@699992

txt Deep rooted in the heart Cure of man is the belief that the by way to make things all right Flush . is to keep them out of the papers , The Secretary of the Broadway Association scolds the press for reporting the recent heat wave . It tended to give outsiders the impression that New York is an uncomfortable place when the thermometer ranges ' from 95 to 100 . ' We may put aside the consideration that New York was , as a matter of fact , uncomfortable during the hot spell ; just as Chicago , Philadelphia , Washington , the White Mountains and Atlantic City are uncomfortable when it is 100 degrees hot . The truly pathetic fact is that people should really believe that if the New York papers did not print the weather news no one would know that it was hot in town . Censorship never really suppresses news . It only terrorizes people into whispering and distorting things . If the New York papers had kept silent about the heat wave , it would soon have been rumored that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York . Out of every ten automoAutos biles in the world seven are Per in the United States . At the Capita , beginning of this year we had one motor vehicle for every five persons in the country , so that we could at any moment put the entire nation on wheels . Even then our more than 24,000,000 cars would be a decline of more than 2,000,000 cars since the high of the year 1930 . A depression slump of less than 10 per cent may appear small by comparison with other indexes of decline , but it should be remembered that the proportion of older cars in use today is much higher . National area would have something to do with motor-car use . France , with a population five millions smaller than Great Britain , has half a million cars more , though per capita wealth is considerably higher in Great Britain . But the latter is only about one-third as large as France , and distances can be more easily traversed . Anxiety over what the NaSmall tional Recovery program may Man 's do to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he tempered by the reflection that people have regularly been inclined to exaggerate the little man 's perils and dooms . There is still some virtue in the observation that lightning strikes the tallest trees , and the humble sapling will survive the storm that lays low the monarch of the forest . In the economic hurricane that has swept the United States along with the rest of the world a close inquiry might show that the little fellow has done as well as the industrial or commercial giant . It is doubtful whether bankruptcies and other losses among small merchants , though serious enough , have been so great as the depletion of resources among the big corporations . To equal the losses registered on the Stock Exchange we should have one out of every two small tradesmen in the country go broke ; and it he s not been anything like that . How many decades is it Small since the little fellow was People doomed by the remorseless Efficient . sweep of economic forces ? The small manufacturer was to be eliminated by the giant trust . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The small farmer was to be abolished by the giant grain farm run on mass-production lines . We now have more than doubts on the subject . The world is beginning to discover unsuspected efficiency in smallscale production . Even before the crash there were farm students who doubted whether mammoth farming was so much more efficient than small-scale farming . The economic storm in this country has flattened out the giant farms even more badly than the small farms . In Europe the war brought about the partition of large estates among many millions of peasant proprietors , and the experts feared that this would entail a loss of efficiency and reduce production . But the European peasant has put something into his fields that more than compensated for the theoretical loss of efficiency ; crops have been growing bigger . Only in Soviet Russia , where the little farmer has been virtually annihilated in the name of large-scale production , has agricultural output shown a decline . Editor ALFRED E. Setrrer is afraid of being taken for the kind of fellow who sits at a desk and presumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of the constructive work of the world has been made possible by fellows who sat at desks and wrote with ink on paper .                     