@@703976

txt The British Government has " considerable hope " of British Guiana as a permanent settlement for Jewish refugees from Central Europe , Malcolm , Secretary for Colonies , told the House of Commons today in announcing the publication of the report of the special committee that studied the question . At the same time the Colonial Secretary indicated that British policy for Palestine , discussed in detail by the Cabinet today , would be announced soon . Apparently the British want to balance off the announcement restricting Jewish settlement in Palestine with some invitation to the Jews to find refuge in British Guiana , for Mr. indicated that a statement on the latter subject would also be made before long . While the detailed outline of Palestine policy is still a closely guarded secret , at the Palestine conference this Winter its unanimous rejection by both sides broke up the conference with no tangible results . The general belief here is that the further immigration of Jews would be restricted over a five-year period-75,000 for that time is the figure mentioned . At the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onethird the total population of Pal -- estine and would be frozen at that figure . However , though the British plan would make the Jews a perpetual minority it would at the same time guarantee them equal political rights with the Arabs despite their minority status from the population point of view . To do this the British contemplate the gradual establishment of an independent Palestinian ' State but only after it is proved that Jews and Arabs can live together in harmony . The Zionists , of course , object strongly to this as ending Zionism as a living growth . Palestine Arabs also object to the plan as not fulfilling their demands for independence at once . But representatives of the independent Arab States apparently have shown signs of being willing to accept the British point of view . Dr. Chaim Weizmann , president of the Jewish Agency for Palestine , is flying back from Palestine in order to protest the plan , it is understood , and to attempt to get the British to defer the announcement . But there are no indications he will have much success . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The steering committee of the Zionist Investigators have surveyed in British Guiana an area west of the Essequibo River , another east of it and a third in the northwest part of the country , as possible refuges for European Jews . They recommend trial settlements . organization to supervise and direct , and each settlement containing groups with specialized training to make the units self-contained . In making its survey the commission examined the district of 22,500 square miles between the Essequibo River and the Brazilian boundary south of five degrees north latitude ; an area of 14,800 square miles of forest between the Essequibo and Courantyne Corentyne Rivers and the Brazilian boundary on the South ; and 4,600 square miles of territory in the northwest district of the colony . This area today is sparsely settled and contains few European colonists , principally because of its difficulty of access . This makes it imperative to construct a road to the sea or to the head of navigable water , an expense justifiable only for largescale settlement . " It seemed to this commission , " the report says , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main branches of exploration and investigation ; an examination of the possible transport routes through British territory , exploration for soils which might be suitable for a permanent system of agriculture , a medical investigation to determine the incidence of tropical diseases and examine the possibilities of prevention or attenuation of dangers from these sources . " The report offers the following general conclusions : " The climate of the area under consideration does not preclude possibility of white settlement . Severe tropical diseases , at present , do not occur with dangerous frequency or degree of malignancy . There are considerable extents of soil suitable for immediate permanent cultivation and others capable of subsequent improvement . Bases for a certain industrial development appear to exist . Con= struction of a transport route presents no insurmountable difficulties . The present inhabitants of the colony would welcome immigration by people of European origin . " In view of these fundamental facts and the extent of the territory offered for examination , the commission feels . that British Guiana , south of the fifth parallel of north latitude , is potentially suitable for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has important reservations to make before formulating definite proposals . " It should be emphasized that great care must be taken not to confuse the implications of the general term ' suitable for large-scale settlement ' with the more particular one ' open to immediate largescale settlement . ' The report adds that a trial period of experimental colonization is justified because " there are a number of points that could be clarified only by actual settlement . Thus , it is essential to have experimental proof on a considerable scale that white people can perform relatively hard physical labor in this climate . " The commission says the presence of the few Europeans supports the belief , but " it would be most unwise to risk large sums of money and possibly human lives until definite proof has been obtained . " The commission holds that the village and not the family should be the unit of settlement and adds , " it is essential to set up an experimental village which would be developed into a prototype on the lines of which later villages could be modeled . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says ; palms for roofing , logs for lumber , clay for bricks , " the only absolute essential to be imported from outside the area would be screening . " The report also advises purchase of the Rupununi Development Company to supply the settlers with beef and also training in stock farming . " The commission considers that colonists should be chosen from young married , but childless couples , and single young men and women , " the report adds . " They should be in good health and of sturdy physique and they should be carefully chosen with a view to fitting their talents to the requirements of the trial settlements . It is considered that approximately 3,000 to 5,000 people will be required in the first year to man the various projects . organization today concluded a two-day meeting which discussed strategy to combat expected unfavorable aspects of Britain 's " final " Palestine proposals , which are to be announced shortly . The British plan , drawn during a conference with Arabs and Jews in London , has been described unofficially as calling for an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Jewish delegation to the conference rejected it March 16 . Zionist startegy was kept secret but was reported to envisage a world-wide mobilization of funds and manpower to demonstrate opposition . There has been speculation that Jewish opposition to the British plan might take the form of economic resistance . Jews did not disclose their probable strategy because some hope was held that Dr. Chaim Weizmann , president of the Jewish agency for Palestine , might succeed in getting concessions before the British plan is published . It was understood that one plan was for a twenty-four to fortyeight-hour strike upon publication of the plan . Jews also would try to be self-sustaning and thus reduce imports which might add to British customs duties . Curtailment of the use of automobiles would reduce taxes from gasoline and oils and further cut British revenue . Advocates of such economic action believed that a sharp reduction of British revenue in Palestine would necessitate an appeal to the London Government for operating funds for the local administration . - TRIAL SETTLEMENT URGED British Guiana Soil Held Suitable for Cultivation While the territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place for refugees from middle European countries , it does offer possibilities that justify carrying out a trial settlement project , according to the British Guiana Commission report made to the President 's Advisory Committee on Political Refugees . Copies of the report were made public here coincident with the mention of the report in the House of Commons by Colonial Secretary Malcolm . " The commission is of the opinion that in the area available for settlement , " the report says , " there are : ( a ) soils suitable for permanent agriculture , ( b ) natural resources which make possible a corelated industrial development , and ( c ) climate and health conditions are of such a nature that settlement by people of middle European origin is feasible . " Certain questions as to actual extent of fertile soil , possibility of heavy and light industrial exploitation , maintenance of health , accessibility through construction of transit facilities , possibility of agricultural development in rain forest areas and savannas remain to be answered . Therefore the commission recommends establishment of trial settlements for a two-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or settlements would involve a population of from 3,000 to 5,000 carefully selected young men and women , with a technical                     