@@701301

txt An administration spokesman was charged today by Representative Brewster of Maine with having used a threat in an effort to force him to vote in ' favor of the " death sentence " clause of the Utilities Holding Company Bill . The charge was made on the floor of the House , which at once ordered its Rules Committee to investigate lobbying activities of both friends and foes of the measure . Mr. Brewster named Thomas G. Corcoran of the legal staff of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and one of the principal sponsors of the " death sentence " clause which the House rejected . He said that Mr. Corcoran had threatened to have work stopped on the ; 36 , - 000,000 Passamaquoddy power proj. ect unless Mr. Brewster voted with the administration . The Maine member voted yesterday against the " death sentence " clause . He is a former Republican Governor of his State . Representative Moran of Maine , on behalf of Mr. Corcoran , asserted that the RFC official had merely suggested that if Mr. Brewster could not vote with the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to handle some legal work connected with the " Quoddy project , " on which he had been helping as a lawyer . In the Senate , Senator Black , arch foe of the utility companies , introduced a resolution asking that a special committee be named by the Vice President to investigate the ' ' lobbying activities " in connection with the bill . The resolution was referred to the Interstate Commerce Committee , headed by Senator Wheeler . Brewster Draws Applause . When the House had passed its own bill , Mr. Brewster drew applause from both sides of the aisle as he stated his charges . Many members have been complaining privately for a week of pressure brought by the administration and by the ' power companies , but none had previously brought the matter out into the open . " During the consideration of the ' death sentence ' clause in the Holding Company Bill , " Mr. Brewster said , " Thomas G. Corcoran , Esq. , co-author with Benjamin V. Cohen , Esq. , of the bill , came to me in the lobby of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' brutal frankness ' that , if I should vote against the death sentence for public utility holding companies he would find it necessary to stop construction on the Passamaquoddy , dam in my district . " Such a suggestion , from such a source , is repugnant to every instinct of decency in legislation and proper regard for our constitutional oath of office . Warns of Political Concentration . " During the past two months Mr. Corcoran has been the personal representative of the President , clearing up the details incident to starting construction at Passamaquoddy , and only this last week construction really commenced with the arrival at Eastport of Major Philip B. Fleming , who is to have charge of the project . " I do not believe the President would countenance any such course if he were fully informed . This statement on the floor of the House seems to be the only way to protect this project , which means so much to the people of Maine . " I share the concern of the Presiddnt at the concentration of eco , nomic power . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to parties , keep the country also alert to the dangers in the concentration of political power . " It is our task to assist the President in every way within our power in keeping the work relief fund clear of political abuse in accordance , with the President 's earnest and repeatedly expressed desire . " Amid the handclaps and cheers for Mr. Brewster , Representative Rankin of Mississippi obtained consent to address the House . Byrne Rules for Inquiry . " I know nothing of the charges by the gentleman from Maine , but I take the responsibility of saying that whatever was done was without the knowledge and consent of the President , " he said . As soon as Mr. Rankin had finished , Representative Fish of New York presented a resolution demanding that a special committee investigate the charges . Representative Blanton of Texas held that it was out . of order , but Speaker Byrns ruled that such " grave charges " should be investigated . To make his ruling , the Speaker bad to pound his desk with his gavel to drown out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak . Representative Snell of New York , the Republican leader , objected and Mr. Maverick cried : " I do n't believe a word of it , and I want to say so . " Mr. Byrns finally made him subside . Chairman O'Connor of the Rules Committee and other Democratic leaders had been hurriedly consulting together during the confusion , with the result that Representative Pettingill of Indiana offered a substitute for Mr. Fish 's resolution , which the House adopted without a dissenting vote . What the Resolution Provides . The resolution said : " Whereas the gentleman from Maine , Mr. Brewster , has just informed the House that one Thomas Corcoran , not a . member of the House , improperly approached him and attempted to unduly influence him as to his vote on the Utility Act of 1935 , be it " Resolved , That the Rules Committee of the House be and hereby is authorized and directed to investigate such charges and all charges of the exercise of undue influence on members of the House by both the proponents and opponents of S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its recommendations . " Mr. Moran rushed into the chamber after the adoption of the investigation resolution to tell the House that he had " contacted " Mr. Corcoran , who denied M .. Brewster 's account of events . By inference , he charged Mr. Brewster with " running out " on the Utility Bill and with tardiness in pushing the Passamaquoddy project . " I have been interested in the matter throughout my entire service in Congress , " he said , " having introduced the first resolution on May 28 , 1933 , for a study of that project , and the project initiated at that time has been moving along to the point where it has recently I been allocated by the allotment ' board . " Many legal questions have arisen in connection therewith . Conversations have been held by various persons on the Passamaquoddy project and also on the ' Utility Bill . " We might as well be frank about things and admit the facts . I participated with the gentleman mentioned in this resolution , Thomas Corcoran . I have participated with him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hen'die the legal work In connection therewith , and so has my esteemed colleague from the Third District of Maine . " At the same time , we have bad other conversations . Some of us who like to call ourselves liberals and who believe in that side of the issue which failed today have been having conferences on that matter , together with my esteemed colleague , Mr. Brewster . Calls Conduct Natural . " As to the conference in respect to the ' Quoddy project , to develop the legality of it , it so happens that my colleague from the Third District is the only attorney in the Maine delegation and enjoys a fine reputation as an attorney . ? " It is perfectly natural , therefore , that Mr. Corcoran should ask him to do some of the legal things in connection with the ' Quoddy project , and that request was made in my presence , and several things . have been done along that line . " It is also very clear to me from conferences held on the utility bill with Mr. Corcoran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill ; otherwise he would not have participated in the conference with Mr. Corcoran , Mr. Maverick , Mr. Rankin and various other individuals whose viewpoints are well known on that subject . " I have contacted Mr. Corcoran personally since the statement was made this afternoon and therefore I am stating the facts as he states them to me . In the first place , so far as Mr. Cohen , referred to herein , is concerned , the only place he has been seen by the gentleman from the Third district , or the last time , was a meeting held in the RFC , at which time the gentleman was present and at which meeting several were present , interested in securing the death sentence . " Mr. Corcoran told me that all he said to the gentleman from the Third district was that if he felt as he said he felt , unable to continue his support for the death sentence for the utilities , then he could not with correctness to the administration be trusted with the ' Quoddy legal developments . " Mr. Corcoran said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not discuss the matter , but would " let events take their course . " Mr. O'Connor said that his committee could do nothing on the investigation before Monday , as so many members would be away for the July 4 holiday . He told the House , however , that it could count on a full inquiry into the charges of lobbying activities . Secretary Ickes defended Mr. Corcoran at a press conference today . " The allotment has been made and Passamaquoddy will be built , " he said . " I know Mr. Corcoran very well , and it does n't sound like him . I do n't think any such threats have been made . It 's up to Congress to investigate if it wants to do so . "                     