@@699789

txt The revolt now in progress in Santa Clara and Camaguey Provinces spread southward today when fighting brokenut in the small village of Omeja , east of Victoria de las Tunas ; in Oriente Province , where rebels seized and . ransacked a small Rural Guard post , carrying off arms and ammunition . While military headquarters In Havana asserted no important engagement had taken place today , Sniping on government troops now attempting to rout insurgents firmly entrenched in the mountainous districts of the provinces and harassing of small army posts continued . A request by H. J. Schreber , the American manager of a sugar mill at Jatibonico , Camaguey Province , for replacement of a Rural Guard detachment of about fifteen men at the mill who had disappeared gave color to reports that soldiers were deserting various sections of the turbulent district and joining the insurrectionists . A traveler returning from Sancti Spiritus who refused to allow his name to be used said this afternoon that government troops being concentrated at that point were estimated at about 600 and all personnel of military putposts were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capture by the rebels . This informant , who has been in the disturbed area in Santa Clara and Camaguey Provinces during the past two weeks , said residents of that region were becoming impatient over the apparent inactivity of the United States Government , which they hoped would solve the distressing political situation . He asserts the strength of the antiadministration element is steadily increasing and it is determined to oust the present regime . This traveler estimates , and says the figure is very conservative , that some 2,000 men already are involved in the rebellion , all fully equipped with the latest type of arms , which have gradually filtered in through small ports along the south coast of Santa Clara and Camaguey Provinces . However , from reliable sources it is learned that only about 800 , split up into small bands , have taken the field to carry on a form of guerrilla warfare which is suited to the terrain and the other 1,200 undoubtedly will take to the hills soon if the government troops do not immediately stamp out , the rebellious movement , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The customs collector at the small port of Tuna del Zaza , is reported to have been arrested on a charge of dispatching a recent large shipment of arms and ammunition destined for the rebels . Colonel Heriberto Hernandez , commander of the military district of Santa Clara Province , is said to have enlisted locally 240 men during the past two days as reinforcements and further reinforcements have been requested from Havana . Major Arsenio Ortiz , in charge of operations at Sancti Spiritus , has been transferred to Moron , Camaguey Province , as military supervisor . Details of a reported rebel attack on the town of Camajuani in the same province could not be confirmed . Gunfight in Capital . An attempt to assassinate Sergeant Miguel Balmaseda of the secret police was made this morning by unidentified assailants opposite Central Park , resulting in a running gun fight in the heart of the business district . As an automobile in which Sergeant Balmaseda and a chauffeur were riding turned into the Prado a large touring car occupied by four men approached the men , opening fire with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his car was riddled with bullets . He returned fire and gave chase . The attackers ' car , with horn blowing loudly , sped through town and made its escape , the traffic police clearing streets for it under the impression that it and the police car behind it for a time were carrying accident victims to the emergency hospital . A street-car motorman was injured in the crossfire . The attackers ' car was found later by the police where it had been abandoned . Sergeant Balmaseda is accused of having taken part in the killing of many opportunist students . Eight students were arrested today and the military authorities suspended releases of additional political prisoners .                     