@@699288

txt Thomas W. Lamont of J. P. Morgan &; Co. told the Academy of Political Science at its annual dinner in the Hotel Astor last night that two vital changes were needed as primary steps for banking reform in the United States  --  to bring all commercial banks , large or small , under the Federal Reserve System and to establish " sensible " provisions for regional branch banking . If such reforms were brought about gradually , he asserted , they should result in " some measure of banking stability . " Pointing to the fact that 60 per cent of the country 's baits , with resources of more than $12,000,000,000 , were outside the Federal Reserve System , the banker declared that no banking system can function adequately with only a limited number of banks within it . He asserted that despite the great number of bank failures in recent years , the country still has too many banks , and that " thousands of banks lack proper safeguards . " Banking units should be larger than they are , he went on , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantages of larger banks . Most Failures in Rural Districts . Mr. Lamont emphasized that nearly four and one-half times as many non-member banks have failed as members of the Federal Reserve . Most of these failures , he went on , were small country banks , under no control from the Federal Reserve and with such small paid-in capital as to be " subject to impairment under the most ordinary conditions of difficult times . " Ninety per cent of the banks that . ailed between 1921 and 1930 , he continued , were in rural communities , " subject to the vicissitudes of crop failures or of the expansion and deflation of business booms , without any of the protection afforded by a parent institution fortified with ample capital and managed by experienced men . " Almost all of the failures of small suburban bank. ; around Chicago this year , Mr. Lamont asserted , could have been avoided if the Illinois laws had permitted branch banking . He said that the lessons must be obvious of a situation in which it was impossible under the law for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Lamont said that mismanagement of large city banks , although there had been striking instances of it , was rare compared to mismanagement of country banks . It was the weaknesses in the rural banks that led to hoarding on a grand scale last year , he declared . He went on that the need last year was not for currency , but for credit aid , but that sound credit risks were not available for the banks because of the deflation in security and commodity prices . There had never been a time , he said , when the facilities of the Federal Reserve System had not been more than ample to meet all legitimate credit needs . Confusion in Banking Laws . Laxity in granting charters to banks and in supervising their conduct , Mr. Lamont continued , was a result of the confusion due to the varying Federal and State banking laws , giving forty-nine different sets of banking laws . Mr. Lamont asserted that the Federal Reserve System had brought ? ' immeasurable benefits " to American industry and commerce and that our plight would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ openmarket policy during the past six months , he said , had proved a great help in stopping the deflation of credit and prices . Mr. Lamont , who Is a trustee of the Academy of Political Science , presided at the dinner . The chairman was Alanson B. Houghton , president of the academy and former Ambassador to Great Britain and to Germany . Other speakers were Sir James Arthur Salter , former general secretary of the reparations commission and former director of the economic and finance section of the League of Nations , and Silas H. Strawn , president of the American section of the International Chamber of Commerce , former president of the American Bar Association and former president of the United States Chamber of Commerce . Worst Is Past , Sir Arthur Says . Sir Arthur asserted his belief that the worst of the depression had passed , but that the financial and economic situation of the world was still in a crucial position . He praised the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve System , asking if its open market operations had not saved this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He agreed with Mr. Lamont that the dollar could not be threatened from without . Besides the disarmament and economic questions that are now calling for settlement , Sir Arthur went on , another factor that causes uncertainty at the present time is that the ship of world finance is no longer under one helm , as it was under London 's helm in the past , but is how under three separate helms , of London , New York and Paris . Coordination in world finance is now a great need for world stability , he said . The world is at the cross-roads in economic policy , he continued , and he thought that in the long run economic necessities would compel a world order in which tariff barriers and other hindrances to world trade would be removed , but he did not know how long this would take . In the end , he predicted , the United States would come to work more and more in cooperation with the rest of the world . Mr. Strawn , saying that he spoke from a business man 's point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to get our own house in order through the reduction of costs of government and taxation . Steps Toward Recovery Discussed . The dinner concluded the annual meeting of the fifty-second year of the academy , at which morning and afternoon sessions also were held . " Steps Toward Recovery " was the general subject for this year 's con ' ference , and the papers read and the discussion which followed at the day session , as well as the addresses delivered at the dinneh were all devoted to a consideration of what steps might be taken to hasten and make secure the recovery from the depression . About 1,000 persons distinguished in the economic , political and professiOnal life of America attended the dinner , and several hundred economists , financiers and business men were present at the day sessions , at which some fifteen or twenty specialists in economics , political economy , monetary policy , commerce , transportation , agriculture and foreign trade discussed the economic situation . There was a general feeling of restrained optimism to be observed in the majority of the statements made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ho royal road back to better times . An integration or synthesis of the principal steps toward recovery that were proposed would be that they are virtually all downward steps that , it was shown , must be taken before the world can hope to climb the road to good times again  --  downward , that is , in the sense of revision of the war debts , lower tariffs , smaller armies and navies , fewer banks , reduced expenditures by national , State and local governments , lower taxes , &c.; A word-picture of the present and future was painted in broad terms , of course , that might be described as showing a universe with two great ladders ; the world still several rungs up on the ladder of waste and extravagance , but at last aware of the necessity of dragging both its political and its economic legs down off this particular ladder so that it can start on the first rung of the other ladder , leading upward to real commercial and financial recovery based upon fundamentally sound concepts in both public and private business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted especially to Monetary and fiscal policies whereby recovery might be aided . Dr. W. Randolph Burgess , Deputy Governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , presided . Branch banking , as in Mr. Lamont 's address last night , was also a leading topic at the morning session , and was put forward by Pierre Jay , chairman of the board of the Fiduciary Trust Company of New York and former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , as " the only fundamental remedy for the demonstrated weakness of unit cr particularly in the smaller banking , places . " Like many other supporters of unit banking , " said Mr. Jay , " recent events have forced a change in my views , and I now feel that , to become an effective instrument Of national policy , branch banking should be permitted to develop under conditions most favorable te - its success . " He criticized as " half-hearted " the bill introduced at the last session of Congress , and not yet acted upon , whereby a national bank may establish branches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside . He considered this plan unsafe because in States overwhelmingly agricultural , for instance , the State line limitation would make it difficult to attain a diversified portfolio , " that fundamental requisite of branch banking . " He proposed that twelve branch banking regions be set up , to correspond with , the twelve Federal Reserve districts , which constitute natural trade areas , and that the Federal Reserve Board be authorized to allow branch banks to overstep district lines when necessary to cover trade areas or assure diversification . This plan , he explained , would not limit the number of cities from which branch banking could proceed . The only fundamental objection he saw to branch banking was that it might Mean bigger bank failures ? that if a bank with 100 branches failed all its offices would close . But in branch banking in Canada , with recent economic conditions very much like ours , he pointed out , the last eleven years had brought only one failure , involving seventy-eight branches , whereas we have had more than 10,000 failures . To the argument that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it should be undertaken as a national policy designed to afford better protection to deposits , based on the banking adage that " if we take care of the deposits the loans will take care of themselves . " Taxpayers Asked to Organize . Dr. Thomas S. Adams , Professor of Political Economy at Yale , aroused the enthusiasm of his audience by an aggressive speech in favor of organizing taxpayers all over the country to fight the waste and extravagance of political machines and to insist on reduced expenditures and , therefore , reduced taxation in Federal , State and local governments . " You 'll never get anywhere , " he said . " unless you bring to bear every legitimate power you can possibly exercise and keep it up continually through powerful organizations , manned and directed by experts , who know as much as the public authorities do about the detail of public expenditures . " Dr. Adams declared it was necessary to convince people that we , as a people , are spending too much on the veterans , on the public schools , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative Lewis B. Douglas of Arizona asserted that Congress could , if it would , help recovery by decreasing the amount of the national income it now diverts to taxation to defray governmental expenditures . Retrenchment on a large scale was possible , he pointed out , because only 25 per cent of the Federal budget represents fixed charges in debt service , leaving 75 per cent susceptible to reduction if Congress is will- I ing to take action on payments to veterans , national defense and prohibition , for instance . He called attention to " amazing inconsistencies " in the Federal budget , appropriations which nullified the effect of each other , as for the increasing of agricultural acreage and for the disposal of surplus crops ; for encouraging foreign trade and for a prohibitive tariff ; for aid to the railroads and for highway construction for the benefit of competitors of the roads . " Yet a stubborn resistance to reduced expenditures is encountered from bureaus and bureaucrats , aided by organized groups , because of selfish interests , " he went on . " The power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative bodies , and the only way to overebme that power is to create a Swell a public opinion to support Congress and the Chief Executive in a program of retrenchment. " Offers a Program , George , former Acting Mayor of New York and former Borough President of Manhattan , Spoke on economy in State and city government , citing the per capita cost df local government in NeW York City of $100 in 1932 as an example of the need for reduced expenditures . " Whatever the causes , " Mr. said , " the results of the tidal Wave of increased spending and increased taxation have been disastrous . Coincidentally with advances in the amount of taxes collected private property values have gone sweepingly down ; in a multitude of instances the pressure of taxation alone has hastened foredlOsures or Other liquidations ; with the disappearance of equities current taxation has often amounted to confiscation of investment values , taking on , in this respect , the nature of a capital tax . " Mr. urged the following program for retrenchment In the costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city where it does not already exist of up-todate and approved budget-making machinery , the linfiting of future appropriations to the necessity of the city 's life , the reduction of salary schedules and the cutting Out Of all luxuries of service and non-essential departmental costs . " The limiting of capital investment to actual need , the deferment , as a rule , of public works not actually under construction . " The development Of new sources of city revenue , particularly policies under which all charges for transit service , water supply or other utility services conducted by the municipality shall be self-supporting and selfliquidating : " The development of new forms of local taXatiOn  --  the substitution of occupational , residential and even poll taxes , in part , for the taxes on real property . " Warns on Collecting War Debt . Robert H. Brand of Lazard Brothers &; Co. , London bankers , and British member of the Standstill Committee , told the gathering that . gold prices would be forced down , Unemployment would increase everywhere , and production would Ilithinigh , if England were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The discussion at the end of the morning session was led by Alexander Dana Noyes , financial editor of Ton New YORK TIMES , and Robert B. Warren of Case , Pomeroy &; Co . War debts were a major subject of discussion at the afternoon session , when George R. Roorbach , Professor of Foreign Trade at Harvard , said that modification of the debts and tariff barriers , with this country leading the way , was a prerequisite to the restoration of international trade , and Frederick E. Murphy , publisher of The Minneapolis Tribune , declared that intergovernmental debts were at the bottdm of the troubles of American agriculture , and called for debt revision , coupled with disarmament , to restore prosperity to the farms of the country , through reviving foreign markets for our surplus farm products . Dr. Leo Wolman , Professor of Economies at Columbia , argued in favor of compulsory unemployment insurance , and Edward G. Buckland , president of the Railroad Credit Corporation and chairman of the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad , presented the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and overregulation of themselves and underregulation of their competitors . " The discussion at the end of the afternoon session was led by Dean Chris L. Christensen of the College of Agriculture , University of Wisconsin , former executive secretary of the Federal Farm Board .                     