@@697015

txt Senator William E. Borah of Idaho is expected to make within three weeks a major attack on prohibition enforcement in a Senate speech for which he has been gathering facts for two months . It will not be directed against the weakness of law enforcement machinery or the failures of courts to act expeditiously , but against high officers charged with enforcement , and Senators and politicians responsible for the appointment of dishonest and incompetent prohibition agents . " Senators , big politicians and those who recommend prohibition agents are greatly responsible for the breakdown of the law In many instances , " Senator Borah said today . The Senator will make his attack in the hope that it will compel high officers of the government , members of the Senate and others to view the law with more sympathy and effect a complete reorganization. of the enforcement personnel , which , he declares , is responsible more than any other agency for the present evils . Charges Peur In on Him . Since Senator Borah 's Christmas Eve declaration that the reforms necessary for better . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforcement agents , Unite4 States attorneys , United States marshals and others , allegations in support of his argument have come to him from all parts of the country . They are being investigated and put into presentable and legal form , backed by affidavits of reputable citizens . As the mass of evidence accumulates , Senator Borah feels that he will be able to lay bare one of the chief reasons why the ' Volstead act is not enforced . His present intention is to deal with.the situation by naming the politicians who recommended and supported dishonest prohibition agents , and to tell of the ease by which the enforcement officers were appointed without investigation spy politicians sponsoring them . If he follows his original purpose , the Senator is expected to attack high Federal officials who dominate State politics or who are responsible for State politicians who sponsor the appointment of corrupt agents . He will deal with the situations in New York and Pennsylvania and attempt to fix responsibility upon high officials who , accept the recommendations of subordinates in these States , where complaint has been made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men selected to carry out the law . Allegations of widespread graft by Federal officials along the Canadian border , centring chiefly in Buffalo and Northern New York State . have been made ' to Senator Borah . These charges were given to him orally last week and specifically involve several Federal officials , but , as yet , the complainants have not put their charges in writing , backed by affidavits . If the charges are put in that form , Senator Borah intends to make use of them in his speech and to give them to the Department of Justice for action . The wets , who have been conducting an active propaganda for repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment and modification of the Volstead law without making any apparent decidefl gain in Congress , are counting upon Senator Borah 's speech to furnish great impetus to their movement . The Idaho Senator , as a dry , does not think his address will afford the wets any comfort , as his inquiry has shown that the graft and dishonesty in enforcement is attributable to wet politicians and officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senator 's purpose to attempt to expose the political system underlying appointments and compel a complete reorganization of that officialdom in charge of enforcement . Many officials , he asserts , . lack the desire or the ability to support the Volstead act . The Senate will become the forum for discussion of the evils of prohibition enforcement and suggested - remedies as soon as the tariff bill is out of the way , and then Senator Borah and other drys will be heard . The debate is expected to develop sensations and focus the attention of the nation even more closely on the subject . of prohibition . The Board of Temperance , Prohibition and Morals of the Methodist Episcopal Church , in a statement today declared the present anti-prohibition agitation is fostered by Representatives In Congress from districts where aliens dominate , and that little sentiment against the dry law exists in centres where there are few aliens . " The unrestrained , not to say vio- lent , denunciation of prohibition , not related in any way to pending legislation , seems to be intended to create the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States , " the board stated . " An analysis of the strength of the anti-prohibition movement in Congress reveals some astonishing facts : . " The so-called " beer bloc , " or organization against prohibition in the House , has only sixty-one members . The files of the Board of Temperance , Prohibition and Public Morals list 114 members as ' wet . ' It appears that the anti-prohibition movement is so weak that only sixty-one of these Representatives are willing to come out into the open as active opponents of the law . The House membership is 435 . " Of the sixty-one members of the beer bloc , 38 , or 63 1-3 per cent of the total number , come from the cities of Chicago , Philadelphia , Milwaukee , St. Louis and Cleveland . " Twenty-three of the Representatives , or 38 1-3 per cent of the total number , come from New York City and the adjacent communities in New Jersey . " Thirty-four , or 56 2-3 per cent , come from the States of New York , Wisconsin and New Jersey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is represented in the beer bloc . The organized anti-prohibition group in the House of Representatives is clearly , alien sentiment , as is indicated not only by the character of the utterances made but by the fact that beer . bloc strength diminishes rapidly as it leaves the centres of alien congestion . " For instance , although New York State is the hotbed of nullification sentiment , the beer bloo has been able to enroll a bare majority of its Congressional representation . " It appears then that a small group , many of whom would not be in Congress at all but for the strange fact that. - aliens are allowcd- . roprer-. sentation , is engaged in telling the American people that it can not make any law which is disapproved by colonies of the foreign-born and that it can not enforce such a law if and when it is made . " It is a group movement , singularly lacking in numerical strength and in the moral support which comes from the enlistment of American principles . The character of its propaganda constitutes a direct and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Get the significance of this : We have had prohibition ten years . The policy had a majority in Congress for a number of years before that . In every succeeding Congress the strength of the wets has been less than in the Congress immediately preceding . Despite most strenuous and unscrupulous propaganda , the political strength of the wets has steadily diminished . Congress is elected by the people . If the propaganda against the prohibition law had any merit it would be registered in popular approval at the time of Congressional elections . " The wets have the noise . The drys have the votes . " Wets Cite Example of Sweden . According to a report issued today by the Association Against the Probibition . Amendment , the operation of the Bratt system of liquor control - in Sweden , which li similar to the regulatory law of Canada , has reduced by half the number of arrests for drunkenness and crimes of violence . ' Dr. Bratt is quoted as saying : " Let me assume for the purpose of discussion that of the total alcoholic consumption of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30 per cent is . It seems clear to me that our problem is to attack the 30 , per cent and not disturb the people who ' comprise the , cent ,                     