@@700458

txt Assumption by the United States Army of the task of carrying the domestic air mail necessitates curtailment by private operators of passenger and express services offered to the point where they were two to three years ago . Even with the backlog of mail revenues , winter operations of the majority of lines are carried on at a deficit , so that removal of this backlog at the present time virtually prohibits anything like former operations . Transcontinental &; Western Air , Inc. , affiliate of General Motors , will operate only one round-trip daily schedule on its cross-country run , it is understood . Eastern Air Transport . Inc. , and Western Air Express , also in the General Motors group , plan curtailments , with Eastern Air suspending all night operations . Eastern Air Transport , as a result of cancollation of mail contracts , is curtailing its service so that only seven cities are regularly served , compared with 20 previously . Instead of flying 10,500 scheduled miles each day , Eastern Air Transport now will fly only 5,800 . Baltimore and Philadelphia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on northbound planes . Several other highly important points are being eliminated as regular stops entirely , or are being retained only as flag stops . The company 's air express service is being drastically cut . Company asserts that it costs approximately $15 to land a large airplane , which is more than is colleccted for the great majority of air express packages . Northwest Airways , the most important of the lines operating in the northwestern area , plans an abbreviated service on its lines between Chicago and Billings , Montana , via the Twin Cities , and west to Seattle . United Air Lines , one of the three larger companies , plans to maintain its regular service for the present . However , doubt is expressed in aviation circles that the company will operate under its present intense schedule for any length of time , as it is known that the company , even with mail payments , showed an operating loss in the past two months . Without mail revenues it would show a substantially increased loss on operating only passenger and express operations for any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Airways will also maintain regular schedules for the present . Offers to Cut Airport Fees , Edward 0 . , president of National Aviation Corp . and National Airport Corp. , owning the Washington-Hoover Airport at Washington , D. C. , has made an offer to airlines using the airport to cut their rental feel by 50% . The field has already been offered 1.41 the army free of cost for temporary use in carrying the mails and this offer has been accepted , Mr. said Mr. pointed out that while this loss of revenue would result in the National Airport having a current operating profit changed into a current operating deficit . he felt his company should be willing to make some sacrifice because of the condition existing whereby all the mail operators would have a large loss of revenue .                     