@@700729

txt Sixty thousand enthusiastic islanders greeted President Roosevelt as he arrived here today , fresh from a calm night at sea between this port and Hilo . No " aloha " reception in the history of Hawaii has ever been more elaborate or more colorful than that when the cruisers Houston and New Orleans slid in past Diamond Head , between long lines of gayly decorated sampans , as a fleet of 100 army and navy aircraft manoeuvred above . Thirteen outrigger canoes carrying native Hawaiians garbed in feather ? cloalts inet the cruisers at the harbor entrance and preceded them to the piers , symbolizing the greeting of aloha of the Polynesians who once owned this land to their " alii , " or chief . At Pier 2 , a wide concrete wharf nearly a thousand feet long , a welcoming throng had been gathering since 6 o'clock . Out in front were members of the marine guard of honor and the Royal Hawaiian Band , colorful in fresh white uniforms and with each musician wearing a yellow lei of ilirna blossoms , the flower of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " Song of the Islands " floated across the intervening water to those lining the ship 's rail . The President first revealed himself to the watchers when he appeared on the upper deck of the Houston with his two sons . Official Party Goes Aboard . As the band began to play " Aloha Oe , " the President uncovered and stood at attention , placing his hat over his heak . As the music died away a burst of applause went up from the packed pier . Waving his hat cheerily , President Roosevelt retired to his quarters where he awaited the official welcoming party . As Governor Joseph B. Poindexter went aboard the Houston at 8:55 o'clock ruffles and flourishes were being sounded by the ship 's band . He was followed by Major Gen , Briant H. Wells , Admiral Yarnell , Delegate McCandless , Mayor Fred Wright of Honolulu , Commander J. S. Baylis of the coast guard cutter Itasca , members of the Honolulu Board of Supervisors and representatives of the chamber of commerce , civic and veterans ' organizations . Their visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A few moments later , amid a stir and murmur from the crowd , President Roosevelt appeared to disembark . He was garbed in a light Summer suit and wore a carnation and a pikaki leis . As he set foot on the pier the Marine guard came to attention , " The Star-Spangled Banner " was played , and in the distance the guns of Fort Armstrong boomed a Presidential salute . Stepping into his car with his sons and Secret Service officers , Mr. Roosevelt moved out almost instantly on his brief tour of Honolulu which was scheduled before his trip around the easterly side of the island to Schofield Barracks . Followed by the cheers and applause of the spectators the official motorcade swept around the corner and onto streets gaily decorated with flags and bunting . His official reception , said by visiting mainland newspaper men to be the most impressive ever given to an American President , was over . 10,000 Children Wave Flags . It will be a long time before it is forgotten by the thousands of people of all races who witnessed it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorcade proceeded rapidly through more cheering throngs who lined every sidewalk . Ten thousand school children , massed in one section , waved American flags as the procession passed . By circling through the city the party emerged finally on a broad avenue leading to the famous Nuuanu Pali , where the first stop was made . Here attendants secured the top of the President 's car against possible damage by the tremendous wind which pours through the funnellike gap in the mountains . The precipitous , winding road had been cleared of traffic by the police and the motorcade , preceded as in Hylo by a motorcycle patrol , dropped on down to the level lands where it turned northward , close to Oahu 's coast . Through green fields the party moved along . On the left , five miles away , the stupendous , panorama of the Koolau mountain range , a wall of sheer cliffs lifting themselves into the clouds , unfolded . It is probable that the President will never forget that portion of his tour here , since for sheer breath-taking beauty it surpasses any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highway thousands of country folk stood to watch the nation 's chief pass by . To the people of the outer sections the event was one of a lifetime , historic and wholly new . At Kahana Bay a Hawiian fishing party known here as " hukilau " was in progress . It had been planned especially for the President 's entertainment . Fresh from the sea where they had been captured in a community net , the colorful fish were presented for President Roosevelt 's inspection , much to his amusement . Governor Poindexter , who accompanied him , explained how , in olden days , the natives depended on the ocean for their chief food supply , becoming among the most expert of the world 's fishermen . Party Arrives at Fort . Continuing , the party visited the Mormon temple at Laie briefly , and stopped a moment at the Kemoo pineapple plantation , a few miles before reaching Schofield barracks , where the President arrived at the Carter Gate at exactly . P. M. for luncheon with General Wells and a review of the troops there at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the time Schofield Barracks was reached was the reception at a Kaneohe village thirty miles across the mountains from Honolulu , where an enthusiastic welcome had been prepared . A large arch of palm leaves , flowers , flags and bunting had been erected across the highway and the President 's car stopped on a carpet of hibiscus branches . and leaves . Miss Cecilia Trask decorated Mr. Roosevelt with an ilima and mauna loa leis , and a koa wood cane with an engraved silver plate was presented to him in behalf of the people of the community . Another incident which proved that the President is a real fishing expert came at Kahana when a catch from Hukilau was being shown to him . Pointing to . two squirming objects within the net the President laughed . " Those are squid . I know them , " he said . At the Mormon Temple members of the Samoan colony who reside in that vicinity , garbed in native costume , presented a sword dance and songs while the Presidential party looked on . The sword dance was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaster for Chester Rowell and August Vollmer while they were witnessing a similar entertainment in Honolulu . But today there was not even a hint of an untoward incident . At Kahuku plantation , on the north point of Ohua , the party stopped briefly on the road to permit the President to watch a group of workmen loading sugar cane for transportation to the mill . At Kemoo James D. Dole , father of the Hawaiian pineapple industry , met Mr. Roosevelt and answered the President 's many questions as to how the fruit was grown and prepared for export . As the party entered Schofield Barracks a salute of twenty-one guns resounded . The long avenue from the gate to the Artillery Club was lined on each side by troops at present-arms . At the club the President was met by a guard of honor and the national anthem was played again . The President here left his car , he and his sons and Governor Poindexter being luncheon guests of General Wells . Shortly before 2:30 P. M. the party re-entered the cars to be driven to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all conceivable types of army equipment were drawn up ready for the review , which was the largest ever given here . The Nineteenth Infantry formed the Presidential guard of honor . Although the sky was cloudy there were no direct in , dications of rain as the spectacle began . Past the long stands , which were crowded by thousands of persons from Schofield Barracks , Honolulu and other army posts on the island , the troops.moved with utter precision . The infantry brigades were followed by battery upon battery of field artillery with their rumbling guns , cai  --  sons and wagon trains . ringing hp the rear were the signal troops and ordnance company . Then a tank company passed slowly across the field , thus bringing to an end the Hawaiian division part of the review . Then followed three regiments of coast artillery troops from Oahu , commanded by Brig . Gen. Abernethy , passing in march time to the music of three bands . After the flood of khaki-clad figures had left the field there was a brief pause , during which the roar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward distant Koolau Mountain dropped eighty planes . The wing pursuit , attack and bombardment squadrons swept past . The altitude of the lowest was barely ten feet from the ground . The ) planes climbed high into the sky and the squadron spelled out the President 's initials , F. R. Then the formation sped on to Honolulu . The spectators remained in their places until the Presidential party had departed for Honolulu . The President was the guest tonight at the Governor 's dinner , which was followed by a reception and typical Hawaiian entertain ; ment . Tomorrow he is to visit Pearl Harbor for an inspection tour .                     