@@703102

txt Yardsticks for electric power are purely fantastic and utterly meaningless except to the man who assumes that the cost of power plants is simple and uniform , Dr. Daniel W. Mead , professor emeritus of sanitary and hydraulic engineering at the University of Wisconsin , told members of the American Society of Civil Engineers at their eighty-fifth annual meeting here today . " Neither the Federal Administration , Congress , the state legislatures. nor any other authority , corporation or individual can in any way establish a fair and just measurement of what power will cost , or the fair and equitable price at which it should reasonably be sold , except by considering the individual circumstances of construction and opera-ton , " he said . Regarding the efficiency of a power yardstick , determining how much it should cost to produce power , Dr. Mead said one might as well ask the general questions " what is the mice of a suit of clothes ? " or " How much does it cost to build a house ? " " Sounds Well to Layman " " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the cost of power is purely fantastical ? an impossible ideal  --  and when attempted is only fairly applicable to the plant or combination of plants created for such ail unnecessary purpose . " Such a term sounds well to the layman and is , therefore , useful to the politician to mislead the people and perhaps to save votes , but it is practically meaningless to the engineer except , perhaps , in the case of plants when the conditions of duplication may be so uniform that almost identical results can be obtained . " Dr , Mead spoke in a symposium on the cost of power , the second of three such programs planned by the society . Held at Pittsburgh In 1936 , the first symposium considered general conditions of electric power production , and today 's program followed logically with a discussion of the actual outlay for power on the high tension bus or at the substation . The third , conference will consider the cost of power to the consumer . ' Uncertain factors in the cost of development of the Tennessee Valley Authority projects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them fallacious yardsticks , ' Dr. Mead continued . " Water power development In the TVA apparently has been charged with less than one third of the costs fairly attributable to it . " Observing that statements by a public official in recent years have " sent large portions of the public into hysterics , " the United States Commissioner of Reclamation , John C. Page asked for a calm consideration of the power problem and urged engineers to take the lead in working toward a solution . " Thought on the subject of power ranges from that of the evangelist who believes that power should be as free as air to that of the ' tycoon ' who views power as the silver spoon meant for the mouths of those born to the economic purple , " Mr. Page said . " Public agencies have demonstrated in many localities that they can manufacture nad distribute efficiently and successfully with public benefits . On the other hand , private utilities have served as admirably in many communities . " The time has arrived to recognize that there is nothing bad in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Page said , and he asked the engineers to accept the fact that either must earn its right to continued existence in any locality by efficient service in the public interest . " The electrical industry is monopolistic by nature . " he continued . " I hold it to be self-evident that in a democracy a monopoly can be tolerated only so long as the people feel that it serves in the public interest . Is it not time for the engineers , who play so prominent a role in the field of power , to assist , honestly and whole-heartedly , in seeing to it that the public weal is placed foremost among the objectives of the power industry . " An appeal for better planning and convention by Joseph Nevin of the zoning of cities was laid before the New Jersey State Housing Authority . " More important to housing betterment than construction of projects is the improvement of zoning and planning , including the control of subdivision layouts , " Mr. Nevin said . Unless such improvements were made , encouragement of slums would offset many gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chiefs ' Special to The Chnidtan Setence Worn/cf . CLEMSON , S. C. ? J. S. Williamson , Clemson engineering graduate of 1916 , has been elected president of the South Carolina Engineering Association . Mr. Williamson is chief engineer of the State Highway Department . Prof. S. R Rhodes , head of Clemson electrical engineering department , was elected vice-president .                     