@@704106

txt " Indispensable " was the way Reserve Chairman Marriner Eccles yesterday described the pump-priming powers conferred on the Washington administration in the Barkley spending-lending bill . Despite the endorsement of Mr. Eccles and Secretary of the Treasury ** Senator Barkley was forced to agree to some important changes , as a result of which his whole measure was generally thought to have about a better than 50-50 , chance of passage . ( Page 3 ) . It soon developed that Mr. Eccles accurately reflected ofireial eagerness to push money out in loans . The Mead bill to insure bank loans to small business  --  generally judged asleep for this session of Congress  --  was revived in modified form with consent of President Roosevelt as a rider to the spending-lending measure . BA ' ALFRED F. FLYNN Staff Corrcanandent of Tees WALT . STREET JOURNAL WASHINGTON ? A drastically modified program to encourage business loans through Reconstruction Finance Corp . and the banks was offered as an amendment to the spending-lending self-liquidating loan program last night by Senator Mead ( Dem. , N. Y. ) with approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a substitute for the more comprehensive Mead bill for government insurance of bank loans for business purposes . As explained by Senator Mead , the RFC - would be authorized under the amendment to insure bank loans that come within the class of loans which the RFC is permitted to make under the existing law but the present requirement for collateral for such loans would be eliminated . Senator Head also will offer as part of the lending program an amendment liberalizing the authority of the Federal Reserve banks to make business loans under section 13B of the reserve act . Under existing- law these loans may bomade for working capital for periods not exceeding five years . The amendment would permit loans for business purposes other than working capital and for periods up to 20 years . Insurance Principle Established The RFC loans and insurance of bank loans would be authorized specifically under Section 5 of the reserve act . according to Senator Mead 's new amendment . Senator Mead explains that the RFC at present is authorized both to make direct loans to business . particlpate in loans with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks . His proposed rider to the self-liquidating loan bill specifically establishes the principle of insuring loans for business under regulations to be set up by the RFC . Under the amendment . insurance is provided up to 100% of bank loans to business and the necessity for collateral support for loans is eliminated . Senator Mead stated that his amendment leaves the whole operation up to the judgment of the RFC with the only requisite that there is a reasonable prospect that the loans will be repaid . Senator Wagner , Senate banking and currency committee chairman . attended a White House conference at which the program was adopted along with Senator Mead , Federal Loan Administrator Jesse Jones and the new RFC Chairman Emil Schram . According to the New York Senators , both Mr. Jones and Mr. Schram assisted in the preparation of the amendments as a substitute for the Mead bill . Mr. Jones originally testified before the congressional committees in opposition to the Mead bill in its original form . Wagner Sees Endorsement Senator Wagner believes that the banking committee will endorse the loan plan as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a test of committee sentiment will be made at a session today . Meanwhile , an effort will be made to encourage business concerns to take advantage of the sources of funds available at RFC and the reserve banks under existing law and as they will be available under more liberal terms under the contemplated changes . Senator Mead stated that FHA insurance of mortgage loans was stimulated tremendously by a nation-wide campaign encouraging prospective home owners to take advantage of the insurance features of  --  the law . A campaign similar 4o this will be made by RFC to stimulate business loans through the banks with the RFC insurance , according to the Senator . Senator Mead declared that the broad general scheme of government insurance of bankloans to business would be made a part of the general study to be conducted by the Senate banking and currency committee this fall into monetary and banking policies of the government . Offered in Senate The proposed rider to the self-liquidating loan bill amending the RFC law was offered in the Senate late Wednesday by Senator Mead He plans to offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today after conferring with Chairman Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board . The decision to seek to attach the Mead bill revisions to the spending-lending measure was reached after the White House conference . After the conference , Mr. Jones issued a statement in behalf of the conferees in which he said that they had discussed the need and desirability of long term as well as current credit for small business . All conferees agreed , according to the statement , that no effort should be spared to meet the " legitimate need " of small business for working capital and for modernization of , plant and equipment . President Suggests Program Mr. Jones said it was agreed that the RFC 's program of lending in cooperation with banks where the corporation usually guarantees the banks against loss on the major part of the loan , is equivalent to insuring that part of the loan . Direct authority to insure loans through a new act of Congress , the statement read , would stimulate applications and encourage banks to make a greater effort at lending , particularly for modernization and plant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under RFC procedure . The statement also pointed out that the President had suggested during the conference that an educational campaign be conducted for a two-fold purpose : 1 . To bring home to banks , Insurance companies , finance companies and other lending institutions what the RFC will do In the way of insuring current and long term loans to business . 2 To bring home to business men , regardless of the size of their business , what their local banks and lending . institutions can do to meet their credit needs . Although he said that such ? program would be an adequate substitute for the Mead bill . Mr. Jones added that if a bill were passed to insure loans to business it would " wake up a lot of people to go around to their banks and get loans . "                     