@@700836

txt WASHINGTON , Oct. 6 . ? A resumption of American efforts to bring peace in the Chaco may be attempted within the next few days . The apparent stalemate reached at Geneva almost as soon as the League of Nations subcommittee began its task of conciliation has strengthened a considerable body of opinion here that the quarrel between Bolivia and Paraguay can be settled only by machinery made in America . When the Bolivians indicated that they would prefer a conciliation engineered by the League , the peace plan under construction by Dr. Carlos Saavedra Lamas , Argentine Foreign Minister , and supported by Brazil and the United States , went into a state of suspended animation . There is nothing to prevent it from being brought to life , however , and feelers will doubtless be sent out this week to the two belligerents with this end in view . The failure of six previous attempts to end the Chaco war , now of two and one-half years ' duration . stands out in sharp contrast with the peaceful settlement of the almost forgotten Leticia dispute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamber of Representatives has just returned to Bogota after inspecting the little port on the Amazon River which looked , eighteen months ago , like a certain cause of war . Credit Is Given to Brazil . The committee reported that Colombian officials had been in complete control of the town for four months and that the situation was quiet . In Washington , official circles are inclined to give the credit for the adjustment of the Leticia argument to the Brazilian peace plan , which had the full backing . behind the scenes , of the United States . From this premise it is reasoned that similar procedure could be successful in the Chaco matetr , if only both belligerents would submit in as good faith as did the Peruvians and Colombians to medation by representatives of American republics . The State Department continues to give out cheering news of economic recovery in Cuba , following the reciprical trade agreement with this country , which has been in effect about a month . Cuban customs receipts are now pouring into the Treasury at a rate which will yield about $30,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Although no positive action was taken by the League of Nations to endorse the Pan-American treaty , of which the United States was the first signatory , guaranteeing the non-application of most-favored-nation treatment to multilateral trade agreements , several European nations and virtually all Latin-American countries are expected to sign it within the next few weeks . Among diplomats here , the treaty has created a certain amount of confusion . Many of them view its adoption by the Pan-American Union governing board and the haste of this country to sign it as indicating that the United States will not be so inflexible in its current trade agreement negotiations on the question of the most-favored nation clause . Hull Sees a Distinct Gain . Secretary of State Cordell Hull and his associates , however , feel that the existence of such a treaty , particularly if a substantial number of the leading commercial countries adhered to it , would be the most effective sort of insurance that most-favored-nation treatment could be efficiently carried on as a principle of international trade . As officially explained , adherence to the treaty will merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a multilateral tariff , relying on its most-favored-nation treaties to get for it the benefits of the agreement without any sacrifice on its own part . The fate of the Ouchy Convention , which died at birth because of Great Britain 's insistence on enjoying its benefits without entering into the progressive tariff reduction planned by Belgium , The Netherlands and Luxembourg , was a timely reminder to trade treaty framers here that similar occurrences might be expected in the future . This treaty has no connection , and was intended to have none , with the current program of the United States in working out reciprocal agreements on a bilateral basis . However , the reciprocity treaties now being drafted are being put into such form that they could easily become multilateral agreements if the movement for tariff reduction became world-wide ,                     