@@697181

txt For the first time in forty-five years the famous old Potter Palmer realcicrice at 1350 Lake Shore drive Is officially without a member of th-3 Palmer family living within its turreted walls . Mr. and Mrs. Potter Palmer Jr . moved yesterday to the Ambassador East , where they will live until they move Into their new apartment at 1301 Astor street . While the Palmers were forsaking the old brown stone mansion it was reported that Vincent Bendix , the new owner , who bought the property lo July , 1928 , for approximately $3,000. - 000 , . turned down an offer yesterday which would have paid him a profit of 100 per cent . Bendix Holding Revealed . With the disclosure of Mr. Bendlx 's refusal of a return of $3,000,000 on his investment another real estate mystery was solved . Mr. Bendix , it was disclosed , is the real buyer of the Gold Coast property bounded by Lake Shore drive , Ritchie court , and Goethe street , just south of the Palmer residence . Last August a syndicate which included John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others sold the property to a Charles Marcus of New York . Yesterday Mr. Bendix admitted that Mr. Marcus took title for him and that he now is the sole owner of these two big Lake Shore drive holdings . Although Mr. Bendix said he had no definite plans at present for Improving either the old Palmer residence site or the block to the south , he intimated . that the two developments would be of similar character and hinted that perhaps they might get under way this year . When Mr. 2enclix bought the Palmer property - in 1998 lie contemplated erecting a fifty story hotel , to cost $25,000,090 . A Personal Venture . The Palmers had refused . to sell the old mansion to syndicates and had turned . down attractive - offers . Then Mr. Bendix told Potter Palmer Jr . he 'd like to buy the property for his own personal investment , offering $3,000,0e0 , and the deal was closed . Mr. Bendix lives at 209 Lake Shore drive . Beside his city apartment he has a residence- at South Bend , Ind . Although the Palmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ household goods still are In the old castlelike structure and probably ' wo n't - be moved until some time th June . Potter Palmer Sr. built the imposing brown stone structure in 1885 . It at once became the residential show place of Chicago . a distinction which It has maintained despite its towering apartment house rivals along the Gold Coast . Both before and after the world 's fair of 1893 the Palmer castle , as it was often called , was the center of Chicago 's social life , with Mrs. Potter Palmer Sr. presiding . After the death of Mrs. Palmer Sr. , the property passed to the sons , Potter Jr . and Honore . The latter sold his interest ' to his brother several years a.go and Mr. and Mrs. Potter Palmer Jr . have made it their home until ' now . When Mr. Bendix bought the property he leased the residence back to , the Palmers for a reported $100,000 annual rental .                     