@@699620

txt The hope of the steel industry for the immediate future is the motor trade . Companies which supply the automobile companies are anticipating an increased demand in view of the information that the leading motor car makers are planning strong sales campaigns and believe that public buying will show a substantial increase over recent averages before the end of April . The bank holidays interrupted tl plans of most motor companies . becausu it . Was , not possible to interest as a buyer the depositor of a closed bank or one whose disbursements w ere limited A natural rerun : was a reduction in output and a consequent lessened demand for steel . The motor car makers have not resumed active selling campaigns believing they could not expect the buyers to show immediate interest after the paralysis w hich was caused in business by the bank holidays . However . with the continued reopening of the banking institutions the automobile interests have expressed the view that conditions will become nearer normal shortly and they intend to go out after business Mi.cellaneous Order% 1Corereen In addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in steel quarteis that general buying will show a moderate spurt in the not distant future Many miscellaneous users who were in the market up to about a month ago retired with the beginning of the state banking holidays , and have not yet re turned as buyers . It is known that some of them now are planning not only to cover their needs , but also to replenish their largely depleted stocks . Any indication of normalcy would result in these interests placing orders for early delivery . There is as yet no evidence of a good improvement in the oemanci for railroad material and construction work These are the two heavy lines on which so many of the large steel companies depend for fair operations The transportation companies are not yet in a position to place orders and building activities in the coming months will be confined to actual necessities . This will mean little , if any increase in structural steel demand , because the country still has an over-supply of buildings . Brewing interests are planning extensions with the return of legalized beer , and while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiries and orders from this source thus far have been limited to small tonnages . There will be other steel requirements for the brewing industry . but these will be in the higher grade steels and will effect but a small portion of the industrySome Material Ahead Predictions or a substantial increase In steel ingot production , which were made confidently outside the industry , have not materialized . During the bank holidays the output of ingots was maintained at a better rate than new business . Orders fell off sharply in that period , but mill activities came down moderately , no that a number of companies accumulated ingots and will be in a position to supply customers during the initial increase in demand which is anticipated , without expanding operations immediately . Considerable interest is being shown in the continued strength in scrap material as reported from various sections of the country . Rumors have been heard of buying for the account of important steel companies , but they have not been confirmed . Part of the strength in scrap is due to the better feeling among dealers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past . Sonic dis- tress scrap has come on the market from time to time in several districts , but this has been easily absorbed . The real and lasting improvement in scrap will come when the steel companies are buyers on a large scale . This will develop when officials of these concerns are confident of material increases in operations . Buying by the steel companies usually results in absorbing much of the old material which had been hanging over the market and thereafter scrap prices reflect definite firmness which is not easily disturbed when moderately larger offerings are encountered .                     