@@701802

txt Flood conditions in the territory served by the Columbia Gas ac Electric Corp . have clouded the company 's earnings prospect for the first quarter . But before the floods arrived , the company 's earnings appeared likely to set the best first quarter since 1931 . The extent to which floods are affecting gross earnings and are requiring extraordinary maintenance work in the restoration or continuance of service may have an important influence on the first quarter operating results . In any event these uncertain factors prevent at the present time any estimate of the results with assurance as to their accuracy . However , when final figures are available , they may show gas sales during January and February more than 20% above the corresponding 1935 months . This gain not only reflects general improvement in consumption for manufacturing activities and normal expansion , but also the handiwork of Mother Nature as exemplified by the exceptionally long stretch of cold weather which started with the latter part of December . Headed for 40 to 50 Cents a Share In light of the sharp gain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvement in electric output as well , the first quarter appeared to be heading towards earnings of between 40 cents and 50 cents a share on the common stock , assuming of course a normal March unaffected by flood damage . In the first quarter of 1935 the Columbia System reported 28 cents a share on the common stock , while in the first 1934 quarter 32 cents was earned . In 1933 the first quarter produced 33 cents a share ; in 1932 43 cents a share and in 1931 64 cents a share . The first quarter always produces the major portion of Columbia 's earnings . For instance , the System reported 43 cents a share for the full year 1935. of which 28 cents came in the first three months . Varying conditions may alter the relation of the first quarter to the year 's total , but in all cases . it produces a very important part of the final results . This seasonal characteristic of Columbia 's business is due to the varying demand for gas as a fuel . Consequently a sharp variation ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equally sharp variation in the consumption of gas . Cold Spells Boost Earnings In technical terms , the cold spell added to the system 's load 832 more degree days to the 7th of March this year than in the comparable 1835 period . For the records , a degree day is the temperature deficiency below the temperature at which space heating starts . The gas industry usually assumes that space heating starts with a daily mean temperature of 64 degrees . Thus every degree under 64 that the daily mean temperature records add a degree day to the heating load . From December 15 to the seventh day of March this year , the Columbia System had 3.480 degree days or S32 more than in the same 1935 period . Each degree variation usually means the additional use of six cubic feet of gas by the average customer . Conversely each degree change upward reduces the demand by that much . It will be some days before it will be determined finally just how much the flood has affected Columbia 's first quarter earnings . There will , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there will be the loss in gross revenue because of decline in industrial and domestic demand as a recult of shutdowns in the flooded areas On the other hand it is quite likely that many of these plants as they return to operations will work extra shifts and thereby to some extent make up for the loss of gas consumption due to the shutdown . The reports from Binghamton . N. Y .. and Wheeling . Huntington and other Ohio and West Virginia communities inundated during the pant week are , insofar as Columbia 's operations concerned were more encouraging than it was hoped they would be .                     