@@704384

txt Silicosis is a disease which is rife in the dusty trades and which too often ends in tuberculosis . Despite the opposition of Secretary Perkins , the American Association for Labor Legislation and of public health officials , this State in 1936 passed an act that drastically limited payments and medical benefits to which sufferers from silicosis were entitled under the Compensation Act , made no allowance for partial disability and fastened liability on the last employer . It was a compromise , and , like most compromises , it satisfied nobody . Labor , for example , objected to physical examinations which would weed out victims of silicosis . And insurance companies objected because without physical examinations they were forced either to decline the assumption of any risk at all or to charge rates that employers considered exorbitant . After an experience of three years with the act , $99,594 has been awarded in just seventy-nine cases . Either silicosis is not the menace that public health officials tell us it is , which is incredible , or something is wrong with the act . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working of the insurance provisions . As yet the State has declined to publish the amount paid for casualty premiums , so that there is no way of determining the relation that the $99,594 thus far awarded bears to the total collected and hence no way of determining the extent to which the fears expressed in 1936 were justified . Whatever the facts may be in this respect , the act as it stands clearly fails of its purpose . It still does too little to insure proper working conditions and to reduce insurance rates by the compulsory installation of dusteliminating devices . Nor is any adequate permanent system of official inspection provided to keep dust down to a medically permissive minimum . Employers should not be compelled to pay heavy compensation premiums because their physicians may not examine prospective and actual employes for signs of incipient or advanced disease . On the other hand , if they are permitted to reject the afflicted the problem of dealing with disability must be faced . If it is objected that adequate compensation , the one feasible solution , will impose a ruinous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wisconsin . That State proceeds on tie theory that a worker who has developed silicosis must be given a chance to rehabilitate himself , after which he will be in a position to seek employment in a calling in which he will not be exposed to pulmonary danger . At first the awards in Wisconsin rose sharply ; now they stand at about the level to be expected , without apparently embarrassing the State . New York made a mistake in arbitrarily limiting compensation and in failing to adopt sufficiently strict measures to control sill-cosis .. With enough experience at hand to show how the disease should be prevented and combated and dealt with as an economic problem , there is no reason why public health officials , insurance companies , employers and workers should not cooperate in revising an unjust law . Revision is all the more necessary because of New York 's legislative influence on other States .                     