@@704135

txt The United States Navy appeared in its most disarming aspect this week . In a brief ceremony , the high executive command  --  the post of chief of naval operations  --  changed hands . Admiral William D. Leahy retired to become Governor of Puerto Rico and Rear Admiral Harold R. Stark took over . The occasion was a study in contrasts . To the imagination of the onlooker , the ceremony was surcharged with meaning , coining at this time of breathtaking armament and world tensions and yet to his inquiring eye it was a very casual affair indeed . One might have expected at least a hint of the pageantry in which navies are gifted . Nowadays the public is generously supplied with this tingling brand of drama , and many an American who never touched salt water has ridden with long gray lines of dreadnaughts from his chair in the motion picture theater . But no such glory dazzled the eye of the observer in the low factory-like building of the Navy Department when the ceremony took place . It Was All Very Simple There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a uniform in sight . Just a small group of men in the business-like office of the Secretary of the Navy dressed in informal white with varicolored neckties . As usual , the Navy was not only on time but slightly ahead , and it was not until Admiral Stark stood with upraised hand , listening to the oath of office , that the minute hand reached 10 o'clock . But it was ten landlubberly strokes which sounded forth , instead of four nautical bells . Not even a pop-gun was to be heard by way of salute and the only decoration was a pair of miniature telescopes on the mantel , framing the Admiral 's arm . In a moment the impressive oath was read , the " I do " firmly pronounced , and the ceremony was over . The next scene was a jovial press conference in the new chief 's office . " Come in often , " the Admiral said . " After all , this Is the people 's Navy : " Meanwhile , there was a droning undercurrent In the back of the onlooker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the midst of a calm at sea . On Friday a week past , President Rooseyelt had pinned the Distinguished Service Medal on Admiral Leahy for " measures , both executive and legislative , the value of which are clearly evi- Washington Bureau dented in the present high state of readiness and efficiency of the United States Fleet and of the entire naval establishment . " Those were the President 's words . On Monday following , the Admiral left his swansong with the Na. y in his last annual report . " If peace can not be preserved , " he said . - in broad naval strategy must be offensive , and the United States Fleet should engage and defeat the enemy fleet wherever it can be brought to action . . as quickly as possible and at a safe distance Dom our shores . " Maneuvers In the Pacific On Tuesday , a newspaperman from the State Departrhent pointed out that if Japan hardened as a result of Secretary Hull 's action denouncing the 1911 trade treaty , the issue might be precipitated . Would the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move out ? To stay would require more than words of persuasion , and he surmised that the main fleet of the Navy might hold its fleet maneuvers significantly far out toward the western Pacific next spring . Wednesday came the ceremony at the Navy Department and , although Admiral Stark declined to discuss his policies , out of the office files came a copy of his latest speech , at Boston as late as June 5 of this year . " When we speak of the technology of national defense , we actually are speaking of the technology of war , " he said . " ? . . The world turmoil of today is such that war is not only a possibility but must be considered a probability . I am not speaking as an alarmist and I do not predict that we will be involved in any major war ; nevertheless . . . there is nothing for us to do but be ready to defend our interests and maintain our national integrity , should another Armageddon occur . " " A people 's navy , " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the first to insist that the people want peace . It is not his function . nor that of this message , to discuss how : but in the face of mounting confusion , let there be no doubt as to the grim preparedness measures being taken by Navy and White House at this tune They are not fully indicated by a pleasant ceremony carried out by admirals in civilian white clothes in the sunshine of a Washington summer morning . Saville Ili . Davis                     