@@702346

txt The Finance Ministry has issued a statement saying that the Japanese control of exchange , which was strengthened by enforcement of license system applying to transactions in exchange in the settlement of imports into Japan , is intended to check anticipatory and speculative imports which have increased since last December . The exchange control is not designed to restrict legitimate trading and applications affecting transactions in the exchange market in settlement of legitimate imports have been and will be granted . The Ministry declares that the new exchange legislation does not , therefore , affect bona fide traders or shippers . The Ministry declares it is confident it can maintain the yen quotation at the level of 1s 2d . Exchange control is apparently acceptable to importers in Japan becauSe of the necessity to support the yen . The Finance Ministry says it will not unduly restrict importation of industrial raw materials but it will prevent speculative buying of commodities . Wool dealers are now appealing for permission to buy 1,000,000 bales but the Finance Ministry is adamant in allowing only 800,000 bales , the same as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is speculative . It is thought , however , that wcfol dealers are padding their applications in order to insure obtaining sufficient to meet demands . After initial flurry , commodities are becoming more normal but an inflationary boom seems to be well under way . Although local banks reported that commercial payments are going through somewhat more please freely in Japan , only a minimum of business Is being done because of the prevailing uncertainty . The outlook was made more confused yesterday when discrepancies appeared in the rates quoted here and abroad for spot yen exchange for which no adequate explanation was offered and which made more doubtful the ultimate purposes of the new Japanese exchange control . The various quotations which appeared caused banks to back away from the yen market . Official rate in New York was quoted at 28.70 cents , although the 14 pence , which was - in effect officially in London , was equal to about 28.64 based on yesterdays sterling rate . There was an American commercial offer in New York at that same ' rate and exchange traders felt it would receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received from Japan with Kobe quoting 28.63 cents and Yokohama 28.70 cents . Although the official statements made in Tokyo yesterday took no cognizance of it . exchange quarters here yesterday stated that in addition to the speculative buying of foreign commodities since December , the sharp rise in Japanese prices , which has developed since the turn of the year has induced heavy bear speculation in yen exchange . Shanghai has been active on the selling side while London also is reported to have been a heavy seller . Well informed local quarters yesterday were inclined to minimize the reports that pressure in Japan may lead to a further depreciation of the yen with consequent possible break up in the tri-partite currency agreement . It was explained that any unfavorable exchange move which Japan might make would probably be followed by reprisals against that country from all corners of the world . On top of that , it was pointed out that depreciation of the exchange would not aid in the present situation . The rise in prices , which has developed in the past few weeks in that country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the exchange might cause even additional gains in the price level , thus robbing the country of some of its competitive ability . In addition , is the fact that Japan for the most part is a re-exporting country , buying foreign raw materials , manufacturing them and selling the finished goods abroad . A falling exchange rate would only accentuate the effect of rising commodity prices and increase the cost of raw materials to Japanese producers .                     