@@702714

txt Interstate cooperation in setting minimum basic wages has received as much Congressional encouragement thus far as the Administration 's broader scheme of a Federal wage and hour law . A joint resolution granting consent of Congress to a minimum wage compact already ratified by Massachusetts , New Hampshire , and Rhode Island is on the Senate calendar along with the Administration 's wage and hour bill and in addition has been approved by a House Judiciary Subcommittee , a degree of progress not yet achieved by its rival . The resolution is made necessary by the Constitution and its adoption would make the wage pact immediately effective in the three states named . Its purpose is to enforce reasonably uniform standards for labor in industry among the industrial states of the country . The compact , while avoiding a specific commitment on hourly wages , is broad enough to cover the most stringent state law . Its value lies in the guarantee to each ratifying state that other ratifying states will not compete unfairly in labor conditions . In the following language , it allows each state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The state agency administering the minimum wagelaw enacted in conformity with this compact shall have authority to investigate the wages of women and minors ; to appoint wage boards , upon which employers , ' employes , and the public shall have equal representation . for the purpose of recommending minimum fair wage rates for women and minors ; and , after a public hearing , to enter directory orders based on the determinations of the wage boards , together with such administrative rulings as sr , appropriate to make the determinations effective ; and may have further authority , without the agency of a wage board , to enter such orders in the case of occupations with less than a specified number of employes " . The compact , like the wage and hour bill , traces back ultimately to President Roosevelt . In January , 1931 , when he was Governor of New York , he called a Governor 's conference on employment . Other conferences of Governors and state officials followed and culminated in a meeting in Concord , N. H. , in May , 1934 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states were parties to the compact but have not ratified it . They are Connecticut , New York , Pennsylvania , and Maine . The document will not become effective for them until they ratify it .                     