@@701664

txt A new farm-aid program based upon the idea of soil conservation as sponsored by President Roosevelt , and supplemented by a scheme of crop insurance for basic agricultural production , began taking shape here today as farm leaders from every section of the country met with administration officials in an effort to find a substitute for the outlawed Agricultural Adjustment Act . Indications developing from the first day of the farmer-administration conferences were that the new plan would entail a continuance of the distribution of many millions annually to the farmers of the United States ; that it would necessitate the levying of pew taxes or re-enactment of the invalidated processing levies ; that its net effort would be to vest a large measure of crop control in the Federal Government and that it would head immediately into a court test to determine its constitutionality . The basic philosophy of the new plan was laid by the President early today . At a press conference in the executive office , held at the same time the farmer leaders were gathering in the office of Secretary Wallace at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectives to be sought by a new farm program . Without once mentioning the Supreme Court 's demolition of the AAA , main prop of his entire recovery program , Mr. Roosevelt stressed that soil conservation , including the better utilization of land , and production control ofcrops in the interest of fair prices to the producer should be the principal goals for the future . Echo the President 's Words . These objectives were re-echoed by Secretary Wallace and Chester A. Davis , Agricultural Adjustment Administrator , to the farm leaders at the first conference of the day . They used practically the same language as the President in the assertion that " we must avoid any agricultural policy which will result in shipping our soil fertility to foreign countries . " Mr. Wallace amplified this by explaining that any policy which induced back into cultivation the 50 , - 000,000 submarginal acres retired by the AAA would so reduce farm prices that the fertility of the other acres would be squandered . The Secretary and Mr. Davis both contended , and the farm leaders seemed to agree , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry without adequate crop controls would be futile . Mr. Wallace warned , at the same time , that no plan must unduly burden the consumer , " We want our consumers abundantly taken care of , but we do not I want to plow an unduly high percentage of soil which washes and blows away , and give the product of that soil away for practically nothing merely to satisfy certain special interests which profit by volume , " he said . With the administration 's major objectives before them , together with their own apparent determination to evolve something more than a stop-gap program , the farm leaders convened to themselves in the Agriculture Department auditorium , and there , in executive session , proceeded to consider the many proposals sent to the conference . Farm Committee Is Named . It was their plan tonight to remain in Washington , either in full force or represented by a committee , until a definite plan has been evolved for continuing some form a Federal agricultural assistance . A committee of nine was named late today to confer further with administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods of procedure . Another full session of the 100-odd leaders will be held tomorrow . Additional delegates are expected to arrive as late as Monday . The new soil conservation and crop insurance proposal was not long in coming to the top . Sponsored in theory by the administration , indications tonight were that this , or something of its nature , would finally be suggested to Congress . Boiled down to its essentials , the plan contemplates nothing more or less than a nation-wide , federally compensated movement for crop diversification and soil conservation , the immediate result of which would be the continued curtailment of acreage devoted to basic agricultural crops . It would be effectuated not by contract , as in the unconstitutional AAA , but through cash rewards to farmers who maintain certain standards of land utilization and crop rotation as prescribed under rules laid down by Congress . The crop insurance scheme , which was riding along with the soil conservation idea tonight , was put forward by leaders from cotton-producing States which are faced with the prospect of a bumper crop , since all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under this refinement of the old agricultural program , the individual farmer would be guaranteed parity price on a certain allotted production of a basic commodity , but would have to take the market price on the remainder . In addition , his crop would be insured against major hazards , such as storms , drought , boll weevil , &c.,; and he likewise would be compensated up to a certain limit for voluntary reduction in production below his allotment . May Retain AAA Acreage Scale . Should this be accepted and made a part of the plan , allotments , both as to acreage and production , would likely be the same as carried in the program which toppled with the Agricultural Adjustment Act . Many other plans were said to have been submitted to the conference , most of them brought here by individual farm leaders . In his opening remarks to the meeting , Mr. Davis outlined the main features of at least a half dozen proposals , but knocked them down one by one as impractical , not to say unconstitutional . The opinion among spokesmen for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance plan could be squeezed within the close ruling of the court in the Hoosac Mills case . No mention was made at the meeting of an attempt to amend the Constitution . In fact , the only time the Constitution was mentioned was in a short speech of Fred Brenckman , legislative agent of the National Grange , when he insisted that there was no need for such a departure and was I applauded warmly . Inasmuch as the plan was still in an unfinished state , neither the farm leaders nor administrative officials had discussed the necessary legislation either with President Roosevelt or Congressional leaders . The latter are confronted with all manner of schemes in the absence of word from the administration . A group of the more radical farm advocates of the House met today with a view to reviving the drive for the Frazier-Lemke Farm Mortgage Refinancing Bill . This and other inflationary schemes are going the rounds of discussion at the Capitol . 200 Reporters at Conference . At the White House conference today Mr. Roosevelt outlined to more than 200 reporters the philosophy on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand in hand with production control . The crux of the problem , in his view , is conservation of national resources : the control of seeding and harvesting so that good prices for farm products will not lead to the planting of Western lands , already turning into deserts because of the cultivation of the thin soil there , or the clearing of natural growths on hilltops needed to prevent soil erosion . The President did not talk of the export debenture or equalization fees as such , but he turned thumbs down on any proposal to finance exports of agricultural products with bounties which would encourage greater acreage production . At only one time did Mr. Roosevelt depart from the even-toned voice that characterizes his ordinary statements , and then , when he was asked if it would not be I possible to subsidize exports of strictly limited quantities of agricultural products , he replied sharply that he supposed he could I if he were a dictator . " We must avoid any national agricultural policy , " the President said in his authorized quotation , which was repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result in shipping our soil fertility to foreign nations . " The President 's discussion of the agricultural problem was prompted by a question whether he still viewed the agricultural problem in the light of an informal press conference statement made on Oct. 25 , when he advocated the formation of a permanent AAA . Exposition of His Views . The President thereupon , in reply , began an exposition of the problem from his viewpoint , which in substance ran as follows : The President must think of agriculture from the point of view of the forty-eight States . In other words , there is no question that , as President , his duty is to view agriculture as a national problem . A good many of the old suggestions that were made as far back as the Coolidge administration are being revived . There is , for instance , a good deal of discussion , to bring it down to a practical problem , that the country should subsidize the export of certain crops . If you begin subsidizing one crop the President remarked you will have to subsidize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of the implications of what would happen if , by an export subsidy of some kind , the government encouraged the growing of an additional increase in the total agricultural production . Take wheat , for instance , on which there never was much of a problem until the advent of the dry farming of the past generation . As a result of new types of farm , the old buffalo grass land in many of the great States was plowed up . The yield per acre was not the main consideration , since , with such methods , profits could be made on yields of ten or twelve bushels per acre . With what result ? Dust storms started , the protective covering of buffalo grass having been removed from the thin soil , and became worse from year to year , with the result that there is now a great area subject to such storms solely because the land was used for the wrong purpose  --  for cultivation instead of as pasture . This condition does not obtain in just one State , but embraces an area including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Western Nebraska , the western part of South and North Dakota , large portions of Montana and Northern New Mexico . If the country goes in for a national agricultural ' principle that encourages the plowing of that land again  --  and the administration is trying to keep that from happening  --  it means that farmers will find it profitable to plow up this land and dust storms will continue , eventually making that whole area a desert . The same thing is true of cotton ( Mr. Roosevelt went on ) . If the Federal Government were to give an export subsidy on cotton , it would mean that cotton growers would say , in effect , " the more I grow the more I make . " While many want a farm subsidy , it is not desired by the thinking farmer . Those who are for it mostly are the transportation companies , for it means more business for them ( the President continued . ) The steamship lines , Mr. Roosevelt continued , are for it because it means more agricultural freight for them . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means more crops to them in their warehouses . The commission merchants want bigger crops because handling them means bigger commissions . The commodity exchanges want bigger crops because the bigger the crops the bigger the commissions . Nevertheless , it must be emphasized that the President has to think about the future of the country , and it seems clear from the teachings of history that unlimited agricultural crops will result in the loss of American soil fertility in a generation or two . Every one has- to consider that . No plan has been evolved yet . The problem is still in the discussion stage , but undoubtedly an attempt will be made to get some kind of legislation at this session of Congress which will carry out the general thought of seeking to retain and regain soil fertility , and at the same time keep the price of American agricultural products at a decent level . At the conclusion of Mr. Roosevelt 's exposition he answered a number of questions . In response to a question whether the practice of the government in purchasing submarginal land for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said that he did not know , but he did not think so .                     