@@701734

txt Two Catholic members of the House lashed from the floor of the chamber today at Father Charles E. Coughlin of Detroit , with one of them calling him a " silver-brick artist " and drawing a comparison with Judas Iscariot . Returning to the attack for the third consecutive day , Representative O'Connor of New York was joined by Representative Boland of Pennsylvania , the Democratic whip . The New Yorker spoke more calmly , apologizing for his sharp references to Father Coughlin 's " clerical garb , " but not for those he made about the cleric . But Mr. Boland declared that he was pulling no punches whatever . Before a packed House chamber and galleries , alternately tense and howling with laughter , Mr. O'Connor backed down a bit from his guarantee to kick the Detroit radio priest from the Capitol to the White House ? clerical garb and all . He made that threat after Father Coughlin in a radio address Sunday had accused him of intimidating House members into withdrawing their names from a petition to force a vote on the inflationary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Will " Meet Any Challenge . " But as members stood and shouted their approval , Representative O'Connor thundered in conclusion : " I propose to meet any challenge as to my reputation even though that challenge is hurled at me by a man of God . " Mr. Boland said at the outset that he had no apology to offer . In searing phrases , some of them directed toward the gallery , where a representative of Father Coughlin was sitting , he challenged the priest to try to drive him from Congress . Sandwiched into the free-for-all were a defense of the priest by Representative Sweeney of Ohio , and a blast at the House leadership from Representative Lemke of North Dakota , because the Refinancing Bill of which he is co-author has not reached a vote . In following Mr. O'Connor on the I floor , Representative Boland , who is a Catholic , shouted : " Has not this silver-brick artist the understanding to see the inconsistency of his position as he stands before the altar with one hand on the gospel and the other engaged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " Demagogue . " " This man in his egotism evidences every characteristic of the cruel , selfish and prejudicial dictator . " God keep America safe and bless th ' members of our Legislature who have the moral courage to resist the demands of such unprincipled , self-seeking demagogues who would betray America as Judas betrayed the Redeemer for thirty pieces of silver . " In taking the floor today Representative O'Connor said : " I was not justified in referring to the clerical garb . I apologize for that . I said something about kicking . What one feels like doing and what one should do or say is quite another thing . " The greatest offense , of course , that could be committed in my church , and probably in everybody 's church , is to show disrespect for a man of the cloth . It was an undignified remark ; it was not fitting to me , let alone suitable to the distinguished clergyman to whom it was applied . " But for the priest personally he had not a single word of regret to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could have stood for being labeled a " tool of Wall Street and an assassin , " even on Sunday , but that it was too much to ' be called a burglar . " I may have been guilty of many crimes , " he said , " but I never have climbed over a transom . " House members laughed loudly . " Just because you are member of Congress - and the same church , do you have to take that ? " he asked . Discusses Priest and Politics . Representative O'Connor told the House that due to his Celtic extraction " mad " was hardly the word for the way he felt after listening for forty-five minutes to a " tirade " against himself , and that he " paid his respects to Father Coughlin . " " I have no particular pride in that , " he added . He remarked , however , after his apology , that he was not a clergyman and not practiced in turning the other cheek , whereas the " distinguished clergyman " took a vow that he would forgive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When a priest enters politics and public discussions he steps out of his character and many people believe he should no longer wear the clerical garb which we all respect , " said Mr. O'Connor . He recalled that during prohibition days when the clergy entered politics and the public campaigns " the general cry was , at least in my church , ' back to the pulpit . ' " He told the House that Father Coughlin said in effect that he would " lash " President Roosevelt out of the White House and Mr. O'Connor from Congress . " The only people who can lash me out of Congress are the god  --  eering people in my district on the East Side of New York , " he said . " They will be the judges of my action and I did what many Catholics have wanted to do for years and that is to raise this issue . " Wall Street " Narrow , Crooked . " In referring to Father Coughlin 's statement that the Congressman was a " tool of Wall Street , " Mr. O'Connor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Wall Street . All I know is , it is a narrow , crooked street down in lower Manhattan . " Wall Street never did anything for me and I never did anything ' for Wall Street except to vote for every bill to control it . " The reverend father is much better acquainted with Wall Street than I am . While I was in Congress voting for the farmer the reverend father was urging the remonetization of silver and profiting in Wall Street with his silver speculation . " Saying that he would have kept his temper had not the priest indulged in a personal attack on him with reference to a bill introduced by him and vetoed by the President , he said he thought perhaps the veto was wise as it might have opened the door to " gold clause suits . " Asserting that he himself was a Catholic and his family had been before him , Mr. O'Connor said : " Father Coughlin has raised in the minds of the Catholics of America a question of whether he is stepping out of his robes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public life . " Mr. O'Connor remarked that he was not rising in defense of himself . " I never had to do that up to this hour and I do n't anticipate having to in the future , " he said . " Nor do I arise in defense of the President . I am arising in defense of the entire membership of the House , which has been maligned and scandalized by recent radio addresses . " Sweeney Defends Political Talks . Following Mr. Boland down into the well , Representative Sweeney charged Mr. O'Connor with attempting further to inflame intolerance in the nation " by his reference to a priest in politics . " Turning to the Rev. James Shera Montgomery , House chaplain , and Representative Eaton of New Jersey , a former minister , Mr. Sweeney asked : " Is it politics for a man of Christ to rise on Sunday in a pulpit or by a microphone and beg to change an economic system that allows children to go to garbage cans for food ? " Touching then on the FrazierLemke petition , Mr. Sweeney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like him , who have the courage to stand up on Sunday and speak to unseeing millions , thirty , forty or fifty million people about this situation . " Representative Lemke , striking out at the House leadership , took a long breath and said in apparent rage : " These , drunk with power , deaf and blind to human suffering , with cold , brutal and inhuman indifference to cries for justice from the several million men , women and children who are about to be separated from their livelihood , who are going to be evicted from their homes , have moved heaven and earth to prevent us from getting enough signatures on the FrazierLemke Refinance Bill to stop human suffering and the devastation of agriculture in this nation . "                     