@@697312

txt Prime Minister MACDONALD , himself in the midst of the process of ratification of the naval treaty by - the House of Commons , is naturally enthusiastic about the action of our Senate . He speaks of it as giving to the United States the place which it ought to have in the whole movement for limiting naval armaments . If this opinion of his had reached - Senators at Washington before their final vote it would probably have been bitterly commented upon , as further proof that we are pulling British chestnuts out of the fire . Senator JOHNSON would not have been too exhausted by the heat and his own oratory to have failed ' to produce some further " thunders of melodious wrath . " However , the overwhelming vote for ratification and its pleased acceptance by the whole country have made an end , for the time being , of that particular form of international prejudice . Any American who pauses to reflect will be convinced that Mr. MACDONALD is quite right . For years our Congress has been passing resolutions , and placing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nations to cut down the strength of navies . At Washington , eight years ago , our Government took the lead in diminishing the cost of battleships , through scrapping and the declaration of what was in effect a naval holiday in building them , with the result of making wholly improbable a war between the leading naval powers . Then at Geneva in 1927 , under the strong urging of President COOLIDGE , we sought an agreement to limit the numbers of cruisers . That effort failed , for reasons which need not *ow be dwelt upon , but came to a large measure of success at the London conference . It is the simple truth today , therefore , that the naval treaty now accepted by the United States is the culmination of a long and con'sistent endeavor on its part to improve the outlook for peace by reducing the instruments of war . Doubtless the fact that this country has been the first to ratify the naval treaty will make its approval easier both in Great Britain and Japan . That was not the main motive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had chiefly at heart , as is shown by his statement yesterday , the effect at home , along With the moral influence abroad . It was a great thing to have shown ' that , despite all that has been said , the Senate is not to be thought of as a " graveyard of treatieS ; " Mr. HOOVER through skillful management in securing the aid of Democratic Senators , whose aid he acknowledges , under the lead of Senator ROBINSON of Arkansas , has  - -  done muerth revive American prestige in such matters . The world now sees that it is possible for the Executive to negotiate treaties of large importance without having them torn to pieces or rejected by the Senate . In this sense , too , ratification of the naval treaty has tended to put the United States in its true " place " in international affairs .                     