@@701063

txt The question whether a satisfactory solution will be found soon to the wage sections of the $4,880,000,000 relief resolution was put squarely up to the friends of labor today by Senate leaders . Having indicated that President Roosevelt is willing to allow certain clarifications in the resolution as to the formula be intends to follow in fixing wage scales on the new relief works , the administration spokesmen proposed to let the question rest over the week-end . They hoped that during today and tomorrow the labor advocates might arrive at a decision which would allow the Senate to reverse its action of ten days ago when it wrote the McCarran " prevailing wage " amendment into the resolution , thus causing its withdrawal from further consideration at that time . Senator Wagner , who voted for the McCarran amendment , was said by Senate leaders to hold the key to the situation . The New York Senator was suffering from a slight cold today and kept to his apart-1 ment . Leaders Walt on the " Other Side . " 1 Senate leaders insisted that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any offer , they said , must come from the " other side , " or the forty-four Senators who voted for the McCarran I amendment . So far , the leaders have rejected all compromises offered . They finally made a suggestion yesterday , purportedly with consent of the White House , to the effect that the President might accept an amendment providing payment of " prevailing wages " on public works projects which come in direct competition with private industry . Meanwhile , the Senators were becoming restless over the delay on the Work Relief Bill . During the week the Appropriations Committee , to which the resolution was recommitted following the administration defeat on " prevailing wages , " held no meeting even to discuss the subject . Chairman Glass said he would not call the committee until he was assured that some solution of the wage section had been worked out . Senator McCarran , author of the wage amendment , termed the situation as " strange " when , he said . " a committee of the Senate must await word from the White House before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican member of the committee , described the procedure of the last week as " ridiculous . " Business Men Seek Changes . A movement for other important changes in the relief measure has been started by the business groups represented in the Chamber of Commerce of the United States . The committee on relief activities of the chamber filed a report today with the board of directors recommending that initiation and execution of the relief works projects should be left to the States and local communities and not centralized in a Federal bureau . The government in Washington , the committee held , should confine its participation to emergency un- employment relief loans or grants to the States . The chamber group supported the principle that wage rates on relief work should be lower than the " prevailing wage " in private industry . It subscribed to the general principle that the new projects should be planned with a view to economic usefulness . It held further , however , that it was not practical to employ all the indigent unemployed on new public works and so recommended continuation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most emphatic part of the committee 's report dealt with the matter of decentralization of the responsibility for initiating and prosecuting the new projects . It said : " Centralization of financing and administrative responsibility for unemployment relief in the form of a relief-public works program seems to run counter to the President 's statement that ' the Federal Government must and shall quit this business of relief . ' " In any case , it will encourage the illusion that taxes for Federal expenditures come from some source other than the people living in the several States . It will place in the hands of a centralized bureaucracy , which will inevitably set ? up uniform standards for the whole nation , the administration of government activities which are better administered , and in the long run more efficiently administered , by State and local agencies in close touch with the differing conditions in various parts of the country , and with the individuals in need of relief . " The temporary conditions created by an emergency should not be I Made the basis for a long-term policy which will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   