@@700555

txt Based on the present rate of improvement , the farm equipment industry has a chance in 1934 ? to break its three-year losing streak . With the important selling seasons yet to come , the results of which will make or break the year , nothing more definite or encouraging can be said at this time . However , among the factors which , at this early date , make a more optimistic outlook seem plausible are the following : The anticiated increase in price of farm equipment has already taken place to some extent , and a continuation of this markup is likely at intervals throughout the year . This rise in prices , necessitated by heavier labor and raw material costs , will be gradual . Demand for farm equipment has shown a sharp improvement over the money-losing levels of early 1933 and is currently running near the point where small profits are possible . In the pat ten days the pickup has been fairly impressive . The winter - wheat crop looks , eticoufit , C34. and while the-spring wheat area has been very ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Despite enlarged coat of operations , the companies are taking in more money proportionately than they have in some months , and in most instances , cash balances on April 1 , this year . were better than they were at the last year-end . More important , however . in the industry 's desire to strengthen cash is a discontentment with present long-term contracts to farmers , which is so outspoken on the part of some manufacturers that it threatens further amendment . The industry 's code now calls for 24-month contracts , with the exception of threshers which are granted an additional four months . In the past , the manufacturers did not push maturities severely , with the result that notes , even in good times , were averaging closer to three years than to two . The chief drawback to the present plan of financing farm equipment sales is that many farmers , in boom years . will contract for machinery which they can pay for only in boom years . Since agricultural prosperity can not be so ideally regulated as to guarantee three or four good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to set up out of earnings huge reserves for losses on collections , which could be reduced as the collection risk is shortened , as could also the cost of collections which is heavy . Current sales , for the most part , are traceable to individuals with some cash who must have certain lines of equipment to run their farms , rather than to a general recovery in the rural areas . Nevertheless , the potential farm equipment replacement volume alone  --  following three years of highly subnormal sales  --  is enormous . In the South , for instance , where AAA disbursements have been the most widespread , sales of farm equipment have been good .                     