@@697623

txt Holding that convict labor is used in the production of lumber and pulpwood in four districts of the White Sea in Northern Russia , the Treasury Department placed an embargo on both products today . Secretary Mellon announced the " finding " on evidence presented to the department . The treasury decision places the burden of proof on the importer of these products to show that they are not produced by convict labor . In effect , the ruling bars importations of lumber and pulpwood unless the importer is able . to prove that only free labor has entered into their production , loading and transportation . The districts involved in the finding were given as follows : The Kola peninsula , including the Murman coast , north of the White Sea ; the Karelian , Northern and Zyryan autonomous areas . This takes in all of European Russia north of the sixtieth degree of latitude . Officials anticipated a test of the decision in the Federal courts . Importers of Soviet lumber and pulpwood and consumers in this country are expected to enter an appeal assailing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove the use of free labor . The burden of proof would then be transferred back to the treasury to establish the use of convict labor , unless the courts should dismiss tile cases on the ground that , under the tariff law , the treasury is. empowered to require proof that legal goods are being offered for import . Proof Shifted to Importer . The decision , signed by Customs Commissioner F. X. A. Eble and approved by Secretary Mellon , con-cluded : " Therefore , on and after the date of the publication of this finding , Collectors of Customs will require compliance with the regulations published as - Treasury decision 44385 upon the importation of lumber or pulpwood originating in the localities specified above , or articles manufactured or produced in other localities from such lumber or pulpwood . " Treasury decision 44385 establishes the regulations shifting the burden of proof to the importer to show that imports are not produced by convict labor . Officials said that no important shipments of lumber or pulpwood from the Russian districts are expected until late in the Spring or early Summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the mouth of the Dvina River on the White Sea , the lumber is cut during the Winter and can not be moved out by water until the Spring thaw . The lumber and pulpwood finding ends a fight of over a year by the National Lumber Manufacturers ' Association and affiliated industries for an embargo on Soviet lumber and pulpwood . Against the lumber industry consumers of lumber and paper manufacturers were arrayed , inchfding the International Paper Company . The paper makers asserted that they were dependent for raw material on , the Russian woodpulp . They contended that imports of Soviet woodpulp would not diminish the consumption of the American product , but would reduce imports from Canada . Manganese Case Is Pending . The treasury decision leaves only the manganese case pending against Russian imports . An anti-dumping order has been sought by " the American Manganese Producers Association , but Assistant Secretary Lowman , in a Congressional hearing , indicated that there would be no embargo against manganese . The Iron and Steel Institute opposed the anti-dumping order on manganese , declaring that the steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output was insufficient to meet the demand . Pennsylvania anthracite operators asked that action be taken against Soviet hard coal and an investigation was conducted by the Treasury , Commerce and Labor Departments . Insufficient evidence was found to base any finding and treasury officials said that little or no anthracite is being imported from Russia . The treasury faces a difficult task in barring Soviet products , as Washington does not recognize the Russian Government and the State Department has barred sending investigators to Russia to determine the use of convict or forced labor . Bill Would Extend Embargo . The House Ways and Means Committee approved a bill today designed to further restrict the importation of convict-made goods . The measure would amend the tariff act by . placing an embargo on all goods manufactured , transported or handled , wholly or in part , by convict , forced or indentured labor , ark would give the Secretaw of the Treasury full authority to ' prevent such imports . The measure , a substitute for the Kendall bill , reads : All goods , wares , articles and merchandise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loaded or unloaded , wholly or in part , in any foreign country by convict labor or/and forced labor or/and indentured labor under penal sanctions shall not be entitled to entry at any of , the ports of the United States , and the transportation thereof is hereby prohibited , and- the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary for the enforcement of this provision . The provisions of this section ( Sec. 307 ) relating to goods , wares , . articles and merchandise mined , produced , manufactured , transported , handled , loaded or unloaded by forced labor or/and indentured labor , shall take effect on April 1 , 1931 , and shall remain in full force and effect until Congress provides otherwise ; but in no case shall such provision be applicable to goods , wares , articles or merchandise so mined , produced , manufactured , transported , handled , loaded or unloaded which are not mined , produced or manufactured in such quantities in the United States as to meet the consumptive demands of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shall mean , all work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty for its non-performance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily . In any proceedings under or involving the application of any provision of this act reports and depositions of officers or agents of the United States shall be admissible in evidence . Section 307 of the tariff act of 1930 provides that the provision regarding forced and indentured labor shall become effective Jan. 1 , 1932 . The committee decided to advance the date to April 1 of this year . The bill does not touch a general embargo on a variety of imports ( from Russia asked for in another measure pending before the com-mittee , ?                     